PARKER CITY, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ord. 2024-8, passed 12-26-2024
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   TOWN STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights, and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component codes,
titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Parker
City Town Code,” for which designation “Parker City Code of Ordinances,”
“Parker City Codified Ordinances,” or “Parker City Code” may be substituted.
Code title, chapter, and section headings do not constitute any part of the law
as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto, and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters, or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning,
application, or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary, and
usual sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town Council.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council of Parker City, Indiana.
      COUNTY. Randolph County, Indiana.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads, and streets unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver, and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur unless some other section is designated.
      STATE. The State of Indiana.
      TOWN. Parker City, Indiana.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing, or other modes
of representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section or amendment stating that the provisions of a
chapter, subchapter, or section are severable as provided in division (B) above
does not affect the operation of division (B) above with respect to that
chapter, subchapter, or section.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer, or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties, or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority, or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or following the
effective date, the rights, powers, duties, or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority, or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers, and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday, or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture, or liability incurred under
the section unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture, or
liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings, and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records unless otherwise exempted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the town published and subsequently amended, the previous code
section number shall be indicated in the history by “(Prior Code, §      ).”
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS, AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings, and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-
way; contracts entered into or franchises granted; the acceptance,
establishment, or vacation of any highway; and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
CHAPTER 11: TOWN STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Seal
   
11.02   Wards and boundaries
§ 11.01 SEAL.
   The corporate seal of said town shall be a circle with the words “Town of
Parker City Indiana,” in the margin and the word “Seal” in the center of the
circle.
(Ord. 1, passed 4-4-1894)
§ 11.02 WARDS AND BOUNDARIES.
   The said Town of Parker City be and is divided into three wards bounded and
defined as follows, to-wit.
   (A)   Ward Number One shall comprise all that part of the Town of Parker
City, Indiana, lying east of Main Street and North of the Railroad, commonly
called Big Four.
   (B)   Ward Number Two shall comprise all that part of the Town of Parker
City, Indiana, lying west of Main Street and north of the Railroad, commonly
called Big Four.
   (C)   Ward Number Three shall comprise all that part of the Town of Parker
City, Indiana, lying south of the Railroad, commonly called the Big Four.
(Ord. 3, passed 4-4-1894; Ord. 114A, passed 5-3-1955)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   TOWN COUNCIL; ELECTED OFFICIALS
      
31.   BOARDS, COMMISSIONS, AND DEPARTMENTS
      
32.   CIVIL EMERGENCIES; EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
      
33.   GENERAL MUNICIPAL AND EMPLOYEE POLICIES
      
34.   FEES
CHAPTER 30: TOWN COUNCIL; ELECTED OFFICIALS
Section
Town Council
   
30.01   President of the Town Council; duties and authorities
   
30.02   Special meetings
Elected and Appointed Officials
   
30.15   Clerk-Treasurer
   
30.16   Use of credit cards by elected officials
   
30.17   Deputy Marshal
TOWN COUNCIL
§ 30.01 PRESIDENT OF THE TOWN COUNCIL; DUTIES AND AUTHORITIES.
   The President of the Town Council is empowered, authorized, and directed
for, and on behalf of, the town to sign all papers, including state and federal
grants.
(Res. -1970, passed 3-24-1970)
§ 30.02 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   Special meetings of the Council may be held at which it shall be legal
to transact any of the business of said town property before such meetings.
   (B)   Such special meetings shall be held upon the written call of the
President of the Town Council, and such written call shall be by letter setting
forth the object of the meeting, signed by such President and mailed to the
addresses of the members of the Town Council at least 24 hours before the hour
for such meeting; provided, that at any regular meeting of said Town Council,
the President of such Town Council may issue a call for a special meeting of
which a record shall be made by the Clerk of said Town Council, and this shall
be in lieu of the written call hereinbefore provided.
(Ord. 69, passed 8-17-1905)
ELECTED AND APPOINTED OFFICIALS
§ 30.15 CLERK-TREASURER.
   The Clerk-Treasurer of the town is designated the financial officer for the
town and among other items may make financial decisions regarding the town’s
retirement funds.
(Res. 2023-8, passed 1-5-2023)
§ 30.16 USE OF CREDIT CARDS BY ELECTED OFFICIALS.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to obtain a credit card in the name
of the town for the purpose of acquiring supplies and services on behalf of the
town. The Clerk-Treasurer, and/or Deputy Clerk shall be authorized to use the
credit card for the purposes set out herein.
   (B)   The following policy and procedures shall apply in the use of this
credit card and the payment of the resulting obligation.
      (1)   The credit card shall be retained by the Clerk-Treasurer.
      (2)   The card shall not be used for any purchase of service or supply
before checking with the Clerk-Treasurer. The purchase requests shall follow
the current purchasing guidelines as outlined in § VIIL “Purchasing” of the
town’s Standard Operating Procedures, a copy of which is available in the
office of the Clerk-Treasurer for public inspection and copying during normal
business hours.
      (3)   The card shall never be used for any purchase of service or supply
which does not directly serve to benefit the town. No credit card issued to the
town for any elected official or town employee shall be used by any person for
a private purchase.
      (4)   The card shall have a credit limit of $5,000 which shall not be
increased without the express permission of the Town Council.
      (5)   (a)   Within 72 hours of the purchase, the employee using the
credit card shall provide a copy of the credit card receipt and shall inform
the Clerk-Treasurer in writing of the following:
            1.   The purpose of the purchase; and
            2.   An itemized list of all charges incurred.
         (b)   Receipts shall be signed by the employee user.
      (6)   The monthly credit card statement shall be presented to the Town
Council.
      (7)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall pay the expenses charged on the credit
cards in such a fashion as to avoid the payment of any interest, carrying
charges, or penalties.
(Ord. 2011-04, passed 11-3-2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 30.17 DEPUTY MARSHAL.
   (A)   The Marshal of said town be and is authorised to appoint one Deputy
Marshal who, on executing the orders of said Town Council shall possess the
powers and be subject to the powers of said Marshal, and he or she shall be
designated by said Marshal as Humane Officer to take possession of all dogs,
cats, and other animals running at large within the jurisdiction of the town.
Said Deputy shall give bond to the town, with surety in the penal sum $5,000,
and shall serve for three months from date of his or her appointment, and such
additional extensions as said Marshal may direct and shall be subject to orders
of said Marshal, who may discharge him or her at any time.
   (B)   The salary of said Humane Officer shall be $50 per month; first
month’s pay to be $75.
(Ord. 119-1965, passed 4-5-1965)
CHAPTER 31: BOARDS, COMMISSIONS, AND DEPARTMENTS
Section
   
31.01   Tree Board
   
31.02   Park and Recreation Board
   
31.03   Board of Health
   
31.04   Ordinance Violations Bureau
   
31.05   Economic Steering Committee
   
31.06   Area Planning Department
§ 31.01 TREE BOARD.
   (A)   A Tree Board consisting of five members has been established for the
town.
   (B)   The Tree Board will have an effective date beginning January 1 of
every year.
(Res. 2004-11, passed 5-20-2004)
§ 31.02 PARK AND RECREATION BOARD.
   (A)   This section, and all sections supplemental or amendatory hereto,
shall be known as the Public Parks and Recreation Ordinance of the town and may
be cited as such, and will be referred to herein as “this section.”
   (B)   Under the provisions of I.C. 36-10-3, there is created a Town
Department of Parks and Recreation, which may consist of a Park and Recreation
Board, a superintendent, and such other personnel that the Town Council
determines to be necessary.
   (C)   The Park and Recreation Board is composed of four members appointed by
the Town Council President on the basis of their interest in and knowledge of
parks and recreation. No more than two members shall be of the same political
party. Hereinafter, it shall be called the “Board.”
   (D)   (1)   Upon establishment of the Board, the terms of the members
initially appointed shall be:
         (a)   One member for a term of one year;
         (b)   One member for a term of two years;
         (c)   One member for a term of three years; and
         (d)   One member for a term of four years.
      (2)   As a term expires, each new appointment shall be made by the Town
Council President for a term of four years. All terms expire on the first
Monday of January, but a member shall continue in office until his or her
successor is appointed. If an appointment for a new term is not made by the
Town Council President by the first Monday in April, the incumbent shall serve
another term. If a vacancy occurs, the Town Council President shall appoint a
new member for the remainder of the unexpired term. The Town Council President
shall make initial appointments within 90 days after the creation of the
Department of Parks and Recreation of the town, hereinafter called “the
Department.” In making initial appointments, the Town Council President, in
order to provide continuity of experience and programs, shall give special
consideration to the appointment of members from previous Park and Recreation
Boards.
(Ord. 89-1, passed - -)
§ 31.03 BOARD OF HEALTH.
   (A)   A Board of Health be and the same is established, consisting of four
members, three of whom shall be the members of the Town Council of said town,
and the fourth shall be a reputable physician, selected by the said Town
Council, and who shall be the secretary of the Board of Health, and the
President of the said Town Council shall also be the President of the said
Board of Health.
   (B)   The said Board of Health shall have the power to make and establish
such rules and regulations as it may deem best to promote the good health of
the citizens of said town, and all such rules and regulations shall have all
the power and force of the ordinances of said town the same as though the same
had been passed by the Town Council.
(Ord. 10, passed 4-16-1894)
§ 31.04 ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU.
   (A)   There shall be created an Ordinance Violation Bureau for the town,
pursuant to I.C. 33- 36-2-1 et seq., as amended.
   (B)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is appointed and shall serve as the
Violations Clerk, who administers the Bureau.
   (C)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer, and his or her staff, as his or her agents,
shall accept admissions of violation, and payment of civil penalties in the
amount and for the violation, as provided.
   (D)   A person or entity that has received a citation alleging that person
or entity is in violation of a town ordinance, and admits he or she is in
violation of the town ordinance, may pay the fine or civil penalty to the Town
Clerk-Treasurer, in lieu of having a trial regarding the violation.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 3-1-2012)
§ 31.05 ECONOMIC STEERING COMMITTEE.
   The Town Council is establishing an Economic Development Steering Committee
for the town, and the establishment of the Economic Development Steering
Committee will serve as the town’s Technical Advisory Committee concerning the
use of recaptured grant funds from the state which will be used for economic
development purposes.
(Res. 1986-3, passed 4-9-1986)
§ 31.06 AREA PLANNING DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   It is the declared intention of the Town Council to avail itself of
the provisions of Chapter 130, Acts of 1957, as amended, Indiana General
Assembly, and to participate in the operation of the Area Planning Department
after it is established, pursuant to § 6 of said Act.
   (B)   The Town Council adopts the provisions of Chapter 138, Acts of 1957,
as amended, Indiana General Assembly.
   (C)   The membership of the Area Plan Commission of the county shall be as
set forth in §§ 8 through 13 and in § 25 of said Act.
   (D)   A copy of the ordinance codified herein, upon its passage and
signature by the members of the Town Council shall be certified to the
respective Town Council.
(Ord. passed 5-14-1969)
CHAPTER 32: CIVIL EMERGENCIES; EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Declaration of snow emergency
   
32.02   Multi-hazard mitigation plan
Police Reserves
   
32.15   Established
   
32.16   Duties and functions
   
32.17   Training and probationary period
   
32.18   Uniforms
   
32.19   Financial accounts
   
32.20   Release of liability
Voluntary Fire Department
   
32.35   Established
   
32.36   Members
   
32.37   Rights and powers
   
32.38   Duty to obey orders of Fire Chief and Fire Department
 
   
32.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Civil emergencies; curfew, see §
130.05
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 DECLARATION OF SNOW EMERGENCY.
   (A)   The Board of County Commissions may declare one of the three
declarations or emergency set out in division (B) below.
   (B)   There shall be three classifications of snow situations or
catastrophes to control highway use.
      (1)   Level 1: travel advisory. Roadways are icy and hazardous with
blowing and drifting snow. Drivers should drive cautiously.
      (2)   Level 2: travel warning. Roadways are hazardous with blowing and
drifting snow. Only necessary traveling. No person should be driving unless it
is necessary to get to and from work, for medical emergency or home
necessities.
      (3)   Level 3: snow emergency. All roadway are closed to non-emergency
personnel. No one should be out during these conditions. No non-emergency
vehicles shall be on the county roads.
(Ord. 97-5, passed 1-20-1997) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.02 MULTI-HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN.
   (A)   The town adopts the County Multi-Hazard Mitigation Plan (MHMP) as an
official plan.
   (B)   Adopting the Multi-Hazard Mitigation Plan does not obligate the county
to use local tax money for projects identified in any Multi-Hazard Mitigation
Plan (MHMP).
(Res. 2025-11, passed 2-6-2025)
POLICE RESERVES
§ 32.15 ESTABLISHED.
   There is created a Town Police Reserve, the membership of which shall not
consist of more than ten persons at any one time. The Police Reserve shall be
made up of persons who at the time of their appointment shall be residents of
the town, and who have been residents thereof at least one year prior to their
appointment. Each Police Reserve shall be in good physical condition, of good
character, and not less than 21 years of age. Appointments to the Police
Reserve shall be made by the Town Marshal, by and with the advice and consent
of the Town Council. Appointment of a Police Reserve shall be recorded in the
minutes of the Town Council. Any Police Reserve may be discharged at any time,
without or with cause, and without hearing, by the Town Council or by the Town
Marshal, with advice and consent of the Town Council. Written notice of
discharge shall be provided to any discharged Police Reserve. Termination of
the appointment of a Police Reserve, either by resignation or by discharge,
shall be recorded in the minutes of the Town Council. The Town Marshal may
suspend a Police Reserve from duties, without or with cause, and without
hearing, at any time. Regular members of the Town Police Department shall not
be eligible for membership in the Police Reserve.
(Ord. 141, passed 5-20-1981; Ord. 2002-3, passed - -)
§ 32.16 DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS.
   The Police Reserve shall function under the Town Marshal, or in his or her
absence, the senior officer on duty. Before becoming a Police Reserve, each
member shall take an oath provided by the statutes of the state and shall be
issued a card signed by the Town Marshal, which card shall be retained in the
possession of the Police Reserve at all times. Except during any period of
probation, Police Reserves shall have all the powers and authority, and shall
be subject to all the duties of regular police officers, except as limited by
rules of their department and provided however, that membership in the Police
Reserve shall not constitute membership in the regular Police Department nor
shall any member of the Police Reserve be entitled to any rights or privileges
of compensation, pension, or other rights or privileges of members of the
regular Police Department. The Town Marshal is authorized to formulate and
adopt written rules to govern the authority, duties, and functions of the
Police Reserve.
(Ord. 141, passed 5-20-1981)
§ 32.17 TRAINING AND PROBATIONARY PERIOD.
   No Police Reserve shall be appointed until he or she has completed the
training and probationary period specified by the rules of the town’s Police
Department. The Town Marshal is authorized to formulate and adopt written rules
to govern the training and probation of a Police Reserve applicant. Such rules,
among other requirements shall provide for the applicant passing a written
examination based upon study of training manuals and shall provide for the
Police Reserve applicant obtaining on the job training with regular members of
the police force. No Police Reserve applicant shall be eligible for appointment
until the applicant shall have completed a minimum of two months of probation
and a minimum of 50 hours of on the job training and has passed said written
examination. The Town Marshal by written rule may increase the number of months
and hours of on the job training required before an applicant is eligible for
appointment. During said probation, the Police Reserve applicant shall have
only such power, authority, and duties as are assigned by the Town Marshal.
(Ord. 141, passed 5-20-1981)
§ 32.18 UNIFORMS.
   To the extent that funds are specifically provided in the annual
appropriation ordinance of the town, Police Reserves may receive a uniform
allowance, may receive compensation for time lost from other employment because
of court appearances, and may be insured for life, accident, and sickness
coverage. No member of the Police Reserve shall receive any other compensation
from the town for services as a member of the Police Reserve. All Police
Reserves shall wear the same uniform as regular members of the Police
Department. The Police Reserves shall furnish their own uniforms and other
necessary equipment, without reimbursement from the town. If a uniform
allowance is granted, then uniform items secured from said allowance shall be
the sole property of the town and shall be returned to the Police Department
upon the Police Reserves’ termination. No individual shall wear a uniform after
termination as a Police Reserve. All items assigned by the town to a Police
Reserve shall remain the sole property of the town, and if misused or
neglected, the town shall have the right to replacement of such items by the
Police Reserve.
(Ord. 141, passed 5-20-1981)
§ 32.19 FINANCIAL ACCOUNTS.
   Any financial accounts of the Police Reserve shall be subject to audit at
any time designated by the Town Marshal or by the Town Council.
(Ord. 141, passed 5-20-1981)
§ 32.20 RELEASE OF LIABILITY.
   Each member of the Police Reserve shall, prior to taking an oath of office,
execute and deliver to the Town Clerk-Treasurer an instrument to be approved by
the Town Council releasing the town from all liability for an injury or death
in the line of duty as a member of the Police Reserve.
(Ord. 141, passed 5-20-1981)
VOLUNTARY FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.35 ESTABLISHED.
   There shall be and is established a Volunteer Fire Department of the town.
(Ord. 57, passed 8-11-1902)
§ 32.36 MEMBERS.
   Said Fire Department shall consist of 20 able-bodied and competent people
who shall select one of their number as Fire Chief and who shall have as many
assistants as may be required to do effective service at fires and every person
shall be taken and deemed to be a member of the Department, when he or she
shall have signed the constitution and by-laws, rules, and regulations of said
company. Said company however, not to consist at any one time of more than 20
members, whose duties it shall be to use their best endeavors to extinguish
fires within the corporate limits of the town.
(Ord. 57, passed 8-11-1902)
§ 32.37 RIGHTS AND POWERS.
   The Fire Chief and his or her assistants shall be during the time or
continuance of any fire within the corporate limits of said town, clothed with
police powers, and the powers of police officers, and shall have the right
during the time of fires, within such limits to preserve peace and good order,
and suppress riots, prevent thefts, and to arrest on sight any person or
persons violating any of the criminal laws of the state.
(Ord. 57, passed 8-11-1902)
§ 32.38 DUTY TO OBEY ORDERS OF FIRE CHIEF AND FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   Every person who shall be present at any fire shall be subject to the orders
of the Chief of the Fire Department and his or her assistants and shall obey
all orders given him or her by such officer or his or her assistants for the
purpose of extinguishing fires or in aiding to save property from destruction
or injury and such persons shall obey all orders given by such officers in
relation to the management and control of the fire, and shall render all
assistance within their power under the order and direction of the Chief and
his or her assistants, and shall not willfully offer any hindrance to any
officer or firefighter in the performance of his or her duty, at or giving to
any fire. All bystanders at any fire who are unemployed, or whose assistance is
not needed, shall remove to and remain at such distance from such fire as said
Chief or his or her assistants may prescribe.
(Ord. 57, passed 8-11-1902) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
32.01 shall be subject to a Class C infraction.
   (C)   Any person violating §
32.38 or any provisions thereof shall on conviction of such offense be fined in
the sum not to exceed $10.
(Ord. 57, passed 8-11-1902; Ord. 97-5, passed 1-20-1997)
CHAPTER 33: GENERAL MUNICIPAL AND EMPLOYEE POLICIES
Section
   
33.01   Nondiscrimination Policy
   
33.02   Conflict of Interest and Nepotism Policy
   
33.03   Grievance procedure for Title VI plan and policy
   
33.04   Notice under Americans with Disabilities Act
   
33.05   Alcohol and substance abuse policy
   
33.06   Non-smoking areas
   
33.07   Municipal employee policies
   
33.08   Use of municipal vehicles
   
33.09   Accounts receivable write-off procedures
   
33.10   Internal control standards
 
   
33.99   Penalty
§ 33.01 NONDISCRIMINATION POLICY.
   (A)   The municipality agrees to comply with Executive Orders 11246 and
11478, and the rules, regulations, and relevant orders of the Secretary of
Labor.
   (B)   No segregated facilities will be maintained on said municipality’s
premises as required by Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 2000d et seq.
   (C)   The Town Council attests and agrees to the following policies
regarding equal employment opportunity and affirmative action.
      (1)   There will be no discrimination against any employee or applicant
for employment because of race, religion, color, age, sex, disability, or
national origin.
      (2)   Affirmative action will be taken to ensure that applicants are
employed and that employees are treated during employment without regard to
their race, religion, color, age, sex, disability, or national origin.
      (3)   All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment
without regard to race, religion, color, age, sex, disability, or national
origin.
      (4)   There will be no discrimination against any employee or applicant
for employment because he or she is a disabled veteran or an honorably
discharged veterans in regard to any position for which the employee or
applicant for employment is qualified.
      (5)   The municipality further agrees to post in conspicuous places,
available to both employees and applicants for employment, notices to be
provided setting forth the provisions of these nondiscriminating clauses and
policies.
      (6)   The provisions of this section will be adhered to in such
employment practices as hiring, upgrading, demotion or transfer, recruitment,
advertising, layoff or termination, rates of pay or other forms of
compensation, and selection for training, including apprenticeship.
(Ord. 1997-4, passed - -1997) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.02 CONFLICT OF INTEREST AND NEPOTISM POLICY.
   (A)   The town finds that it is necessary and desirous to adopt a policy of
conduct with regard to nepotism in the employment with the town, and in
contracting with the town in order to continue to be able to provide government
services to its residents, and to comply with the new laws effective July 1,
2012, known as I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21, respectively.
   (B)   On July 1, 2012, the town shall have a Nepotism and a Contracting with
a Unit Policy that complies with the minimum requirements of I.C. 36-1-20.2
(hereinafter “Nepotism Policy”), and I.C. 36-1-21 (hereinafter “Contracting
with a Unit by a Relative Policy”), and implementation will begin.
   (C)   The Town Nepotism Policy is established effective July 1, 2012, by
adopting the minimum requirements provisions of I.C. 36-1-20.2, and including
all future supplements and amendments thereto which become law, from time to
time, and making them a part hereof as if fully set out herein.
   (D)   The Town Contracting with a Unit by a Relative Policy is established
effective July 1, 2012, by adopting the minimum requirements provisions of I.C.
36-1-21, and including all future supplements and amendments thereto, which
become law from time to time, and making them a part hereof as if fully set out
herein.
   (E)   The town finds that both I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21 specifically
allow a unit to adopt requirements that are “more stringent or detailed” and
that more detailed are necessary.
   (F)   The town further finds that a single member of the legislative body
cannot act for the body to make work assignments, compensation, grievances,
advancement, or a performance evaluation without prior authority of a majority
of the body, and therefore without such authority by the majority, he or she
will not be in the direct line of supervision.
(I.C. 36-4-6-11 and I.C. 36-5-2-9.4)
   (G)   The town further finds that a single member of governing bodies with
authority over employees in the town cannot act for the governing body to make
work assignments, compensation, grievances, advancement, or a performance
evaluation without prior authority of a majority of the body, when a statute
provides that a majority is needed to act; and therefore, without such
authority by the single member will not be in the direct line of supervision.
   (H)   All elected and appointed officials of the town are directed to
cooperate fully in the implementation of the policies created by this section,
and demonstrate compliance with these same policies.
   (I)   Failure to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, compliance,
and certifications connected with the Nepotism Policy is a violation, and may
result in the discipline of, including the termination of, an employee or a
transfer from the direct line of supervision, or other curative action. An
elected or appointed official of the town who fails to abide by, or cooperate
with, the implementation of, or the compliance of, the mandated certifications
of the either the Nepotism Policy or the Contracting with a Unit by a Relative
Policy may be subject to action allowed by law.
   (J)   Failure to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, compliance,
and certifications connected with the Contracting with a Unit by a Relative
Policy is a violation, and may result in the discipline, including termination,
of an employee, or a curative action. An elected or appointed official of the
town who fails to abide by, or cooperate with, the implementation of, or the
compliance of, the mandated certifications of either the Nepotism Policy or the
Contracting with a Unit by a Relative Policy may be subject to action allowed
by law.
   (K)   The policies created by this section are implemented, and the Clerk-
Treasurer of the town is directed to either post a notice of this section, or
provide a copy of this section to the employees of the town. Upon passing of
this section, these policies are deemed implemented.
   (L)   The office of the Clerk-Treasurer of the town will have on file for
public inspection, as may be required by I.C. 36-1-54, two copies of the
provisions of I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21, and the same as are supplemented
or amended.
   (M)   The form for disclosure of a relative’s contract is available in the
office of the Clerk- Treasurer.
   (N)   The form for elected official certification on compliance with the
Nepotism Policy is available in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (O)   The form for verification of applicant for employment for compliance
with the Nepotism Policy is available in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Res. 2012-14, passed - -) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.03 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE FOR TITLE VI PLAN AND POLICY.
   (A)   The town finds that it is necessary and serious to adopt a grievance
procedure providing for prompt and equitable resolution of complaints alleging
any discriminatory action by the town that is prohibited by the United States
Department of Justice regulations implementing Title VI of the Civil Rights Act
of 1964, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 2000d et seq.
   (B)   In the town’s grievance procedure, the EXECUTIVE MANAGER is defined as
the Town Council of the Town of Parker City, and the TITLE VI COORDINATOR and
the ADA COORDINATOR are defined as being the current Coordinator for the town.
   (C)   The Title VI Policy Manual and Grievance Procedures for the town, a
copy of which shall be available for public viewing and copying during regular
business hours in the office of the Clerk- Treasurer, shall be adopted in its
entirety by this section.
   (D)   The town’s Title VI Grievance procedure is available in the office of
the Clerk-Treasurer.
 
   A RESOLUTION ADOPTING GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE FOR TITLE VI PLAN & POLICY
How to file a Title VI Complaint/Grievance
Any person who believes that he or she, individually, as a member of any protected
class, or in connection with any disadvantaged business enterprise, has been excluded
from participation in, denied benefits of, or otherwise subjected to discrimination
under any Town of Parker City service, program, activity, whether federally funded or
not, may file a complaint under Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended.
It is the policy of the Town of Parker City to comply with Title VI of the Civil Rights
Act.
Step One: Complete the Town of Parker City’s Complaint/Grievance Form
Complaint forms can be found on the Town’s website (www.parkercityin.us/) or at the
Town Municipal Building:
W, 315 Jackson Street
Parker City, IN 47368 765-468-7949
jwyman@parkercityin.us
A grievance may be communicated in writing, by email, fax, telephone or in person, but
must follow the format of the Town of Parker City’s complaint form in order to gather
all pertinent information for complaint processing. A complaint may be submitted by a
representative on behalf of another person.
Generally, a complaint should include pertinent information such as the name, address
and telephone number of the individual complaining (complainant) and a brief
description of the alleged discriminatory conduct including the date, place of harm and
any witnesses.
Also, the full name and address of the ‘respondent’- the person, agency, department, or
program that allegedly discriminated against the complaint, is needed. An individual
submitting a complaint alleging discrimination may also include any relevant evidence,
including the names of witnesses and supporting documentation. If a form is deemed
incomplete, additional information will be requested, and the requested information
must be submitted within 30 calendar days. Failure to respond within 30 calendar days
may result in an administrative closure of complaint.
Additionally, at some point, the complaint must be reduced to writing and the
complainant must sign an original copy of the completed complaint form in order for the
Town to begin the complaint process. A complainant’s identity shall be kept
confidential except to the extent necessary to conduct an investigation. All complaints
shall be kept confidential.
A grievance concerning the accessibility of the Town of Parker City’s services,
programs or activities should be addressed to the ADA Coordinator.
All other complaints alleging discrimination by the Town of Parker City and its
employees should be addressed to the Title VI Coordinator.
Note: It is the policy of the Town of Parker City to comply with Title VI of the Civil
Rights Act, to conduct a prompt and impartial investigation of all allegations of
discrimination, and to take prompt effective corrective action when a claim of
discrimination is substantiated.
Retaliation: No one may intimidate, threaten, coerce or engage in other discriminatory
conduct against anyone because they have taken action, or participated in an action to
secure rights protected by the civil rights laws. The Town of Parker City, Indiana
prohibits retaliation or intimidation against anyone because that individual has either
taken action or participated in action to secure rights protected by policies of the
Town. Please inform the Title VI Coordinator if you feel you were intimidated or
experience perceived retaliation in relation to filing this complaint.
Step Two: Acknowledgment
A grievance should be filed within 180 days of the grievant party becoming aware of the
alleged violation. For ADA issues, the ADA Coordinator will send an acknowledgment of
receipt of the complaint upon receipt (within seven (7) days), review and respond to
the completed form within fifteen (15) working days.
For ‘all’ other discriminatory issues, the Title VI Coordinator shall review the
completed form, acknowledge receipt of the complaint and respond within fifteen (15)
working days.
Step Three: Processing & Informal Resolution
Following the filing of a grievance and the review of the form, the Title VI
Coordinator shall examine deadlines, establish jurisdiction and determine whether, and
to what extent, an investigation of the grievance is warranted. The Title VI
Coordinator, or designee, shall speak with the complainant about the grievance and
possible resolutions, if applicable.
If any complaint warrants a full investigation (finding of a substantiated complaint),
the Title VI Coordinator will conduct a full investigation within 60 calendar days of
receipt of the completed complaint, and the Complainant will be notified in writing by
certified mail. This notice will name the investigator and/or investigating agency.
Also, the party alleged to have acted in a discriminatory manner will also be notified
by certified mail as of the complaint. This letter will also include the investigator’s
name and will request that this party (the respondent) be available for a possible
interview or to write a position statement in order to respond to all aspects of the
complaint’s allegations and to state his or her position.
In the case of a property or access issue, any resulting investigation shall be
conducted by the ADA Coordinator or their designee. If appropriate, the ADA Coordinator
will arrange to meet with the grievant to discuss the matter and attempt to reach an
informal resolution. The Title VI Coordinator will monitor the ADA investigation.
If the complaint is against the Town’s Departments/ADA Coordinator, the Title VI
Coordinator will investigate the complaint, and forward a copy of the complaint to the
Town’s Attorney for recommendations.
Any informal resolution of a grievance shall be documented in the Title VI Coordinator/
ADA Coordinator’s file/log, and the case will be closed. [Complaints that fall outside
of the Town’s jurisdiction will be referred to the appropriate governmental entity,
logged as such, and the complainant will be duly notified.]
Additionally, the Title VI Coordinator will inform the Indiana Department of
Transportation (INDOT) of any referrals, all complaints/investigations, and its
subsequent findings and resolutions (informal/formal) within 30 days of a completed
complaint form and at the time of resolution.
   RESOLUTION/CORRECTIVE ACTIONS FOR COMPLIANCE:
If the Title VI Coordinator recommends corrective action, the Coordinator will give the
respondent/department 30 calendar days to inform the Title VI Coordinator of the
actions taken for compliance. Corrective action may include actions that the
respondent/department will complete at a future date beyond the initial 30 days to
respond, and the plan must include specific timeframes in which the respondent will
complete the action.
The Title VI Coordinator shall monitor and log the respondent’s corrective action
compliance. (Noting, the Title VI Coordinator may have to work in conjunction with the
ADA Coordinator, the Town Department Heads to resolve complaints.)
Note: In the case of sub-contractors, if the respondent/sub-contractor has not taken
the recommended corrective action within the 30-day period allowed, the Coordinator
will deem the respondent/subcontractor to be in noncompliance with Title VI and its
implementing regulations. Noncompliance not corrected by informal means as described
above may be subject to sanctions asked for under 49 C.F.R. § 21.13.
Step Four: Formal Resolution/Written Determination
If an informal resolution of the grievance is ‘not’ reached in Step Three (3), within
60 calendar days of receipt of the grievance, a written determination as to the
validity of the complaint, and description of the resolution, if appropriate, shall be
forwarded by the Title VI Coordinator/ADA Coordinator to the Town Council to review for
approval or direction.
Step Five: Final Determination and Resolution
The final written determination will include a description of the complaint, a summary
of the investigation and the findings, and if appropriate, recommendations and
resolutions/corrective actions. All parties will be properly notified of the outcome of
the Town’s investigative report.
The Title VI/ADA Coordinator shall communicate the final determination and resolution
to the grievant within 90 days of the receipt of the complaint, unless the Town Council
authorizes additional time for further consideration of the grievance. Any extension of
time will be communicated to the grievant. Any request for reconsideration of the
response to the grievance shall be at the discretion of the Town Council.
Further, these procedures are part of an administrative process that does not provide
for punitive damages or compensatory remuneration for the complaint. However, the Town
will make every effort to facilitate voluntary and early resolution of complaints at
the lowest level possible. The Town may exercise the option of informal resolution at
any stage of the process.
In regards to ADA complaints, the resolution of any specific grievance will require
consideration of various circumstances, such as the specific nature of the complaint,
the nature of the services accessed, programs or facilities at issue; the essential
eligibility requirements for participation; the health and safety of others; disparate
conditions, and the degree to which an accommodation/modification would constitute a
fundamental alteration to the service, program or facility, or cause undue hardship on
the Town of Parker City.
Any resolution by the Town of Parker City of any ‘one’ ADA grievance does ‘not’
constitute a precedent upon which the Town of Parker City is bound to, or upon which
other complaining parties may rely.
Other discriminatory complaints will examine potential disparate conditions as well as
more intentional acts of discrimination. Accordingly, any resolution by the Town of
Parker City of any ‘one’ grievance does not constitute a precedent upon which the Town
of Parker City is bound to, or upon which other complaining parties may rely.
If the grievant is not satisfied with the results of the investigation of the alleged
discriminatory practice(s), she/he shall be advised of their right to appeal the Town’s
decision. Appeals must be filed within seven (7) days after the Town’s final
resolution. Unless new facts not previously considered come to light, reconsideration
of the Town’s determination will not be available.
Use of the Town of Parker City’s grievance procedure is not a prerequisite to the
pursuit of other remedies. The grievant may seek private counsel or file a complaint
directly with the US Department of Justice (DOJ), Indiana Department of Transportation
(INDOT) or other appropriate state or federal funding agency.
The foregoing complaint resolution procedure will be implemented in accordance with the
Department of Justice guidance manual entitled “Investigation Procedures Manual for the
Investigation and Resolution of Complaints Alleging Violations of Title VI and Other
Nondiscrimination Statues,” available in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
Complaints may also be filed with the following government agencies:
US Department of Justice
Civil Rights Division
950 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W.
Office of the Assistant Attorney General, Main
Washington, D.C. 20530
(202) 514-4609
(TTY) (202) 514-0716
Indiana Department of Transportation
Economic Opportunity Division
100 N. Senate, Room N750
Indianapolis, IN 46204
Phone: (317) 233-6511 / Fax: (317) 233-0891
Indiana Civil Rights Commission
100 N. Senate Ave., Room NI03
Indianapolis, IN 46204
Toll Free: 1 (800) 628-2909
Hearing Impaired: 1 (800) 743-3336
Phone: (317) 232-2600
Fax: (317) 232-6560
File Maintenance/Recordkeeping
The Town of Parker City’s ADA Coordinator and the Title VI Coordinator shall maintain
their appropriate grievance files/logs for three (3) years, and the Title VI
Coordinator shall maintain a yearly filing log with all dispositions.
 
(Res. 2019-10, passed 5-2-2019) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.04 NOTICE UNDER AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT.
   The following declaration is a written policy of the town and shall be
posted in all municipal buildings upon passage.
 
   NOTICE UNDER THE AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (ADA)
Town of Parker City adopts the 2010 Americans with Disability Act Standards for
Accessible Design and the 2011 Proposed Accessibility Guidelines for Pedestrian
Facilities in the Public Right-of-Way. In accordance with the requirements of Title
II of the American with Disabilities Act of 1990 (“ADA”), being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12131
et seq., the Town of Parker City, Indiana will not discriminate against qualified
individuals with disabilities on the basis of disability in its services, programs,
or activities.
Employment: Town of Parker City, Indiana does not discriminate on the basis of
disability in its hiring or employment practices and complies with all the
regulations promulgated by the U.S. Equal Opportunity Commission under Title I of
the ADA, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq.
Effective Communication: Town of Parker City, Indiana will generally, upon request,
provide appropriate aids and services leading to effective communication for
qualified persons with disabilities so they can participate equally in the Town of
Parker City’s programs, services, and activities, including qualified sign language
interpreters, documents in Braille, and other ways of making information and
communications accessible to people who have speech, hearing, or vision
impairments.
Modifications to Policies and Procedures: Town of Parker City will make all
reasonable modifications to policies and programs to ensure that people with
disabilities have an equal opportunity to enjoy all of its programs, services, and
activities. For example, individuals with service animals are welcomed in Town of
Parker City offices, even where pets are generally prohibited.
Anyone who requires an auxiliary aid or service for effective communication, or a
modification of policies or procedures to participate in a program, service, or
activity of the Town of Parker City should contact the Town of Parker City Clerk-
Treasurer at the Town of Parker City Municipal Building, (765) 468-7949, as soon as
possible but no later than 48 hours before the scheduled event.
The ADA does not require the Town of Parker City to take any action that would
fundamentally alter the nature of its programs or services, or impose an undue
financial or administrative burden.
Complaints that a program, service, or activity of the Town of Parker City is not
accessible to persons with disabilities should be directed to the Town of Parker
City Municipal Building, (765) 468-7949. Town of Parker City will not place a
surcharge on a particular individual with a disability or any group of individuals
with disabilities to cover the cost of providing auxiliary aids/services or
reasonable modifications of policy, such as retrieving items from locations that
are open to the public but are not accessible to persons who use wheelchairs.
   TOWN OF PARKER CITY
   Grievance Procedure under
   The Americans with Disabilities Act
This Grievance Procedure is established to meet the requirements of the Americans
with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA). It may be used by anyone who wishes to file a
complaint alleging discrimination on the basis of disability in the provision of
services, activities, programs, or benefits by the Town of Parker City. The Town of
Parker City’s Personnel Policy governs employment-related complaints of disability
discrimination.
The complaint should be in writing and contain information about the alleged
discrimination such as name, address, phone number of complainant and location,
date, and description of the problem. Alternative means of filing complaint, such
as personal interviews or a tape recording of the complaint will be made available
for person with disabilities upon request.
The complaint should be submitted by the grievant and/or their designee as soon as
possible but no later than 60 calendar days after the alleged violation to:
   Town of Parker City ADA Coordinator
   315 W. Jackson Street
   Parker City, Indiana, 47368
Within 15 calendar days after receipt of the complaint, ADA Coordinator or their
designee will meet with the complainant to discuss the complaint and the possible
resolutions. Within 15 calendar days of the meeting, the ADA Coordinator or their
designee will respond in writing, and where appropriate, in a format accessible to
the complainant, such as large print, Braille, or audio tape. The response will
explain the position of the Town of Parker City and offer options for substantive
resolution of the complaint.
If the response by the ADA Coordinator or their designee does not satisfactorily
resolve the issue, the complainant and/or their designee may appeal the decision
within 15 calendar days after receipt of the response to the Town Council.
Within 15 calendar days after receipt of the appeal, the Town Council will meet
with the complainant to discuss the complaint and possible resolutions. Within 15
calendar days after the meeting, the Town Council will respond in writing, and,
where appropriate, in a format accessible to the complainant, with a final
resolution of the complaint
All written complaint received by the ADA Coordinator or their designee. Appeals to
the Town Council, and responses from these two offices will be retained by the Town
of Parker City for at least three years.
 
(Res. 2019-9, passed 5-2-2019) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.05 ALCOHOL AND SUBSTANCE ABUSE POLICY.
   (A)   Coverage. This policy applies to all employees of the town and its
operated facilities and all applicants for such employment.
   (B)   Policy. All employees are expected to be in a state of mind and
physical condition fit to complete their assigned duties safely and completely
during work hours and to do so without use and effect of illegal controlled
substances and/or alcoholic beverages.
   (C)   Pre-employment substance screening. All applicants for full-time or
part-time employment with the town are required to submit to a medical
examination prior to their appointment to a town position. As part of this
medical examination, prospective employees will be screened for a range of
chemical substances, those [missing text].
(Res. 2004-12, passed 6-3-2004) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.06 NON-SMOKING AREAS.
   (A)   All buildings and vehicles owned by the town shall be designated as
non-smoking areas. Any person found to be smoking in, or within eight feet of,
a building or a vehicle which is owned by the town shall be in violation of
this section.
   (B)   As used in this section, SMOKING means the carrying or holding of a
lighted cigarette, cigar, pipe, or any other lighted smoking equipment.
   (C)   Any and all portions of this section apply equally to all town
employees and failure to follow or enforce said section can and will result in
dismissal from further employment.
   (D)   Punishment for violation of non-smoking policies inside any town owned
building by any full-time, part-time town employees, or reserve police officers
will be as follows:
      (1)   First offense: employee will be given one day off without pay;
      (2)   Second offense: employee will be given three days off without pay;
and
      (3)   Third offense: employee will be terminated.
   (E)   For purposes of this section, an EMPLOYEE shall be defined as any
full-time employee, part-time employee, or any reserve police officer of the
town.
(Ord. 2000-11, passed 9-7-2000; Res. 2003-6, passed 5-1-2003; Ord. 2004-4,
passed 5-6-2004; Res. 2004-10, passed 5-6-2004; Ord. 2012-7, passed 6-19-2012)
§ 33.07 MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEE POLICIES.
   The following policies will be complied with by all employees and the Town
Council.
   (A)   Any purchase that will exceed the amount of $50 must be approved by
the Council President before is made. In the event of an emergency and the
President is not available; another Council member may make the approval.
   (B)   Any purchase request exceeding $250 will be accompanied with
verifiable cost comparisons.
   (C)   Only authorized personnel will be in the town buildings alter normal
working hours.
   (D)   The Town Council will decide when and how town property will be
disposed of.
   (E)   No space in town property will be rented.
   (F)   Town employees can and should converse with Council Members without
fear of retribution.
   (G)   All town buildings are designated non-smoking areas.
   (H)   The town is not responsible for the removal of snow from private
parking lot.
   (I)   Town vehicles will not exceed a distance of four miles beyond the town
limits unless on bonafide official business or emergency.
   (J)   Unless there is good sound reason for patrolling State Highway 32, the
practice will be held to an absolute minimum. More attention should be paid to
high-speed areas such as South Franklin Street.
(Res. 2000-5, passed 1-1-2000) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.08 USE OF MUNICIPAL VEHICLES.
   A municipal vehicle can only be used by an employee for municipal business
only. It may not be used for personal purposes of any employee.
(Res. 85-12, passed 12-11-1985) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.09 ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE WRITE-OFF PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Once the Town Council approves the noncollectable list, the Utility
Clerk will make the appropriate entries to write-off the noncollectable
receivable by using the direct write-off method. The direct write-off method
results in the write-off of a utility bill directly to accounts receivable when
deemed to be noncollectable.
   (B)   Accounts that have had a write-off will be flagged as having had an
noncollectable balance in the past. Any future transactions for those account
holders will be denied until the noncollectable balance is paid in full.
However this provision will not apply if the debt is fully discharged in
bankruptcy.
(Res. 2014-8, passed 10-2-2014)
§ 33.10 INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS.
   The document entitled “Internal Controls Policy and Procedures for the Town
of Parker City, Indiana” ordains that this section be spread of record at the
Office of the Clerk-Treasurer the town, for enforcement thereof.
(Ord. 2016-11, passed 7-7-2016)
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person (including town employees) firm or corporation violating §
33.06 shall be guilty of a Class C infraction and shall be subject to a fine in
a sum not exceeding $500.
(Ord. 2000-11, passed 9-7-2000; Res. 2003-6, passed 5-1-2003; Ord. 2004-4,
passed 5-6-2004; Res. 2004-10, passed 5-6-2004; Ord. 2012-7, passed 6-19-2012)
 CHAPTER 34: FEES
Section
   
34.01   Municipal fees
   
34.02   Administrative fees
   
34.03   Traffic related fees
   
34.04   Handgun application fee
   
34.05   Utility payments; credit card fees
Cross-reference:
   Specific funds, see
TSO Table VI
§ 34.01 MUNICIPAL FEES.
   The Clerk-Treasurer of the town shall establish a charge for personal
messages on the town’s electronic sign. This fee shall be deposited into the
General Fund.
(Res. 2017-14, passed 11-18-2017)
§ 34.02 ADMINISTRATIVE FEES.
   (A)   Copies. In order to cover the expense of material used in making
copies for other than town business, a fee of $0.10 per copy will made.
   (B)   Notary fee. The Clerk-Treasurer of the town shall establish a charge
of $10 for notarizing paperwork. This is the maximum fee per I.C. 33-42-14-1.
This fee shall be deposited into the General Fund.
   (C)   Laminating fee. The Clerk-Treasurer of the town shall establish a fee
of $2 for each page laminated, other than for town business. The fee is being
established to cover the expense of laminating material. This fee shall be
deposited into the General Fund.
(Res. 84-6, passed 5-9-1984; Res. 2007-7, passed 10-4-2007; Ord. 2009-9, passed
10-1-2009; Res. 2012-10, passed 3-1-2012)
§ 34.03 TRAFFIC RELATED FEES.
   (A)   Traffic accident reports.
      (1)   The Police Department of the town shall, pursuant to I.C. 9-26-9-3,
supply information concerning incident and accident investigation and reports
to persons entitled thereto, furnishing a copy of the incident and/or accident
report, and the charge for providing a copy of such report shall be the sum of
$5 for each such report furnished.
      (2)   Said fee, as provided in this division (A), shall be deposited in a
separate account to be known as the Accident Report Account and shall be
expended at the discretion of the Chief Administrative Officer of the Police
Department for any department purpose reasonably related to the keeping of
accident reports and records or the prevention of highway and street accidents.
   (B)   Motor vehicle inspection fee.
      (1)   The Police Department of the town shall, pursuant to statute,
supply a motor vehicle inspection upon the application form prepared by the
Bureau of Motor Vehicles and verify facts on said application.
      (2)   The town, pursuant to I.C. 9-17-2-12, shall charge a fee of $5 for
inspection of said vehicles.
      (3)   Said fee shall be kept in a separate fund titled Special Vehicles
Inspection Fund and those funds will be used for the purpose of law
enforcement.
      (4)   Said account as established shall comply with any rules and
regulations for proper accounting and expenditure of funds as established by
the State Board of Accounts.
   (C)   Mileage rate.
      (1)   The mileage rate shall be set at $0.49 per mile.
      (2)   The aforementioned mileage rate has an effective date of July 1,
2022.
   (D)   Vehicle identification number inspections.
      (1)   The Police Department of the town shall collect a fee of $5 for
performing any vehicle identification number inspection.
      (2)   All funds collected pursuant to this division (D) shall be
deposited into the Continuing Law Enforcement Education Fund and utilized
accordingly.
(Ord. 145, passed 4-12-1982; Ord. 1990-2, passed 4-10-1990; Ord. 2003-2, passed
4-3-2003; Res. 2004-7, passed 2-5-2004; Ord. 2009-6, passed 10-1-2009; Ord.
2009-8, passed 10-1-2009; Res. 2011-2, passed 8-4-2011; Res. 2016-10, passed 8-
4-2016; Res. 2022-9, passed 7-7-2022)
Cross-reference:
   Traffic Code, see Title VII
§ 34.04 HANDGUN APPLICATION FEE.
   (A)   The town, pursuant to I.C. 35-47-2-3(b), does establish application
fees of the following, which shall be collected from every applicant filing an
application with the Town Marshal for a handgun license:
      (1)   Ten dollars per four-year handgun license, $5 of said fee shall be
refunded if the license is not issued;
      (2)   Fifty dollars per lifetime handgun license, if the person does not
currently possess a valid state handgun license; $30 of said fee shall be
refunded it the license is not issued; and
      (3)   Forty dollars per lifetime handgun license, if the person currently
possesses a valid state handgun license; $30 of said fee shall be refunded if
the license is not issued.
   (B)   The fee as collected under division (A) above, shall be deposited into
the law enforcement agency’s Firearms Training Fund or other appropriate fund
for training activities.
   (C)   Such application fee as collected and deposited to the funds as
designated in divisions (A) and (B) above, shall be used by the Police
Department exclusively for the purpose of training law enforcement officers in
the proper use of firearms or other law enforcement duties. Said account or
accounts as established shall comply with any rules and regulations for proper
accounting and expenditure of funds as established by the State Board of
Accounts.
(Ord. 146, passed 4-12-1982; Ord. 2003-3, passed 4-3-2003; Ord. 2009-7, passed
10-1-2009)
Cross-reference:
   BB rifles; gas or pellet guns, see §
130.07
   Use of projectiles, see §
130.08
§ 34.05 UTILITY PAYMENTS; CREDIT CARD FEES.
   The town, and the town’s municipal utilities, are responsible for collection
of water and sewage bills, and other fees. The credit card company D.B.A.
Xpress-pay will charge cardholders a 3% convenience fee for all transactions.
Customers shall be informed of this surcharge at the time they wish to use
their credit or debit card for payment.
(Res. 2025-10, passed 2-6-2025)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITIES GENERALLY
      
51.   SEWERS
      
52.   WATER
      
53.   STORM WATER SYSTEM
      
54.   GARBAGE
      
55.   GAS
CHAPTER 50: UTILITIES GENERALLY
Section
Customer Application and Deposit
   
50.01   Customer application and deposit policy generally
   
50.02   Deposit requirements schedule
   
50.03   Residential general
   
50.04   Residential owner occupied
   
50.05   Residential rental
   
50.06   Non-residential general
   
50.07   Installment options
   
50.08   History defined
   
50.09   Refunding of deposits and the payment of interest
Policies and Procedures
   
50.20   Partial payments
   
50.21   Shut off/disconnect notices
   
50.22   Utility deposits
   
50.23   Tampering with municipal utilities
CUSTOMER APPLICATION AND DEPOSIT
§ 50.01 CUSTOMER APPLICATION AND DEPOSIT POLICY GENERALLY.
   (A)   New or moving customers applying for utility service shall do so in
person at the business office; and shall pay a cash deposit and comply with the
credit worthy criteria (written confirmation from previous utility companies),
as specified below, before any utility service will be rendered.
   (B)   When submitting the application for utility service, the applicant
will be asked for proof of identification (driver’s license preferred). This is
necessary to aid in the collection process, if necessary, and to eliminate
possible falsification of who is actually living at the service address. The
business office will make a copy of the proof document and attach it to the
application form.
   (C)   If the applicant is renting, the property owner or manager shall sign
the landlord certificate section on the application. The business office will
sign the application, which acknowledges receipt of the completed application
and the customers his or her reading of this policy, and agreement to
compliance with the policy as stated herein. A copy will then be mailed to the
property owner or manager advising that his or her tenant has applied for
utility service.
   (D)   After reviewing the application for completeness, the business office
will determine the deposit requirement, if any, and review computer and/or the
other records to verify that the applicant has no previous history of being
past due and for any previous account balances that may still be due.
   (E)   Upon payment of any required cash deposit, a receipt will be issued to
the applicant.
   (F)   A copy of this policy and a supply of the related forms will be mailed
to each rental property owner and/or manager. The owner/manager should make the
policy available to the applicant and assist the applicant with the completion
of the application for utility service.
   (G)   A copy of this policy and an application for utility service will be
available at the business office for use by those who are new construction
homeowners.
(Ord. 2000-9, passed 7-6-2000)
§ 50.02 DEPOSIT REQUIREMENTS SCHEDULE.
 
Customer      Type     Water Sewage
Commercial             15% of the active 12 month’s charges, including taxes, (rounded to the
Governmental           nearest $100) at the service address. If the service is at a new address,
Industrial             the 12 month’s charges will be estimated, based upon the type and size of
                       the customer as compared to similar types and sizes of customers. Deposits
Institutional          are subject to periodic review, after which, the deposit may be adjusted to
                       more accurately reflect the 15% requirement.

Residential   Owner    $40   $60
              occupied
Residential   Rental   $40   $60
 
(Ord. 2000-9, passed 7-6-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.03 RESIDENTIAL GENERAL.
   (A)   When the previously terminated account (owner-occupied or renter)
returns to establish a new account after a period of time has elapsed, the
deposit on those accounts (utility services) which have previously established
a negative credit history (see § 50.08) with the town’s water and sewage
utilities, may be double the regular deposit as previously stated and any
amounts previously written off as bad debts must be paid and any collection or
legal fees paid to outside agencies must be reimbursed before a new account
will be established.
   (B)   If an active account (owner occupied or renter) continually becomes or
remains past due (determined by multiple application of penalty charges against
the account), or service has been disconnected due to non-payment, a deposit
equal to double the schedule established above may be required for continuation
or re-establishment of service.
(Ord. 2000-9, passed 7-6-2000)
§ 50.04 RESIDENTIAL OWNER OCCUPIED.
   (A)   The owner occupied residential deposit shall normally be required
before utility service will be rendered. The deposit may be waived, however,
and the owner deemed creditworthy, if said owner/applicant provides written
confirmation from his or her preceding utility company(ies) (the town municipal
utilities shall be considered a preceding utility company) going back two
years, verifying that the applicant:
      (1)   Has been a customer of said previous utility(ies) within the past
two years;
      (2)   Is not past due on any bill at this time for service rendered by
said previous utility(ies);
      (3)   Within the past one year, did not have more than one bill which was
delinquent to any utility; and
      (4)   Within the past two years, did not have a service disconnected by
any utility for non-payment of a bill for services rendered by said utility.
   (B)   (1)   If the owner/applicant has not had service with any utility
company within the past two years, he or she must make a deposit as set forth
in the schedule above.
      (2)   After two years, the deposit may be refunded subject to the
conditions set forth in §
50.09.
(Ord. 2000-9, passed 7-6-2000)
§ 50.05 RESIDENTIAL RENTAL.
   (A)   A residential rental deposit shall always be required before utility
service will be rendered.
   (B)   (1)   When a rental account customer moves to a new account, a new
application for utility service shall be required. The old deposit normally
shall be transferred to the new account. If, however, the customer has
developed a history of being past due (see §
50.08), the old deposit shall stay with the old account and a new deposit shall
be required for the new account. In this event, the deposit required on the new
account may be double the regular deposit requirement. The old deposit will be
applied to the current and final bills of the old account, and the balance, if
any, will be refunded.
      (2)   If the old account is past due on the moving date, a new account
will not be established until the old account is brought current.
      (3)   If the renter fails to pay the old account in full, the service
will not be re-established until the property owner or manager has paid the
balance of the old account.
   (C)   If, after the final bill is prepared, the old deposit is not
sufficient to cover the remaining charges of the old account and the old
account becomes past dues, the new account will be subject to service
termination as though the two accounts were one.
   (D)   When planning a move, the utility business office should be given
sufficient notice so that services can be terminated on the planned date of
vacating the premises.
(Ord. 2000-9, passed 7-6-2000)
§ 50.06 NON-RESIDENTIAL GENERAL.
   (A)   Commercial, industrial, and institutional accounts shall be required
to pay a deposit before utility service will be rendered. The amount of deposit
shall be determined by the above schedule.
   (B)   If an account continually becomes or remains past due (determined by
multiple application of penalty charges against the account), a deposit equal
to double the amount determined to be required by the above schedule will be
required for continuation of service.
   (C)   If an account is disconnected because of non-payment, the deposit will
be used to defray any or all of the existing balance. Upon re-establishing the
required deposit balance (a surety bond may be required in order to cover the
increased amount), the payment of reconnect charges and payment of any charges
not covered by the deposit and/or surety bond, services will be restored.
(Ord. 2000-9, passed 7-6-2000)
§ 50.07 INSTALLMENT OPTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   If the combined residential deposit (owner occupied or rental)
is more than $100, the applicant of customer shall be allowed to make weekly
installment payments until the total deposit requirement is paid in full.
      (2)   The first installment shall be at least $100 and subsequent
installments shall not be less than $25. installment payments shall not
continue beyond six weeks.
      (3)   Service shall be connected upon receipt of the first such payment,
but may be terminated at any time, without notice, upon failure by the
applicant or customer to make the agreed upon installment payments and/or
utility bill payments when due.
   (B)   If the combined commercial, industrial, institutional, or governmental
deposit is more than $200, the applicant or customer shall be allowed one of
two options:
      (1)   To make weekly installment payments until the total deposit
requirement is paid in full. The first payment shall be at least $200 and
installment payments shall not continue beyond eight weeks. Service shall be
connected upon receipt of the first such payment, but may be terminated at any
time, without notice, upon failure by the applicant or customer to make the
agreed upon installment payments and/or utility bill payments when due; or
      (2)   To provide an assigned surety bond from an approved underwriting
company for the deposit requirement. Service shall be connected upon receipt of
the surety bond.
(Ord. 2000-9, passed 7-6-2000)
§ 50.08 HISTORY DEFINED.
   Having a HISTORY OF BEING PAST DUE or a NEGATIVE CREDIT HISTORY is defined
as follows:
   (A)   Having been past due on more than one occurrence during the preceding
12-month period;
   (B)   Having any service disconnected as a result of non-payment during the
preceding 24-month period; and/or
   (C)   Being past due on the date service is terminated. This includes those
customers who requested service be terminated at one location (account) and
connected at a new location (account) as a result of moving to said new
location.
(Ord. 2000-9, passed 7-6-2000)
§ 50.09 REFUNDING OF DEPOSITS AND THE PAYMENT OF INTEREST.
   (A)   Cash deposits will be applied to the customer’s final bill after which
the balance, if any, will be refunded. Any balance due after application of the
deposit shall be due and payable on or before the date specified on the final
bill.
   (B)   Residential owner occupied cash deposits may be refunded after two
years, if requested and if the following conditions are met: within the past
one year, the owner/occupant did not have more than one bill which became
delinquent, and within the past two years, the owner/occupant did not have a
service disconnected for non-payment.
   (C)   Non-residential surety bonds will be canceled and returned to the
principal within a reasonable time after all final charges are paid.
   (D)   If a given utility has a deposit balance remaining after that
utility’s charges are satisfied, said balance shall be applied to other utility
charges not so satisfied before any amount of the deposit is refunded.
   (E)   If more than one utility has charges not so satisfied, the excess
shall be applied in a manner prescribed by the Town Council.
   (F)   Interest will not be paid on any part of the deposit.
(Ord. 2000-9, passed 7-6-2000)
POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
§ 50.20 PARTIAL PAYMENTS.
   (A)   Partial utility payments will not be normally be approved and if
approval is granted (requires at least two Council members in agreement) the
customer must consider that a second approval will rarely be granted. A second
approval will require proof of extreme financial straits and the agreement of
all Council members who will demonstrate said agreement by signing the partial
payment request and agreement.
   (B)   All requests must be made in person at the business office and must be
the person responsible for paying the utilities account. At this time, the
partial payment request/agreement form will be completed and processed.
   (C)   The partial payment approval will be made for the amount requested
(past due amount) and agreement must be made to pay all further charges on or
before the required date.
   (D)   Partial payments will be computed as follows.
      (1)   The first installment will equal 50% of the requested amount and
will be paid at time of approval.
      (2)   The remainder will be paid in two equal installments and will be
paid in a manner that will not exceed 60 days in duration calculated from date
of receipt of the first installment.
   (E)   (1)   Partial payments will be applied to be the requested amount in
the following manner and/or order:
         (a)   Water;
         (b)   Sales tax;
         (c)   Water penalty;
         (d)   Sewage; and
         (e)   Sewage penalty.
      (2)   Failure to adhere to the agreement can and will normally result in
a disconnection of utility service without prior notification and will result
in a $25 reconnect fee and further charges that will be calculated as outlined
in §
50.03.
(Ord. 2000-10, passed 9-7-2000)
§ 50.21 SHUT OFF/DISCONNECT NOTICES.
   (A)   (1)   It is the policy of the town to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills.
      (2)   The town’s form for application for utility service and all bills
shall contain, in addition to the title, address, room number, and telephone
number of the official in charge of billing, clearly visible and easily
readable provisions to the effect that:
         (a)   All bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth on
the bill;
         (b)   If any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill
will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within
ten days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued for
nonpayment; and
         (c)   1.   Any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill
shall have a right to a hearing, at which time he or she may be represented in
person and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may
present orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the town
official in charge of utility billing.
            2.   This official shall be authorized to order that the customer’s
service not be discontinued and shall have the authority to make a final
determination of the customer's complaint.
   (B)   (1)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be
entertained; only questions of proper and correct billing will be considered.
      (2)   In the absence of payment of the bill rendered or resort to the
hearing procedure provided herein, service will be discontinued at the time
specified, but in no event until the charges have been due and unpaid for at
least 30 days.
   (C)   When it becomes necessary for the town to discontinue utility service
to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only after
all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on charge in
the sum of $20.
§ 50.22 UTILITY DEPOSITS.
   (A)   Utility deposits for water and sewage service on accounts with
previous service will be calculated in accordance with §
50.02.
   (B)   New houses and/or new buildings requiring utility service will be
charged any applicable fees that might be determined by this subchapter plus
the following.
      (1)   A $1,500 initial water utility hook-up fee will be charged at the
time of application for utility service.
      (2)   A $50 sewage utility inspection fee at the time of sewage hook up.
(Ord. 2000-10, passed 9-7-2000; Ord. 2000-15, passed 12-7-2000; Ord. 2002-9,
passed 11-7-2002; Ord. 2023-1, passed 4-24-2023)
Cross-reference:
   Payments using credit and debit cards, see §
34.04
§ 50.23 TAMPERING WITH MUNICIPAL UTILITIES.
   Tampering with meters or any property of the municipal utilities is
punishable by a fine of not less than $10 or more than $100.
(Ord. 2011-2, passed 11-3-2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 51: SEWERS
Section
Rates and Charges
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   User classes
   
51.03   User rates and charges
   
51.04   Alternate sources
   
51.05   Rate adjustment
   
51.06   Billing procedures
   
51.07   Annual study
   
51.08   Enforcement
   
51.09   Special rate contracts
   
51.10   Appeal procedure
   
51.11   Free service
Connections, Installation, and Discharges
   
51.25   Definitions
   
51.26   Unlawful discharges and deposits
   
51.27   Permits
   
51.28   Connection requirements
   
51.29   Discharge of waters and wastes
   
51.30   Pretreatment of industrial wastes
   
51.31   Plans and specifications
   
51.32   Unpolluted water discharges
   
51.33   Industrial cooling water
   
51.34   Measurements, tests, and analyses
   
51.35   Assessment of wastewater strength
   
51.36   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors
   
51.37   Unusual flow notification
   
51.38   Compliance with state and federal requirements
   
51.39   Unauthorized tampering
   
51.40   Superintendent permitted to enter premises
   
51.41   Violation
   
51.42   Appeal procedure
 
   
51.99   Penalty
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COUNCIL. The Town Council of the Town of Parker City, Indiana, or any duly
authorized officials acting on its behalf.
   BOD (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). Shall have the same meaning as defined in §
51.25.
   DEBT SERVICE COSTS. The average annual principal and interest payments on
all outstanding revenue bonds or other long term capital debt.
   EXCESSIVE STRENGTH SURCHARGE. An additional charge which is billed to users
for treating sewage wastes with an average strength in excess of normal
domestic sewage.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater discharges from industrial, trade, or
business processes as distinct from employee wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE. 
      (1)   For the purpose of determining surcharges, shall mean wastewater or
sewage having an average daily concentration as follows:
         (a)   BOD not more than 250 mg/l; and
         (b)   S.S. not more than 250 mg/l.
      (2)   As defined by origin, wastewaters from segregated domestic and/or
sanitary conveniences as distinct from wastes from industrial processes.
   NPDES (NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM) PERMIT. Shall have
the same meaning as defined in §
51.25.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS. Include all costs, direct and indirect,
necessary to provide adequate wastewater collection, transport, and treatment
on a continuing basis and produce discharges to receiving waters that conform
with all related federal, state, and local requirements. These costs include
replacement.
   OTHER SERVICE CHARGES. Tap charges, connection charges, area charges, and
other identifiable charges, other than user charges, debt service charges, and
excessive strength surcharges.
   PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any
individual, firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association,
society, institution, enterprise, governmental agency, or other entity.
   REPLACEMENT COSTS. The expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed.
   S.S. (SUSPENDED SOLIDS). Shall have the same meaning as defined in §
51.25.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory; MAY is permissive.
   SEWAGE. Shall have the same meaning as defined in §
51.25.
   SEWER USE ORDINANCE. A separate and companion enactment to this subchapter,
which regulates the connection to and use of public and private sewers.
   TOWN. The Town of Parker City, Indiana, acting by and through the Town
Council.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of the wastewater treatment works for
the cost of operation and maintenance of such works pursuant to Pub. Law No.
92-500, § 204(b), being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1284(b).
   USER CLASS. The division of wastewater treatment customers by source,
function, waste characteristics, and process or discharge similarities (i.e.,
residential, commercial, industrial, institutional, and governmental in the
user charge system).
      (1)   COMMERCIAL USER. Any establishment involved in a commercial
enterprise, business, or service which, based on a determination by the town
discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
      (2)   GOVERNMENTAL USER. Any federal, state, or local governmental user
of the wastewater treatment works.
      (3)   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any manufacturing or processing facility that
discharges industrial waste to a publicly owned treatment works.
      (4)   INSTITUTIONAL USER. Any establishment involved in a social,
charitable, religious, and/or educational function which, based on a
determination by the town, discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes or
wastes from sanitary conveniences.
      (5)   RESIDENTIAL USER. A user of the treatment works whose premises or
building is used primarily as a residence for one or more persons, including
all dwelling units and the like.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment, and processes required to
collect, carry away, and treat domestic and commercial wastes and dispose of
the effluent.
(Ord. 94-4, passed 7-19-1994)
§ 51.02 USER CLASSES.
   (A)   (1)   Every person whose premises are served by said sewage works
shall be charged for the services provided.
      (2)   These charges are established for each user class, as defined, in
order that the sewage works shall recover, from each user and user class,
revenue which is proportional to its use of the treatment works in terms of
volume and load.
      (3)   User charges are levied to defray the cost of operation and
maintenance (including replacement) of the treatment works. User charges shall
be uniform in magnitude within a user class.
   (B)   User charges are subject to the rules and regulations adopted by the
United States Environmental Protection Agency. Replacement costs, which are
recovered through the system of user charges, shall be based upon the expected
service life of the sewage works equipment.
   (C)   The various classes of users of the treatment works, for the purposes
of this subchapter, shall be as follows:
      (1)   Class 1: Residential;
      (2)   Class 2: Commercial;
      (3)   Class 3: Governmental/institutional; and
      (4)   Class 4: Industrial.
(Ord. 94-4, passed 7-19-1994)
§ 51.03 USER RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   For the use of and the service rendered by sewage works, rates and
charges shall be collected from the owners of each and every lot, parcel of
real estate, or building that is connected with the town sanitary system or
otherwise discharges sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water, or other
liquids, either directly or indirectly, into the sanitary sewerage system of
the town.
   (B)   Such rates and charges include user charges, debt service costs,
excessive strength surcharges, and other service charges, which rates and
charges shall be payable as hereinafter provided and shall be in an amount
determinable as follows.
      (1)   There shall be, and are, established for the use of a service
rendered by the sanitary sewage system of the town, based upon the quantity of
water used on or in the property or premises subject to such rates and charges,
as the same is measured by the water meter there in use, plus a base charge,
except as herein otherwise provided.
      (2)   For the period beginning August 1, 2023, the sewage rates shall be
as follows:
 
Metered Users: Rate                     January 1, 2024 ongoing
Base charge                             $10.29
Cost per thousand                       $9.68
Unmetered users: based on 4,000 gallons $49.01
 
      (3)   For the service rendered to the town, said town shall be subject to
the same rates and charges hereinabove provided.
      (4)   (a)   In order to recover the cost of monitoring industrial wastes
the town shall charge the user the actual cost of monitoring but not less than
$25 per sampling event.
         (b)   This charge will be reviewed on the same basis as all other
rates and charges in this subchapter.
(Ord. 94-4, passed 7-19-1994; Ord. 2023-4, passed 6-7-2023) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.04 ALTERNATE SOURCES.
   (A)   The quantity of water discharged into the sanitary sewerage system and
obtained from sources other than the utility that serves the town shall be
determined by the town in such manner as the town shall reasonably elect, and
the sewage service shall be billed at the above appropriate rates; except as is
hereinafter provided in this section, the town may make proper allowances in
determining the sewage bill for quantities of water shown on the records to be
consumed, but which are also shown to the satisfaction of the town that such
quantities do not enter the sanitary sewerage system.
   (B)   (1)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate, or building
discharges sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water, or other liquids into the
town sanitary sewerage system, either directly or indirectly, is not a user of
water supplied by the water utility serving the town and the water used thereon
or therein is not measured by a water meter, or is measured by a water meter
not acceptable to the town then the amount of water used shall be otherwise
measured or determined by the town.
      (2)   In order to ascertain the rate or charge provided in this
subchapter, the owner or other interested party shall at his or her expense,
install and maintain meters, weirs, volumetric measuring devices or any
adequate and approved method of measurement acceptable to the town for
determining of sewage discharge.
   (C)   (1)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate, or building
discharging sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water, or other liquids in the
town’s sanitary sewerage system, either directly or indirectly, is a user of
water supplied by the water utility serving the town, and in addition, is a
user of water from another source which is not measured by a water meter or is
measured by a meter not acceptable to the town, then the amount of water used
shall be otherwise measured or determined by the town.
      (2)   In order to ascertain the rates or charges, the owner or other
interested parties shall, at his or her expense, install and maintain meters,
weirs, volumetric measuring devices, or any adequate and approved method of
measurement acceptable to the town for the determination of sewage discharge.
   (D)   In the event two or more residential lots, parcels of real estate, or
buildings discharging sanitary sewage, water, or other liquids into the town’s
sanitary sewerage system, either directly or indirectly, are users of water and
the quantity of water is measured by a single water meter, then in each such
case, for billing purposes, the quantity of water used shall be averaged for
each user and the base charge and the flow rates and charges shall apply to
each of the number of residential lots, parcels of real estate, or building
served through the single water meter.
   (E)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate, or building discharges
sanitary sewage, industrial waste, water, or other liquids into the town’s
sanitary sewerage system either directly or indirectly, and uses water in
excess of 10,000 gallons per month, and it can be shown to the satisfaction of
the town that a portion of water as measured by the water meter or meters does
not and cannot enter the sanitary sewage system, then the owner or other
interested party shall, at his or her expense, install and maintain meters,
weirs, volumetric measuring devices, or any adequate and approved method of
measurement acceptable to the town for the determination of sewage discharge.
   (F)   Where a metered water supply is used for fire protection as well as
for other uses, the town may, in its discretion, make adjustments in the user
charge as may be equitable.
(Ord. 94-4, passed 7-19-1994)
§ 51.05 RATE ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   In order that the rates and charges may be justly and equitable
adjusted to the service rendered to users, the town shall base its charges not
only on the volume, but also the strength and character of the stronger than
normal domestic sewage and shall require the user to determine the strength and
content of all sewage and wastes discharged, either directly or indirectly into
the sanitary sewage system, in such manner and by such method as the town may
deem practicable in order to determine the proper charge. The user shall
furnish a central sampling point available to the town at all times.
   (B)   Normal sewage domestic waste strength should not exceed a biochemical
oxygen demand of 250 milligrams per liter of fluid, suspended solids in excess
of 250 milligrams per liter of fluid. Additional charges for treating stronger
than normal domestic waste shall be made on the following basis.
      (1)   Rate surcharge based upon suspended solids. There shall be an
additional charge of $0.21 per pound of suspended solids for suspended solids
received in excess of 250 milligrams per liter of fluid.
      (2)   Rate surcharge based upon BOD. There shall be an additional charge
of $0.21 per pound of biochemical oxygen demand for BOD received in excess of
250 milligrams per liter of fluid.
   (C)   The determination of suspended solids, and five-day biochemical oxygen
demand contained in the waste shall be in accordance with the latest copy of
“Standard Methods for the Examination of Water, Sewage and Industrial Wastes,”
as written by the American Public Health Association, the American Water Works
Association and the Water Pollution Control Federation, and in conformance with
“Guidelines Establishing Test Procedures for Analysis of Pollutants,”
Regulation 40 C.F.R. part 136, published in the Federal Register on October 16,
1973.
(Ord. 94-4, passed 7-19-1994)
§ 51.06 BILLING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Such rates and charges shall be prepared, billed, and collected by the
town in the manner provided by law and ordinance.
   (B)   The rates and charges for all users shall be prepared and billed
monthly.
   (C)   The rates and charges may be billed to the tenant or tenants occupying
the properties served, unless otherwise requested in writing by the owner, but
such billing shall in no way relieve the owner from the liability in the event
payment is not made as herein required. The owners of properties served, which
are occupied by a tenant or tenants, shall have the right to examine the
collection records of the town for the purpose of determining whether bills
have been paid by such tenant or tenants; provided that such examination shall
be made at the office at which said records are kept and during the hours that
such office is open for business.
   (D)   As is provided by statute, all rates and charges not paid when due are
declared to be delinquent and a penalty of 10% of the amount of the rates or
charges shall thereupon attach thereto. The time at which such rates or charges
shall be paid is now fixed at 15 days after the date of mailing of the bill.
(Ord. 94-4, passed 7-19-1994) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.07 ANNUAL STUDY.
   (A)   In order that the rates and charges for sewage services may be in
proportion to the cost of providing services to the various users or user
classes, the town shall cause a study to be made within one year, following the
date on which this subchapter goes into effect and at least annually
thereafter. Such study shall include, but not be limited to, an analysis of the
costs associated with the treatment of excessive strength effluents from
industrial users, volume and delivery flow rate characteristics attributed to
the various users or user classes, the financial position of the sewage works,
and the adequacy of its revenue to provide reasonable funds for the operation
and maintenance, replacements, debt service requirements, and capital
improvements to the waste treatment systems. The town shall adjust its rates
and charges to reflect the results of the study.
   (B)   Thereafter, on an annual basis, within a reasonable period of time
following the normal accounting period, the town shall cause a similar study to
be made for the purpose of reviewing the proportionality of the rates and
charges for sewage services on a continuing basis.
   (C)   (1)   Said studies shall be conducted by officers or employees of the
town, or by a firm of certified public accountants, or a firm of consulting
engineers which firms shall have experience in such studies, or by such
combination of officers, employees, certified public accountants, or engineers
as the town shall determine to be best under the circumstances.
      (2)   The town shall, upon completion of said study, revise and adjust
the rates and charges, as necessary in accordance therewith in order to
maintain the proportionality and sufficiency of the rates.
(Ord. 94-4, passed 7-19-1994)
§ 51.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The town shall make and enforce such by-laws and regulations as may be
deemed necessary for the safe, economical, and efficient management of the
town’s sewerage system, pumping stations, and sewage conveyance system, for the
construction and use of house sewers and connections to the sewerage system,
and for the regulation, collection, rebating, and refunding of such rates and
charges.
   (B)   The town is authorized to prohibit dumping of wastes into the town’s
sewage system which, in its discretion, are deemed harmful to the operation of
the sewage treatment works of the town or to require methods affecting
pretreatment of said wastes to comply with the pretreatment standards included
in the National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit issued to
the sewage works.
(Ord. 94-4, passed 7-19-1994)
§ 51.09 SPECIAL RATE CONTRACTS.
   The Council is further authorized to enter into special rate contracts with
customers of the sewage works where clearly definable cost to the sewage works
can be determined, and such rate shall be limited to such costs. Said contract
shall be in compliance with Pub. Law Nos. 92-500 and 95-217, also known as the
Clean Water Act, codified at 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
(Ord. 94-4, passed 7-19-1994)
§ 51.10 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   The rules and regulations promulgated by the town, after approval of the
Town Council shall, among other things, provide for an appeal procedure whereby
a user shall have the right to appeal a decision of the Administrator of the
user charge to the Town Council and that any decision concerning user charges
of the Town Council may be appealed to a court of competent jurisdiction under
the appeal procedures provided for in the State Administrative Adjudication
Act, being I.C. 4-21.5-3-1 et seq.
(Ord. 94-4, passed 7-19-1994)
§ 51.11 FREE SERVICE.
   (A)   The Council shall not grant free service or use of the sewage
treatment system to any person, group, or entity.
   (B)   It is not necessary for an area or parcel of real estate to be annexed
to the town to receive sewage treatment.
(Ord. 94-4, passed 7-19-1994)
CONNECTIONS, INSTALLATION, AND DISCHARGES
§ 51.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen expressed in mg/
l utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard
laboratory procedures with nitrification inhibition in five days at 20°C.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of a building and conveys it to the building sewer beginning
five feet outside the building wall.
   BUILDING DRAIN - SANITARY. A building drain which conveys sanitary or
industrial sewage only.
   BUILDING DRAIN - STORM. A building drain which conveys storm water or other
clearwater drainage, but no wastewater.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal. Also called HOUSE CONNECTION.
   BUILDING SEWER - SANITARY. A building sewer which conveys sanitary or
industrial sewage only.
   BUILDING SEWER - STORM. A building sewer which conveys stormwater or other
clearwater drainage, but no sanitary or industrial sewage.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT.
      (1)   Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH, and fecal coliform
bacteria, plus additional pollutants identified in the NPDES permit if the
treatment works was designed to treat such pollutants, and in fact does remove
such pollutants to a substantial degree.
      (2)   The term SUBSTANTIAL DEGREE is not subject to precise definition,
but generally contemplates removals in the order of 80% or greater. Minor
incidental removals in the order of 10% to 30% are not considered SUBSTANTIAL.
Examples of the additional pollutants which may be considered COMPATIBLE
include:
      (1)   Chemical oxygen demand;
      (2)   Total organic carbon;
      (3)   Phosphorus and phosphorus compounds;
      (4)   Nitrogen and nitrogen compounds; and
      (5)   Fats, oils, and greases of animal or vegetable origin (except as
prohibit where these materials would interfere with the operation of the
treatment works).
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   FECAL COLIFORM. Any of a number of organisms common to the intestinal tract
of humans and animals, whose presence in sanitary sewage is an indicator of
pollution.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat, or grease in a physical state, such that will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in a pretreatment facility
approved by the town.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking,
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage, and sale of produce.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant that is not defined as a compatible
pollutant, including non-biodegradable dissolved solids.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade, or business as distinct from employee wastes or wastes from
sanitary conveniences.
   INFILTRATION. The water entering a sewer system, including building drains
and sewers, from the ground, through such means as, but not limited to,
defective pipes, pipe joints, connections, or manhole walls. INFILTRATION does
not include and is distinguished from inflow.
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW. The total quantity of water from both infiltration and
inflow without distinguishing the source.
   INFLOW. The water discharge into a sewer system, including building drains
and sewers, from such sources as, but not limited to, roof leaders, cellar,
yard and area drains, foundation drains, unpolluted cooling water discharges,
drains from springs and swampy areas, manhole covers, cross-connections from
storm sewers, and combined sewers, catch basins, storm waters, surface run-off,
street wash waters or drainage. INFLOW does not include and is distinguished
from infiltration.
   INSPECTOR. The person or persons duly authorized by the town, through its
Town Council, to inspect and approve the installation of building sewers and
their connection to the public sewer system.
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY. An industry that:
      (1)   Has a flow of 50,000 gallons or more per average work day;
      (2)   Has a flow greater than 5% of the flow carried by the municipal
system receiving the waste;
      (3)   Has in its waste a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in
standards issued under Pub. Law No. 92-500, § 307(a), being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1317
(a); or
      (4)   Has a significant impact, either singly or in combination with
other contributing industries, on a treatment works or on the quality of
effluent from that treatment works.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other body of surface or
groundwater.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE. Shall have the same meaning as defined in §
51.03.
   NPDES PERMIT. A permit issued under the National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System for discharge of wastewaters to the navigable waters of the
United States pursuant to Pub. Law No. 92-500, § 402, being 33 U.S.C. § 1342.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation,
group, or other entity.
   pH. The reciprocal of the logarithm of the hydrogen ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions, in grams per liter of solution.
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of industrial sewage from privately owned
industrial sources prior to introduction into a public treatment works.
   PRIVATE SEWER. A sewer which is not owned by a public authority.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer which is owned and controlled by the public authority
and will consist of the following increments.
      (1)   COLLECTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to collect
wastewaters from individual point source discharges.
      (2)   FORCE MAIN. A pipe in which wastewater is carried under pressure.
      (3)   INTERCEPTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to transport
wastewater from collector sewers to a treatment facility.
      (4)   PUMPING STATION. A station positioned in the public sewer system at
which wastewater is pumped to a higher level.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sanitary and industrial wastes, and to
which storm, surface, and ground water are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. The combination of liquid and water-carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions, (including polluted
cooling water). The two most common types of SEWAGE are as follows.
      (1)   INDUSTRIAL SEWAGE. A combination of liquid and water-carried
wastes, discharged from any industrial establishment, and resulting from any
trade or process carried on in that establishment (this shall include the
wastes from pretreatment facilities and polluted cooling water).
      (2)   SANITARY SEWAGE. The combination of liquid and water-carried wastes
discharged from toilet and other sanitary plumbing facilities.
   SEWAGE WORKS. The structures, equipment, and processes to collect,
transport, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of the effluent
and accumulated residual solids.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory; MAY is permissive.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration
longer than ten minutes more than three times the average 24 hours’
concentration of flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect the
collection system.
   STANDARD METHODS. The laboratory procedures set forth in the latest edition,
at the time of analysis, of “Standard Methods for the Examination of Water
Wastewater” prepared and published jointly by the American Public Health
Association, the American Water Works Association, and the Water Pollution
Control Federation.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer for conveying water, ground water or unpolluted water
from any source and to which sanitary and/or industrial wastes are not
intentionally admitted.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the municipal sewage works of the town
or his or her authorized deputy, agent, or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in, water, sewage, or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering under standard laboratory procedure.
   TOTAL SOLIDS. The sum of suspended and dissolved solids.
   TOXIC AMOUNT. Concentrations of any pollutant or combination of pollutants,
which upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism will cause adverse
effects, such as cancer, genetic mutations, and physiological manifestations,
as defined in standards issued pursuant to Pub. Law No. 92-500, § 307(a).
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   VOLATILE ORGANIC MATTER. The material in the sewage solids transformed to
gases or vapors when heated at 55°C for 15 to 20 minutes.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
(Ord. 94-5, passed 7-19-1994)
§ 51.26 UNLAWFUL DISCHARGES AND DEPOSITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property with the town
or in any area under the jurisdiction of said town any human or animal
excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any
sanitary sewer, either directly or indirectly, storm waters, surface water,
ground water, roof run-off, subsurface drainage, cooling water, unpolluted
water, or unpolluted industrial process water.
      (2)   The town shall require the removal of unpolluted waters from any
wastewater collection or treatment facility.
   (C)   (1)   Storm water, surface water, ground water, roof run-off,
subsurface drainage, cooling water, unpolluted water, or unpolluted industrial
process water may be admitted to storm sewers which have adequate capacity for
their accommodation. No person shall use such sewers, however, without the
specific permission of the town.
      (2)   No new connection shall be made to any sanitary or storm sewer
unless there is capacity available in all downstream sewers, lift stations,
force mains, and the sewage treatment plant including capacity for BOD and
suspended solids.
   (D)   No person shall place, deposit, or permit to be deposited in any
unsanitary manner on public or private property within the jurisdiction of the
town any wastewater or other polluted waters except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with provisions of this subchapter and the
NPDES permit.
   (E)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any natural
outlet any wastewater or other polluted waters except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with provisions of this subchapter and the
NPDES permit.
   (F)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (G)   The owner of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes, situated within the town
and abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is now
located a public sanitary sewer of the town is required at his or her expense
to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such facilities
directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter, within 60 days after the date of official notice to do so, provided
that said public sewer is within 300 feet of the property line. As a condition
of connection to a public sewer, the owner(s) shall grant a right of access
easement to the building sewer to the town for the purpose of repair and
inspection.
(Ord. 94-5, passed 7-19-1994) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.27 PERMITS.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of
§
51.26(G), the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the
Superintendent. A permit and inspection fee of $25 shall be paid to the town at
the time the application is filed.
   (C)   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
Superintendent. He or she shall be allowed to inspect the works at any stage of
construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any
underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within 24 hours
of the receipt of notice by the Superintendent.
   (D)   (1)   The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private sewage
disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the State Board of
Health.
      (2)   No permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system
employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is
less than 20,000 square feet. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to
discharge to any natural outlet.
   (E)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system as provided in division (D) above, a direct
connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with this
subchapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools, and similar private sewage
disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
   (F)   The owner(s) shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the town.
   (G)   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be
connected to said sewer within 60 days and the private sewage disposal system
shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bank-run gravel or dirt.
   (H)   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed to
interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Health
Officer.
(Ord. 94-5, passed 7-19-1994)
§ 51.28 CONNECTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   (1)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
         (a)   For residential and commercial service; and
         (b)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
      (2)   In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the said town. The permit
application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other
information considered pertinent in the judgment of the Inspector. A permit and
inspection fees of $15 for residential or commercial building sewer permit and
$25 for an industrial building sewer permit shall be paid to the Clerk-
Treasurer at the time the application is filed.
   (C)   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner(s). The owner(s) shall indemnify
the town from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned
by the installation of the building sewer.
   (D)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, courtyard, or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
   (E)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the said Inspector, to meet all
requirements of this subchapter.
   (F)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
town. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
A.S.T.M. and S.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. FD-9 shall apply.
   (G)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (H)   No person(s) shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface run-off or
ground water to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   (I)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the town or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and the S.P.C.F. Manual of Practice
in No. FD-9. All such connections shall be made gas tight and water tight. Any
deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the
Superintendent before installations.
   (J)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection
to the public sewer. The connection and testing shall be made under the
supervision of the Superintendent or his or her representative. The applicant
shall provide access to all structures (and areas of structures) to the
Superintendent for the purpose of establishing compliance with division (H)
above.
   (K)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the said town.
(Ord. 94-5, passed 7-19-1994) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.29 DISCHARGE OF WATERS AND WASTES.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic (as described in § 307A of
the Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317(a)) or poisonous solids, liquids,
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having any
other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel of the sewage works or interfere with any treatment
process;
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage. Whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails, paper, dishes, cups, milk containers, and the like, either
whole or ground by garbage grinders;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal, or other
public agencies of jurisdiction of such discharge to the receiving waters;
      (6)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (7)   Any waters or wastes having pH in excess of 9.5;
      (8)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; and
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs” as defined herein.
      (9)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amendable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amendable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment effluent
cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters.
   (B)   (1)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged, to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or
possess the characteristics enumerated in division (A) above, and which in
judgment of the Superintendent may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage
works, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a
hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the Superintendent may:
         (a)   Require new industries (or other large users) or industries (or
other large users) with significant increase in discharges to submit
information on wastewater quantities characteristics and obtain prior approval
for discharges;
         (b)   Reject the wastes in whole or in part for any reason deemed
appropriate by the town;
         (c)   Require pretreatment of such wastes to within the limits of
normal sewage as defined;
         (d)   Require control or flow equalization of such wastes so as to
avoid any “slug” loads or excessive loads that may be harmful to the treatment
works; or
         (e)   Require payment of a surcharge on any excessive flows or
loadings discharged to the treatment works to cover the additional costs of
having capacity for and treating such wastes.
      (2)   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plant and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances, and laws.
   (C)   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided
for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
   (D)   (1)   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable control manhole together with such necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and
measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and
safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the Superintendent.
      (2)   The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her expense,
and shall be maintained so as to be safe and accessible at all times. Agents of
the town, the State Water Pollution Control Agencies, and the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency shall be permitted to enter all properties for
the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, and testing.
   (E)   (1)   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of
waters and wastes to which reference is made in this subchapter shall be
determined in accordance with the latest edition of “Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater,” published by the American Public Health
Association, and shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon
suitable samples taken at said control manhole, except for applications for
NPDES permits and report thereof which shall be conducted in accordance with
rules and regulations adopted by the USEPA (40 C.F.R. part 136). In the event
that no special manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be
considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the
point at which the building sewer is connected.
      (2)   Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb, and property.
      (3)   The particular analyses involved will determine whether a 24-hour
composite of all outfalls of a premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample
or samples should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids
analyses are obtained from 24-hour composites of all outfalls whereas pHs are
determined from periodic grab samples.
   (F)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the town and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the town for treatment, subject to payment therefore, by the
industrial concern, at such rates as are compatible with §
51.03.
(Ord. 94-5, passed 7-19-1994)
§ 51.30 PRETREATMENT OF INDUSTRIAL WASTES.
   Pretreatment of industrial wastes from major contributing industries prior
to discharge to the treatment works is required and is subject to the Rules and
Regulations adopted by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) (40
C.F.R. part 403), and “Guidelines Establishing Test Procedures for Analysis of
Pollutants” (40 C.F.R. part 136), in addition to any more stringent
requirements established by the town and any subsequent state or federal
guidelines and rules and regulations.
(Ord. 94-5, passed 7-19-1994)
§ 51.31 PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Plans, specifications, and any other pertinent information relating to
pretreatment or control facilities shall be submitted for approval of the town
and no construction of such facilities shall be commenced until approval in
writing is granted.
   (B)   Where such facilities are provided, they shall be maintained
continuously in satisfactory and effective operating order by the owner at his
or her expense and shall be subject to periodic inspection by the town to
determine that such facilities are being operated in conformance with
applicable federal, state, and local laws and permits. The owner shall maintain
operating records and shall submit to the town a monthly summary report of the
character of the influent and effluent to show the performance of the treatment
facilities and for comparison against town monitoring records.
(Ord. 94-5, passed 7-19-1994)
§ 51.32 UNPOLLUTED WATER DISCHARGES.
   Unpolluted water from air conditioners, cooling, condensing systems, or
swimming pools, shall be discharged to a storm sewer, where it is available, or
to a combined sewer approved by the town. Where a storm sewer is not available,
discharge may be to a natural outlet approved by the town and by the state.
Where a storm sewer, combined sewer, or natural sewer is not available, such
unpolluted water may be discharged to a sanitary sewer pending written approval
by the town.
(Ord. 94-5, passed 7-19-1994)
§ 51.33 INDUSTRIAL COOLING WATER.
   Industrial cooling water, which may be polluted with insoluble oils or
grease or suspended solids, shall be pretreated for removal of pollutants and
the resultant clear water shall be discharged in accordance with §
51.32.
(Ord. 94-5, passed 7-19-1994)
§ 51.34 MEASUREMENTS, TESTS, AND ANALYSES.
   The town may require users of the treatment works, other than residential
users, to supply pertinent information on wastewater flows and characteristics.
Such measurements, tests, and analysis shall be made at the users’ expense. If
made by the town, an appropriate charge may be assessed to the user at the
option of the town.
(Ord. 94-5, passed 7-19-1994)
§ 51.35 ASSESSMENT OF WASTEWATER STRENGTH.
   The strength of wastewaters shall be determined, for periodic establishment
of charges provided for in §
51.03, from samples taken at the aforementioned structure at any period of time
and of such duration and in such manner as the town may elect, or, at any place
mutually agreed upon between the user and the town. Appropriate charges for
sampling and analysis may be assessed to the user at the option of the town.
The results of routine sampling and analysis by the user may also be used, for
determination of charges after verification by the town.
(Ord. 94-5, passed 7-19-1994)
§ 51.36 GREASE, OIL, AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   (A)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors or traps shall be provided when, in
the opinion of the town they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid
wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand
and other harmful ingredients, except that such interceptors or traps will not
be required for private living quarters or dwelling units.
   (B)   All interceptors or traps shall be of a type and capacity approved by
the town and shall be located so as to be readily and easily accessible for
cleaning and inspection. They shall be constructed of impervious materials
capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperatures and shall be
of substantial construction, be gas tight, water tight, and equipped with
easily removable covers. Where installed, all grease, oil, and sand
interceptors or traps shall be maintained by the owner, at his or her expense,
in continuously efficient operation at all times.
(Ord. 94-5, passed 7-19-1994)
§ 51.37 UNUSUAL FLOW NOTIFICATION.
   Users of the treatment works shall immediately notify the town of any
unusual flows or wastes that are discharged accidentally or otherwise to the
sewer system.
(Ord. 94-5, passed 7-19-1994) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.38 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE AND FEDERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All provisions of this subchapter and limits set herein shall comply with
any applicable state and/or federal requirements now, or projected to be in
effect.
(Ord. 94-5, passed 7-19-1994) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.39 UNAUTHORIZED TAMPERING.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently
break, damage, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or
equipment which is a part of the municipal sewage works.
   (B)   Any person violating this provision shall be subject to immediate
arrest under charge of disorderly conduct.
(Ord. 94-5, passed 7-19-1994) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.40 SUPERINTENDENT PERMITTED TO ENTER PREMISES.
   (A)   (1)   The Superintendent, Inspector, and other duly authorized
employees of the town bearing proper credentials and identification shall be
permitted to enter all properties for the purpose of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, and testing in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter.
      (2)   The Superintendent or his or her representative shall have no
authority to inquire into any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil,
refining, ceramic, paper, or other industries beyond that point having a direct
bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or
facilities for waste treatment.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) above, the Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the
town shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by
the company and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the
town employees and the town shall indemnify the company against loss or damage
to its property by town employees and against liability claims and demands for
personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing out
of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by
negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required in
§
51.29(E).
   (C)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the town
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the town holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purpose of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement,
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 94-5, passed 7-19-1994)
§ 51.41 VIOLATION.
   Any person found to be violating any provisions of this subchapter except §
51.39 shall be served by the town with written notice stating the nature of the
violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction
thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice,
permanently cease all violations.
(Ord. 94-5, passed 7-19-1994) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.42 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   The rules and regulations promulgated by the town, after approved by the
Town Council shall, among other things, provide for an appeal procedure whereby
a user shall have the right to appeal a decision of the administrator of the
sewage system to the Town Council and that any decision concerning sewage
system of the Town Council may be appealed to a court of competent jurisdiction
under the appeal procedures provided for in the State Administrative
Adjudication Act, being I.C. 4-21.5-3-1 et seq.
(Ord. 94-5, passed 7-19-1994)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who shall continue any violation (other than a violation of
§
51.42 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and in conviction thereof shall be fined
in an amount not exceeding $500 for each violation. Each day in which any such
violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
51.25 through
51.42 shall become liable to the town for any expense, loss or damage
occasioned the town by reason of such violation.
   (D)   (1)   Any person violating or suspected of violating §
51.26(B), shall be subjected to a penalty of $50 per month (or fraction thereof
in which the violation occurs).
      (2)   A person may void payment of said penalty by consenting to an
inspection described in §
51.28(J), for the purpose of establishing compliance with §
51.26(B).
      (3)   A person consenting to such an inspection and found in violation
shall be given 90 days to comply with §
51.26(B) without being subject to penalty.
(Ord. 94-5, passed 7-19-1994)
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
   
52.01   Schedule of rates and charges
   
52.02   Reconnect procedures
   
52.03   Watering allowance
 
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01 SCHEDULE OF RATES AND CHARGES.
   The following shall become the water usage fee schedule for the town
beginning August 1, 2023.
Rate Structure January 1, 2024 Ongoing for All Subsequent Years
               Cost per 1,000 Gallons
                                       January 1, 2024 Ongoing for All
Rate Structure                         Subsequent Years
                                       Cost per 1,000 Gallons
First 3,300 gallons                    $7.54
Next 3,300 gallons                     $7.12
Next 6,700 gallons                     $6.64
Next 10,000 gallons                    $6.11
Next 23,300 gallons                    $5.63
Fire protection: no increase
Municipal hydrants annual costs        $23,073.12
Metered charge first 3,300 gallons
5/8- or 3/4-inch meter                 $24.85
1-inch meter                           $64.01
1 1/2-inch meter                       $128.01
2-inch meter, but not more than 3-inch $201.19
meter
3-inch or larger meter                 $384.28
 
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 12-22-2000; Ord. 2008-2, passed 4-3-2008; Ord. 2016-12,
passed 9-8-2016; Ord. 2019-1, passed 5-8-2019; Ord. 2023-3, passed 6-7-2023)
Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.02 RECONNECT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   At such time that any individual shall request reinstatement of water/
sewage utility services for any address within the town, the Town Clerk-
Treasurer shall determine whether there is any outstanding or delinquent water/
sewage bill for such address or residence.
   (B)   In the event that the Town Clerk-Treasurer determines that there is a
delinquent water/sewage bill for prior water/sewage utility services rendered
at such address or residence, any prior outstanding and/or delinquent water/
sewage bill shall be paid by the previous tenant or landlord prior to the time
that water utility service may be reconnected at such address.
   (C)   All owners of real estate located with the town shall provide the
Clerk-Treasurer of the town with a current mailing address. Any property owner
who fails to provide the town with a current mailing address waives the notice
requirement provided in division (D) below.
   (D)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall mail notice of a water/sewage utility bill
delinquency to the owner of the real estate upon which the residence or
apartment is located.
(Ord. 2011-3, passed 11-3-2011)
§ 52.03 WATERING ALLOWANCE.
   (A)   Residents of the town shall be permitted to rent an additional water
meter each year for the purpose of measuring the water utilized by said
resident to water his or her lawn, or fill a swimming pool, for the sum of $50
per year.
   (B)   The residents request the installation of the meter from May 15 until
October 15 of each year and shall be installed by the town upon the request of
the resident and upon the payment of the $50 rental fee.
   (C)   The additional meter shall be utilized for the sole purpose of
watering the lawn of the individual or the filling of the swimming pool of the
individual. The use of the water measured by the additional meter for any
purpose other than the aforementioned uses shall constitute a violation of this
section and the resident shall be subject to those penalties as specified in §
52.99.
   (D)   The meter shall be read one time per year on the date it is removed.
The resident shall be charged only for the volume of water which is measured by
the additional meter as being used for watering the lawn of the resident or
filling the swimming pool of the resident. The resident shall not be charged a
sewage fee for any water measured by the additional meter as outlined herein.
The resident shall pay the entire water bill within 30 days of receipt, and the
failure to pay the bill within 30 days shall constitute a violation of this
section.
   (E)   No other watering allowance shall be permitted unless specifically
authorized by this section.
(Ord. 2004-5, passed 6-3-2004) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person found in violation of §
52.03 shall be fined in a sum not to exceed $50. In addition, any person found
in violation of §
52.03 shall not be eligible to rent an additional meter in any subsequent year.
(Ord. 2004-5, passed 6-3-2004)
CHAPTER 53: STORM WATER SYSTEM
Section
   
53.01   Definitions
   
53.02   User classes
   
53.03   Rates and charges
   
53.04   Quantity allowances
   
53.05   Rate adjustments
   
53.06   Billing and collection procedure
   
53.07   Storm water studies
   
53.08   Enforcement
   
53.09   Special rate contracts
   
53.10   Appeal procedure
   
53.11   Free service
   
53.12   Improved lots; connections
   
53.13   Illegal deposits
   
53.14   Storm water tap-in fee
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOD (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). Shall have the same meaning as defined in
the §
51.25.
   COMMERCIAL STORM WATER SURCHARGE. An additional charge which is billed to
commercial users for treating storm water in excess of normal residential storm
water discharge.
   COUNCIL. The Town Council of Parker City, Indiana, or any duly authorized
officials acting on its behalf.
   DEBT SERVICE COSTS. The average annual principal and interest payments on
all outstanding revenue bonds or other long-term capital debt.
   ERU. Equivalent residential unit. One ERU shall be equivalent to 3,600
square feet of impervious material for each residential user. Unless otherwise
noted, each residential user shall be charged a base rate of one ERU per
residential customer unless otherwise indicated.
   IMPERVIOUS MATERIAL. Material that prohibits the direct passage of
penetration of precipitation directly into the soil or ground and shall include
gravel. Said material shall be human-made and placed so that precipitation
shall be diverted or collected rather than have a direct passage to the ground.
Ponds or retention pools designed for collection of storm water shall not be
included in this definition.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater discharges from industrial, trade, or
business processes as distinct from employee wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
   INITIAL CONNECTION PERIOD. Any time after substantial completion of the
storm water system as determined by the agreement between the town and the
contractor constructing the system and the date that the users are notified of
substantial completion.
   NORMAL RESIDENTIAL STORM WATER DISCHARGE. For the purpose of determining
surcharges shall mean storm water that is normal for a residential user or
building.
   NPDES (NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM) PERMIT. Shall have
the same meaning as defined in §
51.25.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS. Include all costs, direct and indirect,
necessary to provide adequate storm water collection, transportation, and
management on a continuing basis and produce discharges to receiving waters
that conform with all related federal, state, and local requirements. These
costs shall include replacement.
   OTHER SERVICE CHARGES. Tap charges, connection charges, area charges, and
other identifiable charges, other that user charges, debt service charges, and
excessive strength surcharges.
   PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any
individual, firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association,
society, institution, enterprise, governmental agency, or other entity.
   REPLACEMENT COSTS. The expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
storm water system to maintain the capacity and performance for which such
system was designed and constructed.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory; MAY is permissive.
   STORM WATER. The water which is received by the town and its residents from
precipitation that occurs as a result of climatic changes and storm events.
   STORM WATER SEWAGE SYSTEM. The entire storm water collection and discharge
system for the town as set forth in this chapter.
   STORM WATER USE ORDINANCE. A separate and companion enactment to this
chapter, which regulates the connection to and use of public and private storm
water sewer systems.
   TOWN. The Town of Parker City, Indiana acting by and through the Town
Council.
   USER CLASS. The division of storm water customers by source, function,
characteristics, and process or discharge similarities (i.e., residential,
multi-family residential, mobile home park, commercial, industrial,
institutional, and governmental in user charge system).
      (1)   COMMERCIAL USER. Any establishment involved in a commercial
enterprise, business, or service, based on a determination by the town.
      (2)   GOVERNMENTAL USER. Any federal, state, or local governmental user
of the storm water system.
      (3)   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any manufacturing or processing facility.
      (4)   INSTITUTIONAL USER. Any establishment involved in a social,
charitable, religious, and/or educational function based on a determination by
the town.
      (5)   NON-RESIDENTIAL USER. Any user of a structure that is not a single
family residence. Those users shall include, but are not limited to the
following.
         (a)   MOBILE HOME PARK USER. An area on which at least two mobile
homes, other than mobile homes on permanent foundations, are harbored on
temporary supports for the purpose of being occupied as principal residences.
         (b)   MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL USER. A user of the storm water system
whose premises or building is used as a multi-family residence.
      (6)   RESIDENTIAL USER. A user of the storm water system whose premises
or building is used primarily as a single-family residence for one or more
persons. Any residence that also conducts a home based business shall be
considered to be a non-residential user and not eligible for the RESIDENTIAL
USER rate.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment, and processes required to
collect, carry away, and treat domestic and commercial wastes and dispose of
the effluent.
(Ord. 2008-4, passed 4-3-2008)
§ 53.02 USER CLASSES.
   (A)   (1)   Every person whose premises are served by said storm water
system shall be charged for services provided. These charges are established
for each user class, as defined, in order that the storm water system shall
recover, from each user and user class, revenue which is proportional to its
use of the treatment works in terms of volume and load.
      (2)   User charges are levied to defray the cost of operation and
maintenance (including replacement) of the treatment works. User charges shall
be uniform in magnitude within a user class.
   (B)   User charges are subject to the rules and regulations adopted by
federal and state agencies. Replacement costs, which are recovered through the
system of user charges, shall be based upon the expected service life of the
storm water system appurtenances.
   (C)   The various classes of users of the treatment works, for the purposes
of this chapter, shall be as follows:
      (1)   Class 1: Residential;
      (2)   Class 2: Non-residential;
      (3)   Class 2.1: Multi-family residential/mobile home park;
      (4)   Class 2.2: Commercial;
      (5)   Class 2.3: Governmental/institutional;
      (6)   Class 2.4: Industrial; and
      (7)   Class 2.5: All other non-residential users.
(Ord. 2008-4, passed 4-3-2008)
§ 53.03 RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   For the use of and the service rendered by the storm water system,
rates and charges shall be collected from the owners of each and every lot,
parcel of real estate, or building that is connected with the town storm water
system or otherwise discharges liquids, either directly or indirectly, into the
storm water system of the town.
   (B)   Such rates and charges include user charges, debt service costs,
excessive strength surcharges, and other service charges, which rates and
charges shall be payable as herein provided and shall be in an amount
determinable as follows.
      (1)   (a)   The storm water rates and charges shall be based on the
quantity of water discharged on or in the property or premises subject to such
rates and charges as calculated by the town.
         (b)   For the purpose of billing and collecting the charges for storm
water services, the usage schedule on which the amount of said rates and
charges shall be determined, beginning on September 1, 2018 is as follows:
Non-residential users                              Class 2
   Commercial users                             Class 2.2
      Base rate per month
         All users                        $3
   Governmental/institutional users             Class 2.3
      Base rate per month
         All users                        $3
   Industrial users                             Class 2.4
      Base rate per month
         All users                        $3
   Multi-family residential/mobile home park useClass 2.1
      Charge per mobile home                 $3
   All other non-residential users              Class 2.5
      Base rate per month
         All users                        $3
Residential users                                  Class 1
   Base rate: as follows
   Base rate per month                          Charge for each ERU
      All users                              $3
 
      (2)   Inspection and connection fees are as follows: inspection fee shall
be $5 for a final inspection of any and all connections to the storm water
system.
      (3)   For service rendered to the town, said town shall be subject to the
same rates and charges herein above provided.
      (4)   All residential and non-residential users shall be assessed a
minimum monthly base fee of $3. In the event that the actual quantity of the
square footage of impervious material is less than 3,600 square feet, the
minimum rate shall apply.
      (5)   Beginning on January 1, 2019, the rates under divisions (B)(1) to
(B)(4) above shall increase by $0.50.
      (6)   Beginning on January 1, 2020, the rates under divisions (B)(1) to
(B)(4) above shall increase an additional $0.50, so the new rate will be $4.
(Ord. 2008-4, passed 4-3-2008; Ord. 2018-7, passed 8-16-2018) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.04 QUANTITY ALLOWANCES.
   (A)   The quantity of storm water discharged into the storm water system and
obtained from sources other than the utility that serves the town shall be
determine by the town in such manner as the town shall reasonably elect, and
the storm water service shall be billed at the above appropriate rates; except
as is hereinafter provided in this section, the town may make proper allowances
in determining the storm water bill for quantities of water shown on the
records to be consumed, but which are also shown to the satisfaction of the
town that such quantities do not actually flow from the property.
   (B)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate, or building discharges
sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water, or other liquids into the town storm
water system, either directly or indirectly, or is otherwise not acceptable to
the town storm water system, then the user shall be assessed any and all costs,
fines, penalties, attorney fees, and any other expense associated with the
improper discharge into the storm water system.
(Ord. 2008-4, passed 4-3-2008) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.05 RATE ADJUSTMENTS.
   In order that the rates and charges may be justly and equitable adjusted to
the service rendered to users, the town shall base its charges only on the
square feet of impervious area as well as the costs for operation and
maintenance of the storm water system.
(Ord. 2008-4, passed 4-3-2008)
§ 53.06 BILLING AND COLLECTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Such rates and charges shall be prepared, billed, and collected by the
town in the manner provided by law and ordinance.
   (B)   The rates and charges for all users shall be prepared and billed
monthly.
   (C)   The rates and charges for all users shall be billed to and paid by the
owner of the property.
   (D)   As is provided by statute, all rates and charges not paid when due are
declared to be delinquent and a penalty of 10% of the amount of the rates or
charges shall thereupon attach thereto. The time at which such rates shall be
paid is now fixed at 15 days after the date of mailing of the bill.
   (E)   In the event that it is necessary to institute any proceedings to
collect any past due amount, then the owner of the property shall be
responsible for all collection costs, fees, reasonable attorney fees, court
costs, or other expenses incurred by the town.
   (F)   Delinquent storm water fees and penalties shall constitute a lien
against the real property against which the user fees have been imposed. Such
liens shall be certified to the County Auditor and collected as provided in
I.C. 36-9-23-32.
(Ord. 2008-4, passed 4-3-2008) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.07 STORM WATER STUDIES.
   (A)   (1)   In order that the rates and charges for storm water services may
be in proportion to the cost of providing services to the various users or user
classes, the town may cause a study to be made from time to time.
      (2)   Such study may include, but not be limited to, an analysis of the
costs associated with the collecting, controlling, and discharging of the storm
water volume and delivery flow rate characteristics attributed to the various
users or user classes, the financial position of the storm water utility and
the adequacy of its revenue to provide reasonable funds for the operation and
maintenance, replacements, debt service requirements and capital improvements
to the storm water systems.
      (3)   The town may adjust its rates and charges to reflect the results of
the study.
   (B)   (1)   Said studies shall be conducted by officers or employees of the
town, or by a firm of certified public accountants or a firm of consulting
engineers which firms shall have experience in such studies, or by such
combination of officers, employees, certified public accountants, or engineers
as the town shall determine to be best under the circumstances.
      (2)   The town may, upon completion of said study, revise and adjust
rates and charges, as necessary in accordance therewith in order to maintain
the proportionality and sufficiency of the rates.
(Ord. 2008-4, passed 4-3-2008)
§ 53.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The town shall make and enforce such laws and regulations as may be
deemed necessary for the safe, economical, and efficient management of the
town’s storm water system and storm water conveyance system, for the
construction and use of storm water and for the regulation, collection,
rebating, and refunding of such rates and charges.
   (B)   The town is authorized to prohibit dumping of wastes into the town’s
storm water system which, in its discretion, are deemed harmful to the
operation of the storm water system works of the town.
(Ord. 2008-4, passed 4-3-2008)
§ 53.09 SPECIAL RATE CONTRACTS.
   The Council is further authorized to enter into special rate contracts with
customers of the storm water system where clearly definable cost to the storm
water system can be determined, and such rate shall be limited to such costs.
(Ord. 2008-4, passed 4-3-2008)
§ 53.10 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   The rules and regulations promulgated by the town, after approval of the
Town Council shall, among other things, provide for an appeal procedure whereby
a user shall have the right to appeal a decision concerning user charges of the
Town Council and may be appealed to a court of competent jurisdiction under the
appeal procedures provided for in the State Administrative Adjudication Act,
being I.C. 4-21.5-3-1 et seq.
(Ord. 2008-4, passed 4-3-2008)
§ 53.11 FREE SERVICE.
   The Council shall not grant free service or use of the storm water system to
any person, group, or entity. It is not necessary for an area or parcel of real
estate to be annexed to the town to receive storm water system services.
(Ord. 2008-4, passed 4-3-2008)
§ 53.12 IMPROVED LOTS; CONNECTIONS.
   Each improved lot, parcel, or user shall be obligated to use the storm water
system. Each improved lot, parcel or user may connect any pump, downspout, or
other storm water collection device in a manner that shall not permit any waste
other than rainfall or other precipitation to be placed in the system. Any and
all connections to the storm water system shall be inspected by the town prior
to their use. All connections to the storm water system shall be assessed an
inspection fee as set forth in this chapter and completed no more that 90 days
after substantial collection of the entire system and notification by the town
(“initial connection time period”). Any new or delinquent connection to the
storm water system after the initial connection time period shall be assessed a
late fee and inspection fee as per this chapter.
(Ord. 2008-4, passed 4-3-2008)
§ 53.13 ILLEGAL DEPOSITS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or entity to place any waste
material, oil, sludge, paint, varnish, or any other substance other than storm
water into the storm water collection system. The town may enforce this chapter
by injunction.
(Ord. 2008-4, passed 4-3-2008) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.14 STORM WATER TAP-IN FEE.
   The town may charge a fee for each initial connection to the storm water
system made by any property owner or other person. Said fee shall be designated
as a “storm water tap-in fee” and shall be in addition to any cost for service,
work, or materials to connect with the town’s storm water system.
(Ord. 2008-4, passed 4-3-2008)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   Any person that shall violate this chapter may be fined in an amount not to
exceed $2,500 per violation. Each day that a violation exists shall be
considered to be a separate violation. In the event that the town shall be
required to enforce this chapter by seeking redress in the Circuit Court, the
person, firm, or entity which the enforcement action is directed shall pay all
costs associated with the enforcement action, including but not limited to,
reasonable attorney fees, court costs, witness fees, or other costs.
(Ord. 2008-4, passed 4-3-2008)
CHAPTER 54: GARBAGE
Section
   
54.01   Definitions
   
54.02   Trash collection fees
   
54.03   Delinquent payments
   
54.04   Garbage and trash regulations
 
   
54.99   Penalty
§ 54.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The terms GARBAGE and TRASH shall mean all regular household waste, but
shall not mean: tires, batteries, telephone poles, railroad ties, fuel tanks,
herbicide cans/buckets, animal carcasses, any type of medical waste, asbestos
siding and roofing shingles, any type of hazardous waste, liquid waste, empty
or full drums that have contained anything other than household waste, any item
containing Freon (refrigerators, air conditioners, and the like), and anything
containing electrical components, such as motors, computers, keyboards, and
monitors.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 4-2-2015)
§ 54.02 TRASH COLLECTION FEES.
   (A)   The town shall continue, from time to time, to contract for the
collection and disposal of trash and garbage for the benefit of the residential
dwellings, not-for-profit organizations, and small businesses within the town
limits of the town. All parties other than the above stated shall be required
and responsible for removal of their own garbage and trash, this shall
included, but not limited to, apartment complexes, trailer parks, and large
business establishments
   (B)   Each unit receiving the benefit of the town’s contractor shall be
required to pay the sum of $11.50 per month, June 1, 2021, to June 1, 2022, for
collection and disposal in order to defray the cost of the contract entered
into by the town with Best Way of America, Inc. Any additional 96 gallon trash
receptacle shall cost $4 per month for each receptacle, and the customer will
be billed directly by contractor.
   (C)   The fees provided for herein shall be payable at the same time that
the water and sewage charges are paid, and said charges shall be added to the
monthly water and sewage statement sent to each unit.
   (D)   All monies collected under this chapter shall be deposited into the
town’s Sanitation Fund.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 4-2-2015; Ord. 2017-5, passed 6-1-2017; Ord. 2021-3,
passed 6-8-2021) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.03 DELINQUENT PAYMENTS.
   (A)   Failure to pay these service charges shall result in the town imposing
a 10% late charge for payments not paid in full by the fifteenth of each month.
All delinquent charges, fee, and penalties, shall become a lien on the real
estate of the owner every 90 days for any accounts which are more than 30 days
delinquent. The Town Clerk-Treasurer may certify said delinquent charges, fees,
and penalties to the real estate of the owner. A service fee may also be
assessed on the entire amount due at the time the lien is filed. All delinquent
charges, assessments, and penalties shall be payable with attorney fees and
costs of collection, and shall be payable without relief from valuation and
appraisement laws.
   (B)   If a unit is delinquent in paying its trash fees, the town shall
notify the contractor to refuse collection and disposal service to that
particular residential dweller who refuses to pay said charges. The offending
party or parties shall be notified by the Town Clerk-Treasurer, in writing, of
their delinquency and within ten days thereafter, if said delinquency is not
paid in full, collection and disposal service shall be denied to said residence
until its account is brought current.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 4-2-2015) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.04 GARBAGE AND TRASH REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to dump or place any garbage or trash on any
premises in the town without the consent of the owner of such premises.
   (B)   Garbage and trash must be placed in plastic bags, which must be placed
in the trash receptacles provided to the residence, not-for-profit
organization, and small business.
   (C)   All garbage and trash must be set out within ten feet of an accessible
street as designated by the town or its authorized agent. The garbage and trash
shall be placed between the sidewalk and the curb where possible. In the event
that there is not sufficient space between the sidewalk and the curb, the
garbage and trash shall not be placed in such a manner to impede pedestrian
traffic on the sidewalk.
   (D)   Carpet must be rolled into segments not exceeding five feet in length
and each section must be no more than two feet in diameter, and placed within
the trash receptacle. Any carpet not meeting this specification will not be
removed.
   (E)   None of the following items shall be placed in any container to be
picked up in the town: tires, batteries, telephone poles, railroad ties, fuel
tanks, herbicide cans/buckets, animal carcasses, any type of medical waste,
asbestos siding and roofing shingles, any type of hazardous waste, liquid
waste, empty or full drums that have contained anything other than household
waste, any item containing Freon (refrigerators, air conditioners, and the
like), and anything containing electrical components, such as motors,
computers, keyboards, and monitors.
   (F)   No garbage or trash, or any container or receptacle containing garbage
and trash shall be set out for street pick up earlier than 6:00 p.m. on the
evening prior to the regularly scheduled collection of said garbage and trash.
Further, all receptacles which were set out for the collection of garbage and
trash shall be removed and shall not remain within 25 feet of any public street
subsequent to 6:00 p.m. on the evening of the regularly scheduled collection of
garbage and trash. Therefore, no garbage and trash, or any receptacle
containing garbage and trash, or any receptacle used primarily for the purpose
of storing garbage and trash, shall be placed in plain view within 25 feet of
any public street except during the period of time from 6:00 p.m. on the
evening prior to the scheduled collection of said garbage and trash until 6:00
p.m. of the date of the scheduled collection of said garbage and trash.
   (G)   No person, organization, institution, or other entity shall cause
garbage or trash, as defined herein, including leaves, to be deposited within
or upon the paved portion of any public street within the town.
   (H)   The town’s authorized agent will remove bulky and oversized items from
a residence once per month, which removal will be regularly scheduled each
month.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 4-2-2015) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.99 PENALTY.
   Any person in violation of this chapter may be subject to a fine of up to
$1,000.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 4-2-2015)
CHAPTER 55: GAS
Section
   
55.01   Right to enter public grounds
   
55.02   Laying of main lines
   
55.03   Plat required
   
55.04   Restoration of ground condition
   
55.05   Furnishing inhabitants
   
55.06   Charges
   
55.07   Refusal to sell; selling at higher rate than allowed
   
55.08   Rates and charges
   
55.09   Licenses and taxes
 
   
55.99   Penalty
§ 55.01 RIGHT TO ENTER PUBLIC GROUNDS.
   For the purpose of supplying the inhabitants of said town, without
discrimination, with a supply of natural gas or oil for fuel, there is granted
unto any person, firm, corporation, company, association, or individual
complying with the provisions of this chapter the privilege and right to enter
upon the streets, alleys, avenues, and public grounds of said town, and lay and
maintain therein and thereon gas lines, mains, service pipes reducing stations,
and such other appliances as may be necessary to properly equip and operate a
complete gas plant.
(Ord. 52, passed 11-6-1901)
§ 55.02 LAYING OF MAIN LINES.
   Any firm, corporation, association, or individual availing themselves of the
privilege of this chapter shall lay all main lines on the improved streets at
least one foot beneath the dirt grade, and, on the unimproved streets, at least
two feet beneath the dirt grade, and shall, at their own expense, furnish and
lay to the curb of the gutter service pipes not less than one inch in diameter,
and shall equip the consumer’s end of the service pipe with a first class stop
cock and service box so as to permit the gas to be readily shut off. Such mains
and service pipes shall be so laid as not to interfere with the existing
drainage in said town. If, at any time in the future, the construction,
alteration, or repair of any street shall necessitate the charge of any main or
lines laid under this grant; then, upon five days notice in writing from the
said Town Council, any firm, corporation, or individual availing themselves of
the privilege of this chapter shall immediately proceed to take up and change
said mains and lines so as to correspond with the requirements of the said Town
Council.
(Ord. 52, passed 11-6-1901) Penalty, see §
55.99
§ 55.03 PLAT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Before any firm, corporation, or individual avail themselves of the
privilege of this chapter, they shall first file with the Town Council of said
town a plat showing the location of any lines heretofore laid, of all lines
that they may hereafter propose to lay, setting out in said plat the streets
along which said lines are laid or along which said lines are laid or along
which they are proposed to be laid and the side of the street where the lines
are laid or where they are proposed to be laid, which said plat shall be
approved by the Town Council and kept as a public record. And the Town Council
shall have the right to make such changes in any proposed lines as the public
interest may, in their judgment, require. They shall also file with the Town
Council a bond in the penal sum of $1,000 with good and sufficient sureties
conditioned that they will comply with all of the terms and conditions of this
chapter on their part, and that they will fully indemnify, hold, and save
harmless the said town from any and all damages growing out of the construction
of said plant, or growing out of anything done or the failure to do anything
required by this chapter, and that they will defeud the said town against any
and all suits that may be brought against the said town on account of anything
done or performed or the failure to do or perform anything required by the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Before any firm, corporation, or individual shall avail themselves of
the provisions of this chapter, they shall first file with the Town Council of
said town the plat and bond herein before set out and shall in addition thereto
file with the said Town Council a written acceptance by which all of the terms
and conditions of this chapter will be fully and fairly complied with.
   (C)   Before any corporation or company shall avail itself of the provisions
of this chapter, it shall file with the Town Clerk-Treasurer its written
acceptance of all the provisions of this chapter, which acceptance shall be
signed by the president and secretary of such corporation or company with a
certified copy of a resolution duly passed by the board of directors of such
corporation authorizing the execution and filing thereof, accepting all the
provisions of this chapter. If a firm or individual desires to furnish gas
under the provisions of this chapter such firm or individual shall likewise
file his, her, or their written acceptance in the same words substantially, and
upon the same terms provided for corporations or companies as provided in this
section.
(Ord. 52, passed 11-6-1901) Penalty, see §
55.99
§ 55.04 RESTORATION OF GROUND CONDITION.
   Any firm, corporation, or individual availing themselves of the privileges
of this chapter shall restore all streets, alleys, avenues, and public grounds
disturbed by them in the laying of their mains or doing the work under this
chapter to as good condition as they were before the commencement of the work
and so maintain that part of the streets so disturbed in good condition for one
year. Whenever any gravel or improved street shall be opened for the purpose of
laying any mains or service pipes, the gravel, or other material placed upon
the dirt grade shall be placed upon one side of the trench and the dirt
excavated shall be placed upon the opposite side, and when filled in, the dirt
shall be tamped thoroughly in, first, and the gravel then placed in on top of
the dirt, and after any street or alley has been dug into or disturbed for the
purpose of laying such pipes, the parts so disturbed shall be maintained in
good condition for the period of one year thereafter.
(Ord. 52, passed 11-6-1901) Penalty, see §
55.99
§ 55.05 FURNISHING INHABITANTS.
   As a further condition to the exercise of this franchise and in
consideration of the privileges granted by the said town, any firm,
corporation, or individual availing themselves of the privileges of this
chapter agree that they will furnish to the inhabitants of said town without
discrimination an abundant supply of gas or oil for fuel, and that they will
maintain for the consumers in the service mains along the streets of said town
a pressure of at least eight ounces at the POINT OF CONSUMPTION which is
defined to be the point at which the gas is delivered from the lines and
service pipes of the company to the consumers.
(Ord. 52, passed 11-6-1901)
§ 55.06 CHARGES.
   All companies, corporations, persons, firms, associations, and individuals
operating a plant and furnishing natural gas under the provisions of this
chapter shall charge for natural gas provided by this chapter and for each
stove, grate, light, and furnace from and after the time that such stove,
grate, light, and furnace shall have been attached for use of gas upon the
application of the consumer and not from any anterior date or time.
(Ord. 52, passed 11-6-1901)
§ 55.07 REFUSAL TO SELL; SELLING AT HIGHER RATE THAN ALLOWED.
   Any person or persons, firm, corporation, company, individual, or
association or any officer, agent, clerk, or employer, of such person, or
persons, firm, corporation, company, individual, or association who shall
refuse to sell, furnish, or supply natural gas to any inhabitant of this town
to be used for light or fuel or shall ask, charge, exact, demand, take, or
receive a larger sum, greater value, or prive for natural gas for light or fuel
than allowed and fixed by this chapter, or shall cause natural gas to flow
through their service pipes to consumers at the point of consumption within the
corporate limits of said town at a pressure less than eight ounces to the
square inch or shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
fined and forfeit to the said town, for each offense any sum not to exceed $10
for each offense.
(Ord. 52, passed 11-6-1901)
§ 55.08 RATES AND CHARGES.
   In consideration of the use of the streets, alleys, avenues, and public
grounds of this town for the granting of merchandise, all persons, firms,
corporations, companies, individuals, and associations availing themselves of
the rights under this chapter shall as a condition of the exercise of the
franchises therein granted furnish within the limits of said town, natural gas
to consumers for and at a price not to exceed the rates set out in the
following schedule to-wit:
Business rooms
   Monthly charges from November 1 to May 1 next each year
      No. 5 mixer, each per month                                        $3
      No. 4 mixer, each per month                                        $2.50
   Monthly charges for May and October each year
      No. 5 mixer, per month $1.50
      No. 4 mixer, per month $1.25
Domestic
   Monthly charges from November 1 to May 1, each year
      Cooking stove, No. 7 mixer, each per month                         $2.25
      Cooking stove, No. 5 mixer, each per month                         $2
      Cooking stove, No. 4 mixer, each per month                         $1.75
   In winter when a cooking stove only is used, the price to be the same as
for heating stoves for like mixer
Furnaces
   Monthly charges from November 1 to May 1 next each year
      No. 7 mixer, each per month                                        $3.15
      No. 5 mixer, each per month                                        $2.50
Heating stoves and grates
   Monthly charges from November 1 to May 1 each year
      First No. 7 mixer, each per month                                  $2.60
      Second No. 7 mixer, each per month                                 $2.20
      Third No. 7 mixer, each per month                                  $2
      First No. 5 mixer, each per month                                  $2
      Second No. 5 mixer, each per month                                 $1.75
      Third No. 5 mixer, each per month                                  $1.50
      First No. 4 mixer, each per month                                  $1.75
      Second No. 4 mixer, each per month                                 $1.50
      First No. 3 mixer, each per month                                  $1
      Second No. 3 mixer, each per month                                 $1
   Monthly charges for May and October each year
      First No. 7 mixer, each per month                                  $1.35
      Second No. 7 mixer, each per month                                 $1.25
      Third No. 7 mixer, each per month                                  $1.10
      First No. 4 mixer, each per month                                  $1
      First No. 5 mixer, each per month                                  $1.75
      Second No. 5 mixer, each per month                                 $1.50
      Third No. 5 mixer, each per month                                  $1
      First No. 4 mixer, each per month                                  $1.50
      Second No. 4 mixer, each per month                                 $1.25
      Third No. 4 mixer, each per month                                  $1
      First No. 3 mixer, each per month                                  $0.75
   Offices                                                                  Same as
                                                                               above
                                                                               The price to
                                                                               be governed
                                                                               by contract
                                                                               of consumer
Wellsbaugh light 10 cts. per month, and all lights using a similar light to    with
Wellsbaugh with a mantle 10 cts. per month, other forms of jet lights, gas for company,
manufacturing purposes, hotels, restaurants, and public buildings              association,
                                                                               or
                                                                               individual
                                                                               owner of gas
                                                                               company
 
(Ord. 52, passed 11-6-1901) Penalty, see §
55.99
§ 55.09 LICENSES AND TAXES.
   The town expressly reserves the right at any time after the passage of this
chapter to require any company corporation, firm, or individual furnishing gas
under the provision of this chapter as a further condition and consideration to
this grant and franchise to pay into the Town Treasury annually on January 1
beginning each year a license or tax not exceeding one-half of $0.01 per foot
of mains laid by such corporation, company, firm, or individual within the town
limits, exclusive of service pipes.
(Ord. 52, passed 11-6-1901)
§ 55.99 PENALTY.
   Any firm, corporation, or individual availing themselves of the privileges
of this chapter who shall violate any of the terms and conditions of this
chapter shall be fined in a sum not to exceed $10 and each and every day the
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall continue, shall be any
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 52, passed 11-6-1901)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
71.   PARKING RULES
      
72.   BICYCLES AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
73.   TRAFFIC AND PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
   
70.01   Speed limits generally
   
70.02   Disorderly conduct by motor vehicles
   
70.03   Driving on curb stone
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 SPEED LIMITS GENERALLY.
   It is unlawful for any person or persons, to move or caused to be moved, or
propelled or driven any automobile, truck, bus, motorcycle, or any other motor
powered machine, upon the streets or alley, within the corporation limits of
said town, at any greater rate of speed than 25 mph.
(Ord. 110, passed 4-17-1941) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.02 DISORDERLY CONDUCT BY MOTOR VEHICLES.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall operate or cause to be operated a
motor vehicle on the streets or public highways of the town, in such manner or
with such equipment as to make, create, facilitate, increase or maintain any
loud, unnecessary, excessive, or unusual noise which either annoys, disturbs,
injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, or peace and quiet of any other
person or of any neighborhood within the town.
(Ord. 132, passed 8-2-1971; Ord. 2000-6, passed 4-27-2000) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 DRIVING ON CURB STONE.
   It shall be unlawful for any one to drive across the curb stone on Kain
Street.
(Ord. 16, passed - -) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, agent, employee, or owner of said machine, found violating
any provision of §
70.01, shall upon conviction, for each and every such offense, forfeit and pay
to the said town any sum of money not exceeding $25.
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating §
70.02 shall guilty of a Class B infraction and shall be subject to a fine in a
sum not exceeding $1,000.
   (D)   The fine for violating §
70.03 shall not exceed the sum of $3 for each offense.
(Ord. 16, passed - -; Ord. 110, passed 4-17-1941; Ord. 132, passed 8-2-1971;
Ord. 2000-6, passed 4-27-2000)
CHAPTER 71: PARKING RULES
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Blocking of alleys
   
71.02   Curb parking
   
71.03   Freight curb loading zones
Truck Parking
   
71.15   Definition
   
71.16   Unlawful parking
   
71.17   Notice of violation
 
   
71.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 BLOCKING OF ALLEYS.
   No person shall park any vehicle or place any materials in an alley in such
a manner or under such conditions as would leave available less than ten feet
of the width of the alley for the free movement of traffic.
(Ord. 1992-4, passed 9-8-1992) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 CURB PARKING.
   There shall be flat parking with the curb upon all streets within the town.
(Ord. 115-1956, passed 5-1-1956) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 FREIGHT CURB LOADING ZONES.
   (A)   The Town Council may designate or assign freight curb loading zones
upon request by any person provided the person makes application for a permit
for the freight curb loading zone and for two signs to indicate the ends of the
freight curb loading zone.
   (B)   (1)   The Town Council may attach any restrictions to the use of the
freight curb loading zone it deems appropriate.
      (2)   Restrictions may include, but are not limited to, times of loading
or unloading, types of vehicles allowed to use the freight curb loading zone,
and/or length of time a vehicle may remain in the freight curb loading zone.
   (C)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall collect from the person making the
application a one time service fee equal to the cost and installation of the
signs.
   (D)   (1)   In addition, the Clerk-Treasurer shall collect an annual fee of
$25 over and above the cost of the sign.
      (2)   The first annual fee is due on the anniversary date of the approval
of the freight curb loading zone.
      (3)   If the applicant fails to make an annual fee payment, the freight
curb loading zone permit may be revoked and the signs removed.
   (E)   Every permit is subject to revocation by the Town Council at anytime
for any cause or reason, including but not limited to, the failure to comply
with all restrictions placed upon the freight curb loading zone.
(Ord. 5, passed 9-8-1992) Penalty, see §
71.99
TRUCK PARKING
§ 71.15 DEFINITION.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, a TRUCK shall be defined as all or any
part of a vehicle whose combined length is in excess of 24 feet, whose combined
weight is more than three tons and which is designed or operated for the
transportation of property, i.e., commonly referred to as a semi trailer or
semi tractor and trailer.
(Ord. 1988-1, passed 2-10-1988)
§ 71.16 UNLAWFUL PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this subchapter for any truck to
stop or stand in the traveled portion of roadway, or to stop or park next to
the curb, for a period of time longer than one hour.
(Ord. 1988-1, passed 2-10-1988) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.17 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   It shall be the duty of the police officers of the town to attach to a
vehicle a notice to the owner or operator thereof that the vehicle has been
parked in violation of the parking ordinances of the town and instructing the
owner or operator to report at the office of the Police Department of the town
in regard to the violation.
(Ord. 1988-1, passed 2-10-1988)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   The owner of any motor vehicle who violates §
71.01 shall be fined not less than $5 nor more than $50 for each offense.
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of §
71.02 shall upon conviction be fined in any sum not exceeding $10 for any one
offense.
   (D)   Each such owner or operator in violation of any parking ordinances of
this town, shall, within 24 hours of the time when the notice was attached to
the vehicle, pay to the Police Department as a penalty for and in full
satisfaction of the violation, the sum of $25, Any such owner or operator who
shall have a second violation of the parking ordinances of the town shall,
within 24 hours of the time when the notice was attached to the vehicle, pay to
the Police Department as a penalty for and in full satisfaction of the
violation, the sum of $35. Each such owner or operator who shall have received
three or more violations shall be cited into the town court and fined not less
than $250.
(Ord. 115-1956, passed 5-1-1956; Ord. 1988-1, passed 2-10-1988; Ord. 1992-4,
passed 9-8-1992)
CHAPTER 72: BICYCLES AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
General Provisions
   
72.01   Riding and driving on sidewalks
   
72.02   Skateboards, roller blades, and roller skates
Golf Carts
   
72.15   Definitions
   
72.16   Operation of golf cart
   
72.17   Operator
   
72.18   Financial responsibility proof
   
72.19   Time of operation
   
72.20   Place of operation
   
72.21   Occupants
   
72.22   Traffic rules
   
72.23   Slow moving vehicle sign
   
72.24   Speed limit
   
72.25   Safety equipment
   
72.26   Parking
Motorized Vehicles
   
72.40   Definitions
   
72.41   Effect of regulations
   
72.42   Application to state traffic laws; obedience to traffic devices
   
72.43   Alteration restrictions
   
72.44   Operation, passengers, safety, and parking
   
72.45   Moped registration and inspection
   
72.46   Equipment and proper identification
   
72.47   Rental agencies
   
72.48   Pocket bikes
 
   
72.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.01 RIDING AND DRIVING ON SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride or drive upon any cement
sidewalk for the use of foot passengers, within the corporate limits, of the
town except to pass over the same upon a provided crossing.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride, drive, or propel, upon
any cement sidewalk within the corporate limits of the town, any sled, roller
skates, or skates of any kind, bicycle, tricycle, large or small wagon,
vehicle, or any conveyance or vehicle of any kind except what is known as a
stroller, whether so used for exercise, business, or pleasure, except to cross
over the same at provided crossings.
(Ord. 78, passed 4-28-1908) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 SKATEBOARDS, ROLLER BLADES, AND ROLLER SKATES.
   Skateboards, roller blades and roller skates, shall be banned from the area
known as Uptown Parker City, including 50 feet North of Howard Street on Main
Street going south to the alley on the south side of the post office, includes
both sides of Main Street including the sidewalks.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 5-4-2006) Penalty, see §
72.99
GOLF CARTS
§ 72.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRIVER’S LICENSE. A valid current license to operate a motor vehicle issued
by Indiana or any other state.
   FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY. Liability insurance coverage on a golf cart in an
amount not less that required by state law for motor vehicles operated on
public highways in the state.
   GOLF CART. Shall have the definition provided in I.C. 9-13-2-69.7. As it now
exists, that term means: a four-wheeled motor vehicle originally and
specifically designed and intended to transport one or more individuals and
golf clubs for the purpose of playing the game of golf on a golf course.
(Ord. 2012-2, passed 4-5-2012; Ord. 2012-4, passed 5-3-2012)
§ 72.16 OPERATION OF GOLF CART.
   The operation of a golf cart on streets within the town is strictly
prohibited unless the golf cart is operated and equipped in full compliance
with this subchapter.
(Ord. 2012-2, passed 4-5-2012; Ord. 2012-4, passed 5-3-2012) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.17 OPERATOR.
   Only persons over 16 years of age and holding a valid, current driver’s
license may operate a golf cart.
(Ord. 2012-2, passed 4-5-2012; Ord. 2012-4, passed 5-3-2012) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.18 FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PROOF.
   (A)   The operator of a golf cart must show financial responsibility when
operating a golf cart.
   (B)   Written proof of financial responsibility must be available either on
the golf cart or carried by the operator at all times.
   (C)   The owner must obtain and have installed at all times before operating
a valid inspection sticker as described in this subchapter.
(Ord. 2012-2, passed 4-5-2012; Ord. 2012-4, passed 5-3-2012) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.19 TIME OF OPERATION.
   Golf carts shall not be operated on town streets during one-half hour after
sunset to one-half hour before sunrise unless the golf cart is equipped with
two operating headlights (one on each side of the front of the golf cart) and
two operating tail lights with brake lights (one on each side of the rear of
the golf cart) which are visible from a distance of 500 feet.
(Ord. 2012-2, passed 4-5-2012; Ord. 2012-4, passed 5-3-2012) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.20 PLACE OF OPERATION.
   (A)   Golf carts may be operated on town streets which have a posted speed
limit of 30 mph or less.
   (B)   Golf carts may not be operated on sidewalks or State Road 32 and may
only cross State Road 32.
(Ord. 2012-2, passed 4-5-2012; Ord. 2012-4, passed 5-3-2012) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.21 OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   The number of occupants in a golf cart shall be limited to the number
of persons for whom factory seating is installed and provided on the golf cart.
   (B)   The operator and all occupants shall be seated in the golf cart and no
part of the body of the operator or occupant shall extend outside the perimeter
of the golf cart while the golf cart is being operated.
(Ord. 2012-2, passed 4-5-2012; Ord. 2012-4, passed 5-3-2012) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.22 TRAFFIC RULES.
   The operator of the golf cart shall comply with all traffic rules and
regulations adopted by the state and the town which govern the operation of
motor vehicles.
(Ord. 2012-2, passed 4-5-2012; Ord. 2012-4, passed 5-3-2012) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.23 SLOW MOVING VEHICLE SIGN.
   All golf carts must display on the back of the golf cart a “slow moving
vehicle” emblem in accordance with I.C. 9-21-1-3 and, if operated after dark or
before dawn, the equipment described in §
72.19.
(Ord. 2012-2, passed 4-5-2012; Ord. 2012-4, passed 5-3-2012) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.24 SPEED LIMIT.
   No golf cart shall be operated at a speed in excess of 25 mph irrespective
of posted speed limit. In the event any posted speed limit is less than 25 mph,
the posted speed limit shall be the maximum.
(Ord. 2012-2, passed 4-5-2012; Ord. 2012-4, passed 5-3-2012) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.25 SAFETY EQUIPMENT.
   All golf carts shall be equipped with brakes as specified in I.C. 9-19-3-1.
(Ord. 2012-2, passed 4-5-2012; Ord. 2012-4, passed 5-3-2012) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.26 PARKING.
   Parking of golf carts shall be in designated area for parking of golf carts
or motor vehicles. No parking on sidewalks or tree lawns.
(Ord. 2012-2, passed 4-5-2012; Ord. 2012-4, passed 5-3-2012) Penalty, see §
72.99
MOTORIZED VEHICLES
§ 72.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOPED. 
      (1)   Any two- or three-wheeled vehicle that is propelled by an internal
combustion engine or a battery-powered motor, or by both, and is powered by an
internal combustion engine, has the following:
         (a)   An engine rating of not more than two horsepower and a cylinder
capacity not exceeding 50 cubic centimeters;
         (b)   An automatic transmission; and
         (c)   A maximum design speed of no more than 25 mph on a flat surface.
      (2)   The term SCOOTER shall be interchangeable with the term MOPED.
      (3)   Specifically excluded from the definition of MOPED are the
following:
         (a)   Any two- or three-wheeled vehicle exceeding the above
specifications and deemed to be a motorcycle required to be registered with and
by a state bureau of motor vehicles;
         (b)   An electric personal assistance mobility device presently
defined in I.C. 9-13-2-49.3; and
         (c)   An off-road vehicle, otherwise known as all terrain vehicle
(ATV), presently defined in I.C. 14-8-2-185, and required to be registered by
the Department of Natural Resources under I.C. 14-16-1 et seq.
   POCKET BIKE. Also referred to as a POCKET ROCKET, shall mean any wheeled
device ridden by a person for use as transportation, powered or assisted by any
on-board power source other than the rider’s own physical efforts that has a
handlebar height of 30 inches or less, measured from the highest point of the
handlebar, or a seat height of 24 inches or less, as measured from the highest
point of the horizontal seat surface actually designed to bear the weight of
the rider. Specifically excluded from the definition of POCKET BIKE are the
following:
      (1)   Any two- or three-wheeled vehicle deemed to be a motorcycle
required to be registered with and by a state Bureau of Motor Vehicles;
      (2)   An electric personal assistance mobility device presently defined
in I.C. 9-13-2-49.3; and
      (3)   An off-road vehicle, otherwise known as al-terrain vehicle (ATV),
presently defined in I.C. 14-8-2-185, and required to be registered by the
Department of Natural Resources under I.C. 14-16-1 et seq.
   ROADWAY. Any highway road, public way, street, parking lot, or alley and
shall include any street designated as a parkway, boulevard, place, avenue, or
other similar designation, all of which are within the town corporate limits.
(Ord. 2012-3, passed 4-5-2012; Ord. 2012-5, passed 5-3-2012)
§ 72.41 EFFECT OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It is a violation for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to
perform any act required in this subchapter. This subchapter shall apply to the
town residents and shall apply to non-residents who operate mopeds or pocket
bikes within the town corporate limits.
   (B)   The parent or guardian of any child under the age of 18 shall not
authorize or knowingly permit any child or ward to violate any of the provision
of this subchapter.
   (C)   This subchapter is applicable to mopeds and pocket bikes and shall
apply whenever a moped or pocket bike is operated on any and all roadways,
streets, alleys, sidewalks, parking lots, and public ways within the town or on
any path set aside for the exclusive use of mopeds within the town subject to
those exceptions or prohibitions stated herein.
(Ord. 2012-3, passed 4-5-2012; Ord. 2012-5, passed 5-3-2012) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.42 APPLICATION TO STATE TRAFFIC LAWS; OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC DEVICES.
   (A)   Every person riding a moped on a roadway in the town shall be subject
to all of the duties applicable to the driver or operator of a vehicle by the
laws of this state declaring sections of the road applicable to vehicles or by
the traffic ordinances of this town applicable to the driver of a vehicle, in
addition to special regulations in this subchapter and except as to those
provisions of laws and ordinances which by their nature can have no
application. An person disobeying the traffic control devices or signs, or
violating state statutes while operating a moped shall receive a state
citation.
   (B)   A moped must not be operated:
      (1)   By a person less than 15 years of age;
      (2)   By a person who has not obtained a state-issued identification card
or operator’s license;
      (3)   On an interstate highway or a sidewalk; or
      (4)   At a speed greater then 25 mph.
   (C)   A police officer having probable cause to believe a person has
violated division (B)(1) or (B)(2) above may immediately impound the moped as
evidence and hold it until a court of competent jurisdiction resolves any
enforcement action filed. If no action has been filed in court to enforce the
violation of this section, the Police Department shall allow the owner to
retrieve the moped bicycle within 45 days of its seizure.
(Ord. 2012-3, passed 4-5-2012; Ord. 2012-5, passed 5-3-2012)
§ 72.43 ALTERATION RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The owner, if 18 years of age or older, or the parent or guardian of a
minor, who is the owner of a moped shall not alter or allow the alteration of
the OEM exhaust system which permits loud exhaust.
   (B)   An owner, if 18 years of age or older, or the parent or guardian of a
minor, who owns a moped with an engine that has been manufactured, converted,
modified, or altered to the degree that the moped qualifies as a motorcycle
under state law (where the engine rating exceeds more than two horsepower, the
cylinder capacity exceeds more than 50 cubic centimeters, or the maximum design
speed exceeds 25 mph on a flat surface shall be required to:
      (1)   Properly register, license, and insure said vehicle as a motorcycle
pursuant to state law (presently I.C. 9-18.1-2-3) or shall be required to
properly register, license, and insure said vehicle as a privately assembled
vehicle pursuant to state law (presently I.C. 9-17-4 et seq.); and
      (2)   Shall be required to hold a state-issued motorcycle operator’s
license or endorsement pursuant to state law (presently I.C. 9-24-8 et seq.).
(Ord. 2012-3, passed 4-5-2012; Ord. 2012-5, passed 5-3-2012)
§ 72.44 OPERATION, PASSENGERS, SAFETY, AND PARKING.
   (A)   Every person operating a moped on a roadway shall ride as near to the
right side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when passing a
standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (B)   No moped shall be operated on a sidewalk or a railroad right-of-way.
   (C)   No moped shall be operated on another’s private property, unless the
express written consent has been obtained from the owner of the real estate or
unless written notice has been posted on the private real estate.
   (D)   No person shall operate a moped in a manner so as to create loud
unnecessary or unusual noise so as to disturb or interfere with the peace and
quiet of other persons.
   (E)   A person operating a moped shall not ride other than astride a
permanent and regular seat attached thereto. A passenger on a moped shall not
ride other then astride a permanent and regular seat attached thereto. All
persons operating or riding as a passenger must be able to keep his or her feet
firmly on the foot boards or foot pegs while sitting comfortably on the seat or
saddle.
   (F)   No moped shall be used to carry more persons at one time then the
number for which it is designed and equipped, as designed with an additional
set of foot boards or foot pegs.
   (G)   No moped shall be used to carry any child under the age of 15 years.
   (H)   No person shall operate a moped at a speed that is greater than
reasonable and prudent under the conditions then existing, In no case shall a
person operate a moped at a speed greater than 25 mph.
   (I)   The operator of a moped emerging from an alley, driveway, or building
shall on approaching a sidewalk area extending across any alleyway, yield the
right-of-way to all pedestrians approaching on the sidewalk or sidewalk area,
and on entering the roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles
approaching on the roadway.
   (J)   No person shall propel or operate a moped in any unsafe manner,
including, but not limited to weaving or swerving over the road, cutting
through traffic, excessive lane changes, following other vehicles too closely,
excessive or dangerous acceleration, or jumping curbs or speed bumps.
   (K)   Both wheels of all mopeds must be on the surface being ridden upon at
all times such moped is in operation.
   (L)   Persons operating mopeds shall pull over and allow traffic to pass in
the event two or more vehicles are backed up behind the mopeds.
   (M)   No person shall car any package, bundle, or article which prevents the
rider from keeping all hands on the handlebars.
   (N)   No person shall park a moped on a street other then on the roadway
against the curb or against a building or at the curb, in such a manner as to
afford the least obstruction to pedestrian traffic.
(Ord. 2012-3, passed 4-5-2012; Ord. 2012-5, passed 5-3-2012) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.45 MOPED REGISTRATION AND INSPECTION.
   (A)   The owner, if 18 years or older, or the parent or guardian of a minor
who is the owner, of a moped, who resides within the town may have the moped
registered with the Police Department.
   (B)   These provisions shall apply any time there is a change of ownership,
including those instances when the moped has been registered to the previous
owner.
   (C)   Registration shall include the imprinting, stamping, or otherwise
placing of a registration number on each moped and the keeping of appropriate
records by the Police Department as to identification of the mopeds and their
ownership.
(Ord. 2012-3, passed 4-5-2012; Ord. 2012-5, passed 5-3-2012)
§ 72.46 EQUIPMENT AND PROPER IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   (1)   Every moped when in use at night shall be equipped with a front
lamp which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least 500
feet to the front and with a red reflector on the rear of a type which shall be
visible from all distances from 50 feet to 300 feet to the rear when directly
in front of lawful upper beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle.
      (2)   A lamp emitting a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to
the rear may be used in addition to the red reflector.
   (B)   A person less than 18 years of age who operates a moped or rides a
moped as a passenger, on a street or highway shall wear protective headgear,
and must also wear protective glasses, goggles, or a transparent face shield,
as set forth in I.C. 9-21-11-13.
   (C)   A person less than 18 years of age who operates a moped shall enroll
in a motorcycle driver education and training course, may be required to at the
recommendation of the Winchester City Court, prior to operation of the moped on
town roadways.
   (D)   An adult operating a moped shall carry the identification required
pursuant to §
72.42 and I.C. 9-21-11-12 when operating the moped, and shall, when detained by
a police officer, produce said identification to the police officer.
   (E)   A person operating a moped that has not yet been registered pursuant
to §
72.45 shall carry either the moped registration paperwork or the dated sales
receipt during the initial 30 days of ownership, and shall, when detained by a
police officer, produce said paperwork and/or sales receipt to the police
officer.
(Ord. 2012-3, passed 4-5-2012; Ord. 2012-5, passed 5-3-2012) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.47 RENTAL AGENCIES.
   (A)   A rental agency shall not rent or offer any moped for rent unless the
moped is equipped with the lamps and other equipment required in this
subchapter.
   (B)   A rental agency shall not rent or offer any moped for rent to anyone
under the age of 15 years of age.
   (C)   A rental agency shall not rent or offer any moped for rent to any
minor between the age of 15 and 18 years of age unless:
      (1)   The minor has identification required pursuant to §
72.42 and I.C. 9-21-11-12; and
      (2)   The minor’s parent or guardian signs the rental agreement.
(Ord. 2012-3, passed 4-5-2012; Ord. 2012-5, passed 5-3-2012) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.48 POCKET BIKES.
   (A)   The use of pocket bikes is prohibited on any and all roadways,
streets, alleys, sidewalks, and public ways within the town.
   (B)   In addition of the above prohibition on the use of pocket bikes as set
forth in division (A) above, any person who owns or operates a pocket bike
shall also be required to comply with the entirety of this subchapter as it
applies to mopeds with the exception that pocket bikes are not required to be
registered. In the event any person commits a violation of the provisions of
this subchapter while operating a pocket bike, that person shall be fined under
§
72.99 for the specific violation, or shall be fined for the state violation, in
addition to the penalty for operation of the prohibited pocket bike.
(Ord. 2012-3, passed 4-5-2012; Ord. 2012-5, passed 5-3-2012) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate §
72.01, or any provisions of divisions (A) and (B) of that section, or either of
them, shall be fined, in the sum not less than $1, nor more than $10, for each
offense thereof.
   (C)   For violations of §
72.02:
      (1)   For the first offense, the town police officers have the option of:
         (a)   Warning the individual or individuals; or
         (b)   Impounding the roller blades, skateboard, or roller skates until
which time a parent has a meeting with individual and officer.
      (2)   For the second offense, a citation will be issued to the parent if
the person committing the offense is a juvenile. If an adult, a citation will
be issued.
      (3)   The fines for violation of §
72.02 are as follows:
         (a)   For the first offense is up to $10 and court cost; and
         (b)   Second offense is up to $50 and court cost.
   (D)   Anyone violating any of the provisions of §§
71.15 to
72.26 shall be subject to a fine of $25 for the first violation, $50 for the
second violation, and $75 for the third violation. If a person is cited for a
violation of §§
72.15 to
72.26 more than three times, the registration shall be revoked and said golf
cart shall no longer be allowed to operate on streets, roads, or alley within
the town. The fee(s) are to be paid to the Violations Bureau.
   (E)   (1)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of
§§
72.40 to
72.48 for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall, upon
conviction, be subject to a fine not exceeding $2,500. A separate offense shall
be deemed committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
(I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)10)
      (2)   Anyone violating any of the provisions of §§
72.40 to
72.48 shall be subject to a fine of a minimum $25, up to a maximum of $100 for
each citation. The fee(s) are to be paid to the Violations Bureau.
      (3)   (a)   A police officer having probable cause to believe a person
has violated any provision of this chapter may immediately confiscate the
motorized vehicle or pocket bike and remove it to a garage or other place of
safety as designated by the Police Department. Whenever an officer removes a
motorized vehicle or pocket bike as authorized under this division (E)(3), the
officer shall enter such fact on the records of the Police Department
maintained for such purpose, and the records shall be kept to show the type of
vehicle, name of the registered owner, license number, and the name and address
of the operator of the vehicle as the time it became impounded, if such
information is available to the officer. Thereafter, on the request of the
owner of any such vehicle for its return, the Police Department shall issue an
order directing the owner or his or her agents or representatives to pay all
charges incurred as a result of the vehicle being towed to a place of safety.
         (b)   For purposes of this division (E)(3), the Town Council finds
that there is a compelling governmental interest in imposing the following
discretionary penalty section for minor children, in order to encourage
parental intervention and responsibility for the violations of the minor
children. The town further finds that impoundment is more likely to prevent
repeat offenses by minors than the imposition of monetary penalties. In lieu of
the penalty described in this division (E)(3)(b), any police officer may, in
his or her discretion, utilize the following penalty provision for violations
by minor children.
            1.   First offense. With the child’s first offense in a 365-day
period, the town shall issue a written warning and notification of the
violation to the child’s parent or guardian.
            2.   Second offense. With the child’s second offense in a 365-day
period, the town shall issue a written notice of violation, and the
investigating officer may take custody of the motorized vehicle or pocket bike,
and hold the same for safekeeping for 60 days, or until the child’s parent or
guardian claims the motorized vehicle or pocket bike. The child’s parent or
guardian shall be responsible for any charges incurred by the town for
impounding the motorized vehicle or pocket bike, including, but not limited to,
towing and storage.
            3.   Third and subsequent offenses. With the child’s third offense
in a 365-day period, the town shall include a civil fine, not to exceed $100.
The arresting officer may take custody of the motorized vehicle or pocket bike,
and hold the same for safekeeping for 60 days. An officer, or his or her
superior, may waive the imposed civil fine and/or impoundment if the parent and
child agree to the child attending and completing a motorized vehicle safety
course.
(Ord. 78, passed 4-28-1908; Ord. 2006-2, passed 5-4-2006; Ord. 2012-2, passed
4-5-2012; Ord. 2012-3, passed 4-5-2012; Ord. 2012-4, passed 5-3-2012; Ord.
2012-5, passed 5-3-2012)
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC AND PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Intersections; stop streets
      
II.   Direction of traffic
      
III.   Loading zones
      
IV.   Parking
      
V.   Speed limits
SCHEDULE I. INTERSECTIONS; STOP STREETS.
   (A)   Intersections.
Street Intersecting Street Type of Stop Penalty
Street          Intersecting Street Type of Stop Penalty
Fulton Street   High Street         Four-way     Guilty of a Class C infraction
                                                 upon conviction
Fulton Street   Oak Street          Four-way     Guilty of a Class C infraction
                                                 upon conviction
Fulton Street   South Street        Three-way    Guilty of a Class C infraction
                                                 upon conviction
High Street     Residence Street    Four-way     Fine in the sum of not less
                                                 than $5 and not more than $25
Howard Street   Main Street         Four-way     Fine of not less than $5 nor
                                                 more than $25
Howard Street   Third Street        Four-way     Guilty of a Class C infraction
                                                 upon conviction
Indiana Street  Ohio Street         Three-way    Guilty of a Class C infraction
                                                 upon conviction
Indiana Street  South Street        ?            Guilty of a Class C infraction
                                                 upon conviction
Main Street     South Street        Four-way     Guilty of a Class C infraction
                                                 upon conviction
Maryland Street South Street        Three-way    Fine in the sum of not less
                                                 than $5 and not more than $25
South Street    Tennessee Street    Three-way    Fine in the sum of not less
                                                 than $5 and not more than $25
 
   (B)   Stop streets.
Street Stops For Penalty
Street                    Stops For                  Penalty
Charles Street            High Street, Jackson       Guilty of a Class C
                          Street                     infraction upon conviction
Division Street           Jackson Street, Oak Street Guilty of a Class C
                                                     infraction upon conviction
                          North Division Street
East High Street          (east and west traffic
                          stops)
East High Street          North Main Street
                          North Residence Street
East High Street          (east and west traffic
                          stops)
East High Street          North Rinard Street (east
                          and west traffic stops)
East Oak Street           North Charles Street
                          North Division Street
East Oak Street           (east and west traffic
                          stops)
East Oak Street           North Main Street
                          North Residence Street
East Oak Street           (east and west traffic
                          stops)
East Oak Street           North Rinard Street (east
                          and west traffic stops)
East Washington Street    Main Street
Fifth Street              Howard Street, Jackson     Guilty of a Class C
                          Street                     infraction upon conviction
First Street              Howard Street, Jackson     Guilty of a Class C
                          Street                     infraction upon conviction
Fourth Street             Howard Street, Jackson     Guilty of a Class C
                          Street                     infraction upon conviction
                          Howard Street, Jackson     Guilty of a Class C
Franklin Street           Street, South Street,      infraction upon conviction
                          Washington Street
                          Howard Street, Jackson     Guilty of a Class C
Fulton Street             Street, South Street,      infraction upon conviction
                          Washington Street
                          Charles Street, Division
                          Street, Fifth Street,
                          First Street, Fourth
High Street               Street, Fulton Street,     Guilty of a Class C
                          Main Street, Market        infraction upon conviction
                          Street, Residence Street,
                          Rinard Street, Third
                          Street
                          Fifth Street, Franklin
Howard Street             Street, Fulton Street,     Guilty of a Class C
                          Main Street, Residence     infraction upon conviction
                          Street
Illinois Street           Washington Street          Guilty of a Class C
                                                     infraction upon conviction
Indiana Avenue            South Street
                          East Washington Street
Indiana Street            (north and south of
                          traffic stops)
Indiana Street            Randolph Street
Indiana Street            Washington Street          Guilty of a Class C
                                                     infraction upon conviction
Jane Avenue               Franklin Street, Main      Guilty of a Class C
                          Street                     infraction upon conviction
Kenna Lane                North Main Street/1200 W.  Guilty of a Class C
                                                     infraction upon conviction
Lexi Lane                 North Main Street/1200 W.  Guilty of a Class C
                                                     infraction upon conviction
Main Street               Jackson Street             Guilty of a Class C
                                                     infraction upon conviction
Market Street             Howard Street, Jackson     Guilty of a Class C
                          Street                     infraction upon conviction
North Charles Street      East Jackson Street
North Division Street     East Howard Street
North Division Street     East Jackson Street
North Fifth Street        East Jackson Street
North First Street        West Howard Street
North First Street        West Jackson Street
North Fourth Street       West Howard Street
North Fourth Street       East Jackson Street
North Franklin Street     West Jackson Street
North Fulton Street       East Jackson Street
North Main Street         Jackson Street
North Market Street       West Howard Street
North Market Street       West Jackson Street (north
                          and south traffic stops)
North Residence Street    East Jackson Street
North Rinard Street       East Howard Street
North Rinard Street       East Jackson Street
North Third Street        West Jackson Street
                          Charles Street, Division
                          Street, Fifth Street,
                          First Street, Fourth
Oak Street                Street, Fulton Street,     Guilty of a Class C
                          Main Street, Market        infraction upon conviction
                          Street, Residence Street,
                          Rinard Street, Third
                          Street
Ohio Street               Washington Street          Guilty of a Class C
                                                     infraction upon conviction
South Pennsylvania Street East Washington Street
South Pennsylvania Street South Street
Railroad Street           Franklin Street, Fulton    Guilty of a Class C
                          Street, Main Street        infraction upon conviction
Railroad Street           South Franklin
Randolph Street           Washington Street          Guilty of a Class C
                                                     infraction upon conviction
Residence Street          High Street, Howard        Guilty of a Class C
                          Street, Jackson Street     infraction upon conviction
Rinard Street             Howard Street, Jackson     Guilty of a Class C
                          Street                     infraction upon conviction
South East Street         South Street
South First Street        West Howard Street
South Forth Street        West Howard Street
South Fulton Street       South Street
South Franklin Street     South Street
South Illinois Street     East Washington Street
South Illinois Street     South Street
South Market Street       West Howard Street
South Maryland Street     East Washington Street
South Ohio Street         East Washington Street
South Ohio Street         South Street
                          East Washington Street
South Randolph Street     (north and south traffic
                          stops)
South Randolph Street     South Street
South Street              Main Street                Guilty of a Class C
                                                     infraction upon conviction
South Woodlawn Street     South Street
Tennessee Street          Washington Street          Guilty of a Class C
                                                     infraction upon conviction
Third Street              Jackson Street             Guilty of a Class C
                                                     infraction upon conviction
                          Franklin Street, Fulton    Guilty of a Class C
Washington Street         Street, Main Street,       infraction upon conviction
                          Tennessee Street
West High Street          North Fifth Street (east
                          and west traffic stops)
West High Street          North First Street
West High Street          North Fourth Street (east
                          and west traffic stops)
West High Street          North Market Street (east
                          and west traffic stops)
West High Street          North Third Street (east
                          and west traffic stops)
West Oak Street           North Fifth Street
West Oak Street           North First Street
West Oak Street           North Fourth Street (east
                          and west traffic stops)
West Oak Street           North Market Street (east
                          and west traffic stops)
West Oak Street           North Third Street (east
                          and west traffic stops)
West Washington Street    Main Street
Woodlawn Street           East Washington Street
 
   (C)   Three-way stops.
 
Street                 At Intersection With Penalty
North Charles Street   East High Street
North Fifth Street     West Howard Street
North Residence Street East Howard Street
South Maryland Street  South Street
South Ohio Street      Indiana Avenue
South Tennessee Street South Street
 
   (D)   Four-way stops.
Street At Intersection With Penalty
Street                 At Intersection With   Penalty
Franklin Street        West Howard Street
Main Street            Howard Street
North Fulton Street    East High Street
North Fulton Street    East Howard Street
North Fulton Street    East Oak Street
North Third Street     West Howard Street
South Franklin Street  West Washington Street
South Fulton Street    East Washington Street
South Main Street      South Street
South Tennessee Street East Washington Street
 
(Ord. 118-1959, passed 6-2-1959; Ord. 123-1968, passed 7-1-1968; Ord. 118-72,
passed 9-15-1972; Ord. 118-74, passed 11-18-1974; Ord. 118-75, passed 5-19-
1975; Ord. 2002-11, passed 11-7-2002; Ord. 2002-12, passed 11-7-2002; Ord.
2002-13, passed 11-7-2002; Ord. 2010-7, passed 11-4-2010; Ord. 2013-7, passed
9-5-2013; Ord. 2015-4, passed 12-3-2015; Ord. 2016-2, passed 2-4-2016; Ord.
2016-3, passed 3-3-2016; Ord. 2018-9, passed 8-16-2018; Ord. 2022-4, passed 6-
2-2022)
SCHEDULE II. DIRECTION OF TRAFFIC.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this schedule, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      TRAFFIC FLOW. The direction of movement of a vehicle.
      TRAFFIC FLOW SIGNS AND MARKINGS. Any sign, signal, or device of
sufficient size and markings to give notice to the user, driver, or operator of
a vehicle of the regulated traffic flow.
      VEHICLE. Any device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or
may be transported upon a public highway. The definition of VEHICLE shall
include, but not be limited to, the following: motor vehicle, car, truck,
motorcycle, tractor, bus, motor home, motor camper, snowmobile, van, jeep,
motorized farm equipment, moped, and motor bicycle.
   (B)   One-way traffic north only. The traffic flow on the following
described alley situated in the town shall be one-way north only, said alley
being more particularly described as follows, to-wit:
      (1)   Being a part of Block Three in the original plat of the Town of
Morristown, now Parker City, Indiana, and commencing at the northeast corner of
Lot Five of said Block Three and running thence east approximately 16 and one-
half feet to the northwest corner of Lot Four of said Block Three; thence
running south along the west line of Lots Four and Three of said Block Three
approximately 132 feet to the southwest corner of said Lot Three of said Block;
thence running west approximately 16 and one-half feet to the southeast corner
of Lot Six of said Block Three; thence running north along the east line of
Lots Six and Five of said Block Three approximately 132 feet to the place of
beginning; and
      (2)   Said alley being located immediately south of Howard Street and
being the first north-south alley immediately east of Main Street in Parker
City, Indiana.
   (C)   Installation of traffic flow signs and markings. The Street
Commissioner of the town shall cause to be installed at appropriate locations
on said described alley appropriate traffic flow signs and markings designating
the traffic flow on said alley to be one-way north only.
   (D)   Violations. It shall be unlawful and a violation of the provisions of
this schedule for any person, firm, or corporation to drive, use, or operate or
to cause to be driven, used or operated, any vehicle in a south direction on
said aforedescribed alley or to drive, use, or operate or to cause to be
driven, used, or operated any vehicle on said aforedescribed alley in any
manner contrary to the provisions of this schedule and/or contrary to
appropriate traffic flow signs and markings erected pursuant to division (C)
above.
   (E)   Penalties. If any person, firm, or corporation shall violate the
provisions of this schedule, for each such violation, each such person, firm,
or corporation commits a Class C infraction, and shall be fined not more than
$500.
(Ord. 139, passed 3-18-1981)
 SCHEDULE III. LOADING ZONES.
   (A)   There is established a loading zone on the north side of Howard
Street, commencing at a point where the west line of an alley running a general
north-south direction on and along the west line of Lots 1, 2, 3, and 4 in
Block 5 of the original plat of the Town of Parker City, Indiana, intersects
with the north line of Howard Street, running thence east along the north line
of Howard Street a distance of 40 feet, funning thence south 33 feet to the
center of Howard Street, thence west along the center of Howard Street to a
point 33 feet north of the point where said alley intersects the north line of
Howard Street, thence running north to the place of beginning.
   (B)   A LOADING ZONE, for the purposes of this schedule, is defined as an
area wherein a public or private carrier may between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and
12:00 a.m. Monday through Saturday of each calendar week be parked for a period
of time not to exceed 15 minutes for the purpose of loading and unloading
consumer goods, merchandise, and supplies as are used in wholesale and retail
business and furniture, fixtures, appliances, and machinery as may be necessary
or desirable for use in a retail or wholesale business establishment.
   (C)   The curb on the north side of Howard Street constituting the north
line of said loading zone shall be painted yellow and there shall be erected
signs advising the general public of the existence of such loading zone, and
that during the hours from 8:00 a.m. until 12:00 p.m., Monday through Saturday
of each calendar week, there is no parking in the same except for carriers,
public and private, of consumer goods.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to permit any vehicle, other than carriers,
public and private, of consumer goods, to stand in said loading zone except
when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the
directions of a police officer.
   (E)   Any person violating any of the terms of this schedule shall, upon
conviction of such violation, be fined in a sum of not less than $5 nor more
than $25.
(Ord. 133, passed 11-15-1976)
SCHEDULE IV. PARKING.
   (A)   Truck parking.
      (1)   The town prohibits the parking of vehicles in excess of 9,000
pounds gross vehicle license tag weight on Franklin Street beginning at the 200
block south proceeding south and ending at South Street.
      (2)   Exceptions to the prohibition of vehicles in excess of 9,000 pound
gross vehicle weight may be allowed by the Town Council through the approval of
an application for a freight curb loading zone.
      (3)   The owner of any motor vehicle who violates this division (A) shall
be fined not less than $25 nor more than $100.
   (B)   Prohibited parking.
 
Street            Location              Side of Street Penalty
East Washington   From Fulton Street to                Fine in the sum not
Street            Indiana Street        South          exceeding $10 for any
                                                       one offense
                  Between Howard and                   Fine in any sum not
Fulton Street     Jackson Streets       East           exceeding $10 for any
                                                       one offense
                  Starting one-half
                  block south of                       Fine in the sum not
South Main Street Washington Street     East           exceeding $10 for any
                  extending to South                   one offense
                  Street
 
(Ord. 115-1956, passed 5-1-1956; Ord. 115-75, passed 5-19-1975; Ord. 1986-7,
passed 5-12-1986; Ord. 1992-3, passed 9-8-1992)
SCHEDULE V. SPEED LIMITS.
 
Street       Speed Limit
South Street 30 mph
 
(Res. 2000-13, passed 10-5-2000)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
92.   TREES
      
93.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
94.   FAIR HOUSING
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.001   Definitions
   
90.002   Applicability to nonresident dog and cat owners
   
90.003   Confinement of female animals in heat
   
90.004   Vicious dogs to be confined
   
90.005   Annoying dogs
   
90.006   Harboring roosters and chickens
   
90.007   Dogs running at large
Care and Treatment
   
90.020   Care and treatment of animals
   
90.021   Abandonment of animal
   
90.022   Poisoning of animals
   
90.023   Animal fighting
Animal Licenses
   
90.035   When required
   
90.036   Display
   
90.037   Requirements for kennels
   
90.038   Application process
   
90.039   Appeal process
Rabies Control
   
90.050   Vaccination required
   
90.051   Quarantining authority
   
90.052   Surrender of animal by owner
   
90.053   Finding of rabies and general quarantine
Enforcement and Impoundment
   
90.065   Animal control officer powers
   
90.066   Interference with officer
   
90.067   Grounds for impoundment
   
90.068   Notice to owner
   
90.069   Release of captured animal without impoundment
   
90.070   Impoundment fees
Dangerous Animals
   
90.085   Keeping of wild, dangerous animals; exceptions
   
90.086   Determination of dangerous animals
   
90.087   Regulations governing dangerous animals
 
   
90.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any living, nonhuman vertebrate creature.
   AT LARGE. An animal which is not confined without means of escape in a pen,
corral, yard, cage, house, vehicle, or other secure enclosure, unless the
animal is otherwise under control of a competent human being.
   CRIME PREVENTION ANIMAL. An animal trained and used primarily by its owner
or keeper for the protection of persons or property, or both.
   EXPOSED TO RABIES. An animal has been exposed to rabies if it has been
bitten by or been in contact with any animal known or reasonably suspected to
have been infected with rabies.
   KENNEL. A facility, operated commercially and principally for the purpose of
boarding, housing, grooming, breeding, or training dogs or cats, or both. A
KENNEL, for purposes of this chapter, shall not include a facility in or
adjoining a private residence where dogs are kept for the hobby of the
householder, using them for hunting, practice, tracking, exhibiting in shows or
field or obedience trails, or for the guarding or protecting of the
householder’s property, and an occasional sale of puppies by the owner, lessee,
or other occupant of such property shall not make that property a KENNEL.
   OWN. To keep, harbor, or have custody, charge, or control of an animal.
OWNER shall include any person who owns the animal. Veterinarians, operators of
kennels, pet shops, and stables temporarily keeping animals owned by or held
for sale to other persons shall not be deemed, for the purposes of this
chapter, to own or be OWNERS, but rather “keepers” of animals.
   PET. An animal obtained or kept by its owner solely for purposes of
enjoyment, companionship, safety, or other noncommercial purposes.
   VETERINARIANS. A person licensed to practice veterinary medicine in the
state.
(Ord. 1989-2, passed 5-9-1989)
§ 90.002 APPLICABILITY TO NONRESIDENT DOG AND CAT OWNERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or keeper of an animal to cause,
suffer, or allow that animal which is owned or kept by him or her to be at
large within the town.
   (B)   ANIMAL NUISANCE is created when an animal:
      (1)   Molests or disturbs persons or vehicles by chasing, barking, or
biting;
      (2)   Barks, whines, howls, meows, cries, or makes other noises
excessively;
      (3)   Creates noxious or offensive odors;
      (4)   Defecates upon any public place or upon premises not owned by,
controlled by the owner or keeper unless promptly removed by the animal owner
or keeper; and/or
      (5)   Creates an insect breeding and/or attraction site due to an
accumulation of excreta.
(Ord. 1989-2, passed 5-9-1989) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.003 CONFINEMENT OF FEMALE ANIMALS IN HEAT.
   All female animals in heat shall be confined in a secure enclosure and in
such a manner as not to become a nuisance.
(Ord. 1989-2, passed 5-9-1989) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.004 VICIOUS DOGS TO BE CONFINED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for an owner or keeper of vicious, fierce, or
dangerous dog to cause, suffer, or allow it to go unconfined and unrestrained
on his or her premises, or to run at large.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, a VICIOUS, FIERCE, OR DANGEROUS DOG
means any dog which has:
      (1)   Attacked a person without having been provoked by that person;
      (2)   Attacked, at some place other than its owner’s property, another
animal; or
      (3)   Chased or approached a person at some place other than its owner’s
property, in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of any person having authority to impound a dog
forthwith to impound any such dog found unconfined or running at large in
violation of this section.
(Ord. 1989-2, passed 5-9-1989) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.005 ANNOYING DOGS.
   (A)   No person shall own, harbor, or keep in custody a dog which disturbs
the peace by barking, yelping, howling, or making other loud noises to the
annoyance and/or discomfort of any person. Continuous barking, yelping,
howling, and/or making other loud noises for 15 consecutive minutes by such
dog, whether confined inside a residence or building or to the outside area,
shall be deemed to have disturbed the peace and to have caused the annoyance
and discomfort of persons; provided, that at the time of the complaint, no
person or persons were trespassing or threatening to trespass upon the private
property of the owner, and provided that the dog was not being teased or
provoked in any manner.
   (B)   Any person who shall allow any dog habitually to remain or be lodged
or fed within any dwelling, building, yard, or enclosure owned or occupied by
such person shall be considered as harboring or keeping such dog.
   (C)   Upon an initial complaint, an enforcement officer shall warn the
person in writing of the violation. Upon a second such complaint within 30
days, the enforcement officer shall charge the person with a violation of this
section.
   (D)   Division (A) above does not apply to owners, operators, or employees
of licensed veterinary hospitals, licensed kennels, or licensed animal boarding
establishments, nor does this section apply to blind, deaf, or hearing
impaired, or mobility impaired persons when the dog serves as an assistance
dog.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
No owner, keeper, or harborer of a dog shall permit or allow such dog to annoy
or disturb one or more of the inhabitants of two or more separate residences of
the town by the frequent or habitual howling, yelping, barking, or making of
any other unreasonably loud and disturbing noises of such character, intensity,
and duration as to disturb the peace, quiet, and good order of the town.
      (2)   Any person who shall allow any animal habitually to remain or be
lodged or fed within any dwelling, building, yard, or enclosure owned or
occupied by such person shall be considered as keeping or harboring such
animal.
Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.006 HARBORING ROOSTERS AND CHICKENS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to own or harbor a rooster in the town limits.
   (B)   A resident of the town may not own or harbor more than two chickens
per lot, and not to exceed a total of six chickens per residence.
   (C)   If a person is in violation of this section, then he, she, or they may
be subject to the penalties under §
90.999.
(Ord. 2020-2, passed 9-3-2020) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.007 DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   Any person or persons owning and/or harboring any dog or dogs shall keep a
muzzle on said dog or dogs to run at large.
(Ord. 113a, passed 5-14-1948)
CARE AND TREATMENT
§ 90.020 CARE AND TREATMENT OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   Every owner of an animal within the town shall see that his or her
animal:
      (1)   Is kept in a clean, sanitary, and healthy manner, is not confined
so as to be forced to stand, sit, or lie in its own excrement;
      (2)   Has proper and adequate food, water, shelter, and ventilation,
including quarters that are protected from excessive heat and cold and are of
sufficient size to permit the animal to exercise and move about. No animal
shall be tethered by use of a choke collar or on a leash less than 12 feet in
length, or of such unreasonable weight as to prevent the animal from moving
about freely;
      (3)   Is protected against abuse or mistreatment;
      (4)   Is diseased or injured, received proper care and, if diseased, is
segregated from other animals so as to prevent transmittal of the diseases; and
      (5)   Is maintained in compliance with all applicable federal, state, and
local laws and all regulations respecting animal care and control as are
adopted by the Department of Public Safety and in effect from time to time.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to beat, starve, or otherwise
mistreat any animal. Failure to comply with any requirement of division (A)
above shall be deemed mistreatment of the animal.
   (C)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this section may be
given written notice of the practices or conditions which constitute the
violation and the enforcing authority may, where appropriate, suggest remedies.
(Ord. 1989-2, passed 5-9-1989) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.021 ABANDONMENT OF ANIMAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to abandon any animal on any public or
private property.
(Ord. 1989-2, passed 5-9-1989) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.022 POISONING OF ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful to throw or deposit poisoned meat or any poison or
harmful substance in any street, alley, marketplace, or public place, or at any
private premises in the town, for the purpose of destroying any animal.
(Ord. 1989-2, passed 5-9-1989) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.023 ANIMAL FIGHTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to incite or set any animal to fitting
within the town, and fights commonly known as “cockfights,” “bull fights,” and
“coon-on-a-log” shall be prohibited within the town.
(Ord. 1989-2, passed 5-9-1989) Penalty, see §
90.999
ANIMAL LICENSES
§ 90.035 WHEN REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own within the town any dog or
cat six months of age or older unless a current animal registration issued by
the town’s Police Department has been obtained for the dog or cat by that
person.
   (B)   There shall be no fees associated with the registration.
(Ord. 1989-2, passed 5-9-1989; Ord. 2014-2, passed 5-1-2014) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.036 DISPLAY.
   A kennel or pet shop license pursuant to this subchapter shall at all times
be displayed prominently in the business office of the licensed kennel or pet
shop.
(Ord. 1989-2, passed 5-9-1989) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.037 REQUIREMENTS FOR KENNELS.
   In addition to obtaining the license required by this subchapter, all
kennels within the town limits shall:
   (A)   Be operated in such a manner as not to constitute a nuisance;
   (B)   Provide an isolation ward for boarded animals which are sick or
diseased sufficiently removed so as not to endanger the health of the other
animals;
   (C)   Retain the name, address, and telephone number of the owner and the
license number of each dog or cat boarded;
   (D)   Retain the name and address of each person selling, trading, or giving
any animal to the kennel;
   (E)   Keep all boarded animals caged or under the control of the owner
operator of the kennel; and
   (F)   With respect to all animals in the kennel, whether or not owned by the
kennel, comply with all requirements of §§
90.020 through
90.023.
(Ord. 1989-2, passed 5-9-1989)
§ 90.038 APPLICATION PROCESS.
   (A)   All applications for a kennel permit shall be completed on the
application form approved by the Town Council, and provided to the public by
the town’s Police Department.
   (B)   All completed applications shall be reviewed by the Town Marshal.
   (C)   Once the review of the application is concluded, the Town Marshal
shall approve or deny the applicant’s request. The Town Marshal shall make the
determination of approving or denying the application based on the following
factors:
      (1)   Prior complaints or calls made to the town’s Police Department
concerning animal control issues involving the property where the kennel is to
be located;
      (2)   Prior complaints or calls made to the town’s Police Department
concerning animal control issues involving the applicant or any member of the
applicant’s immediate household;
      (3)   Any convictions for animal cruelty, or any other offense relating
to animal health or welfare, that the applicant or any member of the
applicant’s immediate household may have; and
      (4)   Any other factor that the Town Marshal believes is relevant in
making the determination.
   (D)   If the Town Marshal approves the application for the kennel permit,
then the permit shall be issued as follows:
      (1)   Permit A: five to 16 dogs; and
      (2)   Permit B: more than 16 dogs.
   (E)   If the Town Marshal denies the application for the kennel permit, the
applicant shall be notified in writing, via certified mail, that his or her
application for the kennel permit has been denied, and in that written denial,
the applicant shall be notified of the proper procedures for requesting an
appeal of that determination.
(Ord. 2014-2, passed 5-1-2014)
§ 90.039 APPEAL PROCESS.
   (A)   If a person’s kennel permit is revoked, or an applicant is denied a
kennel permit, he or she may submit an appeal to the Town Clerk-Treasurer’s
office within 30 days from the date of the denial or revocation.
   (B)   All requests for appeals must be in writing and addressed to the
President of the Town Council, whereupon, the President of the Town Council
shall set the appeal for a hearing within 45 days of receipt of the written
request.
   (C)   The person requesting the hearing must notify, by certified mail,
return receipt requested, all landowners within a 250-foot radius of the
property where the kennel may be located. The notification must be on the form
supplied or approved by the town’s Police Department. The notice must have the
following information:
      (1)   Date, time, and place of hearing;
      (2)   Nature of the hearing; and
      (3)   The street address of the requested kennel permit.
   (D)   The notifications shall be completed and mailed to each neighboring
landowner ten days prior to the scheduled hearing date. The certified mail
return receipt cards must be filed with the Clerk’s office on or before the
date of the hearing. The hearing shall be held by the Town Council and the
ultimate approval or denial shall be made by the Town Council, within 30 days
from the date of the hearing. At the hearing, the person requesting the permit
or appealing the revocation of a permit may be heard along with anyone in
support of or in opposition to the appeal. The Town Council should conduct the
hearing in a manner consistent with its normal procedures.
(Ord. 2014-2, passed 5-1-2014)
RABIES CONTROL
§ 90.050 VACCINATION REQUIRED.
   Each dog and cat shall have a rabies vaccination more recent than one year.
(Ord. 1989-2, passed 5-9-1989) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.051 QUARANTINING AUTHORITY.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the quarantining authority shall be the
Department of Public Safety and any agents or employees so designated, acting
pursuant to the directives and regulations of the Health and Hospital
Corporation of the county.
(Ord. 1989-2, passed 5-9-1989)
§ 90.052 SURRENDER OF ANIMAL BY OWNER.
   The owner of an animal which animal is suspected by the quarantining
authority of having bitten a person or been exposed to rabies, shall promptly
surrender the animal upon demand by said authority for purposes of quarantine
and observation, at the expense of the owner of the animal.
(Ord. 1989-2, passed 5-9-1989)
§ 90.053 FINDING OF RABIES AND GENERAL QUARANTINE.
   (A)   When a quarantined animal has been found rabid or if suspected of
being rabid by a licensed veterinarian and dies while under observation, the
quarantining authority shall take such action as is specified in such cases by
the State Board of Health and shall notify the proper public officials of
reports of human contacts made by and the diagnosis made of the animal.
   (B)   When a rabies report is made pursuant to division (A) above, the
quarantining authority shall recommend to the Department of Public Safety, a
quarantine within the town for a period of 30 days. Upon invocation of the
quarantine by the Department of Public Safety, any animal found at large within
the town may be destroyed without being impounded. During the quarantine
period, every animal bitten by an animal adjudged to be rabid shall be
confined, at its owner’s expense, or destroyed as specified by the State Board
of Health.
   (C)   During a rabies quarantine declared by the Department of Public
Safety, an owner or keeper of an animal resisting the quarantining authority
acting pursuant to this chapter or who permits an animal owned or kept by him
or her to be at large within shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $100,
and impoundment of the animal suspected of rabies or of being in violation of
the rabies quarantine.
(Ord. 1989-2, passed 5-9-1989) Penalty, see §
90.999
ENFORCEMENT AND IMPOUNDMENT
§ 90.065 ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER POWERS.
   (A)   A person individually charged with the enforcement of this chapter
shall be designated “animal control officer.”
      (1)   Such officers shall have full power to enforce all provisions of
this chapter, including the right to proceed upon public and private property
within the town in pursuit of animals in violation of this chapter.
      (2)   (a)   Such officers shall not have the right to enter a privately
owned enclosure in pursuit of any animal without the consent of the owner,
lessee, or other occupant of the enclosure, or other legal process; provided,
however, if any animal is believed to be enclosed without adequate food or
water, or dead animals are believed to be enclosed, and such is not present and
cannot be located, and animal control officer may affix a notice to the
premises in an obvious location, directing the occupant to contact, the officer
at a given location and phone number.
         (b)   If contact is not made within 24 hours, however, the officer may
enter the premises to determine if this chapter has been violated.
   (B)   (1)   There is created the position of animal control officer to
assist in the enforcement of the provisions of this subchapter. The duties of
the animal control officer shall be to take and hold any dog, cat, or other
domestic animal found to be running uncontrolled.
      (2)   The animal control officer shall also have authority to seize and
impound all animals found to be dangerous animals, vicious animals at large,
stray abandoned public nuisance.
      (3)   The animal control officer shall provide the Town Marshal with a
weekly list of animals taken and the disposition of said animals.
(Ord. 1989-2, passed 5-9-1989; Ord. 2024-1, passed 3-7-2024)
§ 90.066 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with an animal control
officer in the performance of his or her duties.
(Ord. 1989-2, passed 5-9-1989) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.067 GROUNDS FOR IMPOUNDMENT.
   Animals found at large in violation of this chapter shall be captured and
impounded. Any animal found confined or abandoned on private property in
violation of this chapter shall be impounded.
(Ord. 1989-2, passed 5-9-1989) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.068 NOTICE TO OWNER.
   Upon the impoundment of any animal, a reasonable attempt shall be made to
notify and inform the owner of the animal of the requirements of this article
for regaining the custody of the animal.
(Ord. 1989-2, passed 5-9-1989)
§ 90.069 RELEASE OF CAPTURED ANIMAL WITHOUT IMPOUNDMENT.
   When the owner of a captured animal is known, such animal need not be
impounded; but may be released to the owner upon payment of fees and fines, if
any, or upon the application for a license, if required.
(Ord. 1989-2, passed 5-9-1989)
§ 90.070 IMPOUNDMENT FEES.
   Impoundment fees are as follows:
   (A)   First offense: $10;
   (B)   Second offense: $15; and
   (C)   Third and subsequent offenses: $20.
(Ord. 1989-2, passed 5-9-1989)
DANGEROUS ANIMALS
§ 90.085 KEEPING OF WILD, DANGEROUS ANIMALS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, maintain, or have in
possession or under control any wild animal, whether gratuitously or for a fee.
This section shall not be construed to apply to zoological parks, performing
animal exhibitions, or circuses, possessing valid permits as may be required
under state and/or federal law.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to harbor or keep any wild animal
as a pet, unless a permit is granted by applicable state and federal
authorities, if required.
   (C)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DANGEROUS ANIMAL. 
         (a)   Any animal which:
            1.   Has, off of its owner’s property, attacked another animal or
livestock;
            2.   Has attacked or which has attempted to attack, unprovoked, any
human being, whether on or off the owner’s property;
            3.   Has bitten any human being with said injury requiring stitches
and the loss or blood;
            4.   Has bitten or attacked a person, causing wound or injuries
creating a potential danger to the health or life of the victim;
            5.   Has a known propensity, tendency, or disposition to attack, to
cause injury or otherwise threaten or endanger the safety of humans or domestic
animals;
            6.   Has, according to the records of the appropriate authority,
killed or severely injured a domestic animal, with or without provocation,
while off the owners property; and/or
            7.   Any dog owned or harbored primarily or in part for the purpose
of dog fighting or any dog trained for fighting.
         (b)   However, no animal shall be considered a DANGEROUS ANIMAL if
injury or damage is inflicted by that animal upon a person or another animal if
such person or other animal, at the time of such injury or damage was
sustained, was committing a willful trespass upon the premises occupied by the
owner or keeper of the animal, or was teasing, tormenting, abusing, or
assaulting the animal or was committing or attempting to commit a crime.
         (c)   The definition excludes K-9 patrol dogs or police dogs used by
law enforcement agencies.
      DOMESTIC ANIMALS. Any animal that is a member of one of the following
species:
         (a)   Dog (canis familiaris);
         (b)   Cat (felis catus or felis domesticus);
         (c)   Cattle (bos domesticus or bos taurus of bos indicus);
         (d)   Horse (equus asinus);
         (e)   Donkey (equus aninus);
         (f)   Pig (sus scroffa);
         (g)   Sheep (ovis aries);
         (h)   Goat (capra hircus);
         (i)   Rabbit (oryctolagus cuniculus);
         (j)   Mouse (mus musculus);
         (k)   Rat (rattus rattus);
         (l)   Guinea pig (cavis proceelus);
         (m)   Hamster (mesocriecetus auratus);
         (n)   Chinchilla (chinchilla langier);
         (o)   Gerbil (gerbillus gerbillus);
         (p)   Mink;
         (q)   Cow or ox (bovine); or
         (r)   Ferret.
      EXOTIC ANIMAL. Any animal whose normal native habitat is not indigenous
to the continental United States, excluding Alaska and Hawaii, except fish and
furbearing animals commercially bred for the furrier trade and birds defined
under federal regulations, and nonpoisonous snakes and reptiles.
      PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any animal or animals which:
         (a)   Molests or disturbs persons or vehicles by chasing, barking, or
biting;
         (b)   Attacks other animal(s) or person(s);
         (c)   Is at large;
         (d)   Damages private or public property;
         (e)   Causes frequent or long continued noises or other sounds common
to its species which disturbs the comfort or repose of any person in the
immediate neighborhood;
         (f)   Causes foul or noxious odors which offend residents in the
neighborhood;
         (g)   Trespasses on the private property of persons other than the
owner of the animal;
         (h)   Runs uncontrolled;
         (i)   Defecates upon any public place or upon premises not owned or
controlled by the owner or harborer unless promptly removed by the animal owner
or harborer; and
         (j)   Creates an insect breeding and/or attraction site through to an
accumulation of excreta.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any animals that has, without provocations, attacked a human
being or other animal, or an animal that by its behavior or physical condition
constitutes an immediate and serious physical or health threat to human beings
or animals, or any animal which has previously attacked or bitten any human
being or other animal or two or more reported occasions, or any potentially
dangerous dog. VICIOUS ANIMAL shall also include an animal that has attacked
and killed another domestic animal, with or without provocation, while off the
owner’s property.
   WILD ANIMAL. Any animal not a domestic or exotic animal, with the exception
of small, nonpoisonous aquatic or amphibious animals and small cage birds,
which are normally found in a wild state.
(Ord. 2024-1, passed 3-7-2024) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.086 DETERMINATION OF DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   The Town Marshal or his or her designee shall, upon receipt of
reliable information, make a determination that an animal is a dangerous
animal. Notice of said determination shall be personally delivered or shall be
sent by certified letter to the owner or harborer. The owner or harborer of
said animal may, within five days or receipt of said notice, request a
detention hearing by requesting the same, by written request, to the Town
Marshal within five days of said notice. If said owner or harborer does not
make such written request within five days as set forth herein, said animal
shall be deemed a dangerous animal as defined in this subchapter. If requested
in a timely manner, a determination shall be conducted in the following manner.
      (1)   A determinations hearing shall be conducted by the Town Council
whenever there is cause to believe that a dog may be a dangerous animal, as
defined herein. Said hearing shall be conducted within five days of serving
notice to the owner or harborer.
      (2)   Pending the outcome of such a hearing, the dog must be securely
confined in a humane manner either on the premises of the owner of harborer,
with a licensed veterinarian or confined by the town.
      (3)   The Marshal and the Town Council shall determine whether to declare
the animal be a dangerous animal based upon the evidence and testimony
presented at the time of the hearing by the owner, witnesses to any incident(s)
which may be considered germane to such a determination, Health Department
personnel, animal control personnel, police, or any other person possessing
information pertinent to such determination.
      (4)   The Marshal shall issued written finding within five days after the
determination hearing. The owner of possessor of the animal found to be
dangerous by this hearing has the right to appeal the decision within three
days of receiving such decision to the town.
   (B)   The owner or harborer of a dangerous animal shall restrain the animal
in the following manner.
      (1)   While on the owner’s or harborer’s property, a dangerous animal
must be securely enclosed and the locked pen or structure must have minimum
dimensions of five feet by ten feet and must have secure sides and a secure
top. If it has no bottom secured to the sides, the sides must be embedded into
the ground no less than two feet. The enclosure must also provide protection
from the elements for the animal.
      (2)   A dangerous animal may be off the owner’s premises it is muzzled
and restrained by a substantial chain or leash not exceeding six feet in length
and under control of a responsible person. The muzzle must be made in a manner
that will not cause injury to the animal or interfere with its vision or
respiration but must prevent it from biting any person or animal.
(Ord. 2024-1, passed 3-7-2024)
§ 90.087 REGULATIONS GOVERNING DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   Sign requirements. The owner or harborer of a dangerous animal shall
display a sign on his or her premises warning that there is a dangerous animal
on the property. This sign shall be visible and capable of being read from the
public highway or thoroughfare. In addition, the owner shall conspicuously
display a sign warning children of the presence of a dangerous animal.
   (B)   Liability insurance requirements. The owner or harborer of a dangerous
animal shall present to the Marshal proof that the owner or harborer has
procured liability insurance in the amount of a least $100,000 covering the 12-
month period during which licensing is sought. This policy shall contain a
provision requiring the town to be named as an additional insured for the sole
purposes of the town to be notified by the insurance company of any
cancellation, termination, or expiration of the policy.
   (C)   Liability of parents or guardians of minor children. The parents or
guardians of any minor child who is the owner or harborer of any animal shall
be responsible for compliance with this subchapter regarding said animal and
shall be subject to all penalties for violations of this subchapter which
result from the actions or reactions of the minor child and/or the conduct and
control of the animal, and shall be further liable for all injuries and
property damage sustained by any person or domestic animal caused by an
unprovoked attack by the animal.
   (D)   Inspection. No owner of harborer of an animal may refuse access to
their premises to any police officer, or animal control officer, of the stated
purpose of said inspection or investigation is to investigate compliance with
or alleged violations of the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2024-1, passed 3-7-2024) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   The owner or keeper of an animal determined to be at large in
violation of §
90.002 shall be punishable with respect to each such animal by fines, as
follows:
      (1)   First offense: $12.50;
      (2)   Second offense: $25;
      (3)   Third offense: $50; and
      (4)   Subsequent offenses: $20 times the number of offenses committed by
the person, including the first three times.
   (C)   (1)   Any person found guilty to permitting a nuisance to exist, as
defined by §
90.002, shall be fined:
         (a)   First offense: not less than $25 nor more than $50;
         (b)   Second offense: not less than $50 nor more than $75;
         (c)   Third offense: not less than $75 nor more than $100; and
         (d)   Fourth offense: not less than $100 nor more than $150.
      (2)   The second, third, and fourth offenses will be subject to happening
within a consecutive 12-month time period.
   (D)   Any persons who violates §
90.004 shall be punishable by a fine of not less than $25. Upon subsequent
violation by that person, the court shall, upon request, order the animal
forfeited and/or destroyed.
   (E)   Any person or persons that violates §
90.007 shall, on conviction therefore, be fined in any sum not less that $10
and not more than $50.
   (F)   (1)   Any violation of §
90.020 shall be punishable by a fine of not less than $25.
      (2)   Any person convicted of a second or subsequent offense of violating
the provisions of §
90.020 shall be fined in an amount not less than $50 and the court, upon
request, shall order a forfeiture or other disposition of the animal involved.
Any judgment which calls for a fine or forfeiture or other disposition of the
animal by the town or any third party shall include the collection costs, and
the like as part of the judgment.
   (G)   A violation of §
90.021 shall be punishable by a fine of not less than $50.
   (H)   The owner of a dog or cat which does not have a rabies vaccination
more recent than one year shall be punishable by a fine in the following
amounts, plus the expense to the quarantining authority of procuring for the
animal a current rabies vaccination:
      (1)   First offense: $10;
      (2)   Second offense: $25;
      (3)   Third offense: $50; and
      (4)   Subsequent offenses: $50 times the number of offenses, including
the first three offenses.
   (I)   Any violation of §
90.066 shall be punishable by a fine of not less than $50.
   (J)   (1)   Any person found in violation to permitting a public nuisance or
animal nuisance to exist as defined by §
90.087 shall be fined:
         (a)   Not less than $15 nor more than $100 for the first offense;
         (b)   Not less than $40 nor more than $500 for the second offense
within a consecutive 12-month period;
         (c)   Not less than $100 nor more than $500 for the third offense
within a consecutive 12-month period; and
         (d)   Not less than $200 not more than $500 for the fourth offense
within a consecutive 12-month period.
      (2)   Any person found guilty of violating any provision of §§
90.065 and
90.086, shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $500 for each offense.
      (3)   Any person found in violation of any provision of §
90.087 shall be fined not less than $200 and not more than $500 for each
offense. The court may further order the owner or harborer of a dangerous
animal to permanently remove said animal from the town.
      (4)   In addition to the foregoing fines, the owner or harborer of any
animal impounded, held or disposed of by the town through enforcement of §§
90.085 to 90.087 shall pay the additional sum of $25.
(Ord. 113a, passed 5-14-1948; Ord. 1989-2, passed 5-9-1989; Ord. 2000-13,
passed - -; Ord. 2024-1, passed 3-7-2024)
CHAPTER 91: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
Nuisances
   
91.01   Nuisance properties
   
91.02   Definition
   
91.03   Unsafe premises
   
91.04   Remedy of nuisances
   
91.05   Abatement procedure
   
91.06   Provisions not exclusive
   
91.07   Lien; notice procedure
Abandoned and Junk Vehicles
   
91.20   Definitions
   
91.21   Leaving abandoned or inoperative vehicles on public property
   
91.22   Abandonment of vehicles on private property
   
91.23   Keeping inoperative, junk, or abandoned vehicles on private property
   
91.24   Impounding
 
   
91.99   Penalty
NUISANCES
§ 91.01 NUISANCE PROPERTIES.
   No person owning, leasing, occupying, or having charge of any premises shall
maintain or keep any nuisance thereon, nor shall any such person keep or
maintain such premises in a manner causing substantial diminution in the value
of the other property in the neighborhood in which such premises are located.
(Ord. 2000-2, passed 4-6-2000) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 DEFINITION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the term NUISANCE is defined to
mean any condition of building exteriors or premises which is detrimental to
the property of others or which causes or tends to cause substantial diminution
in the value of other property in the neighborhood in which the premises are
located, or the maintenance of an unsafe dwelling or building within the town.
   (B)   In addition thereto, the term NUISANCE shall also include:
      (1)   The accumulation of, outside of dwellings or other buildings on
residential property: junk, trash, or debris, including but no limited to,
garbage, discarded and refuse materials, waste materials, leaves, iron, tin,
furniture, appliances, cans, and paper;
      (2)   The storage of any motor vehicle parts, tires, building materials
or any other supplies or materials; other than in an enclosed building or
within an area adequately concealed so as not to be visible from any
surrounding residential or public properties;
      (3)   The existence of thistles, burdock, jimson weeds, ragweeds,
milkweeds, poison ivy, poison oak, ironweeds, and all other noxious weeds rank
vegetation and grass in excess of a height of six inches. Undeveloped lots
located within the town limits, that are over one acre in size may be used for
agriculture planting only; and
      (4)   The failure to keep an animal’s pen, yard, lot, or other enclosure
in a sanitary condition and flee from preventable offensive odors.
(Ord. 2000-2, passed 4-6-2000; Ord. 2001-7, passed 7-5-2001; Ord. 2007-4,
passed 6-7-2007; Ord. 2017-1, passed 1-5-2017)
§ 91.03 UNSAFE PREMISES.
   For purposes of this subchapter, an UNSAFE PREMISES is any dwelling or
building that is:
   (A)   In an impaired structural condition that makes it unsafe to a person
or property;
   (B)   A fire hazard;
   (C)   A hazard to public health; and/or
   (D)   Has parts thereof which are so attached that they may fail or injure
persons or property.
(Ord. 2000-2, passed 4-6-2000)
§ 91.04 REMEDY OF NUISANCES.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of this subchapter may be ordered
to remedy and cure the conditions which constitute the nuisance. Such order
shall be made by the President of the Town Council or the Town Marshal or Chief
of Police of the town, or their designee. The order shall contain:
      (1)   The name of the owner or other person to whom the order is
directed;
      (2)   The legal description or address of the premises that the subject
of the order;
      (3)   The action the order requires; and
      (4)   The period of time in which the action is required to be
accomplished, measured from the time the action is required to be accomplished,
measured from the time of which the notice is given.
   (B)   The order shall be delivered personally or by certified mail to the
owner or other person to whom the order is directed.
(Ord. 2000-2, passed 4-6-2000) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   On the failure, neglect, or refusal of any owner or such agent so
notified, to abate said nuisance located on such property or on the sidewalk
abutting these areas within five days after receiving the written notice
provided for in §
91.04, or within 14 days after the date of such notice in the event the same is
returned by the Post Office Department because of its inability to make
delivery or the failure of the owner to accept the notice provided the notice
was properly addressed to the last known address of such owner or agent as
shown on the tax records of the county, the town’s Police Department or anyone
appointed by the town’s Police Department.
   (B)   When the town has effected the removal of such nuisance, and has not
been paid the actual costs thereof, such costs shall be charged to the owner of
such property on the next regular tax bill forwarded to such owner by the
county. This charge shall be due and payable by the owner at the time of
payment of the tax bill.
   (C)   If the landowner fails to remove the nuisance within the time
prescribed, the town may remove the nuisance. The Clerk-Treasurer must make a
certified statement of the actual cost incurred by the town in the removal. The
statement must be delivered to the owner of the property by a law enforcement
officer of the town or by certified mail, return receipt requested, and the
owner shall pay the amount to the Clerk-Treasurer. If the landowner fails to
pay the amount within ten days after receiving the statement, a certified copy
of the statement of costs shall be filed in the Office of the Auditor of the
county. The Auditor shall place the amount claimed on the tax duplicate against
the property affected by the work, and the amount shall be collected as taxes
are collected and shall be disbursed to the General Fund of the town.
   (D)   In lieu of filing of a lien as set out in divisions (B) and (C) above,
the town may seek and be granted, in any court of competent jurisdiction,
injunctive relief to enforce this subchapter. Any action brought pursuant to
this section shall prohibit a lien being filed as set out herein for the same
acts alleged in the complaint by the town pursuant to this section.
(Ord. 2000-2, passed 4-6-2000; Ord. 2001-7, passed 7-5-2001; Ord. 2007-4,
passed 6-7-2007) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 PROVISIONS NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not be construed to be the exclusive
means of dealing with the regulation and control of housing and sanitation and
with nuisances, but shall be a remedy provided in addition to the applicable
state statutes and other applicable laws.
(Ord. 2000-2, passed 4-6-2000)
§ 91.07 LIEN; NOTICE PROCEDURE.
   Failure to comply with the judgment entered in this clause will result in a
lien filed on the tax duplicated against the property described herein. Written
notice of such action will be given to the property owner by certified mail.
(Ord. 2000-2, passed 4-6-2000)
ABANDONED AND JUNK VEHICLES
§ 91.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE.
      (1)   Any vehicle which is left on private property for more than 48
hours without the permission of the person having the right to the possession
of the property.
      (2)   Any vehicle which is left on public property for 48 hours or longer
without permission of the Town Marshal or his or her designee.
   INOPERATIVE MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle not moved for 60 consecutive
days shall be presumed INOPERATIVE.
   JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle meeting any three of the following
criteria:
      (1)   Three years old or older;
      (2)   Disabling damage, such damage including, but not limited to, any of
the following:
         (a)   Missing wheel;
         (b)   Missing or deflated tire;
         (c)   Missing motor; and/or
         (d)   Missing transmission.
      (3)   Fair market value less than $400;
      (4)   Inoperative; and/or
      (5)   Unlicensed or improperly licensed.
   PERSON. Includes any private person or corporate entity.
   PROPERTY. Any real property within the municipality which is not a street,
alley, or highway.
   VEHICLE. Includes any device in, upon or by which a person or property is or
may be transported or drawn upon any roadway.
(Ord. 1994-1, passed 3-24-1994; Ord. 2017-4, passed 6-1-2017)
§ 91.21 LEAVING ABANDONED OR INOPERATIVE VEHICLES ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
    No person shall leave or abandon any partially dismantled or otherwise
inoperative motor vehicle on any public street, alley, highway, or any other
public property within the municipality.
(Ord. 1994-1, passed 3-24-1994; Ord. 2017-4, passed 6-1-2017) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.22 ABANDONMENT OF VEHICLES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No person shall willfully leave a discarded, inoperative, or abandoned
vehicle on private property without the permission of the person having the
right to the possession of the property. For purposes of this section, the fact
that a vehicle has been left on private property without the permission or
notification of the person having the right of possession of this property is
prima facie evidence of abandonment.
(Ord. 1994-1, passed 3-24-1994; Ord. 2017-4, passed 6-1-2017) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.23 KEEPING INOPERATIVE, JUNK, OR ABANDONED VEHICLES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person in charge or in control of any real property within the
municipality, whether as an owner, tenant, occupant, lessee, or otherwise shall
allow any inoperative, junk, or abandoned vehicle to remain on the property
within their control longer than seven days after the receipt of a written
notice from the Town Marshal or any other member of the Town Marshal’s
Department designated by the Town Marshal instruction that person to remove
this inoperative, junk, or abandoned vehicle from the property. This section
shall not apply to a vehicle stored in an enclosed building or to commercial
garages, repair shops, used car dealers, or junk yards operated in a lawful
manner.
   (B)   Notice required under division (A) above shall be deemed to be
adequate if the Town Marshal or his or her designee, causes that notice to be
affixed to the vehicle or upon the door of any residence located on the
property where the vehicle is found and delivering the notice in person, by
certified mail, or by leaving the notice affixed to the door and mailing a copy
of the same to the registered owner, the owner of the real estate or the
tenant, occupant, or lessee of the private property upon which this
inoperative, junk, or abandoned vehicle is found.
   (C)   The notice required under division (A) above should state the
following:
      (1)   The date and time of the notice;
      (2)   A description of the inoperative, junk, or abandoned vehicle;
      (3)   The license plate number on the vehicle, if any;
      (4)   The identity of the owner or person in charge of the real property
upon which the vehicle is located;
      (5)   That the person responsible for this vehicle has seven days after
the date and time noted above in the order to remove this vehicle because it is
alleged that the vehicle is a inoperative, junk, or abandoned vehicle as
defined in §
91.20;
      (6)   A copy of the ordinance should be attached; and
      (7)   A statement indicating that if the vehicle is not removed from the
property within seven days of the date and time affixed above, this would be
prima facie evidence of the fact that it is a inoperative, junk, or abandoned
vehicle in violation of this section and, thus, the person to whom the notice
is directed could be subject to penalties provided by this subchapter.
   (D)   If the person whom the notice is directed contents that the vehicle is
operable and not junk or abandoned, he or she or a designee should take it to
the Police Department of the town for inspection in compliance with the
inspection laws of the state. If this is done within seven days of the time of
the giving of the notice, this shall be deemed to be prima facie evidence that
the vehicle in question is not junk, abandoned, or inoperative.
   (E)   For purposes of this section, if the seven days granted ends after 5:
00 p.m. Friday and before 12:00 p.m. on the following Monday, the time shall be
extended to 5:00 p.m. that Monday. If it ends on a legal holiday, the time
shall be extended 24 hours following the conclusion of the legal holiday.
(Ord. 1994-1, passed 3-24-1994; Ord. 2017-4, passed 6-1-2017) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.24 IMPOUNDING.
   (A)   The Town Marshal or his or her designee may impound any vehicle found
in violation of this subchapter. This vehicle shall remain impounded until
lawfully claimed or disposed of in accordance with I.C. 9-22-1-5 et seq.
   (B)   The Town Marshal or his or her designee may also impound a vehicle
that is inoperative, junk, or that has been abandoned, upon complaint of an
owner of a repair garage or place of storage for a vehicle for a vehicle when
the vehicle has been left for longer than that agreed upon by the owner of the
repair garage or place of storage, his or her agent or employee and the owner
or operator of the vehicle. Before taking possession of the vehicle, the Town
Marshal or his or her designee shall give a seven-day notice to the owner of
the vehicle of his or her intention to impound this vehicle at the end of the
seven days if it is not lawfully removed from the repair garage or other place
of storage.
   (C)   The Town Marshal shall designate a place of storage for vehicles
impounded under this section.
   (D)   The owner of a vehicle impounded under this section may reclaim it
upon payment of any expenses or charges incurred in its removal and storage,
and presentation of proof of ownership, which may be evidenced by a certificate
of title to the vehicle.
   (E)   If the vehicle remains unclaimed by the owner for a period of 30 days,
this vehicle may be disposed of in accordance with the procedures established
by I.C. 9-22-1-13 et seq.
(Ord. 1994-1, passed 3-24-1994; Ord. 2017-4, passed 6-1-2017) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who is in violation of §§
91.01 to
91.07, who has been served with an order directed to them pursuant to §
91.04, and who fails to take the required action within the time period
specified in the order, shall be guilty of a Class B infraction.
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any of the
provisions of §§
91.20 to
91.24 shall, upon conviction, be fined in any sum not exceeding $500.
(Ord. 1994-1, passed 3-24-1994; Ord. 2000-2, passed 4-6-2000; Ord. 2017-4,
passed 6-1-2017)
CHAPTER 92: TREES
Section
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Street tree species
   
92.03   Distance from street corners and fireplugs
   
92.04   Utilities
   
92.05   Public tree care
   
92.06   Tree topping
   
92.07   Pruning, corner clearance
   
92.08   Dead or diseased tree removal on private property
   
92.09   Removal of stumps
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARK TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation in public
parks having individual names, and all areas owned by the town, or to which the
public has free access as a park.
   STREET TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation on land
lying between property lines on either side of all streets, avenues, or ways
within the town.
(Ord. 2004-6, passed 6-3-2004; Ord. 2017-9, passed 12-7-2017)
§ 92.02 STREET TREE SPECIES.
   (A)   The following trees shall not be used for street tree planting in the
public right-of-way:
      (1)   Carolina Poplar;
      (2)   Cottonwood;
      (3)   Lonbardy Poplar;
      (4)   Box Elder;
      (5)   Maple (all types);
      (6)   Ailanthus or Tree of Heaven;
      (7)   Chinese Elm;
      (8)   Siberian Elm;
      (9)   Willows; and
      (10)   Catalpas.
   (B)   (1)   The species listed below are approved for street tree planting
on the public right-of-way between the sidewalk and the curb:
         (a)   Serviceberry;
         (b)   Lilac Tree;
         (c)   Locust;
         (d)   Elm; and
         (e)   Zelkova.
      (2)   Any other trees must be approved in writing by the Town Council.
(Ord. 2004-6, passed 6-3-2004; Ord. 2017-9, passed 12-7-2017) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 DISTANCE FROM STREET CORNERS AND FIREPLUGS.
   No street tree shall be planted closer than 35 feet of any street corner,
measured from the point of nearest intersecting curbs or curblines. No street
tree shall be planted closer than ten feet of any fireplug.
(Ord. 2004-6, passed 6-3-2004; Ord. 2017-9, passed 12-7-2017) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 UTILITIES.
   No street trees other than those species listed as small trees in §
92.02(B)(1) may be planted under or within ten lateral feet of any overhead
utility wire, or over or within five lateral feet of any underground water
line, sewer line, transmission line, or other utility.
(Ord. 2004-6, passed 6-3-2004; Ord. 2017-9, passed 12-7-2017) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 PUBLIC TREE CARE.
   (A)   The town shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain, and remove
trees, plants, and shrubs within the lines of all streets, alleys, avenues,
lanes, squares, and public grounds, as may be necessary to insure public safety
or the preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of such public grounds.
   (B)   The Town Council may remove or cause or order to be removed, any tree
or part thereof which is in an unsafe condition or which by reason of its
nature is injurious to sewers, electric power lines, gas lines, water lines, or
other public improvements, or is affected with any injurious fungus, insect, or
other pest. This section does not prohibit the planting of street trees by
adjacent property owners providing that the selection of said trees is in
accordance with §§
92.02 through
92.04.
(Ord. 2004-6, passed 6-3-2004; Ord. 2017-9, passed 12-7-2017) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06 TREE TOPPING.
   It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person, firm, or town
department to top any street tree, park tree, or other tree on public property.
TOPPING is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than
three inches in diameter within the tree’s crown to such a degree so as to
removed the normal canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees severely damaged by
storms or other causes, or certain trees under utility wires or other
obstructions where other pruning practices are impractical may be exempted from
this chapter at the determination of the Town Council.
(Ord. 2004-6, passed 6-3-2004; Ord. 2017-9, passed 12-7-2017) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.07 PRUNING, CORNER CLEARANCE.
   Every owner of any tree overhanging any street or right-of-way within the
town shall prune the branches so that such branches shall not obstruct the
light from any street lamp or obstruct the view of any street or sidewalk. Said
owners shall remove all dead, diseased, or dangerous trees, or broken or
decayed limbs, which constitute a menace to the safety of the public. The town
shall have the right to prune any tree or shrub on private property when it
interferes with the proper spread of light along the street from a streetlight
or interferes with visibility of any traffic control device or sign.
(Ord. 2004-6, passed 6-3-2004; Ord. 2017-9, passed 12-7-2017) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.08 DEAD OR DISEASED TREE REMOVAL ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   The town shall have the right to cause the removal of any dead or diseased
trees on private property within the town, when such trees constitute a hazard
to life and property, or harbor insects or disease which constitute a potential
threat to other trees within the town. The Town Council will notify in writing
the owners of such trees. Said owners, at their own expense, shall do removal
within 60 days after the date of service of notice. In the event of failure of
the owners to comply with such provisions, the town shall have the authority to
remove such trees and charge the cost of removal on the owner’s property tax
notice.
(Ord. 2004-6, passed 6-3-2004; Ord. 2017-9, passed 12-7-2017)
§ 92.09 REMOVAL OF STUMPS.
   All stumps of street and park trees shall be removed below the surface of
the ground so that the top of the stump shall not project above the surface of
the ground.
(Ord. 2004-6, passed 6-3-2004; Ord. 2017-9, passed 12-7-2017) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be, upon conviction
or plea of guilty, subject to a fine not to exceed $2,500, and as further
stated in §
10.99.
(Ord. 2004-6, passed 6-3-2004; Ord. 2017-9, passed 12-7-2017)
CHAPTER 93: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Sidewalk Repair and Construction
   
93.01   Unsafe sidewalk defined
   
93.02   Sidewalk repair and construction
   
93.03   Owner’s liability to town
   
93.04   Sidewalk width and grade
Display of Address
   
93.15   Requirement
   
93.16   Display of street number and address
   
93.17   Enforcement
 
   
93.99   Penalty
SIDEWALK REPAIR AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 93.01 UNSAFE SIDEWALK DEFINED.
   For purposes of this chapter, a sidewalk shall be deemed UNSAFE if it is
settled or pushed up as to be uneven, cracked, or broken to such extent that
this condition creates a significant likelihood that a pedestrian would trip
and fall because of this condition. It shall also include a sidewalk that has a
curb that is broken, crumbling, or placed so low that the sidewalk can be
easily driven upon.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 8-6-2015; Ord. 2017-8, passed 11-18-2017)
§ 93.02 SIDEWALK REPAIR AND CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Responsibility for the repair, maintenance, and upkeep of the curbs
and sidewalks shall be borne by the abutting property owners, abutting to
either the sidewalk or the property in which the sidewalk is located on, unless
otherwise specified. It shall be unlawful to remove or modify any existing
sidewalk without obtaining written permission from the Town Council. All such
requests will be presented in writing to the Town Council, and shall include
the description and location of the sidewalk to be removed or modified, as well
as the reason for removal or modification.
   (B)   Whenever the Town Council shall desire to improve, construct, or
repair any sidewalk within the town, the Town Council shall, by resolution,
declare the necessity therefore, and adopt a final resolution therefore; and
therein order and require the owner of the abutting property to improve,
construct, or repair the sidewalk; or designating in such resolution the kind
of walk to be constructed or the repairs required; the description of the lots
or parcels of ground in front of which the walk is proposed to be constructed
or repaired; the names of the owners of the abutting properties as they appear
on the books of the County Assessor, and shall cause notice of the passage of
such resolution to be given by the Town Council to the abutting property
owners, in person or by mail; provided that it shall be sufficient in the
notice to give the names of the abutting property owners as they appear on the
books of the County Assessor. If any such property owners shall not be found,
the Town Marshal shall post a copy of such notice on the land of such property
owners, at or near the places where the walk is to be built, improved, or
repaired; the giving of such notice as above-provided shall be deemed
sufficient as the notice required by law to be given. Such property owners
shall have 30 days from the date of notice within which to construct such walk
or make the repairs required by the resolution and notice. Should any property
owner fail to construct a walk or make such repairs within the allotted time
set forth in this section, the town, by and through its proper officers and
agents, may cause such walk to be constructed or repaired by an independent
contractor, without notice to any person, or any further order from the Town
Council. The entire cost for the improvement herein provided may be assessed
against the lots or parcels of land abutting such walk, and collected as
special assessments in the manner provided by law. The amount of the
assessment, if less than the cost of the improvement, shall be determined by
the Town Council.
   (C)   Such notice shall fix a time, not less than ten days after the service
or posting of the notice as above-provided, when the owner(s) of such land(s)
may appear before the Town Council and remonstrate against the construction,
improvement, or repair of such sidewalk. Such remonstrance shall be in writing
and signed by such property owner(s).
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 8-6-2015; Ord. 2017-8, passed 11-18-2017) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 OWNER’S LIABILITY TO TOWN.
   A property owner(s) neglecting to comply with the notice in §
93.02 to build or repair a sidewalk shall be liable to the town for all damages
which shall be recovered against the town for any accidents or injuries
occurring by reason of such neglect.
(Ord. 2017-8, passed 11-18-2017) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 SIDEWALK WIDTH AND GRADE.
   (A)   All new sidewalks shall be a minimum of four feet in width. If the
sidewalk under construction is a gap between already constructed sidewalks in
the same block or subdivision, it shall conform with the standard four feet in
width and a minimum of four inches in thickness.
   (B)   The surface of any walk when completed shall have a slope of 2% (to
meet ADA requirements, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq.) towards the center of
the street.
(Ord. 2017-8, passed 11-18-2017) Penalty, see §
93.99
DISPLAY OF ADDRESS
§ 93.15 REQUIREMENT.
   Any person, firm, corporation, organization, or other entity which is the
owner of real estate located in the town corporate limits of the town upon
which there is a residence, business, or any other type of structure located,
shall cause the street number of the address of the residence, business, or
other structure, to be displayed on the residence, business, or structure in a
manner described in §
93.16.
(Ord. 2003-5, passed 6-4-2003) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.16 DISPLAY OF STREET NUMBER AND ADDRESS.
   The street number of the address of a residence, business, or other
structure as described in §
93.15 shall be displayed in numbers which are at least three inches in height
and shall be displayed in a location on the residence, structure, or business
in which the numbers are clearly visible from the street directly in front of
the residence or business.
(Ord. 2003-5, passed 6-4-2003) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.17 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   In the event that the Town Marshal, or any agent of the Town Marshal,
identifies a business or residence which is in violation of this subchapter, a
copy of this subchapter shall, be mailed to the owner of the real estate found
to be in violation of this subchapter. The owner of said real estate shall
cause the address of the residence or business to be displayed in a manner
consistent with this subchapter within 15 days of the date which a copy of the
subchapter is mailed to the owner of the real estate by U.S. first class mail.
The Clerk-Treasurer shall keep records of the date which each notice is mailed.
   (B)   In the event that the owner does not bring the real estate into
compliance with this subchapter within 15 days, the Town Marshal, or his or her
agent, shall serve a notice of ordinance violation on the owner of such real
estate and the case shall be referred to the Winchester City Court for
enforcement.
(Ord. 2003-5, passed 6-4-2003)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, corporation, organization, or other entity found to
be in violation of §§
93.15 to 93.17 shall be fined in an amount not to exceed $25. Each day the real
estate remains in violation of §§
93.15 to 93.17 shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 2003-5, passed 6-4-2003)
CHAPTER 94: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
94.01   Policy statement
   
94.02   Definitions
   
94.03   Unlawful practice
   
94.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
94.05   Discrimination in residential real estate related transactions
   
94.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
94.07   Interference, coercion, or intimidation
   
94.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
94.09   Exemptions
   
94.10   Administrative enforcement of provisions
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the Council Trustees of the town to provide,
within constitutional limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate
limits as provided for under the Federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 3601 et seq., as amended, the Federal Housing and Community
Development Act of 1974, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 5301 et seq., as amended, and I.C.
22-9.5-1 et seq.
(Ord. 1997-1, passed 6-5-1997)
§ 94.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who (I.C. 22-9.5-2-2):
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
   COMMISSION. The State Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-9-
1-4 et seq.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-3)
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-4)
   DISABILITY or DISABLED. 
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person’s major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment;
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq.; and/
or
         (e)   Any other impairment defined under I.C. 22-9-5-6.
      (2)   The term DISABILITY shall not include current illegal use of or
addiction to a controlled substance as defined in 21 U.S.C. § 802 (I.C. 22-9-5-
6(d)(5)); nor does the term DISABILITY include an individual solely because
that individual is a transvestite.
(I.C. 22-9-5-6-(d)(3))
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
94.04, 94.05, 94.06, 94.07, or 94.08 or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or part of a building or structure that
is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure, or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-8)
   FAMILIAL STATUS. Discrimination on the basis of familial status means
discrimination because the person is pregnant; domiciled with an individual
under the age of 18 years of age in regard to whom the person is the parent or
legal custodian or has the written permission of the parent or legal custodian
for domicile with that person; or in the process of obtaining legal custody of
an individual younger than 18 years of age.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual, with the status of such family being
further defined in this section.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-9)
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees,
trustees in cases under 11 U.S.C., receivers, and fiduciaries.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)
   TO RENT. To lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the right to occupy premises not owned by the occupant.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-13)
(Ord. 1997-1, passed 6-5-1997)
§ 94.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below, §
94.09, and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale
or rental of housing set forth in I.C. 22-9.5-5-1 and §
94.04 shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) below and I.C. 22-
9.5-3;
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) below, nothing in §
94.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that in the sale of such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or who
was not the most recent resident of such house prior to the sale, the exemption
shall apply only to one such sale within any 24-month period. The private
individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or reserved on his
or her behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the proceeds from
the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses at any one
time. The sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be excepted from
application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent, or salesperson, or any person in
the business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of
any such broker, agent, or salesperson, or person; and/or
         (b)   Without the publication, posting, or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
94.04(C), but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstractors, title companies, and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title.
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) above, a person shall be deemed to be
in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
agent, other than in the sale of his or her personal residence, in providing
sales or rental facilities of services in two or more transactions involving
the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended
for occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 1997-1, passed 6-5-1997) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
94.03 and except as exempted by §§
94.03(B) and
94.09, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for sale or rental of, or otherwise made unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, familial
status, or national origin;
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
familial status, or national origin;
   (C)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or published
any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicated any preference, limitation, or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, sex, disability, familial status, or national origin, or
an intention to make any such preference, limitation, or discrimination;
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status, or national origin that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale, or rental when such dwelling is in fact so
available;
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
sex, disability, familial status, or national origin; and
   (F)   (1)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of disability
of:
         (a)   That buyer or renter;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (2)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a disability of:
         (a)   That person;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (3)   For purposes of this division (F), DISCRIMINATION includes:
         (a)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the disabled person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may where it is reasonable to do so condition permission for a modification on
the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modification, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
         (b)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services, when such accommodations may be necessary to afford
such person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
         (c)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13, 1988, failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that:
            1.   The public use and cannon use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by disabled persons;
            2.   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
disabled persons in wheelchairs; and
            3.   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
               a.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
               b.   Light switches, electrical outlets, thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations;
               c.   Reinforcements in bathroom walls to allow later
installation of grab bars; and
               d.   Usable kitchens and bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
            4.   Compliance with the appropriate requirements of the Americans
With Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq., and of the
American National Standard for Buildings and Facilities Providing Accessibility
and Usability for Physically Handicapped People (commonly cited as ANSI a117.1)
suffices to satisfy the requirements of division (F)(3)(c)3 above.
            5.   Nothing in this division (F) requires that a dwelling be made
available to an individual who tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the
health or safety of other individuals of who tenancy would result in
substantial physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 1997-1, passed 6-5-1997) Penalty, see §
94.99
Cross-reference:
   Rental registration and inspection program, see
Chapter 153
§ 94.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity who business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because or race, color,
religion, sex, disability, familial status, or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED
TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, disability, or familial
status.
(Ord. 1997-1, passed 6-5-1997) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers’
organization or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her
in the terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation, on
account of race, color, religion, sex, disability, familial status, or national
origin.
(Ord. 1997-1, passed 6-5-1997) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION, OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
94.03,
94.04,
94.05, and
94.06.
(Ord. 1997-1, passed 6-5-1997) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under color of law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates, or interferes with, or attempts to
injure, intimidate, or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status, or national origin and because he or she is or has
been selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization, or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings;
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, disability, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations, or facilities described in subsection 15
(a); or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
(Ord. 1997-1, passed 6-5-1997) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.09 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   (1)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised, or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental, or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color, or
national origin.
      (2)   Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in
fact open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or
purposes provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a
commercial purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodgings to
its members or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   (1)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply
with respect to housing for older persons.
      (2)   As used in this section, HOUSING FOR OLDER PERSONS means housing:
         (a)   Provided under any state of federal program that the Secretary
of the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the State Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly persons (as defined in the state or federal program);
         (b)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, persons 62 years of age or
older; or
         (c)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55
years of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 1997-1, passed 6-5-1997) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.10 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT OF PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commission as set forth in
division (B) below shall be vested in the Chief Executive Officer of the Town
Council.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the Town Council,
because of a lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully
administer enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under this
chapter, herein elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of the
sections of this chapter by complainants to the State Civil Rights Commission
(“Commission”) for administrative enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-
6 and the Chief Elected Officer of the Town Council, shall refer all said
complaints to the Commission as provided for under division (A) above to said
Commission for purposes of investigation, resolution, and appropriate relief as
provided for under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the Town Council, shall
administer their departments, programs, and activities relating to housing and
urban development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this
chapter and shall cooperate with the Chief Executive Officer and the Commission
to further such purposes.
   (D)   The Chief Executive Officer of the Town Council, or the Chief
Executive Officer’s designee, shall provide information on remedies available
to any aggrieved person or complainant requesting such information.
(Ord. 1997-1, passed 6-5-1997) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to
discourage such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, color, religion, sex, disability, familial status, or national origin, in
any of the activities, services, organizations, or facilities described in §
94.08(A), or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any
denial of the opportunity to participate shall be fined not more than $1,000,
or imprisoned not more than one year, or both; and if bodily injury results,
shall be fined not more than $10,000, or imprisoned for not more than ten
years, or both; and if death results, shall be subject to imprisonment for any
term of years or for life.
(Ord. 1997-1, passed 6-5-1997)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   PEDDLING AND SOLICITATION
      
111.   AMUSEMENTS AND LEISURE
CHAPTER 110: PEDDLING AND SOLICITATION
Section
Hawking and Peddling
   
110.01   Prohibited sales
   
110.02   License fees
   
110.03   License application
Itinerant Merchants
   
110.15   Definitions
   
110.16   Registration license required; carrying and display
   
110.17   Exceptions and exemptions
   
110.18   Application for registration license
   
110.19   Registration license fee
   
110.20   Issuance, use, and surrender of registration license
   
110.21   Regulation of business activity
 
   
110.99   Penalty
HAWKING AND PEDDLING
§ 110.01 PROHIBITED SALES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in selling of merchandise,
goods, or wares on any public or private property that is not in an approved
wood, metal, or concrete building without first completing and returning an
application to obtain a license. Commonly referred to as rummage sale, garage
sale, yard sale, or flea market. The application must be approved by at least
two members of the Town Council. After approval the license shall be obtained
from the Clerk-Treasurer of the town, and all other with the provisions of this
subchapter must be complied with.
(Ord. 7, passed 4-4-1894; Ord. 2001-8, passed 9-6-2001) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.02 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   The license fee required in selling of merchandise, goods, or wares
shall be as follows.
      (1)   There shall be an initial license fee of $250 and a fee of $25 per
day thereafter. The initial fee will be charged on the first day in which
merchandise is placed on property, and the daily fee will be charged for each
day until all merchandise, goods, or wares are removed from property.
      (2)   Any person engaged in selling merchandise, goods, or wares on a
temporary basis may apply for an exemption for the fees required. The Town
Council will address all exemptions for approval or disapproval. All exemptions
applied for may not exceed three days consecutive per week, and not more than
ten days in any calendar year. Merchandise, goods, or wares refers to items
that are normally purchased, collected, used, and/or worn. This sale will be
accomplished on the individual’s property or immediately adjacent there to.
Neither a license nor an exemption need be applied for if no more than three
items are placed on property for sale or for sales being held during town-wide
rummage sales.
   (B)   Merchandise, goods, or wares refers to items that are normally
purchased, collected, used, and/or worn. This sale will be accomplished on the
individual’s property or immediately adjacent there to. Neither a license nor
an exemption need be applied for if no more than three items are placed on
property for sale.
(Ord. 7, passed 4-4-1894; Ord. 2001-8, passed 9-6-2001; Ord. 2002-7, passed 8-
1-2002) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   The application for the license shall be completed at the office of the
Clerk-Treasurer of the town. After approval of the Town Council the license fee
required shall be paid to the Clerk-Treasurer of the town, who will issue a
license for selling merchandise, goods, or wares for the time period requested.
(Ord. 7, passed 4-4-1894; Ord. 2001-8, passed 9-6-2001) Penalty, see §
110.99
ITINERANT MERCHANTS
§ 110.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMODITY. Any real or personal property, merchandise, produce, intangible
asset, or security (including policy), subscription, membership, ticket, or
work or service to be performed by contract or agreement other than as an
employee or agent of the person for whom the work or service is performed,
irrespective of whether any of the aforementioned are offered for immediate or
future delivery.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person who sells or offers for sale any commodity
and who:
      (1)   Conducts the business by standing or moving about on streets,
sidewalks, or other public places, or by operating from a portable stand,
pushcart, or vehicle not constituting a fixed and established place of
business; or
      (2)   Operates as a transient merchant, conducting the business from a
room, building structure, or lot rented or leased for the purpose of carrying
on the business and with intent to do so for less than a continuous period of
365 days.
   PEDDLER. Any person who sells or offers for sale any commodity by traveling
door-to-door between dwelling places or business establishments; which are
located within the corporate limits of the town without the prior consent or
arrangement by the occupant of the premises or his or her presumptive agent.
(Ord. 2016-4, passed 4-7-2016)
§ 110.16 REGISTRATION LICENSE REQUIRED; CARRYING AND DISPLAY.
   (A)   Without first having registered with the Clerk-Treasurer, it shall be
unlawful for any peddler or itinerant merchant to solicit, sell, or offer for
sale any commodity to any person within the corporate limits of the town issued
a registration license from the town’s Police Department, except as provided in
§
110.17.
   (B)   Every registrant shall carry his or her registration license with him
or her at all times while engaged in selling or soliciting and shall, when so
required, either by an officer or a private person with whom the registrant is,
or is attempting to, conduct business, produce and show the person or officer
the registration license.
(Ord. 2016-4, passed 4-7-2016) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.17 EXCEPTIONS AND EXEMPTIONS.
   The following described persons are exempt from the registration
requirements imposed under §
110.16 for the purposes indicated:
   (A)   A person selling commodities for the bona fide purpose of raising
funds in support of a not for profit charitable, educational, scientific,
religious, or civic organization or purpose when no part of the proceeds are
retained by the person for his or her own benefit;
   (B)   A person soliciting subscriptions to newspapers;
   (C)   A person selling unprocessed produce or food goods during any
community function or farmers market which sales comply with I.C. 16-42-11-9.5;
   (D)   A person selling his or her own property which was not originally
acquired for the purpose of resale;
   (E)   A person holding a wholesale or retail merchants license who
temporarily and incidentally to conduct of his or her regular business conducts
a sale of commodities from a temporary structure on his or her own premises but
under the name of his or her regularly established and licensed business;
   (F)   Honorably discharged military service veterans of a class described by
I.C. 10-17-5-1 or I.C. 10-17-5-2 who have obtained a license from the county
auditor pursuant to I.C. 25-25-2-1, and who limit their activities to vending,
hawking, or peddling goods, wares, fruits, and merchandise; or
   (G)   Manufactures, producers, wholesalers, wholesale distributors, jobbers,
or their authorized sales representatives soliciting orders from rental
merchants or other wholesale consumers or wholesale distributors at the
latter’s place of business.
(Ord. 2016-4, passed 4-7-2016)
§ 110.18 APPLICATION FOR REGISTRATION LICENSE.
   (A)   Each itinerant merchant or peddler shall prior to engaging in sales or
related activities, apply to the Clerk-Treasurer for a license to do so.
   (B)   Each applicant shall furnish to the Clerk-Treasurer the following
information:
      (1)   Name;
      (2)   Permanent address;
      (3)   Local address;
      (4)   Date and place of birth;
      (5)   Merchandise or produce to be sold;
      (6)   Name and address of immediate supervisor;
      (7)   Name and address of employer;
      (8)   Copy of current driver’s license or photo identification; and
      (9)   Make, model, year, color, and license plate number of all vehicles
being used.
(Ord. 2016-4, passed 4-7-2016) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.19 REGISTRATION LICENSE FEE.
   The applicant shall pay to the Clerk-Treasurer an application fee of $25 for
a 90-day registration license. The registration license shall not be
transferable and if the registrant wishes to continue his or her own business
after the expiration of his or her license, a new registration license must be
obtained. Should any business employ more than one person as an itinerant
merchant or peddler, each employee shall be required to furnish the Clerk-
Treasurer with the information required under §
110.18 with each employee charged a fee of $5 in addition to the $25 license
registration fee for the business. By signing the registration application,
each itinerant merchant or peddler agrees to submit to finger printing and or
criminal background check if required by the Town Marshal or Deputy.
(Ord. 2016-4, passed 4-7-2016)
§ 110.20 ISSUANCE, USE, AND SURRENDER OF REGISTRATION LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon fulfillment of §§
110.18 and
110.19, the Clerk-Treasurer shall forward the application to the town’s Police
Department. The Town Marshal/Deputy shall issue over his or her signature and
the seal of the town a registration license which shall contain the information
set forth in §
110.18.
   (B)   The itinerant merchant/peddler is required to carry the registration
on his or her person while engaged in business and to surrender it upon his or
her departure from the town or upon the expiration of the license period
whichever occurs first.
(Ord. 2016-4, passed 4-7-2016) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.21 REGULATION OF BUSINESS ACTIVITY.
   The following regulations govern the conduct of business under a
registration license.
   (A)   No peddler or itinerant merchant may sell nor offer to sell any
commodity, except newspapers, to the occupant of any dwelling place, by going
from the dwelling place to dwelling place before 9:00 a.m. or after 7:00 p.m.
local time, Monday to Saturday, without first securing permission from a
resident of the dwelling.
   (B)   No peddler or itinerant merchant shall ask for nor accept an
invitation to enter a dwelling house from a minor child.
   (C)   No minor child shall be asked to buy anything nor to answer any
personal questions without his or her parents being present.
   (D)   The owner, occupant, or person in charge of any premises may place a
sign at the door or other entrance to the premises saying “No Soliciting” or
“No Peddling” or other wording of clearly meaning and all peddlers shall be
obligated to honor and observe the sign.
(Ord. 2016-4, passed 4-7-2016) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
110.01 through
110.03 shall on conviction thereof, be fined in any sum not exceeding $500, and
each day’s continuance without a license shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   (1)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of
§§
110.15 through
110.21 shall be subject to a fine of $50 for the first violation, however, the
first time a person, firm, or corporation is cited under §§
110.15 through
110.21, they may avoid paying the fine by complying with §§
110.16 and
110.17 within one business day of being cited for violating §§
110.15 through
110.21.
      (2)   A fine of $100 shall be assessed for a second violation of §§
110.15 through
110.21.
      (3)   A fine of $250 shall be assessed for the third and all subsequent
violations of §§
110.15 through
110.21.
      (4)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
      (5)   The Clerk-Treasurer or Town Marshal shall have the right to revoke
a registration license issued under §§
110.15 through
110.21 for continued non-compliance with §§
110.15 through
110.21.
(Ord. 7, passed 4-4-1894; Ord. 2001-8, passed 9-6-2001; Ord. 2016-4, passed 4-
7-2016)
CHAPTER 111: AMUSEMENTS AND LEISURE
Section
Recreation Centers
   
111.01   License required
   
111.02   Definitions
   
111.03   License fee
   
111.04   Operational requirements
Exhibitions
   
111.15   License required
   
111.16   License fee
   
111.17   Provisions of license
 
   
111.99   Penalty
RECREATION CENTERS
§ 111.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, partnership, or
association to establish, maintain, and keep a business establishment providing
recreation for persons within the corporate limits of the town, wherein there
is provided for the amusement of the general public billiard tables, pool
tables, bowling alleys, and mechanical amusement devices including but not
limited to electric or battery operated bowling alley machines, pinball
machines, and electronic games of skill or chance activated by the insertion of
coins, trade-tokens, slugs, or similar objects in the coin slot and any
hereinbefore mentioned machine operated by remote control without insertion of
coins, tokens, or similar objects directly into such machine or any gaming or
sporting apparatus for hire, profit, or entertainment without first having
obtained a license therefor from the town.
(Ord. 1987-5, passed 9-9-1987) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BILLIARD TABLE. A table on which a game is played called billiards. The
table rectangular in shape and having no pockets in the corners or on the
sides.
   MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT DEVICES. Each machine which, upon the insertion of a
coin, trade-token, slug, or similar object operates or make be operated as a
game or contest of skill or amusement of any kind or description, and which
contains no automatic payoff device for the return of money to the player. A
MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT DEVICE is further defined as any machine, apparatus, or
contrivance which is used or which may be used as a game of skill and amusement
wherein or whereby the player initiates, employs, or directs any force
generated by the machine. A MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT DEVICE is further defined as
any machine, apparatus, or contrivance which is used or may be used as a game
of skill and amusement wherein or whereby the player initiates, employs, or
directs any force generated by the machine activated by remote control without
the insertion directly into the machine of a coin, trade-token, slug, or
similar object. The term MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT DEVICE is also defined to be and
shall include each machine vending recorded music or television entertainment
in return for the insertion or deposit therein of a coin, or tradetoken, or
slug or similar object.
   POOL TABLE. A table, rectangular in shape containing six pockets on which a
game called pool is played.
   RECREATION CENTER. A business establishment, privately owned, operated and
maintained for profit and gain, open to the public wherein mechanical amusement
devices, billiard tables, pool tables, or any of them, are maintained for use
by the general public upon payment of the costs of operation of the mechanical
amusement devices and fees required for use of the billiard and pool tables.
(Ord. 1987-5, passed 9-9-1987)
§ 111.03 LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   Generally. The license fee shall be $50 per annum for the first
billiard table, pool table, or mechanical amusement device, operated for hire,
gain, or profit; for the second and each additional billiard table, pool table,
or mechanical amusement device the license fee shall be $10 per annum which
license shall be issued for a period of one year from date of issuance.
   (B)   Term. The license period shall be the same as the calendar year.
   (C)   Application for license. The application for license shall be made to
the Clerk-Treasurer of the town.
   (D)   Issuance. No license shall be issued except to an applicant of good
character, approved by the Town Council. Upon approval of the applicant and the
payment of the license fee, the Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a stamp bearing the
notation, town license for the calendar year 20___, after issuance of such
license applicant is authorized to engage in the business of operation of a
recreation center under the terms of this subchapter. One license shall be
issued for each billiard table, pool table, and mechanical amusement device
licensed and it shall be placed in a conspicuous place.
   (E)   Plain view. 
      (1)   All such devices shall at all times be kept and placed in plain
view of any person or persons who may frequent or be in any recreation center
where such devices are kept and used.
      (2)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to authorize, permit,
or license any gambling device of any nature whatsoever.
(Ord. 1987-5, passed 9-9-1987) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 OPERATIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   Any recreation center issued a license for the operation of billiard tables,
pool tables, and mechanical amusement devices:
   (A)   May maintain business hours from 6:00 a.m. until 12:00 a.m. at which
time the recreation center shall close and shall not resume business hours
before 6:00 a.m. of the following day, except that on Sunday the recreation
center shall not resume business operations before 12:00 p.m.;
   (B)   Shall have on duty at all times during which such recreation center is
open to the public for business a supervisor, the same being in charge of the
business during business hours, an adult over the age of 21 years;
   (C)   Shall not sell, offer for sale, barter, or exchange intoxicating
beverages of any kind;
   (D)   Shall not permit any person to be guilty of disorderly conduct or any
conduct tending toward a breach of the peace. The causing or making of any
unnecessary loud noise or shouting or yelling shall be considered DISORDERLY
CONDUCT;
   (E)   Shall provide an unobstructed view of the interior of the premises
from the sidewalk and street adjacent to and running in front of and/or along
the side of such recreation center; and
   (F)   Shall report to the Clerk-Treasurer of the town any increase in the
number of billiard tables, pool tables, or mechanical amusement devices
situated on the premises of the recreation center placed thereon in addition to
the ones for which the then existing license is issued.
(Ord. 1987-5, passed 9-9-1987) Penalty, see §
111.99
EXHIBITIONS
§ 111.15 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or corporation to exhibit any caravan,
menagerie, or circus, within the corporate limits of the town, without first
obtaining a license so to do, which shall be paid for as follows, to-wit: for
each day, the sum of $10 and if a menagerie and circus combined and only one
administration be charged, then the persons so exhibiting shall be charged only
one fee for the combined show.
(Ord. 8, passed - -) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.16 LICENSE FEE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person company, or corporation to exhibit any
theatrical entertainment, concert hall entertainment, minstrel show, or other
performance to the public within the corporate limits of the said town, without
first obtaining a license to be paid for as follows to-wit: the sum of $1 for
each exhibition.
(Ord. 8, passed - -) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.17 PROVISIONS OF LICENSE.
   Any person desiring a license under the provisions of this subchapter shall
pay to the Town Clerk-Treasurer, the license fee as fixed by this subchapter,
and the Clerk-Treasurer shall issue to the applicant a receipt for the same,
which receipt shall be presented to the Town Clerk-Treasurer, who shall
thereupon issue to the applicant a license authorizing the conducting of the
business, show, or performance paid for, which said license shall be dated and
be for the length of time paid for and any person holding such license shall at
any and all times exhibit the same to the Town Marshal or his or her deputy,
when required to do so.
(Ord. 8, passed - -) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person, firm, corporation, partnership, or association who
violates any of the provisions of §§
111.01 through
111.04 shall, upon conviction, be fined in the sum of not less than $50 nor
more than $150, and in addition thereto, upon conviction being had and said
conviction being verified to the Town Council, said Council shall be proper
resolution annul and revoke any unexpired portion of the license of the then
licensee of said place for which said such conviction was had, and the funds of
such license so expired and unaccrued by operation of time shall thereby be
forfeited to said town, and said applicant shall not thereafter be permitted to
conduct and operate any such place of business under said license in said town.
      (2)   It is further ordained and provided that for each day any such
place or places are conducted, operated, or carried on in said town, without
the license herein provided for having been paid for and obtained, as herein
stipulated, shall constitute and be a separate offense and violation hereunder
and also each day’s operation and conduct of any such place or places in said
town in violation of any of the other provisions of §§
111.01 through
111.04 which are made unlawful shall constitute and be a separate and distinct
violation and offense under the terms hereof.
   (C)   Any person, company, or corporation violating any of the provisions of
§§
111.15 through 115.17 shall be fined in any sum not exceeding the sum of $5 for
each and every offense.
(Ord. 8, passed - -; Ord. 1987-5, passed 9-9-1987)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES GENERALLY
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES GENERALLY
Section
   
130.01   Disorderly conduct
   
130.02   Congregating in public places
   
130.03   Disturbing place of worship or meetings
   
130.04   Interference with officials
   
130.05   Civil emergencies
   
130.06   Ball playing on streets
   
130.07   BB rifles; gas or pellet guns
   
130.08   Use of projectiles
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   It is unlawful for any person or persons, to disturb the peace and quiet of
the town, or of its inhabitants by loud talking or by the making of unusual
noises, or by the crying of any alarm without good cause, or by threatening any
person or challenging him or her to fight or menacing him or her with physical
injury or pecuniary loss, or by accosting or approaching any person of the
opposite sex unknown to such person and by word, sign, or gesture attempting to
speak to or become acquainted with such person against his or her will except
in the transaction of legitimate business.
(Ord. 134-80, passed 7-21-1980) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 CONGREGATING IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   It is unlawful for any person to congregate or cause to be congregated a
crowd of three or more persons upon any public street, alley, sidewalk, parking
lot, school or school grounds, building, or any other public place within the
town so as to obstruct the same or as to hinder or annoy passers-by or
occupants of adjacent premises, or as to interfere with the activities normally
carried on on the premises.
(Ord. 134-80, passed 7-21-1980) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 DISTURBING PLACE OF WORSHIP OR MEETINGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons within the town by any loud
or unnecessary talking or shouting or by any threatening, abusive, profane, or
obscene language or violent action, or by any other rude behavior, to
interrupt, molest, annoy, or disturb any group of persons convened for the
purpose of worship, or in like manner to interrupt, molest, annoy, or disturb
any meeting of persons met together for any lawful purpose.
(Ord. 134-80, passed 7-21-1980) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to intentionally impede or
interfere, or attempt to impede or interfere with any police officer,
firefighter or any other town official in the performance of his or her duty or
emergency functions as a firefighter, police officer, or town official.
(Ord. 134-80, passed 7-21-1980) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 CIVIL EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CIVIL EMERGENCY.
         (a)   A riot of unlawful assembly characterized by the use of actual
force of violence or any threat to use force if accompanied by immediate power
to execute such force by three or more persons acting together without
authority of law; or
         (b)   Any natural disaster or human-made calamity including flood,
conflagration, cyclone, tornado, earthquake, or explosion within the corporate
limits of the town resulting in the death or injury of persons or the
destruction of property to such an extent that extraordinary measures must be
taken to protect the public health, safety, and welfare.
      CURFEW. A prohibition against any person or persons walking, running,
loitering, standing, or motoring upon any alley, street, highway, public
property, or vacant premises within the corporate limits of the town during the
hours in which a CURFEW has been imposed, excepting persons officially
designated to duty with reference to said civil emergency.
   (B)   Proclamation by Town Council. When in the judgment of the Town Council
a civil emergency as defined herein is deemed to exist; it shall forthwith
proclaim in writing the existence of same. In case of the absence of the Town
Council from the town, the Town Marshal shall be authorized to act in its
stead.
   (C)   Imposition of curfew. After proclamation of a civil emergency by the
Town Council, they may order a general curfew applicable to such geographical
areas of the town or to the town as a whole, as they deem advisable and
applicable during such hours of the day or night as they deem necessary in the
interest of the public safety and welfare.
   (D)   Additional regulations. After proclamation of a civil emergency, the
Town Council may also in the interest of public safety and welfare make any or
all of the following orders:
      (1)   Order the closing of all retail liquor stores;
      (2)   Order the closing of all taverns;
      (3)   Order the closing of all private clubs or portions thereof wherein
the consumption of intoxicating liquor and/or beer is permitted;
      (4)   Order the discontinuance of the sale of beer;
      (5)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing, or giving away
gasoline or other liquid flammable or combustible products in any container
other than a gasoline tank properly affixed to a motor vehicle;
      (6)   Order the closing of gasoline stations and other establishments,
the chief activity of which is the sale, distribution, or dispensing of liquid
flammable or combustible products;
      (7)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing, dispensing, or
giving away of firearms and/or ammunition; and/or
      (8)   Issue such other orders as are imminently necessary for the
protection of life and property.
   (E)   Emergency powers. During the period of a declared state of emergency,
the Town Council shall have the power to invoke any or all of the following
provisions.
      (1)   Alcoholic beverages. No person shall consume any alcoholic
beverages in a public street or place which is publicly owned, or in any motor
vehicle driven or parked thereon which is within a duly designated restricted
area.
      (2)   Weapons. No person shall carry or possess any rock, bottle, club,
brick, or weapon, who uses or intends to use the same unlawfully against the
persons or property of another.
      (3)   Incendiary missiles. No person shall make, carry, possess, or use
any type of “Molotov Cocktail,” gasoline or petroleum base fire bomb, or other
incendiary missile.
      (4)   Restricted areas. No person shall enter any area designated by the
Town Council as a restricted area unless in the performance of official duties
or with written permission from the Town Council or its duly designated
representative, or such person shall prove residence therein.
(Ord. 134-80, passed 7-21-1980) Penalty, see §
130.99
Cross-reference:
   Civil emergencies; emergency management, see
Chapter 32
§ 130.06 BALL PLAYING ON STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to throw ball or balls on the
streets.
(Ord. 14, passed 8-13-1894) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.07 BB RIFLES; GAS OR PELLET GUNS.
   Shooting of BB rifles, gas or pellet gun is prohibited within the town
limits.
(Ord. 131, passed 8-3-1970) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.08 USE OF PROJECTILES.
   (A)   No person shall have in his or her possession, or bring into any park,
on any town street, or on any town property, any air soft guns, slingshots,
firecrackers, torpedoes, fireworks, or other missile-propelling instruments or
explosives, including any substance, compound, mixture, or article having
properties of such a character that alone or in combination or contiguity with
other substances, mixtures, compounds, or articles, may propel missiles, or may
decompose suddenly and generate sufficient heat; sound, gas, or pressure, or
any of these, to produce rapid flame, combustion, noxious or dangerous odors,
or sounds such as to annoy any other person or to injure any person or
property.
   (B)   No person shall shoot or propel any missile, pellet, arrow, dart, or
other thing by means of any compressed air or gas propulsion device, bow,
slingshot, or propelling device of any kind or into any park, on any town
street, or on any town property, or onto private property without the consent
of the private property owner, except under a permit granted by the Town
Council, or within a regularly conducted event authorized by, or conducted by,
the town.
(Ord. 2013-6, passed 9-5-2013) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §§
130.01 through
130.05 or any order made by the Town Council in accordance with the terms of §§
130.01 through
130.05 shall be punished by a fine of not more than $500, and/or imprisonment
for a period not to exceed six months.
   (C)   The fine for violating §
130.06 shall not be less than $0.25 nor more than $1 for first offense.
   (D)   For the violation of §
130.07, the penalty shall be a fine in any sum not exceeding $25 and costs.
   (E)   Any person in violation of §
130.08 shall be subject to a fine of not less than $25 or more than $500.
(Ord. 14, passed 8-13-1894; Ord. 131, passed 8-3-1970; Ord. 134-80, passed 7-
21-1980; Ord. 2013-6, passed 9-5-2013)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING CODE
      
151.   UNSAFE BUILDINGS
      
152.   HOUSING CODE
      
153.   RENTAL PROPERTIES
      
154.   MOBILE HOMES
      
155.   ADOPTION OF CODES
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING CODE
Section
   
150.01   Title
   
150.02   Purpose
   
150.03   Scope
   
150.04   Authority
   
150.05   Entry
   
150.06   Violations
   
150.07   Right of appeal
   
150.08   Adoption of regulations by reference
   
150.09   Permit required
   
150.10   Plans
   
150.11   Compliance
   
150.12   Fees
   
150.13   Review of application
   
150.14   Inspections
   
150.15   Stop order
   
150.16   Interpretation
   
150.17   Certificate of occupancy
   
150.18   Standards
   
150.19   Remedies
   
150.20   County to enforce
 
   
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01 TITLE.
   This chapter, and all ordinances supplemental or amendatory hereto, shall be
known as the “Building Code of the Town of Parker City, Indiana,” may be cited
as such, and will be referred to herein as “this chapter.”
(Ord. 138, passed 2-18-1981)
§ 150.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide minimum standards for the
protection of life, limb, health, environment, public safety, and welfare, and
for the conservation of energy in the design and construction of buildings and
structures.
(Ord. 138, passed 2-18-1981)
§ 150.03 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this chapter apply to the construction, alteration,
repair, use, occupancy, and maintenance and additions to all buildings and
structures, other than fences, in the town.
(Ord. 138, passed 2-18-1981)
§ 150.04 AUTHORITY.
   The Building Commissioner of the county, hereinafter referred to as the
Building Commissioner, after having been designated as the officer of a single
agency to administer and enforce this chapter, is authorized in the name of the
town, to issue building permits, collect permit fees, perform inspections,
order correction of violations of this chapter, and authorize occupancy of
buildings and structures within the corporate limits of the town.
(Ord. 138, passed 2-18-1981)
§ 150.05 ENTRY.
   Upon presentation of proper credentials, the Building Commissioner or his or
her duly authorized representatives may enter at reasonable times any building,
structure, or premises in the town to perform any duty imposed upon him or her
by this chapter.
(Ord. 138, passed 2-18-1981)
§ 150.06 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation, whether as owner,
lessee, sub-lessee, or occupant, to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair,
improve, remove, convert, demolish, equip, use, occupy, or maintain any
building or structure, other than fences, in the town, or cause or permit the
same to be done, contrary to or in violation of the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 138, passed 2-18-1981) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.07 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   Any person, partnership, association, or corporation aggrieved by a decision
of the regulating agency shall have the right of appeal as in other civil
actions provided that a 15-day written notice of their intention to do so is
given to the Board of County Commissioners by registered mail. The notice shall
concisely state their grievance.
(Ord. 138, passed 2-18-1981)
§ 150.08 ADOPTION OF REGULATIONS BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The following rules, regulations, and codes are adopted by reference
as the rules and regulations governing the construction and alteration of
buildings and structures in the town:
      (1)   Construction Rules and Regulations, Volume I, 1980 Edition of the
State of Indiana (660 I.A.C. 1-1.1) originally published as (3 I.R. 2148) which
identifies, amends and incorporates therein the Uniform Building Code, 1979
Edition, and the Uniform Building Code Standards, 1979 Edition;
      (2)   Indiana Electrical Rules, 1981 Edition (675 I.A.C. 17-1.8)
originally published as (4 I.R. 798) which identifies, amends and incorporates
therein the National Electrical Code, 1981 Edition;
      (3)   Indiana Plumbing Rules, 1981 Edition, (675 I.A.C. 16-1.4)
originally published as (4 I.R. 2398) which identifies, amends and incorporates
therein the Uniform Plumbing Code, 1979 Edition;
      (4)   Indiana Mechanical Rules, 1981 Edition, (675 I.A.C. 18-1.6)
originally published as (4 I.R. 1828) which identifies, amends, and
incorporates therein the Uniform Mechanical Code, 1979 Edition;
      (5)   One and Two Family Dwelling Code of Indiana, (675 I.A.C. 14-4.4)
originally published as (4 I.R. 916) which identifies, amends and incorporates
therein the One and Two Family Dwelling Code, 1979 Edition;
      (6)   Indiana Energy Conservation Rules and Regulations for New Building
Construction, Volume V, 1979 Edition. (675 I.A.C. 19-4) (1980 Supp.) published
under that title; and
      (7)   Swimming Pool Code (675 I.A.C. 20-1.1) (1979 Supp.) published as
the Indiana Swimming Pool Code, 1978 Edition.
   (B)   Two copies of this chapter and rules, regulations, and codes adopted
herein by reference are on file as required by law in the Office of the
Building Commissioner of the county.
(Ord. 138, passed 2-18-1981; Ord. 143, passed 12-29-1981)
§ 150.09 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   A permit shall be obtained before beginning construction, alteration, or
repair of any building or structure, the cost of which exceeds $500 for
electrical, plumbing, heating, air conditioning, or combination, and $1,500 for
building structure, foundation, mechanical, or combination for said
improvements, using forms furnished by the Building Commissioner. All permits
shall be issued by the Building Commissioner, and all fees provided for herein
shall be paid to the county.
(Ord. 138, passed 2-18-1981) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.10 PLANS.
   No permits shall be issued for the foregoing purposes, unless the
application for such permit is accompanied by a plat or sketch of the proposed
location showing lot boundaries, and by plans and specifications showing all
work to be done. All plans for building construction under the authority of the
Administrative Building Council of the state must also be filed with the
Administrative Building Council who will issue an approved certificate of
compliance, under the provisions of I.C. 22-11-1-12. In all such cases under
the authority of said Administrative Building Council, no local permits shall
be issued hereunder until a copy of the release for construction from the
Administrative Building Council is received by the Building Commissioner.
(Ord. 138, passed 2-18-1981)
§ 150.11 COMPLIANCE.
   All work done under any permit issued hereunder shall be in full compliance
with all other ordinances pertaining thereto, and in addition to the fees for
permits hereinafter provided for, there shall be paid the fees prescribed in
such ordinances.
(Ord. 138, passed 2-18-1981) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.12 FEES.
The fee for all permits shall be as follows:
   (A)   For work costing more than $500 to $2,000: $10;
   (B)   For work costing more than $2,000 to $6,000: $15;
   (C)   For work costing more than $6,000 to $10,000: $20;
   (D)   For work costing more than $10,000 and less than $100,000, the fee
shall be $2.50 for each 1,000 of cost or part thereof; and
   (E)   For all work costing $100,000 or more, the fee shall be $250 plus
$0.02 per square foot.
(Ord. 138, passed 2-18-1981; Ord. 140, passed 5-20-1981)
§ 150.13 REVIEW OF APPLICATION.
   Prior to the issuance of any building permit hereunder, the Building
Commissioner shall:
   (A)   Review all building permit applications to determine full compliance
with the provisions of this chapter;
   (B)   Review all building permit applications for new construction or
substantial improvements to determine whether proposed building sites will be
reasonably safe from flooding;
   (C)   Review building permit applications for major repairs within the flood
plain area having special flood hazards to determine that the proposed repair:
      (1)   Uses construction materials and utility equipment that are
resistant to flood damage; and
      (2)   Uses construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
   (D)   Review building permit applications for new construction or
substantial improvements within the flood plain area having special flood
hazards to assure that the proposed construction (including prefabricated and
mobile homes):
      (1)   Is protected against flood damage;
      (2)   Is designed (or modified) and anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement of the structure;
      (3)   Uses construction materials and utility equipment that are
resistant to flood damage; and
      (4)   Uses construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
(Ord. 138, passed 2-18-1981)
§ 150.14 INSPECTIONS.
   After the issuance of any building permit hereunder, the Building
Commissioner shall make such inspections of the work being done under such
permit as are necessary to ensure full compliance with the provisions of this
chapter and the terms of the permit.
(Ord. 138, passed 2-18-1981)
§ 150.15 STOP ORDER.
   Whenever any work is being done contrary to the provisions of this chapter,
the Building Commissioner may order the work stopped by notice in writing
served on any persons engaged in the doing or causing such work to be done, and
any such persons shall forthwith stop such work until authorized by the
Building Commissioner to proceed with the work.
(Ord. 138, passed 2-18-1981) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.16 INTERPRETATION.
   Whenever in the building regulations it is provided that anything must be
done to the approval of or subject to the direction of the Building
Commissioner or any other officer of the Commission, this shall be construed to
give such officer only the discretion of determining whether the rules and
standards established by ordinance have been complied with; and no such
provision shall be construed as giving any officer discretionary powers as to
what such regulations, codes, or standards shall be, or power to require
conditions not prescribed by ordinances or to enforce ordinance provisions in
an arbitrary or discriminating manner.
(Ord. 138, passed 2-18-1981) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.17 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   No certificate of occupancy for any building or structure erected, altered,
or repaired after the adoption of this chapter shall be issued unless such
building or structure was erected, altered, or repaired in compliance with the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 138, passed 2-18-1981)
§ 150.18 STANDARDS.
   All work on the construction, alteration, and repair of buildings and other
structures shall be performed in a good and workmanlike manner according to
accepted standards and practices in the trade.
(Ord. 138, passed 2-18-1981) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.19 REMEDIES.
   The Building Commissioner shall, in the name of the town, bring actions in
the Circuit or County Courts of the county for mandatory and injunctive relief
in the enforcement of and to secure compliance with any order or orders made by
the Building Commissioner, and any such action for mandatory or injunctive
relief may be joined with an action to recover the penalties provided for in
this chapter.
(Ord. 138, passed 2-18-1981)
§ 150.20 COUNTY TO ENFORCE.
   (A)   The county is the single agency designated to administer building
regulations and inspection within the boundaries of the units of government
which are parties hereto.
   (B)   The Building Commissioner of the county is authorized and empowered to
issue building permits, make inspections, order correction of violations, issue
certificates of occupancy, and to perform such other ministerial duties as are
commonly performed in the execution of his or her office, on behalf of the
parties hereto.
(Res. passed - -)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   If any person, firm, or corporation shall violate any of the provisions of
this chapter, or shall do any act prohibited herein, or shall fail to perform
any duty lawfully enjoined, within the time prescribed by the Building
Commissioner, in connection with the provisions of this chapter, for each such
violation; failure or refusal, such person, firm, or corporation, shall
constitute a Class C infraction. Each day such violation continues shall be a
separate offense.
(Ord. 138, passed 2-18-1981)
CHAPTER 151: UNSAFE BUILDINGS
Section
   
151.01   Enforcement authority
   
151.02   Hearing authority
   
151.03   Powers and duties
   
151.04   Performance of work and costs thereof
   
151.05   Liability for costs
§ 151.01 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   It shall be the duty of the police officers of the town to enforce the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2000-3, passed 4-6-2000; Ord. 2006-5, passed 10-5-2006; Ord. 2024-2,
passed 3-7-2024)
§ 151.02 HEARING AUTHORITY.
   It shall be the duty of the Town Council to act as the hearing authority for
all matters requiring a hearing under this chapter.
(Ord. 2000-3, passed 4-6-2000; Ord. 2006-5, passed 10-5-2006; Ord. 2024-2,
passed 3-7-2024)
§ 151.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Enforcement Authority may issue an order requiring action relative
to any vacant premises deemed unsafe; sealing against intrusion by unauthorized
persons; extermination of vermin in and about the premises, removal of trash,
debris, or fire hazardous material in and about the unsafe premises; repair or
rehabilitation to bring the building into compliance with any ordinance, code,
or statute or for human habitation, occupancy, or use; removal of part of a
building; and removal of a building.
   (B)   For any action other than that described in this section, a hearing
shall be held pursuant to I.C. 36-7-9-7.
   (C)   An order issued by the Enforcement Authority will contain the
following information:
      (1)   The name of the person to whom the order is issued (which person
shall be a person having a substantial property interest in the premises, the
definition of which is found in I.C. 36-7-9 and which is incorporated by
reference;
      (2)   The legal description or address of the unsafe premises that arc
the subject of the order;
      (3)   The action that the order requires;
      (4)   The period of time in which the action is required to be
accomplished (which is to be measured from the date the notice is given);
      (5)   If a hearing is required, a statement indicating the exact time and
place of the hearing and stating that the person to whom the order was issued
is entitled to appear with or without legal counsel, present evidence, cross-
examine opposing witnesses, and present argument;
      (6)   If a hearing is not required, a statement that the order becomes
final ten days after notice is given, unless a hearing is requested in writing
by a person with a “substantial property interest;”
      (7)   The following statement: A person who has been issued and has
received notice of an order relative to unsafe and abandoned premises and has
not complied with said order:
         (a)   Must supply fill information regarding the order to a person who
takes or agrees to take a substantial interest in the premises before
transferring or agreeing to transfer that interest; and
         (b)   Must, within five days after transferring or agreeing to
transfer a substantial property interest in the premises, supply the town with
written copies of the fill name, address, and telephone number of the person
taking a substantial property interest in the premises and the legal instrument
under which the transfer or agreement to transfer the interest is accomplished.
         (c)   If a judgment is obtained against the town or other governmental
entity for the failure to provide notice of its actions, a person who failed to
comply with obligation is liable to the town of the amount of the judgment.
      (8)   The name, address, and telephone number of the Enforcement
Authority.
   (D)   The order must allow at least ten days from the time when notice of
the order is given to accomplish the required action.
   (E)   The order may be enforced for up to two years from the day the notice
is given.
(Ord. 2000-3, passed 4-6-2000; Ord. 2001-6, passed 7-5-2001; Ord. 2006-5,
passed 10-5-2006; Ord. 2024-2, passed 3-7-2024) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.04 PERFORMANCE OF WORK AND COSTS THEREOF.
   The work required by an order of the Enforcement Authority may be performed
in the following manners.
   (A)   Work described in §
151.03 may be performed without further notice to the property owner and may be
performed by a contractor who has been awarded a base bid to perform the work,
or by the Enforcement Authority acting through its own works and equipment.
   (B)   All other work described in §
151.03, which is estimated to cost less than $5,000, may be performed after
notice to the property owner of at least ten days, by the Enforcement Authority
acting through its own employees and equipment. Work estimated to cost more
than $5,000, must be let at public bid to a contractor licensed and qualified
under law.
(Ord. 2000-3, passed 4-6-2000; Ord. 2006-5, passed 10-5-2006; Ord. 2024-2,
passed 3-7-2024)
§ 151.05 LIABILITY FOR COSTS.
   (A)   When action required by an order is performed by the Enforcement
Authority or by a contractor, each person, who held a substantial property
interest from the time the order was issued to the time the work was performed
is jointly and severally responsible for the costs thereof, pursuant to I.C.
36-7-9-12.
   (B)   Judgment for these costs shall be obtained pursuant to I.C. 36-7-9-13.
(Ord. 2000-3, passed 4-6-2000; Ord. 2006-5, passed 10-5-2006; Ord. 2024-2,
passed 3-7-2024)
CHAPTER 152: HOUSING CODE
Section
   
152.01   Definitions
   
152.02   Responsibilities of owners
   
152.03   Responsibilities of occupants
   
152.04   Building requirements
   
152.05   Unlawful disposal into sanitary system
   
152.06   Use of basement as dwelling unit
   
152.07   Notice of violations, contents, and service
   
152.08   Enforcement
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the words and phrases set out below that have
been specifically defined in this chapter shall have the meaning set out in
this chapter, unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
(Ord. 2024-3, passed 6-6-2024)
§ 152.02 RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNERS.
   (A)   Each owner of real estate within the town limits shall be responsible
for the following:
      (1)   Maintenance of every dwelling, building, or structure in a
condition that equals or exceeds the minimum standards set out in §
152.04;
      (2)   Maintenance in a clean and sanitary condition the shared or public
area of the dwelling and premises if there are more than four dwelling units in
the dwelling;
      (3)   Elimination of all fire and safety hazards, correction of
structural inadequacies, and maintenance of heating equipment and electrical
wiring in good repair;
      (4)   Removal of rotted wooden fences, rotted outbuildings, and frame
structures that may provide a harbor for mice and rats;
      (5)   Installation and maintenance of adequate water supplies in the
kitchen and bathroom areas;
      (6)   Maintenance of all sanitary fixtures in proper repair;
      (7)   Providing adequate drainage of premises;
      (8)   Elimination and prevention of rodent and vermin infestation;
      (9)   Provision of garbage disposal facilities or garbage containers for
all dwelling units in a dwelling containing more than four dwelling units, and
for all dwelling units located on premises where more than four dwelling units
share the same premises;
      (10)   Elimination of potential hazards on the land;
      (11)   Maintenance of the roof and spouting so the roof does not leak and
rainwater is drained and conveyed away from the building so there is no
significant dampness in the walls or ceilings; and
      (12)   No person, property owner, landlord, or property manager shall
knowingly agree to rent, lease, or allow a property to be occupied that is not
eligible for water service because of non-payment or under restriction due to
any town ordinance.
   (B)   (1)   Notwithstanding §
152.03, whenever infestation is caused by failure of the owner to maintain a
dwelling in a rat-proof or reasonable insect-proof condition, extermination
shall be the responsibility of the owner.
      (2)   Whenever infestation exists in two or more of the dwelling units in
any dwelling, or in the shared or public parts of any dwelling containing two
or more dwelling units, extermination thereof shall be the responsibility of
the owner.
   (C)   (1)   If an owner fails to satisfy the requirements of any portion of
this section, the Enforcement Officer shall send a written notice to the owner,
instructing the owner to correct the situation within 14 days; however, when in
the opinion of the Enforcement Officer such a nuisance constitutes an actual
menace and immediate threat to health, the Enforcement Officer shall give the
owner three days to correct the situation.
      (2)   Failure of the owner to comply with this notice shall be deemed a
violation and, upon conviction, the owner shall be subject to the penalty
provided in §
152.99.
(Ord. 2024-3, passed 6-6-2024) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.03 RESPONSIBILITIES OF OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   The occupants of any dwelling, building, or structure shall:
      (1)   Maintain in a clean and sanitary condition that part of the
dwelling, dwelling unit, and premises that he or she occupies and controls;
maintain active water service with the town at all times the dwelling is
occupied. Any occupied dwelling unit or residence without an active water
connection shall be deemed a safety hazard under §
153.04;
      (2)   Dispose of his or her rubbish in a clean and sanitary manner by
placing it in a trash container;
      (3)   Dispose of all garbage and any other organic waste that might
provide food for rodents in a clean and sanitary manner, by placing it in the
garbage disposal facilities or in the garbage storage containers;
      (4)   Exterminate any insects, rodents, or vermin found on the premises;
every occupant of a dwelling unit in a dwelling containing more than one
dwelling unit shall be responsible for such extermination whenever his or her
dwelling unit is the only one infested;
      (5)   Store all material so as to eliminate rodent infestation;
      (6)   Remove all accumulations of garbage, tin cans, paper, boxes,
appliances and/or furniture designed for indoor use, motor vehicle parts, scrap
metal, or any other waste material on a private lot or dwelling, as well as any
other material that causes an offensive odor;
      (7)   Remove all dismantled, partially dismantled, wrecked, junked or
non-operational, discarded vehicles, with the exception of those places legally
doing business as junk or salvage dealers; and
      (8)   Prevent an accumulation of rubbish on the porch, yard or general
premises of the property.
   (B)   (1)   If an occupant fails to satisfy the requirements of any portion
of division (A) above, the Enforcement Officer shall deliver a written notice
to the occupant, instructing the occupant to correct the situation in 14 days;
however, when in the opinion of the Enforcement Officer such nuisance
constitutes an actual menace and immediate threat to health, the Enforcement
Officer shall give the occupant no more than three days to correct the
situation.
      (2)   Failure of the occupant to comply with this notice shall be deemed
a violation and, upon conviction, the occupant shall be subject to the penalty
provided in § 152.09.
(Ord. 2024-3, passed 6-6-2024)
§ 152.04 BUILDING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Safe and effective construction or installation. Every facility, piece
of equipment or utility required under this subchapter shall be so constructed
or installed that it will function safely and effectively, and shall be
maintained in satisfactory working condition so that it imposes no significant
risk to health or the integrity of the structure.
   (B)   Health or safety hazards. No building, vehicle, structure, receptacle,
yard, lot, premises, or part thereof, shall be constructed, made, used,
maintained, or operated in any manner that causes or produces any health or
safety hazards.
   (C)   Foundation or frame. Every foundation, floor, wall, ceiling, and roof
shall be reasonably weather-tight, watertight, and rodent-proof, and shall be
capable of affording privacy, and shall be kept in good repair.
   (D)   Exterior openings.
      (1)   Every window, exterior door, and basement hatchway shall be
reasonably weather-tight, watertight, and rodent-proof, and shall be kept in
sound working condition and good repair.
      (2)   Every door, aisle, passageway, or other means of exit shall be
arranged so as to provide a safe and adequate means of exit in case of fire or
other emergency.
   (E)   Stairs and porches. Every inside and outside stair, every porch and
every appurtenance thereto shall be so constructed as to be safe to use and
capable of supporting the load that normal use may cause to be placed thereon,
and shall be kept in sound condition and good repair.
   (F)   Plumbing fixtures. Every plumbing fixture and water waste pipe shall
be properly installed and maintained in good sanitary working condition, and
shall be free from significant leaks, as well as defects and obstructions that
significantly interfere with the free flow of water.
   (G)   Walls and roofs.
      (1)   Any portion of a building, appurtenance, or ornamentation on the
exterior thereof shall be of sufficient strength and stability, and shall be so
anchored, attached or fastened in place as to be capable of resisting a wind
pressure of one-half that specified for a new building of similar structure.
      (2)   No portion of any building shall be warped, buckled, or settled to
such an extent that walls or other structural portions have materially less
resistance to winds or earthquakes than is required of similar new
construction.
(Ord. 2024-3, passed 6-6-2024) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.05 UNLAWFUL DISPOSAL INTO SANITARY SYSTEM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or maliciously deposit any
material in any toilet, bathtub, sink, or other plumbing fixture that may
result in the obstruction of any sanitary sewer line. Liability on the part of
the occupant shall not relieve the owner of the responsibility of cleaning any
resultant blockage, but shall subject the occupant to the penalties of §
152.99 upon proper proof of such willful or malicious act.
(Ord. 2024-3, passed 6-6-2024) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.06 USE OF BASEMENT AS DWELLING UNIT.
   No basement of cellar shall be used as a dwelling unit unless:
   (A)   The floor and the walls are impervious to leakage of underground and
surface runoff water, and are insulated against dampness; and
   (B)   Every window, below the grade of the ground adjoining such window, has
a light well or area way extending at least 30 inches out from the window the
entire depth and width of the window.
(Ord. 2024-3, passed 6-6-2024) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.07 NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS, CONTENTS, AND SERVICE.
   (A)   Notice of violations. Whenever the Enforcement Officer determines that
there are reasonable grounds to believe that either an owner or occupant of
real estate has failed to assume the responsibilities imposed by §§
152.02 or
152.03, or an owner has failed to comply with the building requirements set out
in §
152.04, the Enforcement Officer shall give notice of such alleged violation as
required by this chapter within three days.
   (B)   Request for a hearing. Any person affected by any notice or order
issued pursuant to division (A) above, may request a hearing using the
procedure set out in this section.
   (C)   Notice served automatically becomes an order. Any notice served upon
an owner, occupant, or agent under this subchapter shall automatically become
an order of the Town Council, if the person does not present himself or herself
at the next regularly scheduled meeting of the Town Council.
   (D)   Appeal from a decision of the Town Council. Any person aggrieved by a
decision of the Town Council may seek relief by filing an action for relief in
the Circuit Court or Superior Court of the county within 30 days of the
decision of the Town Council.
(Ord. 2024-3, passed 6-6-2024) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Subject to the appeal provisions of this subchapter, if an owner or
occupant fails to satisfy the obligation imposed in §§
152.02,
152.03, or
152.04, after having been ordered to do so, whether the order is actually
issued by the Town Council, or a notice of the Enforcement Officer
automatically becomes an order because no objection to that notice is made,
such person may be fined as set forth in § 152.09. Each day in which any
violations continues shall be deemed to be a separate offense.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be used to limit or change the liability
of an owner or occupant of a building for damages imposed upon him or her in
law or equity as a result of his or her willful or negligent conduct in the
maintenance of an unsafe building.
(Ord. 2024-3, passed 6-6-2024)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Failure to comply or to prove intent to comply will cause the order of
the Enforcement Officer or the Town Council to be sent to Superior Court for
judicial review.
   (B)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty is
otherwise provided, shall be fined not more than $2,500. A separate offense
shall be deemed committed on each day that a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 2024-3, passed 6-6-2024)
CHAPTER 153: RENTAL PROPERTIES
Section
   
153.01   Title
   
153.02   Definitions
   
153.03   Safe and habitable premises
   
153.04   Annual registration
   
153.05   Inspection
   
153.06   No third party beneficiaries
   
153.07   Conflict with other regulations
 
   
153.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing, see §
94.04
§ 153.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Rental Registration and Inspection
Program” of the town.
(Ord. 2024-4, passed 6-6-2024)
§ 153.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words in
the singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include
the singular.
   INSPECTION CERTIFICATE. A certificate issued by the Common Council of the
town which documents that a rental unit has passed inspection and the owner is
permitted to rent or lease the unit.
   INSPECTION OFFICERS. The following persons, working separately or together,
who shall enforce the provisions of this chapter:
      (1)   Fire Inspector, Fire Chief, or other designated officer;
      (2)   County Health Officer; and/or
      (3)   An officer designated by the Common Council.
   OCCUPANT. Any person, living, sleeping, cooking, or having physical or
actual possession of a rental unit.
   OWNER. One or more persons in whom is vested all or part of the legal title
to property. The term includes a mortgage or contract purchaser in possession.
   PERSON. An individual, a corporation, an association, a partnership, a
governmental entity, a trust, an estate, or any other legal or commercial
entity.
   REGISTRATION FEE. The amount paid to the Clerk-Treasurer of the town when
registering a rental unit with the town.
   RENTAL UNIT.
      (1)   A structure, or the part of a structure, that is used as a home,
residence, or sleeping unit by:
         (a)   One individual who maintains a household; or
         (b)   Two or more individuals who maintain a common household.
      (2)   Any grounds, facilities, or area promised for the use of a
residential tenant, including the following:
         (a)   An apartment unit;
         (b)   A boarding house;
         (c)   A rooming house;
         (d)   A mobile home space; and
         (e)   A single- or two- or more family dwelling.
   RENTAL UNIT COMMUNITY. One or more parcels of contiguous real property upon
which are located one or more structures containing rental units, if:
      (1)   The combined total of all rental units in all of the structures is
five or more rental units; and
      (2)   The rental units are not occupied solely by the owner or the
owner’s family.
   UNSAFE BUILDING. A building or structure, or any part of a building or
structure, that is:
      (1)   In an impaired structural condition that makes it unsafe to a
person or property;
      (2)   A fire hazard;
      (3)   A hazard to the public health;
      (4)   A public nuisance;
      (5)   Dangerous to a person or property because of a violation of a
statue or ordinance concerning building condition or maintenance;
      (6)   Vacant and not maintained in a manner that would allow human
habitation, occupancy, or use under the requirements of a statute or an
ordinance; or
      (7)   Otherwise in violation of state or town unsafe building laws.
   UNSAFE PREMISES. The tract of real estate on which an unsafe building is
located.
(Ord. 2024-4, passed 6-6-2024)
§ 153.03 SAFE AND HABITABLE PREMISES.
   An owner must maintain the rental unit in a safe and habitable manner.
Accordingly, the owner must ensure that a rental unit:
   (A)   Is not in an unsafe building;
   (B)   Is in compliance with all rules, regulations, ordinances, statutes, or
other laws including, but not limited to:
      (1)   The town’s unsafe building ordinance;
      (2)   The state’s Unsafe Building Law, being I.C. 36-7-9;
      (3)   The state and town Fire Code;
      (4)   The state and town Building Code;
      (5)   National, state, and local Electric Code; and
      (6)   Any other rule, regulation, statute, or other law relating or
pertaining to the safety or habitability of a residential or rental property.
   (C)   Is safe and habitable with respect to:
      (1)   Electrical supply and electrical systems;
      (2)   Plumbing and plumbing systems;
      (3)   Water supply, including hot water;
      (4)   Heating, ventilation, and air conditioning equipment and systems;
      (5)   Bathroom and toilet facilities;
      (6)   Doors, windows, stairways, and hallways;
      (7)   Functioning smoke detectors; and
      (8)   The structure in which a rental unit is located.
(Ord. 2024-4, passed 6-6-2024) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.04 ANNUAL REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Registration form.
      (1)   The Common Council shall prepare a form for an owner of a rental
unit to complete (“registration form”).
      (2)   The registration form shall require information including, but not
be limited to: name of owner, address of rental unit, mailing address for owner
or owner’s representative, name of tenant, e-mail address, phone number, number
of units that owner rents, and verification that the landlord will update any
and all information within 30 days of any change.
      (2)   The Common Council may amend the registration form from time to
time as appropriate and/or necessary.
   (B)   Registration and fee. An owner of rental unit in the town shall
complete a registration form and pay a $5 registration fee (“registration fee”)
for each parcel of real property on which a rental unit is located. The
registration form and the registration fee shall be submitted to the Town
Clerk-Treasurer’s office. The registration fee shall be paid once every five
years as long as the residence is operated as a rental unit.
   (C)   Rental unit community exception. Notwithstanding the provisions of
division (B) above, an owner of a rental unit community will only be obligated
to complete one registration form and to submit a single registration fee per
each rental unit community.
   (D)   Obligation to update information. The owner of a rental unit will be
required to update its registration form within 30 days of any change in
address, change in ownership, change in occupant, or any other material changes
thereto. Failure to do so will result in a violation of this chapter.
   (E)   Initial registration. All current owners shall submit an initial
registration form and a registration fee for any and all existing rental units
by September 1, 2024. Thereafter, any owner shall have 30 days from obtaining
ownership in a rental unit and/or leasing a rental unit to register that rental
unit with the town and to submit the registration fee.
(Ord. 2024-4, passed 6-6-2024)
§ 153.05 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Inspections authorized. The Inspection Officers are authorized and
directed to make inspections to determine the condition of rental units located
within the town. Possible reasons for inspections include, but are not limited
to: a change in the name of a water service account or the filing of a claim by
a tenant.
      (1)   (a)   The Inspection Officers are authorized to enter, examine, and
survey, at all reasonable times, any and all rental units.
         (b)   The owner or the owner’s representative, and/or occupant of
every rental unit shall give the Inspection Officer free access to such rental
unit and its premises at all reasonable times for the purpose of such
inspection, examination and survey; provided, however, that such Inspection
Officer has, prior to entry thereof, positively identified himself or herself
as a person authorized pursuant to this chapter to enter upon said premises.
         (c)   At the time of each inspection, all pets must be controlled so
that the Inspection Officer can move about the dwelling and surrounding
property.
      (2)   The owner or the owner’s representative and the occupant shall be
entitled to 72 hours’ written notice from the Inspection Officer prior to
conducting the inspection, examination or survey. In the event that the owner,
or the tenant if occupied, refuses to allow the Inspection Officer to conduct
the inspection, the Inspection Officer shall apply for a warrant to make the
inspection in accordance with I.C. 36-7-9-16.
      (3)   This provision shall not be construed to limit or restrain the
right of the Inspection Officer to make an inspection of any other building or
premises pursuant to any of the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-1 et seq. or the
town’s ordinances concerning unsafe buildings or unsightly premises.
   (B)   Inspection at least once every five years. Every rental unit operated
and maintained in the town shall be inspected by the Common Council or their
designee upon the sale or transfer of ownership or change in water billing or
at least one time every five years (“routine inspection”). The routine
inspection shall be made to ascertain that the facility conforms to all
requirements of this chapter, any other ordinance of the town, and all statutes
of the state regarding such facilities.
   (C)   Exemption to routine inspection. Pursuant to I.C. 36-1-20-4.1(c),
except as provided in division (D) below, the town may not conduct a routine
inspection of a rental unit or impose a fee pertaining to the inspection of a
rental unit, if the rental unit satisfies all of the following:
      (1)   The rental unit is:
         (a)   Managed by a professional real estate manager; or
         (b)   Part of a rental unit community that is managed by a
professional real estate manager.
      (2)   During the previous 12 months, the rental unit has been inspected
or is part of a rental unit community that has been inspected by either of the
following:
         (a)   By or for:
            1.   The United States Department of Housing and Urban Development,
the State Housing and Community Development Authority, or another federal or
state agency; or
            2.   A financial institution or insurance company authorized to do
business in the state.
         (b)   By an inspector who:
            1.   Is a registered architect;
            2.   Is a professional engineer; or
            3.   Satisfies the qualifications of the Common Council such that
the inspector would qualify as an Inspection Officer.
         (c)   However, the inspector may not be an employee of the owner.
      (3)   A written inspection report of the inspection under division (C)(2)
above has been issued to the owner of the rental unit or rental unit community
(as applicable) that verifies that the rental unit or rental unit community is
safe and habitable with respect to:
         (a)   Electrical supply and electrical systems;
         (b)   Plumbing and plumbing systems;
         (c)   Water supply, including hot water;
         (d)   Heating, ventilation, and air conditioning equipment and
systems;
         (e)   Bathroom and toilet facilities;
         (f)   Doors, windows, stairways, and hallways;
         (g)   Functioning smoke detectors; and
         (h)   The structure in which a rental unit is located.
      (4)   The inspection report issued under division (C)(3) above is
delivered to the Common Council on or before the date of the scheduled
inspection.
   (D)   Additional inspections.
      (1)   In addition to the routine inspection, the town may inspect any
rental unit, if the political subdivision has reason to believe or receives a
complaint that the rental unit does not comply with applicable code
requirements, so long as the town provides 72 hours’ written notice as provided
in division (A)(2) above.
      (2)   There shall be no charge for the additional inspection.
   (E)   Access. Every occupant of a rental unit shall give the owner thereof
or the owner’s representative access to any part of such dwelling or rental
unit or its premises at all reasonable times for the purpose of making such
repairs or alterations as are necessary to effect compliance with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (F)   Inspection fee. There shall be no charge for any routine inspection or
additional inspection.
   (G)   Inspection certificate. The Common Council shall issue to the owner of
every registered and inspected rental unit an inspection certificate as proof
that the unit passed inspection. The inspection certificate shall be valid
until the next inspection.
   (H)   Violation notice. If an Inspection Officer finds that a rental unit or
any part thereof fails to comply with any standard set forth in this chapter,
any other ordinance of the town or any statute of the state, he or she shall
give notice of the alleged violation to the owner of the rental unit (the
“violation notice”). The violation notice shall be in writing and shall
reasonably describe the violation found. The violation notice shall further
specify the date by which the violation must be corrected.
   (I)   Service of violation notice. The violation notice shall be served upon
the owner or the owner’s representative, and the occupant of the rental unit.
The violation notice may be served by any of the following methods:
      (1)   Sending a copy of the violation notice by registered or certified
mail to the address of the owner and/or occupant as reflected on the
registration form;
      (2)   Delivering a copy of the violation notice personally to the person
to be notified;
      (3)   Leaving a copy of the violation notice at the address of the owner
and/or occupant as reflected on the registration form; and
      (4)   In the event that service cannot be obtained by foregoing methods,
the alternate means of service described in I.C. 36-7-9-25 may be used.
   (J)   Curing violations.
      (1)   A rental unit that the inspection officer finds to be unsafe or
uninhabitable shall be repaired so that it meets acceptable standards within 15
days of the violation notice. Any other violations shall be repaired within 30
days of the violation notice.
      (2)   Failure to cure a violation shall result in a violation of this
chapter and the owner may be cited into the Union City City Court or County
Superior Court. The Common Council may extend the period for cure for good
cause.
   (K)   Re-inspection. Upon termination of the applicable notice period as
provided in division (J) above, the town may re-inspect the property and charge
an inspection fee for any and all such re-inspections.
(Ord. 2024-4, passed 6-6-2024) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.06 NO THIRD PARTY BENEFICIARIES.
   This chapter does not and is not intended to confer any rights or remedies
upon any owner, occupant, or any other third party.
(Ord. 2024-4, passed 6-6-2024)
§ 153.07 CONFLICT WITH OTHER REGULATIONS.
   (A)   All ordinances and parts of ordinances inconsistent or in conflict
with the terms of this chapter are repealed to the extent of such inconsistency
or conflict.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall repeal or otherwise alter the town’s
Unsafe Building Code, or the town’s nuisance ordinances.
(Ord. 2024-4, passed 6-6-2024)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of any provision of this chapter shall subject the violating
party to a fine not to exceed $500. Each day that a violation continues or
remains uncured shall constitute a separate offense of non-compliance of the
chapter.
(Ord. 2024-4, passed 6-6-2024)
CHAPTER 154: MOBILE HOMES
Section
   
154.01   Definition
   
154.02   Replacement of existing trailers
   
154.03   Parking
   
154.04   Exceptions
   
154.05   Trailer court
   
154.06   Hearings
   
154.07   Revocation
 
   
154.99   Penalty
§ 154.01 DEFINITION.
    A TRAILER shall be a vehicle without motive power, designed to be drawn by
a motor vehicle and to be used for human occupancy or for carrying persons and
property and which does not meet the structural requirements of a dwelling as
prescribed by the State Building Code.
(Ord. 124, passed 4-7-1970)
§ 154.02 REPLACEMENT OF EXISTING TRAILERS.
   Any owner may replace any existing trailer now parked on his or her land
only with a new or an improved used trailer; providing however, before
replacing the old trailer with a used trailer, said owner shall obtain written
permission from the Town Council.
(Ord. 124, passed 4-7-1970) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.03 PARKING.
   (A)   A trailer shall not be parked within the limits of the town, except in
situations prescribed herein.
   (B)   A trailer shall not be temporarily or permanently occupied within the
limits of the town except in situations as prescribed herein.
(Ord. 124, passed 4-7-1970) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.04 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   A trailer may be parked in the rear yard of a lot and temporarily
occupied in case of illness of a relative of the resident family who may need
care and attention which he or she cannot otherwise receive. Prior to the
parking of a trailer, written permission shall be obtained from the Town
Council. The applicant shall furnish the Council with substantial evidence
confirming the health condition and relation of the person who is to occupy the
trailer and any other information required by the Council to satisfy the
request. After considering the request, and finding valid reasons for the same,
the Council may issue a 90-day permit. Such permit shall be renewable by
favorable action of the majority of the Town Council. A trailer permitted under
this section my be provided with electricity but shall not be connected to
sewer or water facilities and shall be removed with six days after the
expiration date of the permit.
   (B)   A trailer may be parked on a lot or parcel of land as temporary office
for a builder or contractor while construction is under way. Written permission
shall be obtained from the Council. The trailer shall be removed within six
days after completion or abandonment of the project.
   (C)   A trailer may be parked at any authorized trailer court in the town.
(Ord. 124, passed 4-7-1970)
§ 154.05 TRAILER COURT.
   (A)   A trailer court shall be an area or premises on which space available
for two or more trailers is rented, held out for rent, or on which free
occupancy for such number is permitted to trailer owners or users, not
including automobile, or trailer sales lots on which unoccupied trailers are
parked for purposes of inspection and sale.
   (B)   No trailer court shall be constructed, operated, or maintained in the
town without a permit from the Town Council. Applications for such permits
shall be made in writing and shall be accompanied by plans and specifications
sufficient to determine whether or not the applicant is able to comply with the
requirements contained in this chapter. The permit shall carry a fee of $100
minimum and $1 for each trailer space in the court, and shall be payable at the
time of filing for the application.
   (C)   (1)   All trailer courts shall have a minimum area of two acres.
      (2)   The minimum area to be occupied by one trailer shall be 2,500
square feet, clearly defined on the ground.
      (3)   All driveways within the court shall have a minimum width of 20
feet, shall be surfaced with durable, dust-proof, hard surface, and shall have
unobstructed access to a public street.
      (4)   Trailers shall not be closer than 20 feet to each other, nor closer
than 30 feet to any street right-of-way, nor within 25 feet of the boundaries
of the trailer court.
      (5)   Trailer courts shall comply with all local and state sanitary
regulations.
      (6)   Provisions shall be made for the handling and removal of garbage,
trash, and refuse.
      (7)   All entrances, exits, lanes, and driveways shall be lighted.
      (8)   No business shall be conducted in any trailer.
      (9)   Vehicles shall not be parked parallel with a trailer unless the
trailer lot is large enough to permit a ten-foot separation between vehicle and
trailer. Vehicles shall not be parked on drives, but shall be provided with
off-driveway parking.
(Ord. 124, passed 4-7-1970) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.06 HEARINGS.
   Prior to the issuance of a permit for the construction and main tenance of a
trailer court, if any person or persons aggrieved by said issuance shall file a
written remonstrance, the Town Council shall within 15 days after said
remonstrance is filed, hold a public hearing to hear all interested persons as
to whether or not such a permit should be issued. The Council, after careful
consideration, will take whatever action is necessary.
(Ord. 124, passed 4-7-1970)
§ 154.07 REVOCATION.
   The Council may revoke any permit if, after investigation, it shall
determine that the standards of this chapter have been violated or that
irregularities exist in the maintenance of said trailer or trailer court.
(Ord. 124, passed 4-7-1970)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined
not less than $10 or more than $100 per offense. Each day that a violation is
permitted to exist shall or may constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 124, passed 4-7-1970)
CHAPTER 155: ADOPTION OF CODES
Section
   
155.01   Flood hazard provisions
   
155.02   County Comprehensive Plan
   
155.03   Subdivision control
   
155.04   Unified Zoning Regulations
§ 155.01 FLOOD HAZARD PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The town does indicate its intention to participate (or maintain
participation) in the National Flood Insurance Program.
   (B)   The town does adopt by reference the provisions of Ordinance No. 2013-
3 (County Ordinance Number) and does designate the County Plan Commission as
its planning and zoning agency.
   (C)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer (or appropriate agency) maintain a copy of
this section, together with Ordinance No. 2013-3, (County Ordinance Number) in
the manner town ordinances are kept and available for public inspection.
(Ord. 2013-1, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 155.02 COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   (A)   The Town Council adopts the document attached to the resolution
codified herein as the Comprehensive Plan of the county which replaces the
current Comprehensive Plan in its entirety with the document attached to the
resolution codified herein.
   (B)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is directed to place a copy of the document
attached to the resolution codified herein in the office of the Town Clerk-
Treasurer.
(Res. 2018-9, passed 6-5-2018)
§ 155.03 SUBDIVISION CONTROL.
   The text of the Subdivision Control Ordinance of the county be amended in a
manner consistent with Proposed Amendment 2017-1-A which is specifically set
out in Exhibit A, which is attached to the ordinance codified herein,
incorporated herein by reference and made a part of this section.
(Ord. 2017-3, passed 4-6-2017)
§ 155.04 UNIFIED ZONING REGULATIONS.
   The text of the Unified Zoning Regulations and zoning map of the county and
all amendments hereto are incorporated herein by reference.
(Ord. 149, passed 1-11-1983; Ord. 1987-3, passed 6-10-1987; Ord. 2001-9, passed
10-4-2001; Ord. 2002-10, passed 9-5-2002; Ord. 2006-3, passed 6-1-2006; Ord.
2007-2, passed 3-1-2007; Ord. 2009-3, passed 7-14-2009; Ord. 2010-2, passed 1-
14-2010; Ord. 2010-4, passed 7-1-2010; Ord. 2011-1, passed 8-4-2011; Ord. 2013-
3, passed 4-4-2013; Ord. 2014-6, passed 12-4-2014; Ord. 2016-5, passed 6-2-
2016; Ord. 2016-6, passed 6-2-2016; Ord. 2016-7, passed 6-2-2016; Ord. 2016-8,
passed 6-2-2016; Ord. 2016-9, passed 6-2-2016; Ord. 2016-13, passed 9-8-2016;
Ord. 2017-7, passed 9-7-2017; Ord. 2018-1, passed 1-4-2018; Ord. 2018-2, passed
2-1-2018; Ord. 2018-3, passed 3-1-2018; Ord. 2018-8, passed 8-16-2018; Ord.
2019-2, passed 4-4-2019; Ord. 2020-1, passed 5-20-2020; Ord. 2020-3, passed 8-
8-2020; Ord. 2022-1, passed 4-7-2022; Ord. 2022-3, passed 6-2-2022; Ord. 2024-
5, passed 10-3- 2024; Ord. 2024-6, passed 11-7-2024)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ZONING MAP AMENDMENTS
      
II.   ANNEXATIONS
      
III.   VACATIONS
      
IV.   REAL ESTATE TRANSFERS
      
V.   TOWN DEVELOPMENT
      
VI.   SPECIFIC FUNDS
TABLE I: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
R. -          9-21-1982   Zones described real estate as R-2.
148           10-11-1982  Rezones described real estate from R-1 to R-2.
1994-14       8-8-1994    Rezones described real estate from R-1 to C-2.
2003-6        6-4-2003    Rezones described real estate from R-1 to R-2.
2020-4        12-8-2020   Rezones described real estate from A-L to R- 1.
2024-10       12-5-2024   Rezones described real estate from C-2 to C-3.
                         
 
TABLE II: ANNEXATIONS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Date Passed
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Date Passed
130           - -         Annexation of described territory.
126           9-2-1969    Annexation of described territory.
127           9-2-1969    Annexation of described territory.
128           9-2-1969    Annexation of described territory.
-             7-21-1980   Annexation of described territory.
-             7-21-1980   Annexation of described territory.
-             7-21-1980   Annexation of described territory.
80-1          7-21-1980   Annexation of described territory.
80-2          7-21-1980   Annexation of described territory.
80-3          7-21-1980   Annexation of described territory.
144           4-12-1982   Annexation of described territory.
2007-5        12-6-2007   Annexation of described real estate.
2007-5        4-17-2008   Annexation of described real estate.
                         
 
TABLE III: VACATIONS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
84-4          10-29-1984  Vacation of a portion of an alley.
1985-2        5-8-1985    Vacation of a portion of an alley and portion of
                          First Street.
85-5          8-14-1985   Vacation of a portion of Woodlawn Avenue.
1990-1        2-13-1990   Vacation of portions of alleys and portions of Ohio
                          Street and Illinois Street.
1995-1        1-5-1995    Vacation of a portion of High Street.
2002-2        6-6-2002    Vacation of an alley.
2002-6        7-3-2002    Vacation of an alley (amends Ord. 2002-2).
2002-8        8-19-2002   Vacation of a portion of an alley.
2006-4        6-1-2006    Vacation of a portion of an alley.
2010-6        11-4-2010   Vacation of an alley.
2017-6        9-7-2017    Vacation of an alley.
2021-2        5-24-2021   Vacation of a portion of an unnamed street.
2024-7        12-4-2024   Vacation of a platted alley.
2024-8        12-26-2024  Vacation of a portion of Pennsylvania Street and an
                          alley.
                         
 
TABLE IV: REAL ESTATE TRANSFERS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
R. 2007-1     2-1-2007    Declares interest in purchasing real estate.
R. 2009-1     4-14-2009   Declares interest in purchasing real estate.
R. 2009-2     5-7-2009    Declares interest in purchasing real estate.
R. 2019-11    8-8-2019    Purchase of real estate.
R. 2020-11    12-3-2020   Authorizes sale of real estate.
R. 2023-9     5-4-2023    Accepts offer of real estate.
                         
 
TABLE V: TOWN DEVELOPMENT
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
R. 20b        - -         Authorizes grading and graveling of Howard Street.
21            - -         Authorizes grading and graveling of Howard Street.
33            - -         Establishes the West Side Sewer.
36            - -         Authorizes construction of Sewers No. 2 and 3.
38            - -         Authorizes construction of Sewer No. 4.
R. 20a        6-13-1894   Authorizes grading, graveling, and guttering of Main
                          Street.
12            6-28-1894   Authorizes grading and graveling of Main Street.
13            7-23-1894   Authorizes laying of gas lines on Main Street.
15            10-8-1894   Regulates construction of sidewalks on Main Street.
R. 18         12-19-1894  Accepts final estimate on Main Street improvements.
R. 18tha      1-7-1895    Accepts Main Street improvements.
23            6-24-1895   Regulates depth of gas lines on Howard Street.
48            7-29-1901   Authorizes construction of a sidewalk.
50            9-16-1901   Authorizes construction of a sidewalk.
51            9-16-1901   Authorizes construction of a sidewalk.
53            1-27- 1902  Grants authority to construct, maintain, and operate
                          a railroad.
                         
 
TABLE VI: SPECIFIC FUNDS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
84-3          - -         Establishes a Cumulative Capital Development Fund.
22a           6-19-1895   Authorizes a Sinking Fund.
121-1965      8-2-1965    Creates a Cumulative Capital Improvement Fund.
87-2          5-13-1987   Re-establishes a Cumulative Capital Development Fund.
1993-1        6-8-1993    Re-establishes a Cumulative Capital Development Fund.
2000-18       12-28-2000  Creates a Park Fund.
2001-5        7-5-2001    Creates a Downtown Revitalization Donation Fund.
2004-2        4-1-2004    Establishes a Rainy Day Fund.
R. 2004-14    9-2-2004    Establishes a Riverboat Wagering Tax Revenue Fund.
R. 2005-6     3-3-2005    Establishes a First Responders Unit Fund.
R. 2005-7     3-3-2005    Establishes a 2005 Federal Emergency Management
                          Agency Fund.
R. 2005-10    5-5-2005    Establishes a Volunteer Committee Fund.
R. 2006-1     2-2-2006    Establishes a 2006 Fire Department Fund.
R. 2007-3     9-18-2007   Creates a Renovation/Maintenan ce and/or Purchase
                          Fund of the Old Ford Garage.
R. 2007-5     9-6-2007    Sets up a Medical Account Fund.
R. 2008-10    11-6-2008   Sets up a Cash Change Fund.
2011-06       11-3-2011   Establishes a Promotional Expense Fund.
R. 2012-11    4-5-2012    Establishes a Police Department Violation Fund.
2014-5        12-4-2014   Establishes a Local Option Income Tax Fund.
2015-2        8-6-2015    Establishes a Sidewalk Non-Reverting Fund.
2016-10       6-2-2016    Establishes a Local Option Income Tax 2016 Special
                          Distribution Fund.
2018-5        3-22-2018   Establishes a Windfarm Distribution Fund.
2018-6        3-22-2018   Establishes a Street and Sidewalk Maintenance and
                          Repair Fund.
2019-4        12-16-2019  Establishes a Canine Fund.
2021-1        5-6-2021    Creates an ARP Grant Fund.
2022-2        5-5-2022    Creates a Library Fund.
2022-6        11-3-2022   Establishes an Opioid Fund-Restricted.
2022-7        11-3-2022   Establishes an Opioid Fund-Unrestricted.
2024-2        3-7-2024    Establishes an Unsafe Building Fund.
2024-4        6-6-2024    Establishes a Rental Registration and Inspection
                          Fund.
                         
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Cites Code Section
I.C. Cites         Code Section
1-1-1-5            10.04
1-1-1-7            10.12
1-1-1-8            10.06
1-1-4-5            10.05
1-1-5-1            10.11
1-1-6-1            10.08
                   51.10;
4-21.5-3-1 et seq. 51.42;
                   53.10
9-13-2-49.3        72.40
9-13-2-69.7        72.15
9-17-2-12          34.03
9-17-4 et seq.     72.43
9-18.1-2-3         72.43
9-19-3-1           72.25
9-21-1-3           72.23
9-21-11-12         72.46;
                   72.47
9-21-11-13         72.46
9-22-1-5 et seq.   91.24
9-22-1-13 et seq.  91.24
9-24-8 et seq.     72.43
9-26-9-3           34.03
10-17-5-1          110.17
10-17-5-2          110.17
14-8-2-185         72.40
14-16-1 et seq.    72.40
16-42-11-9.5       110.17
22-9-1-4 et seq.   94.02
22-9-5-6           94.02
22-9-5-6(d)(3)     94.02
22-9-5-6(d)(5)     94.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.   94.01
22-9.5-2-2         94.02
22-9.5-2-3         94.02
22-9.5-2-4         94.02
22-9.5-2-8         94.02
22-9.5-2-9         94.02
22-9.5-2-11        94.02
22-9.5-2-13        94.02
22-9.5-3           94.03
22-9.5-3 et seq.   94.09
22-9.5-4-8         94.10
22-9.5-5           94.02
22-9.5-5-1         94.03
22-9.5-6           94.10
22-9.5-6           94.02
22-11-1-12         150.10
25-25-2-1          110.17
33-36-2-1 et seq.  31.04
33-42-14-1         34.02
35-47-2-3(b)       34.04
36-1-3-8(a)10)     72.99
36-1-20-4.1(c)     153.05
36-1-3-8(a)(10)    10.99
36-1-20.2          33.02
36-1-21            33.02
36-1-54            33.02
36-4-6-11          33.02
36-5-2-9.4         33.02
36-7-9-12          151.05
36-7-9             151.03;
                   153.03
36-7-9-1 et seq.   153.05
36-7-9-7           151.03
36-7-9-13          151.05
36-7-9-16          153.05
36-7-9-25          153.05
36-9-23-32         53.06
36-9-23-32         53.06
36-10-3            31.02
                   
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Passed Date  Code Section
Res. No. Passed Date  Code Section
-        - -            150.20
20b      - -            TSO Table V
2012-14  - -            33.02
20a      6-13-1894      TSO Table V
18       12-19-1894     TSO Table V
18tha    1-7-1895       TSO Table V
-1970    3-24-1970      30.01
-        9-21-1982      TSO Table I
84-6     5-9-1984       34.02
85-12    12-11-1985     33.08
1986-3   4-9-1986       31.05
2000-5   1-1-2000       33.07
2000-13  10-5-2000      Ch. 73, Sched. V
2003-6   5-1-2003       33.06;
                        33.99
2004-7   2-5-2004       34.03
2004-10  5-6-2004       33.06;
                        33.99
2004-11  5-20-2004      31.01
2004-12  6-3-2004       33.05
2004-14  9-2-2004       TSO Table VI
2005-6   3-3-2005       TSO Table VI
2005-7   3-3-2005       TSO Table VI
2005-10  5-5-2005       TSO Table VI
2006-1   2-2-2006       TSO Table VI
2007-1   2-1-2007       TSO Table IV
2007-5   9-6-2007       TSO Table VI
2007-3   9-18-2007      TSO Table VI
2007-7   10-4-2007      34.02
2008-10  11-6-2008      TSO Table VI
2009-1   4-14-2009      TSO Table IV
2009-2   5-7-2009       TSO Table IV
2011-2   8-4-2011       34.03
2012-10  3-1-2012       34.02
2012-11  4-5-2012       TSO Table VI
2014-8   10-2-2014      33.09
2016-10  8-4-2016       34.03
2017-14  11-18-2017     34.01
2018-9   6-5-2018       155.02
2019-9   5-2-2019       33.04
2019-10  5-2-2019       33.03
2019-11  8-8-2019       TSO Table IV
2020-11  12-3-2020      TSO Table IV
2022-9   7-7-2022       34.03
2023-8   1-5-2023       30.15
2023-9   5-4-2023       TSO Table IV
2025-10  2-6-2025       34.05
2025-11  2-6-2025       32.02
                       
 
-   - -   150.20
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Passed Date  Code Section
Ord. No. Passed Date  Code Section
                        111.15—
8        - -            111.17;
                        111.99
16       - -            70.03;
                        70.99
21       - -            TSO Table V
33       - -            TSO Table V
36       - -            TSO Table V
38       - -            TSO Table V
84-3     - -            TSO Table VI
89-1     - -            31.02
130      - -            TSO Table II
2000-13  - -            90.088
2002-3   - -            32.15
1        4-4-1894       11.01
3        4-4-1894       11.01
                        110.01—
7        4-4-1894       110.03;
                        110.99
10       4-16-1894      31.03
12       6-28-1894      TSO Table V
13       7-23-1894      TSO Table V
14       8-13-1894      130.06;
                        130.99
15       10-8-1894      TSO Table V
22a      6-19-1895      TSO Table VI
23       6-24-1895      TSO Table V
48       7-29-1901      TSO Table V
50       9-16-1901      TSO Table V
51       9-16-1901      TSO Table V
                        55.01—
52       11-6-1901      55.09;
                        55.99
53       1-27-1902      TSO Table V
                        32.35—
57       8-11-1902      32.38;
                        32.99
69       8-17-1905      30.02
78       4-28-1908      72.01;
                        72.99
110      4-17-1941      70.01;
                        70.99
113a     5-14-1948      90.007;
                        90.999
114A     5-3-1955       11.01
115-1956 5-1-1956       71.02;
                        Ch. 73, Sched. IV
118-1959 6-2-1959       Ch. 73, Sched. I
119-1965 4-5-1965       30.17
121-1965 8-2-1965       TSO Table VI
123-1968 7-1-1968       Ch. 73, Sched. I
-        5-14-1969      31.06
126      9-2-1969       TSO Table II
127      9-2-1969       TSO Table II
128      9-2-1969       TSO Table II
                        154.01—
124      4-7-1970       154.07;
                        154.99
131      8-3-1970       130.07;
                        130.99
132      8-2-1971       70.02;
                        70.99
118-72   9-15-1972      Ch. 73, Sched. I
118-74   11-18-1974     Ch. 73, Sched. I
115-75   5-19-1975      Ch. 73, Sched. IV
118-75   5-19-1975      Ch. 73, Sched. I
133      11-15-1976     Ch. 73, Sched. III
-        7-21-1980      TSO Table II
-        7-21-1980      TSO Table II
-        7-21-1980      TSO Table II
80-1     7-21-1980      TSO Table II
80-2     7-21-1980      TSO Table II
80-3     7-21-1980      TSO Table II
                        130.01—
134-80   7-21-1980      130.05;
                        130.99
                        150.01—
138      2-18-1981      150.19;
                        150.99
139      3-18-1981      Ch. 73, Sched. II
140      5-20-1981      150.12
141      5-20-1981      32.15—
                        32.20
143      12-29-1981     150.08
144      4-12-1982      TSO Table II
145      4-12-1982      34.03
146      4-12-1982      34.04
148      10-11-1982     TSO Table I
149      1-11-1983      155.03
84-4     10-29-1984     TSO Table III
1985-2   5-8-1985       TSO Table III
85-5     8-14-1985      TSO Table III
1986-7   9-12-1986      Ch. 73, Sched. IV
87-2     5-13-1987      TSO Table VI
1987-3   6-10-1987      155.03
                        111.01—
1987-5   5-9-1987       111.04;
                        111.99
                        71.15—
1988-1   2-10-1988      71.17;
                        71.99
                        90.001—
                        90.005;
                        90.020—
                        90.023;
                        90.035—
1989-2   5-9-1989       90.037;
                        90.050—
                        90.053;
                        90.065—
                        90.070;
                        90.087
1990-1   2-13-1990      TSO Table III
1990-2   4-10-1990      34.03
5        9-8-1992       71.03
1992-3   9-8-1992       Ch. 73, Sched. IV
1992-4   9-8-1992       71.01;
                        71.99
1993-1   6-8-1993       TSO Table VI
                        91.20—
1994-1   3-24-1994      91.24;
                        91.99
                        51.01—
                        51.11;
94-4     7-19-1994      51.25—
                        51.42;
                        51.99
1994-14  8-8-1994       TSO Table I
1995-1   1-5-1995       TSO Table I
1997-4   - -1997        33.01
97-5     1-20-1997      32.01;
                        32.99
                        94.01—
1997-1   6-5-1997       94.10;
                        94.99
                        91.01—
2000-2   4-6-2000       91.07;
                        91.99
2000-3   4-6-2000       151.01—
                        151.05
2000-6   4-27-2000      70.02;
                        70.99
2000-9   7-6-2000       50.01—
                        50.09
                        50.20—
2000-10  9-7-2000       50.20;
                        50.22
2000-11  9-7-2000       33.06;
                        33.99
2000-15  12-7-2000      50.22
2000-16  12-22-2000     52.01
2000-18  12-28-2000     TSO Table VI
2001-5   7-5-2001       TSO Table VI
2001-6   7-5-2001       151.03
2001-7   7-5-2001       91.02;
                        91.05
                        110.01—
2001-8   9-6-2001       110.03;
                        110.99
2001-9   10-4-2001      155.03
2002-2   6-6-2002       TSO Table III
2002-6   7-3-2002       TSO Table III
2002-7   8-1-2002       110.02
2002-8   8-19-2002      TSO Table III
2002-10  9-5-2002       155.03
2002-9   11-7-2002      50.22
2002-11  11-7-2002      Ch. 73, Sched. I
2002-12  11-7-2002      Ch. 73, Sched. I
2002-13  11-7-2002      Ch. 73, Sched. I
2003-2   4-3-2003       34.03
2003-3   4-3-2003       34.04
                        93.15—
2003-5   6-4-2003       93.17;
                        93.99
2003-6   6-4-2003       TSO Table I
2004-2   4-1-2004       TSO Table VI
2004-4   5-6-2004       33.06;
                        33.99
2004-5   6-3-2004       52.03;
                        52.99
                        92.01—
2004-6   6-3-2004       92.09;
                        92.99
2006-2   5-4-2006       72.02;
                        72.99
2006-3   6-1-2006       155.03
2006-4   6-1-2006       TSO Table III
2006-5   10-5-2006      151.01—
                        151.05
2007-2   3-1-2007       155.03
2007-4   6-7-2007       91.02;
                        91.05
2007-5   12-6-2007      TSO Table II
2007-5   4-17-2008      TSO Table II
2008-2   4-3-2008       52.01
2008-4   4-3-2008       53.01—52.14;
                        53.99
2009-3   7-14-2009      155.03
2009-6   10-1-2009      34.03
2009-7   10-1-2009      34.04
2009-8   10-1-2009      34.03
2009-9   10-1-2009      34.02
2010-2   1-14-2010      155.03
2010-4   7-1-2010       155.03
2010-6   11-4-2010      TSO Table III
2010-7   11-4-2010      Ch. 73, Sched. I
2011-1   8-4-2011       155.03
2011-2   11-3-2011      50.23
2011-3   11-3-2011      52.02
2011-04  11-3-2011      30.16
2011-06  11-3-2011      TSO Table III
2012-1   3-1-2012       31.04
                        72.15—
2012-2   4-5-2012       72.26;
                        72.99
                        72.40—
2012-3   4-5-2012       72.48;
                        72.99
                        72.15—
2012-4   5-3-2012       72.26;
                        72.99
                        72.40—
2012-5   5-3-2012       72.48;
                        72.99
2012-7   6-19-2012      33.06;
                        33.99
2013-1   2-7-2013       155.01
2013-3   4-4-2013       155.03
2013-6   9-5-2013       130.08;
                        130.99
2013-7   9-5-2013       Ch. 73, Sched. I
                        90.035;
2014-2   5-1-2014       90.038;
                        90.039
2014-5   12-4-2014      TSO Table VI
2014-6   12-4-2014      155.03
                        54.01—
2015-1   4-2-2015       54.04;
                        54.99
                        93.01;
2015-2   8-6-2015       93.02;
                        TSO Table VI
2015-4   12-3-2015      Ch. 73, Sched. I
2016-2   2-4-2016       Ch. 73, Sched. I
2016-3   3-3-2016       Ch. 73, Sched. I
                        110.15—
2016-4   4-7-2016       110.21;
                        110.99
2016-5   6-2-2016       155.04
2016-6   6-2-2016       155.04
2016-7   6-2-2016       155.04
2016-8   6-2-2016       155.04
2016-9   6-2-2016       155.04
2016-10  6-2-2016       TSO Table VI
2016-11  7-7-2016       33.10
2016-12  9-8-2016       52.01
2016-13  9-8-2016       155.04
2017-1   1-5-2017       91.02
2017-3   4-6-2017       155.03
                        91.20—
2017-4   6-1-2017       91.24;
                        91.99
2017-5   6-1-2017       54.02
2017-6   9-7-2017       TSO Table III
2017-7   9-7-2017       155.04
2017-8   11-18-2017     93.01—
                        93.04
                        92.01—
2017-9   12-7-2017      92.09;
                        92.99
2018-1   1-4-2018       155.04
2018-2   2-1-2018       155.04
2018-3   3-1-2018       155.04
2018-5   3-22-2018      TSO Table VI
2018-6   3-22-2018      TSO Table VI
2018-7   8-16-2018      53.03
2018-8   8-16-2018      155.04
2018-9   8-16-2018      Ch. 73, Sched. I
2019-2   4-4-2019       155.04
2019-1   5-8-2019       52.01
2019-4   12-16-2019     TSO Table VI
2020-1   5-20-2020      155.04
2020-3   8-8-2020       155.04
2020-2   9-3-2020       90.006
2020-4   12-8-2020      TSO Table I
2021-1   5-6-2021       TSO Table VI
2021-2   5-24-2021      TSO Table III
2021-3   6-8-2021       54.02
2022-1   4-7-2022       155.04
2022-2   5-5-2022       TSO Table VI
2022-3   6-2-2022       155.04
2022-4   6-2-2022       Ch. 73, Sched. I
2022-6   11-3-2022      TSO Table VI
2022-7   11-3-2022      TSO Table VI
2023-1   4-24-2023      50.22
2023-3   6-7-2023       52.01
2023-4   6-7-2023       51.03
                        90.065;
2024-1   3-7-2024       90.085—
                        90.087;
                        90.999
                        151.01—
2024-2   3-7-2024       151.05;
                        TSO Table VI
                        152.01—
2024-3   6-6-2024       152.08;
                        152.99
                        153.01—
2024-4   6-6-2024       153.07;
                        153.99;
                        TSO Table VI
2024-5   10-3-2024      155.04
2024-6   11-7-2024      155.04
2024-7   12-4-2024      TSO Table III
2024-10  12-5-2024      TSO Table I
2024-8   12-26-2024     TSO Table III
                       
 
 
 
