PATRIOT, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Current through Ord. No. 2-2021, passed - -2021
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“Patriot Town Code,” for which designation “code of ordinances,” “codified
ordinances” or “code” may be substituted.
   (B)   Code title, chapter and section headings do not constitute any part of
the law as contained in the code.
(Ord. 03-2019, passed 4-2-2019)
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein or by law or implication required, the same
rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
(Ord. 03-2019, passed 4-2-2019)
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of this Title I compatible with future legislation shall
apply to ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code
unless otherwise specifically provided.
(Ord. 03-2019, passed 4-2-2019)
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code do not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification in any official
publication to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning, application
or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section unless otherwise provided.
(Ord. 03-2019, passed 4-2-2019)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless such construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent
or context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate meaning in
law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of such persons unless otherwise
declared in the section giving such authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders, words in the singular shall include the plural and
words in the plural shall include the singular and the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town of Patriot, Indiana.
      COMPUTATION OF TIME. Except when otherwise provided, the time within
which an act is required to be done shall be computed by excluding the first
day and including the last day unless the last day be a Sunday or a holiday, in
which case, it shall also be excluded.
      COUNTY. Switzerland County, Indiana.
      ET SEQ. A Latin phrase meaning “and the following.”
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads and streets unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      I.C. Refers to state law found in the Indiana Code.
      LAW. Denotes applicable federal law, the Constitution and statutes of the
State of Indiana, the ordinances of the Town of Patriot and, when appropriate,
any and all rules and regulations which may be promulgated thereunder.
      MAY. Is permissive.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      MUST and SHALL. Are both mandatory.
      OATH. Includes an affirmation or declaration in all cases in which, by
law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases, the
words SWEAR and SWORN shall be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OWNER. Applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety of the whole or
a part of such building or land.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes money, goods, chattels, things in action and
evidences of debt.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur unless some other section is designated.
      PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any street or highway, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school
yard or open space adjacent thereto and any lake or stream.
      REAL PROPERTY. Shall include lands, tenements and hereditaments.
      SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb line and the
adjacent property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Indiana.
      STREET. All streets, highways, avenues, lanes, alleys, courts, squares,
places, curbs or other public ways in the town which have been or may hereafter
be dedicated and open to public use or such other public property so designated
in any law of this state.
      SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST. Any right in real property that may be
affected in a substantial way by actions authorized by planning and development
laws of the state, including a fee interest, a life estate, a future interest,
a present possessory interest or an equitable interest of a contract purchaser.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT. Applies to a building or land and shall include any
person holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies the whole or a part
of, such building or land, whether alone or with others.
      TOWN. The Town of Patriot, Indiana, or the area within the territorial
limits of the town, and such territory outside of the town over which the town
has jurisdiction or control by virtue of any constitutional or statutory
provision, including any annexed areas.
      TOWN COUNCIL. The Patriot Town Council.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing or other modes of
representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year unless otherwise expressly provided.
(Ord. 03-2019, passed 4-2-2019)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a statue stating that the provisions of an act are
severable, as provided in division (B) above, does not affect the operation of
division (B) above with respect to that act.
(Ord. 03-2019, passed 4-2-2019)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, such
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
(Ord. 03-2019, passed 4-2-2019)
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Town
Council refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer,
agency, authority or instrumentality of any government and that name
designation is incorrectly stated, or at the time of the effective date of that
ordinance or subsequent thereto, the rights, powers, duties or liabilities
placed with that entity are or were transferred to a different entity, then
such named board, bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency,
authority or instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its
effective date or not, means that correctly named entity or the entity to which
such duties, liabilities, powers and rights were transferred.
(Ord. 03-2019, passed 4-2-2019)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any
words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express such intent, such spelling shall be corrected and such word
or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
such error.
(Ord. 03-2019, passed 4-2-2019)
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of such act or the giving of such notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
(Ord. 03-2019, passed 4-2-2019)
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture or liability incurred under
such section unless the repealing section so expressly provides. Such section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of such penalty, forfeiture or
liability.
(Ord. 03-2019, passed 4-2-2019)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code shall not be affected by
the repeal and reenactment, but all suits, proceedings and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
(Ord. 03-2019, passed 4-2-2019)
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
(Ord. 03-2019, passed 4-2-2019)
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section containing the desired amendment substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of such chapter or section. In addition to such
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
(Ord. 03-2019, passed 4-2-2019)
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section.
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information.
(Ord. 03-2019, passed 4-2-2019)
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects as if this code had not been enacted.
(Ord. 03-2019, passed 4-2-2019)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this code for
which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine not exceeding $2,500. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 03-2019, passed 4-2-2019)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   TOWN COUNCIL
      
32.   TOWN OFFICIALS
      
33.   BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
      
34.   FINANCE
      
35.   ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
      
36.   TOWN POLICIES
Cross-reference:
   Town property; firearms prohibited on, see
Ch. 130
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Compensation of officers and employees
   
30.02   Vacation, holidays and sick leave for employees
§ 30.01 COMPENSATION OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   Officers and employees of the town shall be compensated at a rate as
established by Town Council ordinance from time to time.
Cross-reference:
   Budgets, see §§
34.30 through
34.32
§ 30.02 VACATION, HOLIDAYS AND SICK LEAVE FOR EMPLOYEES.
   Employees of the town shall be entitled to paid vacations, holidays and sick
leave as follows.
   (A)   Vacations. Employees shall be entitled to one week of paid vacation
after having been employed for one year. After an employee has accumulated two
years or more of service, he or she shall be entitled to two weeks of paid
vacation. Provided, however, that employees shall provide their supervisor with
at least two weeks of prior notice of their intention to take vacation leave.
   (B)   Holidays. Employees shall be entitled to the following paid holidays:
New Year’s Day, Good Friday, Memorial Day, Fourth of July, Labor Day, Election
Day, Thanksgiving and Christmas. Provided, that if the holiday falls on a
weekend, the employee shall have the holiday on the Friday preceding or the
Monday following the holiday, at the discretion of his or her supervisor.
   (C)   Sick leave. Each employee is entitled to seven days per year of sick
leave. Sick leave may not be carried over from one calendar year to the next.
If an employee has unused sick leave at the end of a calendar year, he or she
shall be entitled to be compensated for such unused leave at his or her
standard rate of pay.
(Res. passed 1-7-1985)
CHAPTER 31: TOWN COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
31.001   Term of office
   
31.002   Residency required
   
31.003   Powers and duties
   
31.004   President
Meetings; General Provisions
   
31.020   Open meetings
   
31.021   Executive sessions
   
31.022   Notice of meetings
   
31.023   Agenda
   
31.024   Record of meetings
   
31.025   Quorum
   
31.026   Clerk of Council; tie-breaking vote
Meetings; Rules of Procedure
   
31.040   Presiding officer
   
31.041   Quorum for conducting business
   
31.042   Absence of President
   
31.043   Duties of the President
   
31.044   Duties of Councilmembers
   
31.045   Seconding of motions required
   
31.046   Withdrawal of motions
   
31.047   Division of questions
   
31.048   Record of motions
   
31.049   Vote
   
31.050   Precedence of motion
   
31.051   Undebatable motions and exceptions to order
   
31.052   Motion to adjourn
   
31.053   Motion to postpone indefinitely
   
31.054   Motion to amend
   
31.055   Amendments
   
31.056   Reconsideration
   
31.057   Visitors and petitioners
   
31.058   Reports, communications, petitions and the like
   
31.059   Adoption of Robert’s Rules of Order, revised
   
31.060   Temporary suspension of rules; amendment of rules
Ordinances and Resolutions
   
31.080   Majority vote; when required
   
31.081   Two-thirds vote; when required
   
31.082   Date of adoption; publication
   
31.083   Record of ordinances
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.001 TERM OF OFFICE.
   Except as otherwise provided in I.C. 36-5-2-3(b), (c), (d), (e), (f) or (g),
the term of office of a member of the Town Council is four years, beginning at
12:00 p.m. on January 1 after the member’s election and continuing until the
member’s successor is elected and qualified.
(I.C. 36-5-2-3(a))
§ 31.002 RESIDENCY REQUIRED.
   (A)   A member of the Town Council must reside within:
      (1)   The town, as provided in Indiana Constitution, Article 6, § 6; and
      (2)   The district from which the member was elected, if applicable.
   (B)   A member of the Town Council who is elected by the voters of a
district forfeits office if the member ceases to be a resident of the district.
   (C)   A member of the Town Council who is elected by the voters of the
entire town but is elected or selected as a candidate from a district forfeits
office if the member ceases to be a resident of the district.
   (D)   An at-large member of the Town Council forfeits office if the member
ceases to be a resident of the town.
(I.C. 36-5-2-6)
§ 31.003 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Town Council may:
   (A)   Adopt ordinances and resolutions for the performance of functions of
the town;
   (B)   Purchase, hold and convey any interest in property for the use of the
town; and
   (C)   Adopt and use a common seal.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9)
§ 31.004 PRESIDENT.
   The Town Council shall select one of its members to be its President for a
definite term, which may not exceed the member’s term of office as a member of
the Town Council.
(I.C. 36-5-2-7)
MEETINGS; GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.020 OPEN MEETINGS.
   All meetings of the Town Council shall be held in accordance with state law
regarding open meetings, being I.C. 5-14-1.5.
§ 31.021 EXECUTIVE SESSIONS.
   (A)   As used in this section, PUBLIC OFFICIAL means a person:
      (1)   Who is a member of a governing body of a public agency; or
      (2)   Whose tenure and compensation are fixed by law and who executes an
oath.
   (B)   Executive sessions may be held only in the following instances:
      (1)   Where authorized by federal or state statute;
      (2)   (a)   For discussion of strategy with respect to any of the
following:
            1.   Collective bargaining;
            2.   Initiation of litigation or litigation that is either pending
or has been threatened specifically in writing. As used in this clause,
LITIGATION includes any judicial action or administrative law proceeding under
federal or state law;
            3.   The implementation of security systems;
            4.   A real property transaction, including: (i) a purchase; (ii) a
lease as lessor; (iii) a lease as lessee; (iv) a transfer; (v) an exchange; or
(vi) a sale, by the Town Council up to the time a contract or option is
executed by the parties. This clause does not affect a political subdivision’s
duty to comply with any other statute that governs the conduct of the real
property transaction, including I.C. 36-1-10 or I.C. 36-1-11; or
            5.   School consolidation.
         (b)   However, all such strategy discussions must be necessary for
competitive or bargaining reasons and may not include competitive or bargaining
adversaries.
      (3)   For discussion of the assessment, design and implementation of
school safety and security measures, plans and systems;
      (4)   Interviews and negotiations with industrial or commercial prospects
or agents of industrial or commercial prospects by:
         (a)   The Indiana Economic Development Corporation;
         (b)   The Office of Tourism Development;
         (c)   The Indiana Finance Authority;
         (d)   The ports of Indiana;
         (e)   An economic development commission;
         (f)   The Indiana State Department of Agriculture;
         (g)   The Indiana White River State Park Development Commission;
         (h)   A local economic development organization that is a nonprofit
corporation established under state law whose primary purpose is the promotion
of industrial or business development in the state, the retention or expansion
of state business, or the development of entrepreneurial activities in the
state; or
         (i)   A governing body of a political subdivision.
      (5)   To receive information about and interview prospective employees;
      (6)   With respect to any individual over whom the Town Council has
jurisdiction:
         (a)   To receive information concerning the individual’s alleged
misconduct; and
         (b)   To discuss, before a determination, the individual’s status as
an employee, a student or an independent contractor who is a physician or a
school bus driver.
      (7)   For discussion of records classified as confidential by state or
federal statute;
      (8)   To discuss, before a placement decision, an individual student’s
abilities, past performance, behavior and needs;
      (9)   To discuss a job performance evaluation of individual employees.
This division (B)(9) does not apply to a discussion of the salary, compensation
or benefits of employees during a budget process;
      (10)   When considering the appointment of a public official, to do the
following:
         (a)   Develop a list of prospective appointees;
         (b)   Consider applications;
         (c)   Make one initial exclusion of prospective appointees from
further consideration; and
         (d)   Notwithstanding I.C. 5-14-3-4(b)(12), the Town Council may
release and shall make available for inspection and copying, in accordance with
I.C. 5-14-3-3, identifying information concerning prospective appointees not
initially excluded from further consideration. An initial exclusion of
prospective appointees from further consideration may not reduce the number of
prospective appointees to fewer than three unless there are fewer than three
prospective appointees. Interviews of prospective appointees must be conducted
at a meeting that is open to the public.
      (11)   To train School Board members with an outside consultant about the
performance of the role of its members as public officials;
      (12)   To prepare or score examinations used in issuing licenses,
certificates, permits or registrations under I.C. 25;
      (13)   To discuss information and intelligence intended to prevent,
mitigate or respond to the threat of terrorism; or
      (14)   To train members of a board of aviation commissioners appointed
under I.C. 8-22-2 or members of an airport authority board appointed under I.C.
8-22-3 with an outside consultant about the performance of the role of the
members as public officials. A board may hold not more than one executive
session per calendar year under this division (B)(14).
   (C)   A final action must be taken at a meeting open to the public.
   (D)   Public notice of executive sessions must state the subject matter by
specific reference to the enumerated instance or instances for which executive
sessions may be held under division (B) above. The requirements stated in §
31.024 for memoranda and minutes being made available to the public are
modified as to executive sessions in that the memoranda and minutes must
identify the subject matter considered by specific reference to the enumerated
instance or instances for which public notice was given. The Town Council shall
certify by a statement in the memoranda and minutes of the Town Council that no
subject matter was discussed in the executive session other than the subject
matter specified in the public notice.
   (E)   The Town Council may not conduct an executive session during a
meeting, except as otherwise permitted by applicable statute. A meeting may not
be recessed and reconvened with the intent of circumventing this division (E).
(I.C. 5-14-1.5-6.1)
§ 31.022 NOTICE OF MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings of the Town Council shall be held at a time and place
established by the Town Council.
   (B)   Public notice of the date, time and place of any meetings or executive
sessions, or of any rescheduled or reconvened meetings, shall be given by the
Town Council by posting a copy of the notice at the principal office of the
Town Council, or if no such office exists, at the building where the meeting is
to be held.
§ 31.023 AGENDA.
   (A)   The Town Council, when utilizing an agenda, shall post a copy of the
agenda at the entrance to the location of the meeting prior to the meeting. A
rule, regulation, ordinance or other final action adopted by reference to
agenda number or item alone is void.
(I.C. 5-14-1.5-4(a))
   (B)   The Town Council shall designate a person who shall prepare the agenda
for each meeting.
§ 31.024 RECORD OF MEETINGS.
   (A)   As the meeting progresses, the following memoranda shall be kept:
      (1)   The date, time and place of the meeting;
      (2)   The members of the Town Council recorded as either present or
absent;
      (3)   The general substance of all matters proposed, discussed or
decided;
      (4)   A record of all votes taken, by individual members if there is a
roll call; and
      (5)   Any additional information required under I.C. 5-14-1.5-3.5 or 5-
14-1.5-3.6 or any other statute that authorizes a governing body to conduct a
meeting using an electronic means of communication.
   (B)   The memoranda are to be available within a reasonable period of time
after the meeting for the purpose of informing the public of the Town Council’s
proceedings. The minutes, if any, are to be open for public inspection and
copying.
(I.C. 5-14-1.5-4(b) and (c))
§ 31.025 QUORUM.
   A majority of all the elected members of the Town Council constitutes a
quorum.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.2)
§ 31.026 CLERK OF COUNCIL; TIE-BREAKING VOTE.
   (A)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is the Clerk of the Town Council.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer is an ex officio member for the purpose of casting
the deciding vote to break a tie.
(I.C. 36-5-2-8)
MEETINGS; RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 31.040 PRESIDING OFFICER.
   The Town Council President shall take the chair at the hour appointed, or to
which the Town Council shall have adjourned, and shall immediately call the
members to order; whereupon, the Clerk of Council shall proceed to call the
roll of members. If a quorum is present, the Clerk of Council shall so announce
and the Town Council shall proceed with the order of business.
Cross-reference:
   Election of Town Council President, see §
31.004
   Town Clerk-Treasurer serves as Clerk of Council, see §
31.026
§ 31.041 QUORUM FOR CONDUCTING BUSINESS.
   (A)   A quorum shall consist of a majority of the entire Town Council,
including the Town Council President. A quorum shall be necessary to transact
the business of the Town Council.
   (B)   If no quorum is present, the Town Council shall not thereby stand
adjourned, but the members present shall adjourn or recess the Town Council by
a majority vote.
§ 31.042 ABSENCE OF PRESIDENT.
   At any meeting of the Town Council where a majority shall be assembled, and
if the President is temporarily absent but within or near the community, the
Clerk of Council shall preside and call the roll, whereupon the Town Council
shall elect a temporary chairperson from its membership. In the event that the
absence of the President shall be of a more permanent nature, a president pro
tem shall be elected.
§ 31.043 DUTIES OF THE PRESIDENT.
   (A)   The President shall serve as the Chair, shall preserve order and
decorum and may speak to points of order in preference to other members, and
shall decide all questions of order subject to appeal.
   (B)   If the President refuses to allow the Councilmembers to exercise their
right to appeal a decision of the Chair, the Councilmembers may consider and
pass upon the matter in spite of the Chair’s failure to grant them appeal.
   (C)   The President shall have the power to require the council room to be
cleared, or to have any disorderly person or persons ejected, in the case of
any disturbances or disorderly conduct which prevent the meeting from being
continued in an orderly manner.
   (D)   Nothing in this code shall preclude the President from making or
seconding a motion or from voting on any matters coming before the Town
Council.
§ 31.044 DUTIES OF COUNCILMEMBERS.
   (A)   While the President is stating the motion or deciding a point of
order, the members shall be seated, and no member shall leave the council room
during the session without permission from the presiding officer.
   (B)   Every member, prior to his or her speaking, making a motion or
seconding the same, shall address the presiding officer and shall not proceed
with his or her remarks until recognized and named by the Chair.
   (C)   A member so recognized by the Chair shall confine himself or herself
to the question under debate.
   (D)   No member shall speak more than once on the same question, except by
permission of the Chair, and then not until every other member desiring to
speak shall have had an opportunity to do so.
   (E)   No member shall speak longer than five minutes at any one time, except
by consent of the Chair.
   (F)   While a member is speaking, no member shall hold any private
discussion nor pass between the speaker and the Chair.
   (G)   A member, when called to order by the Chair, shall thereupon
discontinue speaking. The order or ruling of the Chair shall be binding and
conclusive, subject only to the right to appeal.
   (H)   Any member may appeal to the Town Council from a ruling of the Chair,
and if the appeal is seconded, the member making the appeal may briefly state
his or her reason for the same, and the Chair may briefly explain his or her
ruling; but there shall be no debate on the appeal, and no other member shall
participate in the discussion. The Chair shall then put the question, “Shall
the decision of the Chair be overruled?” Otherwise, it shall be sustained.
   (I)   The right of a member to address the Town Council on a question of
personal privilege shall be limited to cases in which his or her integrity,
character or motives are assailed, questioned or impugned.
§ 31.045 SECONDING OF MOTIONS REQUIRED.
   No motion shall be put or debated in the Town Council or in committee unless
it be seconded. When a motion is seconded, it shall be stated by the presiding
officer before debate.
§ 31.046 WITHDRAWAL OF MOTIONS.
   After a resolution or a motion is stated by the President, it shall be
deemed to be in the possession of the Town Council, but it may be withdrawn by
the maker thereof, with or without the consent of the Councilmember seconding
the motion, prior to the call for the vote by the President.
§ 31.047 DIVISION OF QUESTIONS.
   If any question under consideration contains several distinct propositions,
the Town Council, by a majority vote of the members present, may divide the
questions.
§ 31.048 RECORD OF MOTIONS.
   In all cases where a resolution or motion is entered in the journal, the
names of the members moving and seconding the same shall be entered.
§ 31.049 VOTE.
   (A)   The ayes and nays shall be taken upon the passage of all ordinances
and on all propositions to create any liability against the town, or for the
expenditure or appropriation of its money, and upon any question and in all
other cases at the request of any member of the Town Council. When the Clerk of
Council has commenced to call the roll of the Town Council for the taking of a
vote by “ayes” and “nays,” all debate on the question before the Town Council
shall be deemed concluded, and during the taking of the vote, a member shall be
permitted to briefly explain his or her vote and shall respond to the calling
of his or her name by the Clerk of Council by answering “aye” or “nay,” as the
case may be.
   (B)   The names of each member of the Town Council shall be listed on the
official copy of every ordinance passed, indicating specifically the names of
those voting “aye” and those voting “nay.”
   (C)   An abstention is neither an affirmative vote nor a negative vote.
Regardless of the number of abstentions, and except as otherwise provided by
law, an affirmative vote of the majority of the Councilmembers is required to
pass a motion, ordinance, resolution or other action of the Town Council.
   (D)   The President shall announce the result of the Town Council’s vote,
and the votes shall be entered in the journal of the proceedings.
Cross-reference:
   Two-thirds vote; when required, see §
31.081
§ 31.050 PRECEDENCE OF MOTION.
   When a question is before the Town Council, no motion shall be received
except as specified in this section, and which shall have precedence in the
following order:
   (A)   To fix the time to which to adjourn;
   (B)   To adjourn;
   (C)   To take a recess;
   (D)   To raise a question of privilege;
   (E)   To call for the orders of the day;
   (F)   To lay on the table;
   (G)   To call for the previous question;
   (H)   To postpone to a certain time;
   (I)   To refer to committee;
   (J)   To amend;
   (K)   To postpone indefinitely; and
   (L)   To the main motion.
§ 31.051 UNDEBATABLE MOTIONS AND EXCEPTIONS TO ORDER.
   The motion to adjourn or to lay on the table shall be decided without
debate, and the motion to fix the time to which to adjourn and the motion to
adjourn shall always be in order, except:
   (A)   When a member is in possession of the floor;
   (B)   When the roll-call votes are being called;
   (C)   While the members are voting;
   (D)   When adjournment was the last preceding motion; or
   (E)   When it has been decided that the previous question shall be taken.
§ 31.052 MOTION TO ADJOURN.
   A motion to adjourn cannot be amended, but a motion to adjourn to a given
day or time shall be open to amendment and debate.
§ 31.053 MOTION TO POSTPONE INDEFINITELY.
   When a question is postponed indefinitely, it shall not be taken up again
before the next regular meeting.
§ 31.054 MOTION TO AMEND.
   A motion to amend an amendment shall be in order, but a motion to amend an
amendment to an amendment shall not be entertained.
§ 31.055 AMENDMENTS.
   Only one amendment at a time may be offered to any question before the Town
Council. The vote shall first be taken on the amendment, and if the amendment
passes, then further amendments may be proposed. Finally, a vote shall be taken
on the principal motion as finally amended.
§ 31.056 RECONSIDERATION.
   (A)   A vote or question may be reconsidered at any time during the same
meeting or at the first regular meeting held thereafter. A motion for
reconsideration, once having been made and decided in the negative, shall not
be renewed. A matter once having been decided and a motion to reconsider the
matter having been defeated, it may nonetheless come before the Town Council at
a future time by way of a motion to rescind or as a new motion. If the Chair
determines that new facts are to be presented to the Town Council, or that
there is a likelihood that the Town Council will reverse its previous decision,
the Chair shall rule the motion in order. If a motion is continuously brought
before the Town Council and rejected, the Chair may rule its reintroduction
under a motion to rescind or as a new motion to be out of order.
   (B)   No motion to reconsider the approval or denial of the recommendation
of an advisory body required to hold public hearings shall be entertained
except at the same meeting at which the original action was taken or after the
matter has been referred to the advisory body for a further hearing and
recommendation.
   (C)   A motion to reconsider must be made and seconded by members who voted
on the prevailing side of the question to be reconsidered unless otherwise
provided by law; provided, however, that where a motion has received a majority
vote in the affirmative but is declared lost solely on the ground that a
greater number of affirmative votes is required by statute for the passage or
adoption of the motion, then in that case, a motion to reconsider may be made
and seconded only by those who voted in the affirmative on the question to be
reconsidered so long as the issue presented is the same, no new information is
forthcoming and the rights of third parties have not intervened.
§ 31.057 VISITORS AND PETITIONERS.
   Except during the time allotted for public discussion and comments, no
person other than a member of the Town Council shall address that body, except
with the consent of a majority of the members present.
§ 31.058 REPORTS, COMMUNICATIONS, PETITIONS AND THE LIKE.
   All communications, reports, petitions or any other papers addressed to the
Town Council shall be made available to the Clerk of Council prior to the
meeting. The Clerk of Council shall endeavor to distribute copies or read the
material to the members of the Town Council.
§ 31.059 ADOPTION OF ROBERT’S RULES OF ORDER, REVISED.
   The rules of parliamentary practice comprised in the latest published
edition of Robert’s Rules of Order, revised, shall govern the Town Council in
all cases to which they are applicable and in which they are not inconsistent
with the ordinances of the town, including these rules, or the statutes of the
state.
§ 31.060 TEMPORARY SUSPENSION OF RULES; AMENDMENT OF RULES.
   The rules of the Town Council may be temporarily suspended, altered or
amended by concurrence of a majority vote of all the Councilmembers then in
office.
ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS
§ 31.080 MAJORITY VOTE; WHEN REQUIRED.
   (A)   A requirement that an ordinance, resolution or other action of the
Town Council be passed by a majority vote means at least a majority vote of all
the elected members.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.4(a))
   (B)   A majority vote of the Town Council is required to pass an ordinance
unless a greater vote is required by statute.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.6)
Cross-reference:
   Effect of abstentions, see §
31.049
§ 31.081 TWO-THIRDS VOTE; WHEN REQUIRED.
   (A)   A requirement that an ordinance, resolution or other action of the
Town Council be passed by a two-thirds vote means at least a two-thirds vote of
all the elected members.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.4(b))
   (B)   A two-thirds vote of all the elected members, after unanimous consent
of the members present to consider the ordinance, is required to pass an
ordinance of the Town Council on the same day or at the same meeting at which
it is introduced.
   (C)   Division (B) above does not apply to the following:
      (1)   A zoning ordinance or an amendment to a zoning ordinance adopted
under I.C. 36-7; or
      (2)   An ordinance to increase the number of Town Councilmembers adopted
under I.C. 36-5-2-4.2, unless the ordinance also establishes new Town Council
districts.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.8)
§ 31.082 DATE OF ADOPTION; PUBLICATION.
   (A)   An ordinance, order or resolution passed by the Town Council is
considered adopted when it is signed by the President of the Town Council. If
required by statute, an adopted ordinance, order or resolution must be
promulgated or published before it takes effect.
   (B)   An ordinance prescribing a penalty or forfeiture for a violation must,
before it takes effect, be published in the manner prescribed by I.C. 5-3-
1 unless:
      (1)   It is published under division (C) below; or
      (2)   It declares an emergency requiring its immediate effectiveness and
is posted in:
         (a)   One public place in each district in the town; or
         (b)   A number of public places in the town equal to the number of
Councilmembers, if the town has abolished Town Council districts under I.C. 36-
5-2-4.1.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (E) below, if the town publishes any of
its ordinances in book or pamphlet form, no other publication is required. If
an ordinance prescribing a penalty or forfeiture for a violation is published
under this division (C), it takes effect two weeks after the publication of the
book or pamphlet. Publication under this division (C), if authorized by the
Town Council, constitutes presumptive evidence:
      (1)   Of the ordinances in the book or pamphlet;
      (2)   Of the date of adoption of the ordinances; and
      (3)   That the ordinances have been properly signed, attested, recorded
and approved.
   (D)   This section, other than division (F) below, does not apply to a
zoning ordinance or amendment to a zoning ordinance, or a resolution approving
a comprehensive plan, that is adopted under I.C. 36-7.
   (E)   An ordinance increasing a building permit fee on new development must:
      (1)   Be published one time in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1, and not later
than 30 days after the ordinance is adopted by the Town Council in accordance
with I.C. 5-3-1; and
      (2)   Delay the implementation of the fee increase for 90 days after the
date the ordinance is published under division (E)(1) above.
   (F)   Subject to division (J) below, the Town Council shall:
      (1)   Subject to division (G) below, give written notice to the
Department of Environmental Management not later than 60 days before amendment
or repeal of an environmental restrictive ordinance; and
      (2)   Give written notice to the Department of Environmental Management
not later than 30 days after passage, amendment or repeal of an environmental
restrictive ordinance.
   (G)   Upon written request by the Town Council, the Department of
Environmental Management may waive the notice requirement of division (F)(1)
above.
   (H)   An environmental restrictive ordinance passed or amended after 2009 by
the Town Council must state the notice requirements of division (F) above.
   (I)   The failure of an environmental restrictive ordinance to comply with
division (H) above does not void the ordinance.
   (J)   The notice requirements of division (F) above apply only if the
municipal corporation received, under I.C. 13-25-5-8.5(f), written notice that
the Department is relying on the environmental restrictive ordinance referred
to in division (F) above as part of a risk-based remediation proposal:
      (1)   Approved by the Department; and
      (2)   Conducted under I.C. 13-22, I.C. 13-23, I.C. 13-24, I.C. 13-25-4 or
I.C. 13-25-5.
(I.C. 36-5-2-10)
§ 31.083 RECORD OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Within a reasonable time after an ordinance of the Town Council is
adopted, the Clerk-Treasurer shall record it in a book kept for that purpose.
The record must include:
      (1)   The signature of the President of the Town Council;
      (2)   The attestation of the Clerk-Treasurer; and
      (3)   The date of each recorded item.
   (B)   The record, or a certified copy of it, constitutes presumptive
evidence of the adoption of the ordinance.
(I.C. 36-5-2-10.2)
CHAPTER 32: TOWN OFFICIALS
Section
Clerk-Treasurer
   
32.01   Residency requirement
   
32.02   Election; term of office
   
32.03   Powers and duties
   
32.04   Deputies and employees
   
32.05   Office space
   
32.06   Vacancy in office
Town Marshal
   
32.20   Appointment; compensation; training
   
32.21   Removal from office; discipline
   
32.22   Powers and duties
   
32.23   Service as Street Commissioner and Fire Chief
   
32.24   Deputy marshals; Humane Officer
   
32.25   Body armor
   
32.26   Service weapon
Cross-reference:
   Clerk-Treasurer as Ordinance Violations Clerk, see §
35.02
CLERK-TREASURER
§ 32.01 RESIDENCY REQUIREMENT.
   The Clerk-Treasurer must reside within the town, as provided in Indiana
Constitution Article 6, § 6. The Clerk-Treasurer forfeits office if the Clerk-
Treasurer ceases to be a resident of the town.
(I.C. 36-5-6-3(a))
§ 32.02 ELECTION; TERM OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Election. The Clerk-Treasurer shall be elected under I.C. 3-10-6 or 3-
10-7 by the voters of the whole town.
(I.C. 36-5-6-4)
   (B)   Term of office. Except as provided in I.C. 36-5-6-3(c), (d), (e) or
(f), the term of office of the Clerk-Treasurer is four years, beginning at 12:
00 p.m. on January 1 after election and continuing until a successor is elected
and qualified.
(I.C. 36-5-6-3(b))
§ 32.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer is both the Town Clerk and the Town Fiscal
Officer.
(I.C. 36-5-6-2)
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer may administer oaths, take depositions and take
acknowledgments of instruments required by statute to be acknowledged.
(I.C. 36-5-6-5)
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall do the following:
      (1)   Receive and care for all town money and pay the money out only on
order of the Town Council;
      (2)   Keep accounts showing when and from what sources the Clerk-
Treasurer has received town money and when and to whom the Clerk-Treasurer has
paid out town money;
      (3)   Prescribe payroll and account forms for all town offices;
      (4)   Prescribe the manner in which creditors, officers and employees
shall be paid;
      (5)   Manage the finances and accounts of the town and make investments
of town money;
      (6)   Prepare for the Town Council the budget estimates of miscellaneous
revenue, financial statements and the proposed tax rate;
      (7)   Maintain custody of the town seal and the records of the Town
Council;
      (8)   Issue all licenses authorized by statute and collect the fees fixed
by ordinance;
      (9)   Serve as Clerk of the Town Council by attending its meetings and
recording its proceedings;
      (10)   Administer oaths, take depositions and take acknowledgment of
instruments that are required by statute to be acknowledged, without charging a
fee;
      (11)   Serve as Clerk of the Town Court under I.C. 33-35-3-2, if the
Judge of the Court does not serve as Clerk of the Court or appoint a clerk of
the court under I.C. 33-35-3-1; and
      (12)   Perform all other duties prescribed by statute.
(I.C. 36-5-6-6)
§ 32.04 DEPUTIES AND EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall appoint the number of deputies and employees
needed for the effective operation of the office, with the approval of the Town
Council. The Clerk-Treasurer’s deputies and employees serve at the Clerk-
Treasurer’s pleasure.
   (B)   If the town owns a utility and the Clerk-Treasurer is directly
responsible for the billing and collection of that utility’s rates and charges,
the Clerk-Treasurer shall appoint those employees who are also responsible for
that billing and collection. These employees serve at the Clerk-Treasurer’s
pleasure.
(I.C. 36-5-6-7)
   (C)   (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer may hire or contract with competent
attorneys or legal research assistants on terms the Clerk-Treasurer considers
appropriate.
      (2)   Appropriations for the salaries of attorneys and legal research
assistants employed under this division (C) shall be approved in the annual
budget and must be allocated to the Clerk-Treasurer for the payment of
attorneys’ and legal research assistants’ salaries.
(I.C. 36-5-6-8)
§ 32.05 OFFICE SPACE.
   If office space exists in a building owned or leased by the town, the Town
Council shall provide suitable office space for the Clerk-Treasurer and staff
and records of the Clerk-Treasurer.
(I.C. 36-5-6-5.1)
§ 32.06 VACANCY IN OFFICE.
   (A)   This section applies if the office of Town Clerk-Treasurer is vacant
and the Town Council is unable to fill the office under I.C. 3-13-9-3.
   (B)   The Town Council may select a Town Councilmember who shall assume the
duties of the office of Clerk-Treasurer. For purposes of Indiana Constitution
Article 2, § 9 and state law, if a Town Councilmember serves as the ex officio
Clerk-Treasurer, the duties assumed by the Town Councilmember:
      (1)   Are considered part of the duties prescribed by law for the office
of Town Councilmember; and
      (2)   Are not considered a second office. A Town Councilmember may not
receive any additional compensation for assuming the duties of the Clerk-
Treasurer.
   (C)   The Town Council may enter into an interlocal agreement under I.C. 36-
1-7 with the Town Clerk-Treasurer and Town Council of another town in the state
to assist the Town Councilmember selected under division (B) above in
performing the duties of the Clerk-Treasurer’s office. The agreement may not
last longer than the remainder of the vacant Clerk-Treasurer’s term and must
meet the requirements of I.C. 36-1-7.
   (D)   If an agreement cannot be reached under division (C) above, the Town
Council may enter into a contract with a certified public accountant to assist
the Town Councilmember selected under division (B) above in performing the
duties of the Clerk-Treasurer’s office. The contract may not last longer than
the remainder of the vacant Clerk-Treasurer’s term.
(I.C. 36-5-6-9)
TOWN MARSHAL
§ 32.20 APPOINTMENT; COMPENSATION; TRAINING.
   (A)   The Town Council shall appoint the Town Marshal and shall fix his or
her compensation.
(I.C. 36-5-7-2)
   (B)   Applicants must have completed, or must be able to complete within six
months after appointment, the basic training requirements established by the
State Law Enforcement Training Board. The Town Marshal shall be required to
pass the Tier II training course.
(Ord. 5-2019, passed 8-13-2019)
§ 32.21 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE; DISCIPLINE.
   The Town Marshal serves at the pleasure of the Town Council. However, before
terminating or suspending a Town Marshal who has been employed by the town for
more than six months after completing the minimum basic training requirements
adopted by the Law Enforcement Training Board under I.C. 5-2-1-9, the Town
Council must conduct the disciplinary removal and appeals procedures prescribed
by I.C. 36-8 for municipal fire and police departments.
(I.C. 36-5-7-3)
§ 32.22 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Town Marshal is the chief police officer of the town and has the
powers of other law enforcement officers in executing the orders of the Town
Council and enforcing laws.
   (B)   The Town Marshal or his or her deputy:
      (1)   Shall serve all processes directed to him or her by the Town Court
or Town Council;
      (2)   Shall arrest without process all persons who commit an offense
within his or her view, take them before a court having jurisdiction and detain
them in custody until the cause of the arrest has been investigated;
      (3)   Shall suppress breaches of the peace;
      (4)   May, if necessary, call the power of the town to his or her aid;
      (5)   May execute search warrants and arrest warrants; and
      (6)   May pursue and jail persons who commit an offense.
(I.C. 36-5-7-4)
§ 32.23 SERVICE AS STREET COMMISSIONER AND FIRE CHIEF.
   The Town Council may require the Town Marshal to serve as the Street
Commissioner, Chief of the Fire Department or both.
(I.C. 36-5-7-5)
§ 32.24 DEPUTY MARSHALS; HUMANE OFFICER.
   (A)   The Town Council shall by ordinance fix the number of deputy marshals.
The Town Council may by ordinance authorize the Town Marshal to appoint deputy
marshals. Deputy marshals have the powers and liabilities of the Town Marshal
in executing the orders of the Town Council or enforcing laws.
   (B)   One deputy marshal may be designated as the Town Humane Officer. He or
she has the duties prescribed by I.C. 36-8 for municipal humane officers.
   (C)   The Town Council shall fix the amount of bond, compensation and term
of service of deputy marshals. The Town Marshal may dismiss a deputy marshal at
any time. However, a deputy marshal who has been employed by the town for more
than six months after completing the minimum basic training requirements
adopted by the Law Enforcement Training Board under I.C. 5-2-1-9 may be
dismissed only if the procedure prescribed by §
32.21 of this code is followed.
(I.C. 36-5-7-6)
§ 32.25 BODY ARMOR.
   (A)   As used in this section, BODY ARMOR has the meaning set forth in I.C.
35-47-5-13(a).
   (B)   After December 31, 2010, a town shall provide the Town Marshal and
active deputy marshals of the town with body armor for the torso. The town
shall replace the body armor for the torso according to the replacement period
recommended by the manufacturer of the body armor for the torso.
   (C)   The Town Marshal and active deputy marshals of the town may not be
required to pay for maintenance of the body armor for the torso furnished under
this section.
   (D)   Body armor for the torso provided by a town under this section remains
the property of the town. The town may sell the property when it becomes unfit
for use, and all money received shall be paid into the General Fund of the
town.
(I.C. 36-5-7-7)
§ 32.26 SERVICE WEAPON.
   The town shall provide the service weapon for use by the Town Marshal at the
town’s expense. The weapon must be a .38 caliber or larger and may be either a
revolver or a semi-automatic.
(Ord. 5-2019, passed 8-13-2019)
CHAPTER 33: BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Parks and Recreation Advisory Board
   
33.01   Creation and membership
   
33.02   Terms; expiration and reappointment
   
33.03   Officers
   
33.04   Powers and duties
   
33.05   Rules and reports
   
33.06   Meetings open
Patriot Municipal Water Utility Advisory Board
   
33.20   Creation; membership and terms
   
33.21   Member selection and salary
   
33.22   Duties
   
33.23   Legal counsel
   
33.24   Meetings open; Water Superintendent attendance
Switzerland County Area Plan Commission
   
33.35   Membership
   
33.36   Term, member appointed by legislative body
   
33.37   Term, citizen member; removal
   
33.38   Vacancies
PARKS AND RECREATION ADVISORY BOARD
§ 33.01 CREATION AND MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Parks and Recreation Advisory Board.
   (B)   The Parks and Recreation Advisory Board shall be composed of five
members appointed by the Town Council and shall serve at the pleasure of the
Board.
      (1)   Three members shall reside in Posey Township; and
      (2)   Two members shall reside in the town.
(Ord. 2-3-09, passed 2-3-2009; Ord. passed 2-20-2012)
§ 33.02 TERMS; EXPIRATION AND REAPPOINTMENT.
   (A)   Terms. Upon establishment of the Board, the terms initially appointed
shall be:
      (1)   One member for a term of one year;
      (2)   One member for a term of two years;
      (3)   One member for a term of three years; and
      (4)   One member for a term of four years.
   (B)   Expiration and reappointment. As a term expires, each new appointment
shall be made by the Town Council for a term of four years. All terms shall
expire the first Monday in January, but members shall continue in office until
his or her successor is appointed. If an appointment for a new term is not made
by the first Monday in April, the incumbent shall serve another term. If a
vacancy occurs, the executive shall appoint a new member for the remainder of
the unexpired term.
(Ord. 2-3-09, passed 2-3-2009; Ord. passed 2-20-2012)
§ 33.03 OFFICERS.
   At its first regular meeting in each year, the Board shall elect a president
and a vice president. The Vice President shall have authority to act as the
President of the Board during the absence or disability of the President. The
Board shall also select a secretary from within its own membership.
(Ord. 2-3-09, passed 2-3-2009; Ord. passed 2-20-2012)
§ 33.04 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Parks and Recreation Board shall have advisory powers only. The Town
Council shall retain all executive authority and supervisory power over the
parks, recreation facilities and recreation programs. However, the Advisory
Board shall be charged with making recommendations to the Town Council on any
and all matters relating to the operation of parks, recreation and recreation
facilities. In so doing, the Advisory Board, or members thereof, shall have the
right to discuss all business related to parks and recreation with town
employees, review records related to the same, hear complaints from citizens
and make recommendations thereon to the appropriate town authorities.
(Ord. 2-3-09, passed 2-3-2009; Ord. passed 2-20-2012)
§ 33.05 RULES AND REPORTS.
   (A)   The Advisory Board may establish rules for the conduct of meetings. In
the absence of rules, meetings will be conducted according to Robert’s Rules of
Order.
   (B)   The Advisory Board shall issue a report regarding their proceedings to
the Town Council after each meeting.
(Ord. 2-3-09, passed 2-3-2009; Ord. passed 2-20-2012)
§ 33.06 MEETINGS OPEN.
   The meetings of the Advisory Board shall be open to the public as required
by the State Open Door Law, being I.C. 5-14-1.5-1 et seq. The meetings shall be
advertised and held on a regular basis.
(Ord. 2-3-09, passed 2-3-2009; Ord. passed 2-20-2012)
PATRIOT MUNICIPAL WATER UTILITY ADVISORY BOARD
§ 33.20 CREATION; MEMBERSHIP AND TERMS.
   (A)   Creation. There is created the Patriot Municipal Water Utility
Advisory Board, hereinafter referred to as “Advisory Board.”
   (B)   Membership and terms. The Advisory Board shall consist of one citizen
member from each township of the county and who is a customer of the Patriot
Municipal Water Utility. The members may not be elected officials. Each member
shall be appointed for staggered terms, the longest of which is a four year
term, and shall select from their membership a Chairperson (who is not to be
considered the head of the Patriot Water Utility). The President of the Patriot
Municipal Water Utility Board of Directors shall be a member, ex officio, of
said Advisory Board.
(Ord. 12-10-03, passed 12-10-2003)
§ 33.21 MEMBER SELECTION AND SALARY.
   (A)   Selection. The Board of Directors of Patriot Municipal Water Utility
shall select and appoint the members of the Advisory Board. The Board of
Directors shall have the authority to remove any member who fails to perform
the duties outlined in this subchapter.
   (B)   Salaries. The Board of Directors of Patriot Municipal Water Utility
shall determine the salary, if any, to be paid to the members of the Advisory
Board.
(Ord. 12-10-03, passed 12-10-2003)
§ 33.22 DUTIES.
   The Advisory Board shall have advisory powers only; the Board of Directors
of Patriot Municipal Water Utility shall retain supervisory power over the
water utility. The Advisory Board shall make recommendations to the Board of
Directors of Patriot Municipal Water Utility as they see fit; these
recommendations may be in regards to, but are not limited to, the following:
   (A)   Make recommendations regarding the hiring of professional or expert
personnel when required for the operation of the utility;
   (B)   Submit a proposed list of needs for the water utility;
   (C)   Make recommendations regarding the rates and charges for services to
the patrons of the water utility;
   (D)   When requested to do so by the Board of Directors of the Water
Utility, review contracts for the purchase of capital equipment, the
construction of capital improvements or other property or purposes that are
necessary for the full and efficient construction, management and operation of
each utility;
   (E)   Review standard operating procedures and recommend rules for the safe,
economical and efficient management and protection of the water utility; and
   (F)   Record any citizen complaints and bring them before the Advisory Board
for discussion and resolution.
(Ord. 12-10-03, passed 12-10-2003)
§ 33.23 LEGAL COUNSEL.
   Legal counsel for the Board of Directors shall serve as legal counsel for
the Advisory Board as necessary.
(Ord. 12-10-03, passed 12-10-2003)
§ 33.24 MEETINGS OPEN; WATER SUPERINTENDENT ATTENDANCE.
   (A)   The meetings of the Advisory Board shall be open to the public as
required by the State Open Door Law, being I.C. 5-14-1.5-1 et seq. The meetings
shall be advertised and be held on a regular basis.
   (B)   The Water Superintendent for the Patriot Municipal Water Utility shall
be available to attend the meetings of the Advisory Board and discuss any
matters concerning the water utility.
(Ord. 12-10-03, passed 12-10-2003)
SWITZERLAND COUNTY AREA PLAN COMMISSION
§ 33.35 MEMBERSHIP.
   In accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-4-211, membership of the
Switzerland County Area Plan Commission shall hereafter consist of a total of
nine members, as set forth herein:
   (A)   Six County representatives, designated as follows:
      (1)   The County Superintendent of Schools, or a representative appointed
by him or her who is a resident of the unincorporated area of the county;
      (2)   The County Agricultural Agent;
      (3)   The County Surveyor;
      (4)   Two citizen members who are residents of the unincorporated area of
the county, appointed by the County Executive; and
      (5)   One citizen member who is a resident of the unincorporated area of
the county, appointed by the County Fiscal Body.
   (B)   Two Town of Vevay representatives, designated as follows:
      (1)   One member of the Vevay Town Council, appointed by the Town
Council; and
      (2)   One citizen member who is a resident of the Town of Vevay,
appointed by the Vevay Town Council.
   (C)   One representative appointed by the Town Council of the Town of
Patriot, who may be either a member of the Town Council or a citizen member who
is a resident of the Town of Patriot.
(Ord. 6-5-95-C, passed 6-6-1995; Ord. 6-5-95A, passed 7-6-1995)
§ 33.36 TERM, MEMBER APPOINTED BY LEGISLATIVE BODY.
   (A)   In accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-4-217, the term of
office of a member of the County Area Plan Commission who is appointed from the
membership of a legislative body is coextensive with the member’s term of
office on the Town Council unless that Council appoints, at its first regular
meeting in any year, another to serve as its representative.
   (B)   In the event that a representative is appointed by the Superintendent
of Schools, the term of office of that member is coextensive with the term of
office of the Superintendent of Schools, provided that in no event shall the
term of the member exceed four years unless reappointed by the Superintendent
of Schools.
(Ord. 6-5-95-C, passed 6-6-1995; Ord. 6-5-95A, passed 7-6-1995)
§ 33.37 TERM, CITIZEN MEMBER; REMOVAL.
   (A)   The appointments of any citizen members shall accompany the passage
and approval of this subchapter.
   (B)   (1)   The initial term of the citizen members of the County Area Plan
Commission shall be as set forth herein:
         (a)   If a citizen member is appointed by the Town Council of Patriot:
one year;
         (b)   The citizen member of Vevay: two years;
         (c)   The citizen members appointed by the County Executive: three
years and four years; and
         (d)   The citizen member appointed by the County Fiscal Body: four
years.
      (2)   Each member’s term expires on the first Monday of January of the
first, second, third or fourth year, respectively, after the year of the
member’s appointment (see I.C. 36-7-4-218(e)).
   (C)   When an initial term of office of a citizen member expires, each new
appointment of a citizen member is for a term of four years. A member serves
until his or her successor is appointed and qualified. A member is eligible for
reappointment (see I.C. 36-7-4-218(a)).
   (D)   In accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-4-218(f), the
appointing authority may remove a member from the County Area Plan Commission
for cause. The appointing authority must mail notice of the removal, along with
written reasons for the removal, to the member at his or her residence address.
A member who is removed may, within 30 days after receiving notice of the
removal, appeal the notice to the County Circuit Court. The Court may, pending
the outcome of the appeal, order the removal or stay the removal of the member.
(Ord. 6-5-95-C, passed 6-6-1995; Ord. 6-5-95A, passed 7-6-1995)
§ 33.38 VACANCIES.
   If a vacancy occurs among the members of the County Area Plan Commission,
the appointing authority shall appoint a member for the unexpired term of the
vacating member (see I.C. 36-7-4-220).
(Ord. 6-5-95-C, passed 6-6-1995; Ord. 6-5-95A, passed 7-6-1995)
CHAPTER 34: FINANCE
Section
Disbursement of Funds
   
34.01   Appropriation required
   
34.02   Issue of warrants
   
34.03   Allowance of claims
   
34.04   Warrants for payment of claims
   
34.05   Payment of compensation to officer or employee prior to vacation leave
   
34.06   Claim payments in advance of allowance
   
34.07   Transfer of funds
   
34.08   Credit card purchases authorized
Budgets
   
34.30   Preparation of annual budget estimates
   
34.31   Preparation and approval of ordinance fixing tax rate; making annual
appropriations
   
34.32   Increase or decrease of appropriations after approval of ordinance
Cross-reference:
   Disposition of civil penalties and costs collected, see §
35.09
   Town bonds and financing agreements, see
TSO Table III
   Town funds, see
TSO Table II
DISBURSEMENT OF FUNDS
§ 34.01 APPROPRIATION REQUIRED.
   Unless a statute provides otherwise, town monies may be disbursed only after
an appropriation made by ordinance of the Town Council and recorded in a book
kept for that purpose by the Town Council. Each appropriation must be made from
the fund against which the expenses arose.
(I.C. 36-5-4-2)
§ 34.02 ISSUE OF WARRANTS.
   (A)   The Town Council or a board of the town may order the issuance of
warrants for payment of money by the town only at a meeting of the Town Council
or board.
   (B)   A town officer who violates this section forfeits his or her office.
(I.C. 36-5-4-3)
§ 34.03 ALLOWANCE OF CLAIMS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
34.06 of this code, the Town Council or a board of the town may allow a claim:
      (1)   Only at a meeting of the Town Council or board; and
      (2)   Only if the claim was filed in the manner prescribed by I.C. 5-11-
10-2 at least five days before the meeting.
   (B)   A town officer who violates this section forfeits his or her office.
(I.C. 36-5-4-4)
§ 34.04 WARRANTS FOR PAYMENT OF CLAIMS.
   (A)   As used in this section, CLAIM means a bill or an invoice submitted
for goods or services.
   (B)   Except as provided in §
34.06 of this code, a warrant for payment of a claim against a town may be
issued only if the claim is:
      (1)   Supported by a fully itemized invoice or bill under I.C. 5-11-10-
1.6;
      (2)   Filed with the Town Fiscal Officer;
      (3)   Certified by the Fiscal Officer before payment that each invoice is
true and correct; and
      (4)   Allowed by the Town Council or by the board of the town having
jurisdiction over allowance of the payment of the claim.
   (C)   The certification by the Fiscal Officer under division (B)(3) above
must be on a form prescribed by the State Board of Accounts.
(I.C. 36-5-4-6)
§ 34.05 PAYMENT OF COMPENSATION TO OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE PRIOR TO VACATION LEAVE.
   One to three days before the vacation leave period of a town officer or
employee begins, the town may pay him or her the amount of compensation he or
she will earn while he or she is on vacation leave.
(I.C. 36-5-4-7)
§ 34.06 CLAIM PAYMENTS IN ADVANCE OF ALLOWANCE.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to make claim payments in advance of
Town Council allowance for the following types of expenses:
      (1)   Property or services purchased or leased from the federal
government or an agency or a political subdivision of the federal government;
      (2)   License fees or permit fees;
      (3)   Insurance premiums;
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
      (5)   Federal grant programs, if advance funding is not prohibited and
the contracting party provides sufficient security for the amount advanced;
      (6)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute;
      (7)   Maintenance agreements or service agreements;
      (8)   Lease agreements or rental agreements;
      (9)   Principal and interest payments on bonds;
      (10)   Payroll;
      (11)   State, federal or county taxes;
      (12)   Expenses that must be paid because of emergency circumstances; and
      (13)   Expenses described in an ordinance.
   (B)   Each payment of expenses under this section must be supported by a
fully itemized invoice or bill and certification by the Fiscal Officer.
   (C)   The Town Council shall review and allow the claim at the Town
Council’s next regular or special meeting following the preapproved payment of
the expense.
(I.C. 36-5-4-12)
§ 34.07 TRANSFER OF FUNDS.
   Notwithstanding I.C. 8-14-1 and 8-14-2, the town may transfer money
distributed to the town from the motor vehicle highway account under I.C. 8-14-
1, the local road and street account under I.C. 8-14-2 or the motor vehicle
highway account under I.C. 8-14-1 and the local road and street account under
I.C. 8-14-2 to any other town fund after the passage of an ordinance or a
resolution by the Town Council that specifies the amount of the transfer, the
funds involved, the date of the transfer and the general purpose of the
transfer. However, the total amount of all money transferred by the town under
this section may not exceed $40,000.
(I.C. 36-5-4-13(b))
§ 34.08 CREDIT CARD PURCHASES AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   Authorization to obtain credit card. The Town Clerk-Treasurer is
hereby authorized to obtain a credit card(s) in the name of the Town of Patriot
for the customary purchase of materials and supplies and reservation and travel
expenses for the town.
   (B)   Payment of annual fees and charges. The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized
to pay any annual fee for such credit card(s). The Clerk-Treasurer shall pay
the monthly statement balance in full so that finance charges are not incurred
and that the card is not utilized for the creation of debt.
   (C)   Responsibility for card. The Clerk-Treasurer shall be responsible for
and maintain control over the credit card(s) and all invoices, receipts and
documentation supporting all charges and shall maintain a suitable accounting
system to monitor the possession, use and return of all credit card(s).
   (D)   Verification of charges. The Clerk-Treasurer shall verify each charge
appearing on the monthly statement with the invoices, receipts and
documentation prior to payment. Each payment of expenses must be supported by a
fully-itemized invoice or bill with certification of the Clerk-Treasurer, and
that the Town Council shall review and allow the claim at the next regular or
special meeting following the preapproved payment of the expense. The Clerk-
Treasurer shall assign and pay the verified charges from the appropriate fund.
   (E)   Authorized use of card. The Clerk-Treasurer, at his or her discretion,
may provide the credit cards to certain town and utility employees to purchase
materials and supplies and for the reservation and travel expenses deemed
necessary to perform their tasks. Each town and utility employee shall
immediately return the credit card to the Clerk-Treasurer after its use and
provide copies of all invoices, receipts and other supporting documentation.
   (F)   Private use of card prohibited. No credit card issued in the name of
the town shall be used by any person for any private purchase or any other use
which is not authorized by the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 18-9-4, passed 9-4-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
BUDGETS
§ 34.30 PREPARATION OF ANNUAL BUDGET ESTIMATES.
   Before the publication (before January 1, 2015) and before the submission of
notice of budget estimates required by I.C. 6-1.1-17-3, the town shall
formulate a budget estimate for the ensuing budget year in the following manner
unless the town provides by ordinance for a different manner.
   (A)   Each department head shall prepare for the department head’s
department an estimate of the amount of money required for the ensuing budget
year, stating in detail each category and item of expenditure the department
head anticipates.
   (B)   The Town Fiscal Officer shall prepare an itemized estimate of revenues
available for the ensuing budget year and shall prepare an itemized estimate of
expenditures for other purposes above the money proposed to be used by the
departments.
   (C)   The President of the Town Council shall meet with the department heads
and the Fiscal Officer to review and revise their various estimates.
   (D)   After the President’s review and revision, the Fiscal Officer shall
prepare for the President a report of the estimated department budgets,
miscellaneous expenses and revenues necessary or available to finance the
estimates.
(I.C. 36-5-3-3)
Cross-reference:
   Compensation of officials and employees, see §
30.01
§ 34.31 PREPARATION AND APPROVAL OF ORDINANCE FIXING TAX RATE; MAKING ANNUAL
APPROPRIATIONS.
   The Town Fiscal Officer shall present the report of budget estimates to the
Town Council under I.C. 6-1.1-17. After reviewing the report, the Town Council
shall prepare an ordinance fixing the rate of taxation for the ensuing budget
year and an ordinance making appropriations for the estimated department
budgets and other town purposes during the ensuing budget year. The Town
Council, in the appropriation ordinance, may change any estimated item from the
figure submitted in the report of the Fiscal Officer. The Town Council shall
promptly act on the appropriation ordinance.
(I.C. 36-5-3-4)
§ 34.32 INCREASE OR DECREASE OF APPROPRIATIONS AFTER APPROVAL OF ORDINANCE.
   After the passage of the appropriation ordinance, the Town Council may make
further or additional appropriations by ordinance unless their result is to
increase the tax levy set under I.C. 6-1.1-17. The Town Council may, by
ordinance, decrease any appropriation set by ordinance.
(I.C. 36-5-3-5)
CHAPTER 35: ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
Section
   
35.01   Establishment
   
35.02   Violations Clerk designated
   
35.03   Duties of Violations Clerk
   
35.04   Schedule of fines
   
35.05   Right to trial
   
35.06   Denial; exercise of the right to trial
   
35.07   Failure to appear or to satisfy assessed civil penalty; report;
prosecution
   
35.08   Court costs fee; admitted violations
   
35.09   Disposition of civil penalties and costs collected
§ 35.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The Town Council may establish, by ordinance or code, an Ordinance
Violations Bureau.
(I.C. 33-36-2-1)
§ 35.02 VIOLATIONS CLERK DESIGNATED.
   (A)   Upon the creation of a bureau, the Town Council shall provide for the
appointment of a Violations Clerk, who may be the Clerk or Clerk-Treasurer of
the municipality, to be the administrator of the Bureau.
(I.C. 33-36-2-1)
   (B)   If the Town Council does not establish an Ordinance Violations Bureau
under §
35.01, the Clerk or Clerk-Treasurer of the town is designated the Violations
Clerk for purposes of this chapter.
(I.C. 33-36-2-2)
§ 35.03 DUTIES OF VIOLATIONS CLERK.
   In ordinance violation cases, subject to the schedule prescribed under I.C.
33-36-3 by the Town Council, the Violations Clerk may accept the following:
   (A)   Written appearances;
   (B)   Waivers of trial;
   (C)   Admissions of violations; and
   (D)   Payments of civil penalties up to a specific dollar amount set forth
in an ordinance adopted by the Town Council, but not more than $250.
(I.C. 33-36-2-3)
§ 35.04 SCHEDULE OF FINES.
   (A)   Upon the appointment or designation of the Violations Clerk as
provided by §
35.02 of this code, the Town Council shall designate, by ordinance or code, a
schedule of ordinance and code provisions that are subject to admission of
violation before the Violations Clerk and the amount of civil penalty to be
assessed to a violator who elects to admit a violation under this chapter.
   (B)   Civil penalties shall be paid to, receipted by and accounted for by
the Violations Clerk under procedures provided for by the State Board of
Accounts. Payment of civil penalties under this chapter may be made in person,
by mail or to an agent or agents designated by the Town Council.
(I.C. 33-36-3-1)
§ 35.05 RIGHT TO TRIAL.
   A person charged with an ordinance or a code violation is entitled to a
trial before a court, as provided by law, unless the person waives the right to
trial and enters an admission of the violation with the Violations Clerk. Upon
an admission, the Violations Clerk shall assess and receive from the violator
the amount prescribed by the schedule of civil penalties established under §
35.04 of this code.
(I.C. 33-36-3-2)
§ 35.06 DENIAL; EXERCISE OF THE RIGHT TO TRIAL.
   If a person charged with a violation wants to exercise the right to trial,
the person shall appear before the Violations Clerk and deny the violation or
enter a written denial with the Violations Clerk.
(I.C. 33-36-3-3)
§ 35.07 FAILURE TO APPEAR OR TO SATISFY ASSESSED CIVIL PENALTY; REPORT;
PROSECUTION.
   (A)   If a person does any of the following, then the Violations Clerk shall
report this fact to the official having the responsibility to prosecute
ordinance violation cases for the town:
      (1)   Denies an ordinance or code violation under this chapter;
      (2)   Fails to satisfy a civil penalty assessed by the Violations Clerk
after having entered an admission of violation; or
      (3)   Fails to deny or admit the violation under this chapter.
   (B)   Proceedings in court against the person shall then be initiated for
the alleged ordinance violation.
(I.C. 33-36-3-5)
§ 35.08 COURT COSTS FEE; ADMITTED VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   An ordinance violation admitted under this chapter does not constitute
a judgment for the purposes of I.C. 33-37. An ordinance violation costs fee may
not be collected from the defendant under I.C. 33-37-4.
   (B)   An ordinance violation processed under this chapter may not be
considered for the purposes of I.C. 33-37-7-6 when determining the percentage
of ordinance violations prosecuted in certain courts.
(I.C. 33-36-3-6)
§ 35.09 DISPOSITION OF CIVIL PENALTIES AND COSTS COLLECTED.
   (A)   Subject to division (B) below, all sums collected by the Violations
Clerk as civil penalties for ordinance violations shall be accounted for and
paid to the town as provided by law.
   (B)   If a town that has not established a court under I.C. 33-35-1 or an
ordinance violations bureau under I.C. 33-36-2 has entered into an interlocal
agreement, described in I.C. 33-36-2-4, with a municipal corporation, the sums
collected by the Violations Clerk that involve the town that has not
established a court or an ordinance violations bureau shall be accounted for
and paid as provided in the interlocal agreement.
(I.C. 33-36-3-7)
CHAPTER 36: TOWN POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
36.01   Copies of town records; procedure and fees
   
36.02   Drug-free workplace policy
Tort Claims Against Town
   
36.15   Clerk-Treasurer to receive notice
   
36.16   Form and service of notice
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 36.01 COPIES OF TOWN RECORDS; PROCEDURE AND FEES.
   (A)   All requests for copies of town records shall be made in writing on a
form provided by the town.
   (B)   The fee for providing such copies is hereby established at $0.10 per
page.
   (C)   Copies provided electronically on compact disc will be charged at the
rate of $0.50 per copy.
(Ord. 02-15-2011, passed 2-15-2011)
§ 36.02 DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE POLICY.
   (A)   It is the policy of the town to provide a drug-free workplace.
   (B)   It is a violation of the personnel policy of the town to unlawfully
manufacture, distribute, dispense, possess or use a controlled substance in the
workplace or during the course of employment by the town. An employee found to
have violated this policy shall be subject to discipline by the Town Council,
ranging from temporary suspension to termination of employment.   
   (C)   It is the policy of the Town Council to make all employees of the town
aware of the dangers of drug abuse in the workplace and make available
counseling, rehabilitation and assistance.
   (D)   As a condition of employment, town employees are required to provide
notice to the Town Council of any criminal drug statute conviction or drug
abuse violation occurring in the workplace within five days after such
conviction. If the Town Council receives a notice pursuant to this division (D)
of a conviction by an employee who is working under a grant from a state or
federal agency, the Town Council shall within ten days provide notice to the
agency involved in the grant.
   (E)   Each employee of the town shall be provided a copy of this statement.
   (F)   It is a condition of employment that each town employee, in the
performance of a state or federal grant, abide by the statement in division (B)
above.
   (G)   Within 30 days of receiving notice as required under division (D)
above, the Town Council shall take action with respect to the employee, which
disciplinary action can range from suspension to termination, as determined by
the Town Council. In the alternative, the Town Council may require such
employee to participate satisfactorily in a drug abuse assistance or
rehabilitation program approved by the Town Council.
(Ord. 12-07-95 B, passed 12-7-1995)
TORT CLAIMS AGAINST TOWN
§ 36.15 CLERK-TREASURER TO RECEIVE NOTICE.
   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is hereby designated as the town official to
receive notice of a tort claim under I.C. 34-13-3-1 et seq.
§ 36.16 FORM AND SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   (A)   The notice of a tort claim against the town must be in writing and
must be delivered in person or by registered or certified mail.
(I.C. 34-13-3-12)
   (B)   The notice must comply with the provisions of I.C. 34-13-3-1 et seq.
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   SEWER USE
      
52.   SEWER RATES AND CHARGES
      
53.   WATER RATES AND CHARGES
      
54.   WATER CONSERVATION EMERGENCY
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Municipal Water Utility removed from IURC jurisdiction
   
50.02   Owner responsible for utility bill payment
   
50.03   Disconnection for late payment
§ 50.01 MUNICIPAL WATER UTILITY REMOVED FROM IURC JURISDICTION.
   Upon motion duly made and seconded, and said motion being approved after the
due legal notice and discussion, the Patriot Municipal Water Utility, a
municipally owned utility, is hereby removed from the jurisdiction of the
Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission (IURC) for the approval of rates and
charges and the issuance of stocks, bonds, notes or other evidence of
indebtedness, pursuant to I.C. 8-1.5-3-9.
(Ord. 99-5-6, passed 5-6-1999)
§ 50.02 OWNER RESPONSIBLE FOR UTILITY BILL PAYMENT.
   (A)   The owners of all properties, including rentals, will be and are
responsible for the payment of all utility bills. Proof of warrantee or quick
claim deeds will be required as proof of ownership before a meter is installed.
   (B)   (1)   Existing accounts listed in renters names will be phased out in
one of the following:
         (a)   Any interruption of service; or
         (b)   Upon written notice to the necessary parties giving 30 days to
comply.
      (2)   Utility must notify all rental property owners within one year of
passage of this ordinance.
      (3)   Failure to comply will result in loss of service.
(Ord. 93-09-01, passed 9-1-1993)
§ 50.03 DISCONNECTION FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   (A)   It is the policy of the town to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The town’s form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
      (1)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth
on the bill;
      (2)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill
will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within
ten days of the mailing of the second bill, and is 30 days or more delinquent,
service will be discontinued for nonpayment; and
      (3)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill
shall have a right to a hearing, at which time he or she may be represented in
person and by counsel, or any other person of his or her choosing, and may
present orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the town
official in charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to
order that the customer’s service not be discontinued and shall have the
authority to make a final determination of the customer’s complaint.
   (B)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see I.C. 8-1.5-3-4(d)
CHAPTER 51: SEWER USE
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Rules of procedure; definitions
   
51.002   Scope, compliance with state and federal requirements
   
51.003   Special agreements with industrial concerns
   
51.004   Interruptions of service
   
51.005   Damaging sewage works
Connection and Installation
   
51.020   Connection to sewer required
   
51.021   Septic tanks, privies, cesspools and the like
   
51.022   Lateral sewers
   
51.023   Building sewers
   
51.024   Building drains
   
51.025   Permit required to uncover, alter sewer or sewer appurtenance
   
51.026   Excavation and installation
   
51.027   Inspection and supervision of work
   
51.028   Joints and connections
   
51.029   Main sewer line extensions
Discharges and Deposits
   
51.040   Excrement, garbage or objectionable waste
   
51.041   Untreated discharges or deposits
   
51.042   Clear water connections
   
51.043   Discharge of stormwater, roof runoff and the like
   
51.044   Discharge of unpolluted water
   
51.045   Discharge of industrial cooling water
   
51.046   Waters or wastes prohibited in public sewers
   
51.047   Prohibited discharges
   
51.048   Interceptors
   
51.049   Pretreatment
Administration, Testing and Enforcement
   
51.060   Superintendent decides requirements
   
51.061   Town Council right to reject wastes, charge for treatment
   
51.062   NPDES permit sets limitations
   
51.063   Standard Methods used to determine
   
51.064   Industrial waste inspection and testing; responsibility for facilities
   
51.065   Supplying wastewater flow characteristics
   
51.066   Charges established by periodic sampling
   
51.067   Right to enter and inspect
   
51.068   Immediate notification of unusual flows
   
51.069   Violations and appeals
Billing and Collection
   
51.080   Mailing of bills and notices
   
51.081   Due date
   
51.082   Deposit to establish or maintain credit
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001 RULES OF PROCEDURE; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of procedure. Unless otherwise defined herein, terms shall be
adopted in the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water
and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, the
American Waterworks Association and the Water Pollution Control Federation, as
set forth in 40 C.F.R. part 136. Water constituents and characteristics shall
be measured by Standard Methods, or in such other method established by state
or federal regulatory agencies. Monitoring and metering will be carried out by
customarily accepted methods.
   (B)   Definitions correspond. The definitions contained in this section
shall have the same meaning in this chapter and in Chapter 52 of this code, and
the definitions contained in Chapter 52 of this code shall have the same
meaning in Chapter 52 of this code and in this chapter.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AMMONIA NITROGEN or NH3N. The same as ammonia nitrogen measured as
nitrogen. Laboratory determination shall be made in accordance with Standard
Methods. Standard Methods shall mean the laboratory procedures set forth in the
latest edition, at the time of analysis, of Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water, Sewage and Industrial Wastes, prepared and published
jointly by the American Public Health Association, the American Waterworks
Association and the Water Pollution Control Federation.
      BENEFICIAL USES. These include, but are not limited to, domestic,
municipal, agricultural and industrial use, power generation, navigation and
the preservation and enhancement of fish, wildlife and other aquatic resources
or reserves, recreation, aesthetic enjoyment and other uses, both tangible and
intangible, as specified by state or federal law.
      BOD or BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. Of sewage, sewage effluent, polluted
waters or industrial waste, means the quantity of dissolved oxygen in
milligrams per liter required during stabilization of the decomposable organic
matter by aerobic biochemical action under standard laboratory procedures for
five days at 20°C. A laboratory determination of BOD shall be made in
accordance with procedure set forth in Standard Methods, therein and
conventionally referred to as BOD.
      BUILDING DRAIN. The lowest horizontal piping of a building drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil pipes, waste pipes and other
drainage pipes inside a building and conveys it to a point outside the
building.
      COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and
stormwater or surface water.
      COMPATIBLE POLLUTANTS. Wastewater having or containing:
         (a)   Biochemical oxygen demand;
         (b)   Suspended solids;
         (c)    pH;
         (d)   Fecal coliform bacteria; or
         (e)   Additional pollutants identified or defined in the town’s
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit or by the state
or Town Council.
      CONSTITUENTS AND CHARACTERISTICS (OF WASTE WATER). The chemical,
physical, bacteriological and radiological properties, including volume, flow
rate and such other properties, which serve to define, classify or measure the
contents, quality, quantity and strength of wastewater.
      EFFLUENT. The water, together with any wastes that may be present,
flowing out of the drain, receptacle or outlet.
      GARBAGE. Any solid waste from the preparation of or cooking or dispensing
of food or from the handling, storage or sale of produce.
      INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANTS. Any pollutants which are not compatible
pollutants.
      INDUSTRIAL WASTES. Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance or form of
energy discharged that is permitted to flow into or enter the sewage system or
ground from an industrial, manufacturing, commercial or business process, or
from the development, recovery or processing of any natural resource carried on
by any person, and shall further mean any waste from an industrial use, but not
including sanitary sewage or stormwater.
      INFILTRATION. The water entering the sewage system directly or via
private sewers, building drains, building sewers connected therewith or from
the ground through such means as, but not limited to, defective pipe joints,
connections or manhole walls.
      INFLOW. Water other than wastewater entering the sewage system from
sources such as liters, cellars, yard areas and foundation drains, drains from
springs and swampy areas, manhole areas, cross-connections between storm and
sanitary sewers, catch basins, cooling towers, stormwater, surface runoff and
street wastewater or drainage.
      INSPECTOR. A person authorised by the Town Council or the Superintendent
to perform inspection duties assigned to him or her by the Town Council or
Superintendent.
      LATERAL SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the sewage system
or other place of disposal.
      MAY. Is permissive.
      NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE. Sewage such as is discharged by residential users
with a BOD concentration not in excess of 200 milligrams per liter and a
suspended solids concentration not in excess of 200 milligrams per liter.
      NPDES PERMIT or NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM PERMIT.
The National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit now or hereafter
held by the town and setting forth conditions for the discharge of any
pollutants or combination of pollutants.
      NUISANCE. Any substance which is injurious to health or offensive to the
senses or any obstruction to the free use of property so as to interfere with
the comfort or enjoyment of life or property.
      PERSON. Any natural person, or public or private corporation, or any
other entity whatsoever.
      pH. The conventional scientific measure of the degree of acidity of
alkalinity.
      POLLUTION. An alteration of the quality of water by waste, contaminants
or pollutants to a degree which renders such water unfit for beneficial uses.
      PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer owned by the town.
      SANITARY SEWAGE. Sewage such as, and having the characteristics of, the
domestic sewage of dwellings, including apartment houses and hotels, and office
buildings, factories or institutions, which is free from stormwater, surface
water and industrial wastes.
      SANITARY SEWER. A sewer intended to carry only sanitary or sanitary and
industrial wastewaters from users.
      SEWAGE. The water-carried waste from residences, business buildings,
institutions and industrial establishments, singular or in any combination,
together with such groundwaters, surface waters and stormwaters which may be
present.
      SEWAGE SYSTEM. The network of publicly owned sewers and appurtenances
used for the collection, transporting and pumping of wastewater to the
wastewater treatment plant or lagoons and the wastewater treatment plant and
sewage lagoons themselves.
      SEWER. A pipe or conduit laid for carrying sewage or other liquids and
solids suspended or entrained therein.
      SHALL. Is mandatory.
      SHREDDED GARBAGE. Garbage that is shredded to such a degree that all
particles will be carried freely in suspension under the conditions normally
prevailing in the sewer system, with no particle being greater than one-half
inch in dimension.
      S.S. or SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids which either float on the surface of or
are in suspension in water sewage or other liquid and which are removable by
laboratory filtration. Their concentrations shall be expressed in milligrams
per liter.
      STORM SEWER. A sewer intended to carry only stormwater, surface runoff,
street wash water and drainage.
      TOWN. The Town of Patriot, Indiana.
      TOWN COUNCIL. The Patriot Town Council, acting as the Municipal Works
Board.
      USER. A person who introduces into or discharges into, including both the
owner and occupant of real estate from which is introduced or discharged into
the sewage system, any substance whatsoever.
      USER CLASSES. The division of sewage treatment customers by source,
function, waste characteristics and process or discharge similarities.
         (a)   COMMERCIAL USER. Transient lodging, retail and wholesale
establishments or places engaged in providing merchandise for personal,
household or industrial consumption and/or rendering services to others.
         (b)   GOVERNMENT USER. A user engaged in legislative, judicial or
administrative activities of federal, state and local governments, such as
courthouses, police and fire stations, town halls and similar governmental
users.
         (c)   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any user who discharges industrial waste, as
defined herein.
         (d)   INSTITUTIONAL USER. A publicly or privately owned school,
hospital, nursing home, prison or other similar institution whose wastes are
segregated domestic waste.
         (e)   MULTIPLE USER. A user who introduces only normal domestic sewage
from multiple-family dwellings, such as duplexes, apartment houses or
condominiums, where the quantity of water is measured by a single meter.
         (f)   RESIDENTIAL USER. A user who introduces only normal domestic
sewage from a single-family dwelling into the sewage system and where the
quantity of water usage is measured by a single meter, or whose water usage is
not metered in such a manner that adequate measurement is not available to the
sewer utility.
      WASTE. Sanitary sewage and any and all other waste substances, liquid,
solid, gaseous or radioactive, associated with human habitation, or of human or
animal origin, or from any producing, processing, manufacturing or industrial
operation of whatever nature, including such waste placed within containers of
whatever nature prior to and for the purpose of disposal.
      WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement or devices or structures or
lagoons used by the town for the treatment and disposing of sewage, sludge and
other sewage constituents and products.
(Ord. 91-2-09, passed 10-2-1991)
§ 51.002 SCOPE, COMPLIANCE WITH STATE AND FEDERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the state or the County
Board of Health.
   (B)   All provisions of this chapter and limits set herein shall comply with
any applicable state or federal requirements now or projected to be in effect.
(Ord. 91-2-09, passed 10-2-1991)
§ 51.003 SPECIAL AGREEMENTS WITH INDUSTRIAL CONCERNS.
   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the town and any industrial concern
whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by
the town for treatment, subject to payment therefore by the industrial concern,
provided, however, that the payment shall not be less than the pollutant
surcharges provided for in
Chapter 52 and the resolutions amendatory thereof and supplemental thereto.
(Ord. 91-2-09, passed 10-2-1991)
§ 51.004 INTERRUPTIONS OF SERVICE.
   The town shall make all reasonable efforts to eliminate interruptions of
service, and when such an interruption occurs, will endeavor to reestablish
service with the shortest possible delay. Whenever the service is interrupted
for the purpose of working on the collection system or the treatment equipment,
all customers affected by such interruption will be notified in advance
whenever it is possible to do so.
(Ord. 91-2-09, passed 10-2-1991)
§ 51.005 DAMAGING SEWAGE WORKS.
   No unauthorized person shall knowingly, intentionally or recklessly break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with a structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the sewage works.
(Ord. 91-2-09, passed 10-2-1991) Penalty, see §
10.99
CONNECTION AND INSTALLATION
§ 51.020 CONNECTION TO SEWER REQUIRED.
   (A)   The owners of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes that are situated within
the town and abutting any road or highway, or where, in the future, may be
located a public sewer of the town, are hereby required, at their expense, to
connect such houses, buildings or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes directly with the proper public sewer,
in accordance with the provision of this chapter, within 90 days after the date
of official notice to do so, provided that said public sewer is within 300 feet
of the property line.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require the connection
of any such structure to a sewer if waste is not generated in such structure.
(Ord. 91-2-09, passed 10-2-1991) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.021 SEPTIC TANKS, PRIVIES, CESSPOOLS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended for the disposal of sewage.
   (B)   (1)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property
served by a sewage disposal system, as provided, a direct connection from the
user (source) side of the house, building or property shall be made to the
public sewer in compliance with this chapter. Any septic tanks, cesspools and
similar private sewage disposal facilities shall be properly abandoned.
      (2)   Septic tanks shall be pumped and filled with granular backfill or
removed. Steel tanks must be removed.
(Ord. 91-2-09, passed 10-2-1991) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.022 LATERAL SEWERS.
   (A)   (1)   The Town Council shall require the owner to install, at his or
her expense, that portion of the service from the main to the house, building
or property.
      (2)   The Municipal Utilities is responsible for maintenance of the main
sewer lines only. Property owners are responsible for sewer lines from the
sewer tap to the point of destination at the dwelling.
   (B)   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection
of the lateral sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner or the person
installing the building sewer for said owner shall indemnify the town from any
loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by said
installation.
   (C)   A separate and independent lateral sewer shall be provided for each
building, except where otherwise permitted by the Town Council.
   (D)   Old lateral sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found on examination and test by the Superintendent to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
   (E)   (1)   The size and slope of lateral sewers shall be subject to the
approval of the Superintendent, but in no event shall the diameter be less than
four inches for single-family or duplex residential units and not less than six
inches for all other uses. The slope of such four-inch pipes shall not be less
than one-fourth inch per foot or of sufficient slope to maintain two feet per
second velocity in the sewer.
      (2)   In cases where there is very little fall in a customer’s sewer line
in regards to the utility main sewer line and in low-lying areas, it is the
responsibility of the owner to install, at no expense to the Utility, a one-way
flow-check valve at a point in his or her sewer line to protect his or her
property.
   (F)   No lateral sewer shall be laid parallel to or within three feet of any
bearing wall which might thereby be weakened. The depth shall be sufficient to
afford protection from frost. The lateral sewer shall be laid at a uniform
grade and in straight alignment insofar as possible. Changes in direction shall
be made only with properly curved pipes and fittings.
(Ord. 91-2-09, passed 10-2-1991; Ord. 92-9-01, passed 9-2-1992)
§ 51.023 BUILDING SEWERS.
   (A)   The building sewer shall be ABS or PVC-SDR35 and shall be tight and
waterproof as required by the Uniform Plumbing Code, being 675 I.A.C. 16-1.4-
1 et seq. for the pipe installed.
   (B)   The customer shall furnish and install a clean-out in the customer’s
sewer for maintenance requirements.
(Ord. 91-2-09, passed 10-2-1991; Ord. 92-9-01, passed 9-2-1992)
§ 51.024 BUILDING DRAINS.
   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit gravity
flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such drains shall be
lifted by approved artificial means and discharged to the lateral sewer.
(Ord. 91-2-09, passed 10-2-1991)
§ 51.025 PERMIT REQUIRED TO UNCOVER, ALTER SEWER OR SEWER APPURTENANCE.
   No authorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenances thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the town.
(Ord. 91-2-09, passed 10-2-1991) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.026 EXCAVATION AND INSTALLATION.
   (A)   The contractor, builder or customer shall furnish to the Utility the
address of the property, the location of the sewer line on the property and the
location of the sewer tap at the main sewer line.
   (B)   The materials and sewer tap will be in accordance with specifications
of the Municipal Utilities. The Municipal Utilities will inspect and approve
the sewer tap before the builder, contractor or customer fills in the sewer
line. All materials used will be at no expense to the Utilities.
   (C)   All excavations required for the installation of a building sewer
shall be open-trench work unless otherwise approved by the Superintendent. Pipe
laying and backfill shall be performed in accordance with the Superintendent’s
specifications, and no backfill shall be placed until the work has been
inspected by the Superintendent or his or her representative.
   (D)   All excavations for lateral sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and 1ights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the town.
(Ord. 91-2-09, passed 10-2-1991; Ord. 92-9-01, passed 9-2-1992) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.027 INSPECTION AND SUPERVISION OF WORK.
   The applicant for a lateral sewer permit shall notify the Superintendent 24
hours in advance of when the lateral sewer is ready for inspection and
connection to the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the
supervision of the Superintendent or his or her representative.
(Ord. 91-2-09, passed 10-2-1991) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.028 JOINTS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   All joints and connections shall be made gas-tight and water-tight.
   (B)   PVC joints shall be of either molded rubber, elastomeric gasketed or
rubber-ring type, all as defined and approved in the Uniform Plumbing Code,
being 675 I.A.C. 16-1.4-1 et seq.
   (C)   Cast iron joints shall be either caulked, threaded flexible
compressions factory-fabricated, mechanical, elastomeric or rubber-ring type.
   (D)   All joints in vitrified clay pipe shall be made with ASTM C425-type
joints. Joints between clay pipe and pipe of other materials shall be made with
approved adaptor fittings or prefabricated elastomeric sealing rings or
sleeves.
   (E)   Other joint materials and methods may be used by approval of the
Superintendent.
(Ord. 91-2-09, passed 10-2-1991)
§ 51.029 MAIN SEWER LINE EXTENSIONS.
   Whenever it becomes necessary to extend a main sewer line into a subdivision
plot of ground or group of lots owned or purchased by a builder or contractor,
the extension will be made at no expense to the Utility.
(Ord. 92-9-01, passed 9-2-1992)
DISCHARGES AND DEPOSITS
§ 51.040 EXCREMENT, GARBAGE OR OBJECTIONABLE WASTE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner upon public or private property within the
town, or in any area under the jurisdiction thereof, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
(Ord. 91-2-09, passed 10-2-1991) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.041 UNTREATED DISCHARGES OR DEPOSITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet with the town,
or in any area under the jurisdiction thereof, any sanitary sewage, industrial
waste or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been
provided in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   No person shall place, deposit or permit to be deposited in any
unsanitary manner on public or private property within the jurisdiction of the
town any sewage or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has
been provided in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and the NPDES
permit.
(Ord. 91-2-09, passed 10-2-1991) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.042 CLEAR WATER CONNECTIONS.
   All future clear water connections are prohibited.
(Ord. 91-2-09, passed 10-2-1991) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.043 DISCHARGE OF STORMWATER, ROOF RUNOFF AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater, surface
water, groundwater, roof runoff or subsurface drainage to any sanitary sewer.
Stormwater and all other unpolluted waters shall be discharged to such sewers
as are specifically designed as storm sewers or to natural outlets.
(Ord. 91-2-09, passed 10-2-1991) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.044 DISCHARGE OF UNPOLLUTED WATER.
   Unpolluted water from air conditioners, cooling, condensing systems or
swimming pools shall be discharged into a storm sewer where such is available.
Where a storm sewer is not available, discharge may be discharged to a natural
outlet approved by the town or by the state. Where a storm sewer or natural
sewer is not available, such unpolluted water may be discharged to a sanitary
sewer by obtaining written approval by the Town Council.
(Ord. 91-2-09, passed 10-2-1991) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.045 DISCHARGE OF INDUSTRIAL COOLING WATER.
   Industrial cooling water, which may be polluted with insoluble oils or
grease or suspended solids, shall be pretreated for the removal of pollutants,
and the resultant clear water shall be discharged in accordance with §
51.044 of this code.
(Ord. 91-2-09, passed 10-2-1991) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.046 WATERS OR WASTES PROHIBITED IN PUBLIC SEWERS.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   (A)   Any gasoline, benzene, naptha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
   (B)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or
gases in sufficient quantities, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant;
   (C)   Any waters or wastes having corrosive properties capable of causing
damage or hazard to structures, equipment and personnel of the sewage works; or
   (D)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other interference with the proper
operation of the sewer works, such as, but not limited to, ashes, cinders,
sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar, plastics, wood,
unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and fleshings, entrails or
paper dishes, cups, mild containers and the like, either whole or ground by
garbage grinders.
(Ord. 91-2-09, passed 10-2-1991) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.047 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following, to
wit:
   (A)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F, 65°C;
   (B)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 milligrams per liter, of which not more
than 25 milligrams per liter is soluble oils, or containing substances which
may solidify or become so highly viscous so as to retard flow in the sewer
system at temperatures between 32°F and 150°F (0°C and 65°C);
   (C)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation and
operation of any garbage grinder (other than in a residence) may be subject to
the review and approval of the Superintendent;
   (D)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron, pickling aster or
concentrated plating solutions, whether neutralized or not;
   (E)   Any waters or wastes exceeding the following maximum allowable limits
or similar objectionable or toxic substances or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement to such a degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the Superintendent for such materials:
Material Amount
Material       Amount
Cadmium        0.2 mg/l
Copper         1.0 mg/l
Cyanide        1.0 mg/l
Fluoride       500.0 mg/l
Iron           50.0 mg/l
Nickel         1.0 mg/l
Phenol         2.0 mg/l
Total Chromium 2.0 mg/l
Zinc           4.0 mg/l
 
   (F)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other waste or odor-
producing substances, after treatment of the composite sewage, in such
concentrations exceeding limits which may be established by the Superintendent
as necessary to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other public
agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the respective waters;
   (G)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or concentration
as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in compliance with
applicable state or federal regulations;
   (H)   Any waters or wastes having a pH of less than 6 or in excess of 9;
   (I)   Materials which exert or cause:
      (1)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids, such as, but not
limited to, fuller’s earth or lime slurries (and such as, but not limited to,
sodium chloride and sodium sulfate);
      (2)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
      (3)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand and chlorine requirements in
such quantities so as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
plant; or
      (4)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes.
   (J)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such a degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
(Ord. 91-2-09, passed 10-2-1991) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.048 INTERCEPTORS.
   (A)   Fats, grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts or any flammable wastes,
sand or other harmful ingredients. All interceptors shall be of a type and
capacity approved by the Superintendent and shall be located so as to be
readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. Provided, however,
that approval of any such interceptors by the Superintendent shall not relieve
any person of the responsibility of complying with the discharge requirements
of this chapter.
   (B)   Fats, grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be constructed of
impervious materials capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in
temperature. They shall be of substantial construction, water-tight and
equipped with easily removable covers which, when bolted in place, shall be
gas-tight and water-tight.
   (C)   Where installed, all fats, grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be
maintained by the owner, at his or her own expense, in continuously efficient
operation at all times.
(Ord. 91-2-09, passed 10-2-1991) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.049 PRETREATMENT.
   (A)   (1)   The admission into the public sewers of any waters or wastes
having the following shall be subject to the review and approval of the
Superintendent:
         (a)   A five-day BOD greater than 200 milligrams per liter by weight;
         (b)   Containing more than 200 milligrams per liter by weight of
suspended solids;
         (c)   Containing more than 30 milligrams per liter by weight of
ammonia nitrogen;
         (d)   Containing any quantity of substances having characteristics
described in §
51.047 of this code; or
         (e)   Having an average daily flow greater than 5% of the average
daily sewer flow of the town.
      (2)   Where necessary in the opinion of the Superintendent, the owner
shall provide, at his or her expense, such preliminary treatment as may be
necessary to:
         (a)   Reduce BOD to 200 milligrams per liter, suspended solids to 200
milligrams per liter by weight and ammonia nitrogen to 30 milligrams per liter
by weight;
         (b)   Reduce the objectionable characteristics or constituents to
within the maximum limits provided in §
51.047 of this code;
         (c)   Control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters or
wastes; or
         (d)   Be subject to surcharge.
   (B)   Where preliminary treatment facilities are provided for any waters or
wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective
operation by the owner at his or her expense.
   (C)   The pretreatment of industrial wastes from a major contributor prior
to discharge to the treatment works is required and is subject to the rules and
regulations adopted by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and published
in the Federal Register (40 C.F.R. part 403, Pretreatment Standards), in
addition to any more stringent requirements established by the town and any
subsequent state or federal guidelines and rules and regulations.
   (D)   Plans, specifications and any other pertinent information relating to
pretreatment or control facilities shall be submitted for approval of the town
and the State Environmental Management Board, and no construction of such
facilities shall be commenced until approval, in writing, is granted. Where
such facilities are provided, they shall be maintained continuously in
satisfactory and effective operating order by the owner at his or her expense
and shall be subject to periodic inspection by the town to determine that such
facilities are being operated in conformance with applicable federal, state and
local laws and permits. The owner shall maintain operating records and shall
submit to the town a monthly summary report of the character of the influent
and effluent to show the performance of the treatment facilities and for
comparison against town monitoring records.
(Ord. 91-2-09, passed 10-2-1991) Penalty, see §
10.99
ADMINISTRATION, TESTING AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 51.060 SUPERINTENDENT DECIDES REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substance or possess
the characteristics enumerated in §
51.047 of this code, and which, in the judgment of the Superintendent, may have
a deleterious effect upon the sewage works processes, equipment or receiving
waters or sludges, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a
public nuisance, the Superintendent shall:
      (1)   Require new industries or industries with a significant increase in
discharges to submit information on wastewater characteristics and obtain prior
approval for discharges;
      (2)   Require other methods of disposal;
      (3)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
      (4)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge;
      (5)   Require facilities to prevent accidental discharge of any
unacceptable waste; and/or
      (6)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by sewer charges under the provisions of
Chapter 52 and all resolutions amendatory thereof and supplemental thereto, and
any fines, penalties or damages assessed against the town of discharge of such
wastes.
   (B)   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plans and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent and subject to the
requirements of all applicable ordinances and laws.
(Ord. 91-2-09, passed 10-2-1991)
§ 51.061 TOWN COUNCIL RIGHT TO REJECT WASTES, CHARGE FOR TREATMENT.
   (A)   The Town Council shall have the right to reject industrial wastes, in
whole or in part, for any reason.
   (B)   The Town Council shall reserve the right to treat compatible
industrial wastes for a surcharge, if such waters are in excess or normal
domestic sewage levels, to cover the added costs of treating such sewage.
(Ord. 91-2-09, passed 10-2-1991)
§ 51.062 NPDES PERMIT SETS LIMITATIONS.
   The NPDES permit now held by the town sets forth effluent limitations on
average monthly concentrations of BOD (30 milligrams per liter) and suspended
solids (30 milligrams per liter).
(Ord. 91-2-09, passed 10-2-1991)
§ 51.063 STANDARD METHODS USED TO DETERMINE.
   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which references are made in §§
51.047 and
51.060 herein shall be determined in accordance with Standard Methods.
(Ord. 91-2-09, passed 10-2-1991)
§ 51.064 INDUSTRIAL WASTE INSPECTION AND TESTING; RESPONSIBILITY FOR
FACILITIES.
   (A)   (1)   Any industrial wastes discharged into the public sewers shall be
subject to periodic inspection and determination of volume, character and
concentration. The examination shall be made as often as the Superintendent
deems it necessary and may include the use of suitable continuously monitoring
instruments in appropriate cases.
      (2)   Samples shall be collected either manually or by approved
mechanical devises and in such a manner so as to be representative of the
overall composition of the wastes. Every care shall be exercised in collecting
the samples to ensure their preservation until analyzed, and in a state
comparable to that at the time the samples were collected.
   (B)   (1)   The installation, operation and maintenance of the flow
measuring and sampling facilities shall be the responsibility of the person
discharging the wastes and shall be subject to the approval of the
Superintendent.
      (2)   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property
served by a lateral sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable
control manhole in the lateral sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and
measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be constructed in
accordance with plans approved by the Superintendent. The manhole shall be
installed by the owner at his or her expense and shall be maintained by him or
her so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
(Ord. 91-2-09, passed 10-2-1991) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.065 SUPPLYING WASTEWATER FLOW CHARACTERISTICS.
   The town may require users of the treatment works, other than residential
users, to supply pertinent information on wastewater flow characteristics. Such
measurements, tests and analyses shall be made at the user’s expense. If made
by the town, an appropriate charge may be assessed to the user at the option of
the town.
(Ord. 91-2-09, passed 10-2-1991)
§ 51.066 CHARGES ESTABLISHED BY PERIODIC SAMPLING.
   The strength of wastewaters shall be determined for the periodic
establishment of charges provided for in
Chapter 52 of this code from samples taken at the aforementioned structure at
any period of time and of such duration and in such manner as the town may
elect, or at any place mutually agreed upon between the user and the town.
Appropriate charges for sampling and analysis may be assessed to the user at
the option of the town. The results of routine sampling and analysis by the
user may also be used for the determination of charges after verification by
the town.
(Ord. 91-2-09, passed 10-2-1991)
§ 51.067 RIGHT TO ENTER AND INSPECT.
   (A)   The Superintendent, Inspector and other duly authorized employees of
the town and State Department of Environmental Management and U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency employees bearing credentials and
identification shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purpose of
inspection, observation, measurements, sampling and testing in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter. The Superintendent or his or her
representatives, State Department of Environmental Management employees and
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) employees shall have no authority to
inquire into any processes, including metallurgical, chemical, oil refining,
ceramic, paper or other industries, beyond that point having a direct bearing
on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities
for waste treatment.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in §
51.064(A) of this code, the Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the
town shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by
the company, and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the
town employees, and the town shall indemnify the company against loss or damage
to its property by town employees against liability claims and demands for
personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing out
of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by
negligence or the failure of the company to maintain safe conditions.
   (C)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the town
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the town holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 91-2-09, passed 10-2-1991)
§ 51.068 IMMEDIATE NOTIFICATION OF UNUSUAL FLOWS.
   Users of the treatment works shall immediately notify the town of any
unusual flows or wastes that are discharged, accidently or otherwise, to the
sewer system.
(Ord. 91-2-09, passed 10-2-1991) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.069 VIOLATIONS AND APPEALS.
   Regarding violation of any provisions of this chapter, the following
provisions apply.
   (A)   Any person found violating any provision of §§
51.002,
51.003,
51.005,
51.020—
51.028,
51.040—
51.049 or
51.060—
51.069 of this chapter, except §
51.049(C), shall be served by the town with written notice stating the nature
of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   (B)   The Town Council will enforce by mandamus, injunction or other legal
remedy these rules and regulations and will remove any harmful or improper
construction or obstruction, or will close any opening or connection made
improperly or in violation of these rules and regulations, under authority
provided in the state statutes.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the town for any expense, loss or damage occasioned the town
or downstream users by reason of such violation.
   (D)   The Town Council shall have full power to invoke any authorized legal,
equitable or special remedy for any illegal connection to its system.
   (E)   (1)   Any user affected by any decision, action or determination,
including cease and desist orders, any permit issued herein, or any action,
decision or regulation of the Town Council adopted thereto may file with the
Town Council a written request and review of consideration within ten days of
such decision, action or determination, setting forth in detail the facts
supporting the user’s request for reconsideration.
      (2)   The appeal shall, if reasonably possible, be heard by the Town
Council within ten days of the date of filing.
      (3)   Further appeal is available through the County Circuit Court under
appeal procedures provided for under the State Administrative Adjudication Act,
being I.C. 4-21.5-3-1 et seq.
(Ord. 91-2-09, passed 10-2-1991) Penalty, see §
10.99
BILLING AND COLLECTION
§ 51.080 MAILING OF BILLS AND NOTICES.
   Bills and notices relating to the conduct of the business of the town will
be mailed to the customer at the address listed on the permit unless a change
of address has been filed, in writing, at the business office of the town, and
the town shall not otherwise be responsible for the delivery of any bill or
notice, nor will the customer be excused from nonpayment of a bill or from any
performance required in said notice.
(Ord. 91-2-09, passed 10-2-1991)
§ 51.081 DUE DATE.
   Bills for sewer service are due and payable at the business office of the
town or to any designated agent on their date of issue. The past due date shall
be the seventeenth day of the month after the period of service. Bills will be
dated and mailed each month.
(Ord. 91-2-09, passed 10-2-1991)
§ 51.082 DEPOSIT TO ESTABLISH OR MAINTAIN CREDIT.
   Where the sewer service supplied to a customer has been disconnected for
nonpayment of a delinquent bill, the town reserves the right to request that a
nominal sum be placed on deposit with the town for the purpose of establishing
or maintaining any customers’ credit. The reconnection will not be made until
after all delinquent bills and other charges, if any, owed by the customer to
the town have been paid.
(Ord. 91-2-09, passed 10-2-1991)
CHAPTER 52: SEWER RATES AND CHARGES
Section
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   User charge system methodology
   
52.03   Biennial study to determine rates and charges
   
52.04   Town authority to regulate and enforce
   
52.05   Establishment of user charges
   
52.06   Determination of sewer flow charges
   
52.07   Rates and charges for service
   
52.08   Surcharge for stronger-than-normal domestic sewage
   
52.09   Connection fee
   
52.10   Application and adjustment of charges
   
52.11   Charge adjusted for confirmed water leak
   
52.12   Exemption from charges for aboveground and in-ground pools
   
52.13   Exemption from charges for hot tubs and the like
   
52.14   Billing; due date; late penalty
   
52.15   Appeals
   
52.16   Application to town departments and agencies
   
52.17   Effective dates
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMMONIA NITROGEN or NH3N. Has the same meaning as defined in
Chapter 51 of this code.
   BOD or BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. Has the same meaning as defined in
Chapter 51 of this code.
   DEBT SERVICE COSTS. The average annual principal and interest payments on
all outstanding revenue bonds or other long-term capital debt.
   EXCESSIVE STRENGTH SURCHARGE. An additional charge which is billed to users
for treating sewer wastes with an average strength in excess of normal domestic
sewage.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance or form of energy
discharged which is permitted to flow into or enter the sewage system or ground
from an industrial, manufacturing, commercial or business process or from the
development, recovery or processing of any natural resource carried on by any
person, and shall further mean any waste from an industrial user, but not
including sanitary sewage or stormwater.
   MAY. Is permissive.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE. Such as is discharged by residential users with a
BOD concentration not in excess of 200 milligrams per liter, a suspended solids
concentration not in excess of 200 milligrams per liter and an ammonia nitrogen
concentration not in excess of 30 milligrams per liter.
   NPDES. The National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System setting forth
conditions for the discharge of any pollutants or combination of pollutants.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS. All costs, direct and indirect, necessary
to provide adequate wastewater collection, transport and treatment on a
continuing basis and produce discharges to receiving waters that conform with
all related federal, state and local requirements.
   OTHER SERVICE CHARGES. Tap charges, connection charges, area charges and
other identifiable charges other than user charges, debt service charges and
excessive strength surcharges.
   PERSON. Any natural person, or public or private corporation, or any other
entity whatsoever.
   REPLACEMENT COSTS. The expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories and/or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of
the sewage works equipment to maintain the capacity and performance for which
such works were designed and constructed.
   SEWAGE. Has the same meaning as defined in
Chapter 51 of this code.
   SHALL. Is mandatory.
   S.S. or SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Has the same meaning as defined in
Chapter 51 of this code.
   TOWN. The Town of Patriot, Indiana.
   TOWN COUNCIL. The Patriot Town Council, acting as the Municipal Works Board.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of the wastewater treatment works for
the cost of operation and maintenance of such works, pursuant to § 96 of Pub.
Law No. 309 (1981).
   USER CLASSES. The division of sewage treatment customers by source,
function, waste characteristics and process or discharge similarities.
      (1)   COMMERCIAL USER. Transient lodging, retail and wholesale
establishments or places engaged in providing merchandise for personal,
household or industrial consumption and/or rendering service to others.
      (2)   GOVERNMENTAL USER. A user engaged in legislative, judicial or
administrative activities of federal, state and local governments, such as
courthouses, police and fire stations, town halls and similar governmental
users.
      (3)   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any user who discharges industrial waste as
defined herein.
      (4)   INSTITUTIONAL USER. A publicly or privately owned school, hospital,
nursing home, prison or other similar institution whose wastes are segregated
domestic wastes.
      (5)   MULTIPLE USER. A user who introduces only normal domestic sewage
from multiple-family dwellings, such as duplexes, apartment houses or
condominiums, into the sewage system and where the quantity of water is
measured by a single meter.
      (6)   RESIDENTIAL USER. A user who introduces only normal domestic sewage
from a single-family dwelling into the sewage system and where the quantity of
water usage is measured by a single meter, or whose water usage is not metered
in such a manner that adequate measurement is not available to the sewer
utility.
(Ord. 91-18-09, passed 10-2-1991)
§ 52.02 USER CHARGE SYSTEM METHODOLOGY.
   (A)   A user charge system of sewage collection, treatment and disposal
should accomplish three primary objectives. They are:
      (1)   The charges should be proportional to the cost of service among
user groups and within user groups. All users should pay the same, except where
it can be established that the cost of providing service is not the same for
all users or for all classes of users;
      (2)   The charges should be sufficient to provide revenues adequate to
pay for the operation and maintenance of the system, the retirement of debt and
the establishment of reasonable reserves for contingencies; and
      (3)   The user charge system should provide for a surcharge, to be based
upon the contribution of strength determined to be stronger-than-normal
domestic strength.
   (B)   The methodology will be that described in the user charge system
developed pursuant to 40 C.F.R. § 35.2140.
(Ord. 91-18-09, passed 10-2-1991)
§ 52.03 BIENNIAL STUDY TO DETERMINE RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   In order that the rates and charges for sewage services shall be in
proportion to the cost of providing services to the various users or user
classes, the town shall cause a study to be made within a reasonable period of
time following the first two years of operation. Such study shall include, but
not be limited to, an analysis of the costs associated with the treatment of
excessive strength effluents from industrial users, volume and delivery flow
rate characteristics attributed to the various users or user classes, the
financial position of the sewage works and the adequacy of its revenue to
provide reasonable funds for operation and maintenance, replacement, debt
service requirements and capital improvements to the waste treatment system.
The results of said study shall be utilized by the town to adjust rates as
necessary to align revenues with costs.
   (B)   Thereafter, on a biennial basis, within a reasonable period of time
following the normal accounting period, the district shall cause a similar
study to be made for the purpose of reviewing the proportionality of rates and
charges for sewage services on a continuing basis.
   (C)   Said studies shall be conducted by officers or employees of the town
or by a firm of certified public accountants or engineers, as the town shall
determine to be best under the circumstances.
(Ord. 91-18-09, passed 10-2-1991)
§ 52.04 TOWN AUTHORITY TO REGULATE AND ENFORCE.
   The town shall make and enforce such ordinances, bylaws and regulations as
may be deemed necessary for the safe, economical and efficient management of
the town’s sewage system, pumping station and sewage treatment works, for the
construction and use of house sewers and connections to the sewage system and
for the regulation, collection, rebating and refunding of such rates and
charges.
(Ord. 91-18-09, passed 10-2-1991)
§ 52.05 ESTABLISHMENT OF USER CHARGES.
   (A)   Every person whose premises are served by said sewage utility shall be
charged for the services provided. These charges are established for each user
class, as defined, in order that the sewer utility shall recover from each user
and user class revenue which is proportional to its use of the treatment works
in terms of volume and load. User charges are levied to defray the cost of
operation and maintenance. User charges shall be uniform in magnitude within a
user class. No free service shall be provided to any user, including
governmental. Annexation shall not be a prerequisite for treatment.
   (B)   User charges are subject to the rules and regulations adopted by the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, published in the Federal Register (40
C.F.R.§ 35.2140, Replacement Costs), which may be recovered through the system
of user charges and shall be based upon the expected service life of the sewage
works equipment.
(Ord. 91-18-09, passed 10-2-1991)
§ 52.06 DETERMINATION OF SEWER FLOW CHARGES.
   The sewer flow charges shall be based on the quantity of water as measured
by the water meter used on or in the premises subject to such sewer charges.
(Ord. 91-18-09, passed 10-2-1991)
§ 52.07 RATES AND CHARGES FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   For the use of and the service rendered by said sewage utility, rates
and charges shall be collected from the owners of each and every lot, parcel of
real estate or building that is connected with the town sanitary system or
otherwise discharges sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or other
liquids, either directly or indirectly, into the sanitary sewage system of the
town.
   (B)   Such rates and charges include user charges, debt service costs,
excessive strength surcharges and other service charges, which rates and
charges shall be payable as hereinafter provided and shall be in an amount
determinable as follows:
      (1)   Schedule of minimum monthly bill for a 5/8-inch meter.
 
              Rate per 1,000 Monthly Rate per Minimum Monthly Monthly Minimum
Class         Gallons        User             Usage 5/8-Inch  Bill 5/8-Inch
                                              Meter           Meter
Commercial    $6.74          $0.61            2,300 gallons   $16.11
Governmental  $6.74          $0.61            2,300 gallons   $16.11
Industrial    $6.74          $0.61            2,300 gallons   $16.11
Institutional $6.74          $0.61            2,300 gallons   $16.11
Multiple user $6.74          $0.61            2,300 gallons   $16.11
Residential   $6.74          $0.61            2,300 gallons   $16.11
 
      (2)   Schedule of minimum monthly bill by water meter size.
 
Meter Size     Minimum Usage  Minimum Bill
5/8-inch meter 2,300 gallons  $35.85
3/4-inch meter 3,450 gallons  $55.35
1-inch meter   5,750 gallons  $87.62
2-inch meter   23,000 gallons $346.33
3-inch meter   52,900 gallons $794.79
4-inch meter   94,390 gallons $1,415.72
 
      (3)   Schedule of rates and charges.
         (a)   All users with a 5/8-inch meter. The minimum charge shall be
$16.11 for the first 2,300 gallons per month. For all usage in excess of 2,300
gallons per month, the charge shall be $6.74 per 1,000 gallons.
         (b)   All users with larger than 5/8-inch meters. The minimum charge
shall be in accordance with the prescribed schedule. For all usage in excess of
the minimum allowance, the charge shall be $6.74 per 1,000 gallons.
         (c)   Usage in excess of the minimum. The charge for usage in excess
of the minimum shall be $15.
   (C)   All users shall be required to have a meter.
(Ord. 91-18-09, passed 10-2-1991; Ord. 2-2021, passed - -2021)
§ 52.08 SURCHARGE FOR STRONGER-THAN-NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE.
   (A)   (1)   In order that the rates and charges may be in proportion to the
service rendered to users, the town shall base its charges not only on the
volume, but also on the strength and character, of the stronger-than-normal
domestic sewage and wastes which it is required to treat and dispose of. The
town shall require the user to determine the strength and content of all sewage
and wastes discharged, either directly or indirectly, into the sanitary sewage
system in such manner and by such method as the town may deem practicable in
light of the conditions and attending circumstances of the case in order to
determine the proper charge. The user shall furnish a central sampling point
available to the town at all times.
      (2)   An excessive strength surcharge shall be assessed to users
determined to be contributors of EXCESSIVE STRENGTH, defined as being in excess
of normal domestic sewage strength. Additional charges for treating stronger-
than-normal domestic sewage shall be made on the following basis:
 
Material                                                 Additional Charge
Ammonia nitrogen received in excess of 30 mg/l of fluid  $0.80 per pound
BOD received in excess of 200 mg/l of fluid              $0.25 per pound
Suspended solids received in excess of 200 mg/l of fluid $0.25 per pound
 
   (B)   The determination of suspended solids, five-day biochemical oxygen
demand and ammonia nitrogen contained in the waste shall be in accordance with
the latest copy of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water, Sewage and
Industrial Wastes, as written by the American Public Health Association, the
American Waterworks Association and the Water Pollution Control Federation, and
in conformance with Guidelines Establishing Test Procedures for Analysis of
Pollutants, 40 C.F.R. part 136, published in the Federal Register on October
16, 1973.
(Ord. 91-18-09, passed 10-2-1991)
§ 52.09 CONNECTION FEE.
   (A)   For each new connection to the sewage system, there shall be assessed
to the user a connection fee of $150 if connection is completed prior to 90
days after completion of the sewer system.
   (B)   Ninety-one days after completion of the sewer system and thereafter,
the connection fee shall be $350. Prior to connection, each owner must have his
or her portion of the connection inspected by the Superintendent.
(Ord. 91-18-09, passed 10-2-1991)
§ 52.10 APPLICATION AND ADJUSTMENT OF CHARGES.
   (A)   The quantity of water discharged into the sanitary sewer system and
obtained from sources other than the utility that serves the town shall be
determined by the Town Council in such a manner as the Town Council shall
reasonably elect, and the sewage service shall be billed at the appropriate
rates; further, as is provided by ordinance, the Town Council may make proper
allowances after determining the sewage billed for quantities of water shown on
the records to be consumed but which are also shown, to the satisfaction of the
town, that such quantities do not enter the sanitary sewage system.
   (B)   In the event that two or more residential lots, parcels of real estate
or buildings discharging sanitary sewage water or other liquids into the town’s
sanitary sewage system, either directly or indirectly, are users of water and
the quantity of water is measured by a single water meter, then in each such
case, for billing purposes, the quantity of water used shall be averaged for
each user, and the base charge and the flow rates and charges shall apply to
each of the number of residential lots, parcels of real estate or buildings
served through the single water meter.
   (C)   In the event that two or more dwelling units such as mobile homes,
apartments or housekeeping rooms discharging sanitary sewage, water or other
liquids into the town’s sanitary sewage system, either directly or indirectly,
are users of water and the quantity of water is measured by a single water
meter, then in such case, billing shall be for a single service in the manner
set out elsewhere herein, except that the minimum bill shall be not less than
the number of such dwelling units times the applicable minimum bill per month
based on meter size. In the case of mobile home courts, the number of dwelling
units shall be computed and interpreted as the total number of mobile home
spaces available for rent plus any other dwelling units serviced through the
meter. A DWELLING UNIT shall be interpreted as a room or rooms, or any other
space or spaces, in which cooking facilities are provided.
(Ord. 91-18-09, passed 10-2-1991)
§ 52.11 CHARGE ADJUSTED FOR CONFIRMED WATER LEAK.
   Anyone in the town or on the sewer, if they have a water leak and it is
verified by Water Co. employees not to have gone into the sewer, will not have
to pay a sewer bill on this amount of water over normal usage.
(Ord. 12-9-14, passed - -)
§ 52.12 EXEMPTION FROM CHARGES FOR ABOVEGROUND AND IN-GROUND POOLS.
   (A)   Residents on the sewer system with aboveground or in-ground pools may
receive an exemption from sewer charges for water used to annually fill their
pool.
   (B)   To receive exemption:
      (1)   Furnish the utility with verification of POOL CAPACITY, meaning the
number of gallons of water to fill;
      (2)   Notify the utility office when ready to fill the pool;
      (3)   Take a meter reading before beginning to fill; and
      (4)   Take a meter reading when completed and report such to the office
in writing.
   (C)   This exemption does not apply to wadding pools.
(Ord. 93-06-02, passed 6-2-1993)
§ 52.13 EXEMPTION FROM CHARGES FOR HOT TUBS AND THE LIKE.
   Residents wishing to qualify for an annual exemption from sewer charges
related to the filling of a hot tub or similar convenience shall do the
following to receive the exemption:
      (1)   Furnish the utility with verification of HOT TUB CAPACITY,
specifically the number of gallons of water to fill;
      (2)   Notify the utility prior to filling the pool;
      (3)   At the utility’s option, take a meter reading, or allow the utility
to take a reading, prior to filling; and
      (4)   At the utility’s option, take a meter reading, or allow the utility
to take a reading, when filling is complete and promptly report the same to the
utility.
(Ord. 05-16-06, passed 5-16-2006)
§ 52.14 BILLING; DUE DATE; LATE PENALTY.
   (A)   Such rates and charges shall be prepared, billed and collected by the
town in the manner provided by law and ordinance.
   (B)   The rates and charges for all users shall be prepared and billed
monthly.
   (C)   The rates and charges may be billed to the tenant or tenants occupying
the properties served unless otherwise requested in writing by the owner, but
such billing shall in no way relieve the owner from liability in the event
payment is not made as herein required. The owners of properties served which
are occupied by a tenant or tenants shall have the right to examine the
collection records of the town for the purpose of determining whether bills
have been paid by such tenant or tenants, provided that such examination shall
be made at the office at which said records are kept and during the hours that
such office is open for business.
   (D)   As is provided by statute, all rates and charges not paid when due are
hereby declared to be delinquent, and a penalty of 10% of the amount of the
rates or charges shall thereupon attach thereto. The past-due date shall be the
seventeenth day of the month after the period of service. Bills will be dated
and mailed each month.
   (E)   The town shall, at least annually, in conjunction with a regular
billing, notify the user of the rate and that portion of the user charges which
are attributable to wastewater treatment services.
(Ord. 91-18-09, passed 10-2-1991)
§ 52.15 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any user who disputes any billing by the town or Town Council may file
with the Town Council a written request and review of consideration within ten
days after such billing is received by the user, setting forth in detail the
facts supporting the user’s request for reconsideration.
   (B)   The appeal shall, if reasonably possible, be heard by the Town Council
within 30 days of the date of filing. Further appeal is available through the
County Circuit Court under appeal procedures provided under the State
Administrative Adjudication Act, being I.C. 4-21.5-3-1.
(Ord. 91-18-09, passed 10-2-1991)
§ 52.16 APPLICATION TO TOWN DEPARTMENTS AND AGENCIES.
   For service rendered to any department or agency of the town, the town shall
be subject to the sewer charges provided herein.
(Ord. 91-18-09, passed 10-2-1991)
§ 52.17 EFFECTIVE DATES.
   (A)   The rates and charges as herein set forth shall become effective on
the first full billing period occurring after the adoption of this chapter.
   (B)   The sewer charges fixed by this chapter shall become effective at the
time the user first discharges into the sewage system after the passage of this
chapter.
(Ord. 91-18-09, passed 10-2-1991)
CHAPTER 53: WATER RATES AND CHARGES
Section
   
53.01   Rates and charges based on water use
   
53.02   Disconnection and reconnection fees
§ 53.01 RATES AND CHARGES BASED ON WATER USE.
   There are hereby established for the use of and the service rendered by
Patriot Municipal Water Utilities the following rates and charges, based on the
use of water supplied by said waterworks system.
   (A)   Metered user block schedule for customers classified as commercial and
residential. For the use and service rendered by the waterworks system of the
town based on the use of water supplied by said waterworks system:
 
Consumption per Month Rate per 1,000 Gallons
First 3,000 gallons   $17.05
Next 3,000 gallons    $14.30
Next 4,000 gallons    $13.08
Over 10,000 gallons   $10.33
Note to table: for an average customer using 4,000 gallons per month, the new
bill would be $65.45 per month
 
   (B)   Metered user minimum schedule. Each user shall pay a minimum charge in
accordance with the following applicable size of each meter installed, for
which the user will be entitled to the quantity of water set out in the
schedule of rates in division (A) above:
 
Meter Size     Minimum Gallonage Monthly Minimum Charge
5/8-inch meter 2,300 gallons     $39.22
3/4-inch meter 3,450 gallons     $57.59
1-inch meter   5,750 gallons     $90.48
1.5-inch meter 13,800 gallons    $185.62
2-inch meter   23,000 gallons    $280.66
 
   (C)   Fire protection. Users with service provided to fire hydrants, public
or private, shall be charged an annual fee of $598.68.
   (D)   Resale rates.
 
Sales for Resale                       Rate per 1,000 Gallons
Wholesale rate - Belterra Casino       $10.33
Wholesale rate - other water utilities $5.46
 
(Ord. 05-29-11, passed 12-20-2005; Ord. 1-2021, passed - -2021)
§ 53.02 DISCONNECTION AND RECONNECTION FEES.
   (A)   All customers for whom the disconnection of water services is required
or necessitated and who seek reconnection shall pay a service fee of $100.
   (B)   In addition to the service fee, customers seeking reconnection shall
pay all past-due fees and charges due and owing prior to reconnection.
(Ord. 1-16-07, passed 1-16-2007)
CHAPTER 54: WATER CONSERVATION EMERGENCY
Section
   
54.01   Application
   
54.02   Declaration of need
   
54.03   Voluntary conservation
   
54.04   Restriction to essential purposes only
   
54.05   Exceptions
   
54.06   Notice to users
 
   
54.99   Penalty
§ 54.01 APPLICATION.
   This chapter shall apply to all persons, firms, partnerships, associations,
corporations, companies or organizations of any kind connected to the Patriot
Municipal Water Utility system or using water therefrom, hereafter “customers.”
(Ord. 91-08-07, passed 8-7-1991)
§ 54.02 DECLARATION OF NEED.
   Upon determining that the Patriot Municipal Water Utility is in imminent
danger of a shortage of water or is experiencing a shortage of water, the Town
Council, upon advice from the Patriot Municipal Water Utility, shall declare a
water conservation emergency and shall establish appropriate customer
conservation measures and the duration thereof.
(Ord. 91-08-07, passed 8-7-1991)
§ 54.03 VOLUNTARY CONSERVATION.
   In accordance with §
54.06 of this code, customers shall be requested to reduce water consumption by
practicing voluntary conservation techniques. The Town Council shall suggest
reasonable and meaningful actions which will alleviate existing or potential
water shortages.
(Ord. 91-08-07, passed 8-7-1991)
§ 54.04 RESTRICTION TO ESSENTIAL PURPOSES ONLY.
   (A)   The Patriot Municipal Water Board may from time to time declare a
state of emergency and restrict water usage for essential purposes only,
including, but not limited to, drinking, bathing and washing clothes.
   (B)   At such times of emergency, nonessential water use is prohibited.
Examples of nonessential water use include, but are not limited to, watering
lawns, washing cars, watering gardens and filling pools.
(Ord. 05-27-06, passed 6-27-2005) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.05 EXCEPTIONS.
   The governing body of the town reserves the right to establish alternative
rationing requirements for the following:
   (A)   Healthcare providers; and
   (B)   A reasonable use of water to maintain adequate health and sanitary
standards.
(Ord. 91-08-07, passed 8-7-1991)
§ 54.06 NOTICE TO USERS.
   (A)   Notice of voluntary conservation measures shall be given by
publication in a local newspaper of general circulation or by other means as
deemed appropriate by the Town Council. Said notice shall be effective upon
publication.
   (B)   Notice of mandatory water conservation or rationing shall be given by
first-class U.S. mail, or by other door-to-door distribution, to each current
customer and by E-mail, phone call out system or website. Said notice shall be
deemed effective at the conclusion of door-to-door distribution or at noon of
the third day after depositing such notice in the U.S. mail.
(Ord. 91-08-07, passed 8-7-1991)
§ 54.99 PENALTY.
   Any customer found to be in violation of §
54.04 of this code is subject to having a penalty of $100 added to his or her
monthly bill at the discretion of the Water Superintendent and/or the Water
Utility Board for a first offense; for second and subsequent offenses, the
customer is subject to additional fines of up to $500 and/or having water
service terminated.
(Ord. 91-08-07, passed 8-7-1991; Ord. 05-27-06, passed 6-27-2005)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING AND LOADING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.20   Establishment and maintenance of traffic-control devices
   
70.21   Obedience to signals
   
70.22   Interference with signals
   
70.23   Unauthorized signals or markings
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. The following vehicles:
      (1)   Fire Department vehicles;
      (2)   Police Department vehicles;
      (3)   Ambulances;
      (4)   Emergency vehicles operated by or for hospitals or health and
hospital corporations under I.C. 16-22-8;
      (5)   Vehicles designated as emergency vehicles by the State Department
of Transportation under I.C. 9-21-20-1;
      (6)   Motor vehicles that, subject to I.C. 9-21-20-2, are approved by the
State Emergency Medical Services Commission that are:
         (a)   Ambulances that are owned by persons, firms, limited liability
companies or corporations other than hospitals; or
         (b)   Not ambulances and that provide emergency medical services,
including extrication and rescue services (as defined in I.C. 16-18-2-110).
      (7)   Vehicles of the Department of Correction that, subject to I.C. 9-
21-20-3, are:
         (a)   Designated by the Department of Correction as emergency
vehicles; and
         (b)   Responding to an emergency.
(I.C. 9-13-2-6)
   DRIVER. A person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
(I.C. 9-13-2-47)
   ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE. A self-balancing, two
nontandem-wheeled device that is designed to transport only one person and that
has the following:
      (1)   An electric propulsion system with an average power of 750 watts or
one horsepower; and
      (2)   A maximum speed of less than 20 mph when operated on a paved level
surface, when powered solely by the propulsion system referred to in division
(1) above, and when operated by an operator weighing 170 pounds.
(I.C. 9-13-2-49.3)
   HIGHWAY or STREET. The entire width between the boundary lines of every
publicly maintained way when any part of the way is open to the use of the
public for purposes of vehicular travel in the state. The term includes an
alley.
(I.C. 9-13-2-73)
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within:
         (a)   The prolongation or connection of the lateral curb lines, or if
none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways of two highways that join
at or approximately at right angles; or
         (b)   The area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways
joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
      (2)   Where a highway includes two roadways at least 30 feet apart, every
crossing of each roadway of the divided highway by an intersecting highway is
regarded as a separate INTERSECTION. If the intersecting highway also includes
two roadways at least 30 feet apart, every crossing of two roadways of the
intersecting highway is regarded as a separate INTERSECTION.
(I.C. 9-13-2-84)
   MOTOR VEHICLE.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this definition, a vehicle that is
self-propelled. The term does not include a farm tractor, an implement of
agriculture designed to be operated primarily in a farm field or on farm
premises, an electric bicycle, an electric foot scooter or an electric personal
assistive mobility device, as those terms are defined in I.C. 9-13-2-56 and 9-
13-2-77 and in this section.
      (2)   MOTOR VEHICLE also means:
         (a)   A vehicle that is self-propelled; or
         (b)   A vehicle that is propelled by electric power obtained from
overhead trolley wires but not operated upon rails.
(I.C. 9-13-2-105(a) and (b))
   MOTORCYCLE.
      (1)   A motor vehicle with motive power that:
         (a)   Has a seat or saddle for the use of the rider;
         (b)   Is designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact
with the ground; and
         (c)   Satisfies the operational and equipment specifications described
in 49 C.F.R. part 571 and I.C. 9-19.
      (2)   The term includes an autocycle but does not include a farm tractor,
an electric bicycle or a motor-driven cycle.
(I.C. 9-13-2-108)
   OPERATOR. An individual who operates a vehicle, watercraft, off-road vehicle
or snowmobile.
(I.C. 9-13-2-118)
   OWNER. A person, other than a lienholder, that:
      (1)   Holds the property in or title to, as applicable, a vehicle,
manufactured home, mobile home, off-road vehicle, snowmobile or watercraft; or
      (2)   Is entitled to the use or possession of, as applicable, a vehicle,
manufactured home, off-road vehicle, snowmobile or watercraft through a lease
or other agreement intended to operate as a security.
(I.C. 9-13-2-121(a))
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of a highway.
(I.C. 9-13-2-155)
   ROADWAY.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (2) below, that part of a highway
improved, designed or ordinarily used for vehicular travel.
      (2)   As used in I.C. 9-21-12-13, the part of a highway that is improved,
designed or ordinarily used for vehicular travel. The term does not include the
sidewalk, berm or shoulder even if the sidewalk, berm or shoulder is used by
persons riding bicycles or other human-powered vehicles.
(I.C. 9-13-2-157)
   STREET. See HIGHWAY.
   THROUGH HIGHWAY. A highway or portion of a highway at the entrance to which
vehicular traffic from intersecting highways is required by law to yield the
right-of-way to vehicles on the through highway in obedience to either a stop
sign or a yield sign.
(I.C. 9-13-2-178)
   VEHICLE. A device in, upon or by which a person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway. The term does not include the following:
      (1)   A device moved by human power;
      (2)   A device that runs only on rails or tracks;
      (3)   A wheelchair; or
      (4)   An electric foot scooter.
(I.C. 9-13-2-196(a))
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.20 ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   The town may establish and maintain official traffic-control devices
necessary within the town.
   (B)   All traffic-control devices, including signs, shall be employed to
indicate one particular warning or regulation, shall be uniform and, as far as
possible, shall be placed uniformly.
   (C)   All traffic-control devices and signs shall conform to required state
specifications.
§ 70.21 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
signal of any official traffic-control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this Traffic Code or of a traffic barrier or sign erected by any
of the public departments or public utilities of the town, or any electric
signal, gate or watchperson at railroad crossings, unless otherwise directed by
a police officer. However, the type and the right to or necessity for the
barrier or sign must be approved by the town.
   (B)   The sign, signal, marking or barrier shall have the same authority as
the personal direction of a police officer.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.22 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person without authority to attempt to or in
fact alter, deface, injure, knock down or remove any official control device or
any railroad sign or signal, or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon or
any part thereof.
Penalty see §
70.99
§ 70.23 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain or display on
or in view of any street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which
purports to be, is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic device,
railroad sign or signal which attempts or purports to direct the movement of
traffic, or which conceals or hides from view or interferes with the
effectiveness of any official control device or any railroad sign or signal. No
person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority permit on any
street, any traffic sign or signal containing any commercial advertising.
Nothing in this section shall be construed as restricting any public department
or public utility of the town in any emergency or temporarily from marking or
erecting any traffic barrier or sign whose placing has been approved by the
town.
   (B)   Every such prohibited sign, signal or marking is declared to be a
public nuisance, and the town is empowered forthwith to remove it or cause it
to be removed.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this title for
which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine not exceeding $2,500. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Trucks prohibited on certain streets
   
71.02   Stop intersections
   
71.03   One-way streets
Cruising
   
71.50   Definitions
   
71.51   Cruising prohibited
   
71.52   Posting of signs
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned vehicles a nuisance, see
Ch. 92
Statutory reference:
   Authority to enact local traffic regulations, see I.C. 9-21-1-3
   Authority to lower local speed limits, see I.C. 9-21-5-6
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 TRUCKS PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   No trucks, other than pickup trucks and passenger trucks and vans, shall be
allowed to operate on any posted town streets unless they must use the
particular street in question for the purpose of local pickup or delivery.
Posted streets are those which have signs on them indicating that their use by
through trucks is prohibited.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.02 STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The town may designate intersections as stop intersections and require
all vehicles to stop at one or more entrances to the intersections.
   (B)   The town shall post signs at designated intersections giving notice of
the designation as a stop intersection.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to obey the markings or
signs posted under this section.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.03 ONE-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   The town may designate streets or highways as one-way streets or
highways and may require that all vehicles operated on the street or highway be
moved in one specific direction.
   (B)   The town shall post signs at the entrance to the street or part of the
street that is affected giving notice of the designation as a one-way street.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to obey the markings or
signs posted under this section.
Penalty, see §
70.99
CRUISING
§ 71.50 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONGESTED TRAFFIC.
      (1)   Traffic on any public street, alley or highway which is delaying to
the point that:
         (a)   Motor vehicles cannot move through a 100-yard approach corridor
to an intersection controlled by a traffic light within two complete green
light cycles, where the delay in forward movement is due to the position of
other motor vehicles;
         (b)   Motor vehicles cannot move through a 100-yard approach corridor
to an intersection controlled by a traffic light, stop sign or yield sign
within a five-minute period of time, where the delay in forward movement is due
to the position of other motor vehicles; or
         (c)   Motor vehicles cannot readily move forward on portions of public
streets, alleys or highways between intersections because traffic speed is
slowed to less than five mph and the delay in movement is due to the position
of other motor vehicles.
      (2)   The determination that a street, alley or highway is CONGESTED
shall be made by the Town Marshal or ranking peace officer on duty within the
affected area.
   CRUISING. The repetitive driving of any motor vehicle past a traffic-control
point in traffic which is congested at or near the traffic-control point.
   GREEN LIGHT CYCLE. The period commencing upon the switching of a traffic
light from a red light to a green light through to the return of a red light.
   PEACE OFFICER. The Town Marshal, his or her designee, any member of the Town
Police Department or other town, county or state official designated to enforce
this subchapter.
   PROPERTY IN THE PROXIMITY OF ANY POSTED NO-CRUISING ZONE. Any property which
is both visible from and located within 300 feet of any portion of a street,
alley or highway which is posted as a no-cruising zone pursuant to this
subchapter.
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL POINT. A location along a public street, alley or highway
utilized by the Town Marshal or a peace officer on duty within the affected
area as an observation point in order to monitor traffic conditions for
potential violations of this title.
§ 71.51 CRUISING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Conduct prohibited. It shall be unlawful to engage in the activity
known as cruising, as defined in this subchapter, on the public streets, alleys
or highways of the town in any area which has been posted as a no-cruising
zone.
   (B)   First violation. Any person who violates division (A) above may be
given a written warning stating that any subsequent passage past that traffic-
control point within the next succeeding four hours will be a violation of this
subchapter.
   (C)   Subsequent violations. Any person who, after having received a written
warning under division (B) above, subsequently drives past or is a passenger in
a vehicle passing the same traffic-control point within the next succeeding
four hours shall be in violation of this subchapter.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.52 POSTING OF SIGNS.
   This subchapter may be enforced in any area which has been posted as a no-
cruising zone. “No Cruising” signs shall be posted at the beginning and the end
of any public street, alley or highway, or portion thereof, which is a no-
cruising zone.
CHAPTER 72: PARKING AND LOADING REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   Signs and curb paint
   
72.02   Unauthorized marking
   
72.03   Parking prohibited at certain locations
   
72.04   Curb parking
   
72.05   Loading zones
   
72.06   Alley parking prohibited
   
72.07   Private property parking restricted
   
72.08   Parking for persons with physical disabilities
   
72.09   Special Town of Patriot Parking Lot
   
72.10   Recreational vehicle parking
   
72.11   Commercial vehicle parking
   
72.12   Refusal to move parked or stopped vehicle
   
72.13   Right to move or impound vehicle
   
72.14   Presumption as to illegal parking
   
72.15   Lights or flares required for overnight state highway parking
 
   
72.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned vehicles a nuisance, see
Ch. 92
§ 72.01 SIGNS AND CURB PAINT.
   (A)   A law enforcement officer, or any other person authorized by the Town
Council, shall cause the curbs to be painted yellow and signs to be posted in
all areas where parking is limited or prohibited indicating such limitations or
prohibitions.
   (B)   The painting of a curb yellow shall be notice that no parking is
permitted at any time unless a sign otherwise stating is posted there. In such
instances, the information on the sign shall be controlling.
(Ord. 2013-12-16, passed - -) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 UNAUTHORIZED MARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone not so authorized by the Town Council to
post any signs, place any barricades or paint any curbs which are intended to,
or have the effect of, creating the impression that parking there is limited or
prohibited by the town.
(Ord. 2013-12-16, passed - -) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 PARKING PROHIBITED AT CERTAIN LOCATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to permit any vehicle to be parked or to stand in any
of the following places at any time, except when necessary to avoid conflict
with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a law enforcement
officer or traffic-control device:
   (A)   In any intersection;
   (B)   In a crosswalk;
   (C)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of a
point on the curb immediately opposite the end of a safety zone;
   (D)   Within 30 feet of a traffic signal, beacon or sign on the approaching
side;
   (E)   Within 20 feet of any intersection or crosswalk;
   (F)   At any place where the standing of a vehicle will reduce the usable
width of the roadway for moving traffic to less than 18 feet;
   (G)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
   (H)   At any place where the vehicle would block the use of a driveway;
   (I)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any Fire Department station
and on the side of the street opposite the entrance to any such station within
75 feet of such entrance, when properly sign posted;
   (J)   On any sidewalk or parkway; or
   (K)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
(Ord. 2013-12-16, passed - -) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 CURB PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful to stand or park any vehicle in a street other than
parallel with the curb and with a front and back wheel of the vehicle within 12
inches of the regularly established curb line; except that upon those streets
that have been marked for angle parking, vehicles shall be parked at the angle
to the curb indicated by such marks.
(Ord. 2013-12-16, passed - -) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 LOADING ZONES.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a vehicle to stand a passenger
vehicle for a period of time longer than necessary for the loading or unloading
of passengers, not to exceed three minutes, and for the driver to stand any
freight-carrying vehicles for a period of time longer than is necessary to
load, unload and deliver materials, not to exceed two hours, in any place
designated as a loading zone and marked as such, or in any of the following
designated places:
   (A)   At any place along the curb before the entrance to any business,
structure or loading zone which has been marked as a no-parking zone; or
   (B)   At any place along the curb before the entrance to a public building
(including churches and schools) which has been marked as a no-parking zone;
provided, however, the driver of a bus, taxi or other vehicle may stop and park
such vehicle in such spaces while receiving or discharging passengers only as
long as the driver thereof is in fact seated at the steering wheel and the
vehicle’s motor is running.
(Ord. 2013-12-16, passed - -) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06 ALLEY PARKING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park a vehicle within an alley.
(Ord. 2013-12-16, passed - -) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.07 PRIVATE PROPERTY PARKING RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle on any private property without the
consent of the owner of the property.
(Ord. 2013-12-16, passed - -) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.08 PARKING FOR PERSONS WITH PHYSICAL DISABILITIES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or leave standing any
vehicle in a stall or space designed for physically handicapped persons if,
immediately adjacent to and visible from such stall or space, there is posted a
sign known as the international wheelchair symbol, consisting of a profile view
of a stylized wheelchair with occupant in white on a blue background, unless
the driver of the car is disabled.
   (B)   (1)   As used in this section, DISABLED means either having a physical
condition requiring the use of a wheelchair, artificial limb, crutch, cane or
walker, or having a physical disease making it difficult or impossible to walk
more than 25 feet without shortness of breath or danger of impairment of
health. A certificate by a person licensed to practice the healing arts in this
state shall be acceptance by the town as evidence under this section.
      (2)   A driver of a vehicle used in transporting such handicapped persons
and actually so engaged at the time may park in such spaces.
(Ord. 2013-12-16, passed - -) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.09 SPECIAL TOWN OF PATRIOT PARKING LOT.
   Parking is allowed at the “Special Town of Patriot Parking Lot” located at
2191 Main Street, which is at the corner of 3rd and Main Street, but is limited
to noncommercial vehicles and to four hours of parking within a 24-hour period.
Vehicles must be in operational condition and may not be advertised “For Sale.”
Any vehicle parked in the “Special Town of Patriot Parking Lot” in violation of
this section shall be subject to §
72.99 of this code.
(Ord. 2013-12-16, passed - -) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.10 RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful to park a boat trailer, motorcycle trailer, snowmobile
trailer, camp trailer, house car or any other type of recreation vehicle,
whether self-propelled or not, on any street for a period of time longer than
three days without first securing a permit to do so from the Town Council.
(Ord. 2013-12-16, passed - -) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.11 COMMERCIAL VEHICLE PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any trucks licensed for over 7,000 pounds,
construction equipment or commercial vehicles to be parked or left standing
upon the public streets except for the purpose of loading and unloading such
vehicles, and then only for periods not exceeding two hours. Owners or
operators of any such vehicles desiring to park for a longer period than two
hours for purposes of loading and unloading shall obtain a written permit for
so doing from the Chief of Police, for which permit no charge shall be made.
Trucks, while being loaded and unloaded, shall, whenever possible, be kept
parallel with the curb and at all times shall be kept as close to the right-
hand curb as possible.
(Ord. 2013-12-16, passed - -) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.12 REFUSAL TO MOVE PARKED OR STOPPED VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner and/or operator of any vehicle to refuse
to move a vehicle otherwise lawfully parked or stopped when so requested by a
law enforcement officer or the operator of an emergency vehicle, such as an
ambulance, firefighting apparatus, utility department truck, snow plow and the
like, while discharging his or her duties as such operator.
(Ord. 2013-12-16, passed - -) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.13 RIGHT TO MOVE OR IMPOUND VEHICLE.
   A law enforcement officer, the Fire Chief, the Superintendent of Utilities
and all persons authorized to enforce the laws and ordinances of the town may
cause any vehicle unlawfully parked and any vehicle though otherwise lawfully
parked, but which in the particular situation, such as a parade, fire, ruptured
utility line, snow and the like, is in danger itself or interferes with coping
with the situation, to be moved and/or impounded without prior notice to the
owner and at the expense of the operator or owner.
(Ord. 2013-12-16, passed - -) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.14 PRESUMPTION AS TO ILLEGAL PARKING.
   In regards to any violation of this chapter governing the standing or
parking of a vehicle, proof that the particular vehicle described in the
pleadings was parked in violation of this chapter, together with proof that the
defendant named in such pleadings was, at the time of such violation, the
registered owner of such vehicle shall constitute in evidence a prima facie
presumption that such registered owner of such vehicle was the person who
parked or placed such vehicle at the point where, and for the time during
which, such violation occurred.
(Ord. 2013-12-16, passed - -) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.15 LIGHTS OR FLARES REQUIRED FOR OVERNIGHT STATE HIGHWAY PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons or corporation to park large
vehicles, trucks, trailers, tractors or school buses overnight on any street
used as a state highway without lights or flares.
(Ord. 11, passed - -) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided by law, wherever in §§
72.10 through
72.14 of this code an act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful,
or the doing of an act is required, or the failure to do an act is declared to
be unlawful, a vehicle is subject to be towed after any continuous 24-hour
violation period at the owners expense.
   (C)   As set out in §
72.15 of this code, the fines for the unlawful operation of said vehicles
without lights or flares is to be $5 for the first offense, $10 for the second
offense, said fines not to exceed $50.
(Ord. 11, passed - -; Ord. 2013-12-16, passed - -)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   FAIR HOUSING
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
94.   PARKS AND RECREATION
CHAPTER 90: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
90.01   Policy statement
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Unlawful practice
   
90.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
90.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
90.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage service
   
90.07   Interference, coercion or intimidation
   
90.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
90.09   Equal access to housing in HUD programs
   
90.10   Exemptions
   
90.11   Administrative enforcement
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the town to provide, within constitutional
limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for
under the federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 3601 et seq., as
amended, the federal Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 5301 et seq., as amended, and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(Ord. 93-07-07, passed 7-7-1993; Ord. 2013-5-20, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly implies or requires a different meaning.
   AN AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who (I.C. 22-9.5-2-2):
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
   COMMISSION. The Indiana Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-
9-1-4 et seq.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-3)
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-4)
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
90.04 through
90.08 of this code or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure or part of a building or structure that is
occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a
residence by one or more families.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-8)
   FAMILIAL STATUS.
      (1)   One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18 years
being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of such
individual or the written permission of such parent or other person.
      (2)   The protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of
FAMILIAL STATUS shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process
of securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18
years.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual (I.C. 22-9.5-2-9), with the status of
such family being further defined in the definition of FAMILIAL STATUS.
   HANDICAP.
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person’s major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment;
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq.; or
         (e)   Any other impairment defined under I.C. 22-9-5-6.
      (2)   The term HANDICAP shall not include current illegal use of or
addiction to a controlled substance as defined in 21 U.S.C. § 802 (I.C. 22-9-5-
6(d)(5)); nor does the term HANDICAP include an individual solely because that
individual is a transvestite (I.C. 22-9-5-6(d)(3)).
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees,
trustees in cases under 11 U.S.C., receivers and fiduciaries.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the rights to occupy the premises owned by the occupant.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-13)
(Ord. 93-07-07, passed 7-7-1993; Ord. 2013-5-20, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 90.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below, §
90.09 of this code and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination
in the sale or rental of housing set forth in I.C. 22-9.5-5-1 and in §
90.04 of this code shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) below and I.C. 22-
9.5-3;
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) below, nothing in §
90.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   (a)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that in the sale of such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24-month period. The
private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or
reserved on his or her behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the
proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses
at any one time.
         (b)   The sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be
exempted from application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
            1.   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental
facilities or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesperson, or of
any person in the business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee
or agent of any such broker, agent or salesperson, or person; and
            2.   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice, of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
90.04(C) of this code, but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of
attorneys, escrow agents, abstracters, title companies and other such
professional assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title.
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by not more than four families living independently of
each other if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) above, a person shall be deemed to be
in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as agent,
other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in providing sales
or rental facilities or services in two or more transactions involving the sale
or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   They are the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 93-07-07, passed 7-7-1993; Ord. 2013-5-20, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 90.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
90.03 of this code and except as exempted by §§
90.03(B) and
90.09, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or to otherwise make unavailable
or deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin;
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services of
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin;
   (C)   To make, print or publish, or cause to be made, printed or published,
any notice, statement or advertisement with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin or an
intention to make any such preference, limitation or discrimination;
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin that any dwelling is not available
for inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is in fact so available;
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status or national origin;
   (F)   To discriminate in the sale or rental of, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap
of:
      (1)   That buyer or renter;
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is so sold, rented or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person.
   (G)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a handicap of:
      (1)   That person;
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is so sold, rented or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person.
   (H)   (1)   For purposes of this section, DISCRIMINATION includes:
         (a)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises; except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may, where it is reasonable to do so, condition permission for a modification
on the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
         (b)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
         (c)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13, 1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that:
            1.   The public-use and common-use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
            2.   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide so as to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
            3.   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
               a.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
               b.   Lights, switches, electrical outlets, thermostats and other
environmental controls in accessible locations; and
               c.   Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
      (2)   Compliance with the appropriate requirements of the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq. and of the American
National Standard for Buildings and Facilities, providing accessibility and
usability for physically handicapped people (commonly cited as ANSI A117.1),
suffices to satisfy the requirements of division (H)(1)(c)3.c.
      (3)   Nothing in this division (H) requires that a dwelling be made
available to an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to
the health or safety of other individuals or whose tenancy would result in
substantial physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 93-07-07, passed 7-7-1993; Ord. 2013-5-20, passed 5-20-2013) Penalty, see
§
90.99
§ 90.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED
TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap or familial status.
(Ord. 93-07-07, passed 7-7-1993; Ord. 2013-5-20, passed 5-20-2013) Penalty, see
§
90.99
§ 90.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICE.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers’
organization or other service, organization or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her
in the terms or conditions of such access, membership or participation, on
account of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national
origin.
(Ord. 93-07-07, passed 7-7-1993; Ord. 2013-5-20, passed 5-20-2013) Penalty, see
§
90.99
§ 90.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
90.03 through
90.06 of this chapter.
(Ord. 93-07-07, passed 7-7-1993; Ord. 2013-5-20, passed 5-20-2013) Penalty, see
§
90.99
§ 90.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under code or law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempts to injure,
intimidate or interfere with, the following shall be fined or imprisoned
according to §
90.99 of this code:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status or national origin and because he or she is or has been
selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings;
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A)
above; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
   (C)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to
discourage such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, in
any of the activities, services, organizations or facilities described in
division (A) above, or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly
opposing any denial of the opportunity to participate.
(Ord. 93-07-07, passed 7-7-1993; Ord. 2013-5-20, passed 5-20-2013) Penalty, see
§
90.99
§ 90.09 EQUAL ACCESS TO HOUSING IN HUD PROGRAMS.
   Pursuant to Federal Register, Volume 77, Number 23, published on February 3,
2012, the definition of FAMILY is revised to include families regardless of the
actual or perceived sexual orientation, gender identity or marital status of
its members.
(Ord. 93-07-07, passed 7-7-1993; Ord. 2013-5-20, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 90.10 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter, to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color or national
origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact
open to the public which, as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes,
provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose
from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodgings to its members or from
giving preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons. As used in this section, HOUSING FOR
OLDER PERSONS means housing:
      (1)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary of
the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the State Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly persons (as defined in the state or federal program);
      (2)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, person 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years
of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 93-07-07, passed 7-7-1993; Ord. 2013-5-20, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 90.11 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and the referral of complaints hereunder to the Commissioner, as set
forth in division (B) below, shall be vested in the chief elected official of
the town.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the town, because
of lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under this chapter, herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of the provisions of this
chapter by complainants to the State Civil Rights Commission for administrative
enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6, and the chief elected official
of the town shall refer all said complaints to the Commission, as provided for
under division (A) above, to said Commission for purposes of investigation,
resolution and appropriate relief, as provided for under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the town shall administer
their departments, programs and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter
and shall cooperate with the chief elected official and the Commission to
further such purposes.
   (D)   The chief elected official of the town, or the chief elected
official’s designee, shall provide information on remedies available to any
aggrieved person or complainant requesting such information.
(Ord. 93-07-07, passed 7-7-1993; Ord. 2013-5-20, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person in violation, as set out in §
90.08 of this code, shall be fined according to local, state and federal law;
and if bodily injury results, shall be fined not more than $10,000 or
imprisoned not more than ten years, or both; and if death results, shall be
subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for life.
(Ord. 93-07-07, passed 7-7-1993; Ord. 2013-5-20, passed 5-20-2013)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Limitation on keeping certain animals; sanitation
Dogs
   
91.20   Prohibited conduct; owner responsible
   
91.21   Running at large
   
91.22   Dogs in heat; confinement
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner, and not under the control of the
owner or his or her agent either by leash, cord, chain or otherwise.
   DOG. Any member of the canine family six months of age or over, male or
female.
   OWNER. Every person having a right of property to an animal and every person
who keeps or harbors an animal, has it in his or her care or permits it to
remain on or about the premises owned or occupied by him or her.
§ 91.02 LIMITATION ON KEEPING CERTAIN ANIMALS; SANITATION.
   (A)   It shall be a nuisance and a misdemeanor against the town for any
person, persons, firm or corporation to keep hogs, shoats or pigs, in pens or
elsewhere in the town, within 200 feet of any street or alley in the town.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to have or keep any goats, sheep, swine or pigs,
horses, mules, ponies, cattle, rabbits, chickens, ducks, geese, turkeys,
guineas or other farm animals or fowl within 200 feet of any residence other
than the residence of the person so keeping or having these animals.
   (C)   No person shall cause or allow any stable or place where any animal or
fowl is or may be kept to become unsanitary.
(Ord. 12 1/2, passed 8-31-1964) Penalty, see §
91.99
DOGS
§ 91.20 PROHIBITED CONDUCT; OWNER RESPONSIBLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner to fail to exercise proper care and
control of his or her dog or dogs so as to prevent the following actions by it
or them:
   (A)   Molesting of passers-by;
   (B)   Chasing of passing vehicles;
   (C)   Attacking other domestic animals;
   (D)   Trespassing upon private property or school property;
   (E)   Damaging private or public property;
   (F)   Habitual barking or loud and continued noise; or
   (G)   Unnecessary foul or noxious odors which offend people in the
neighborhood.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.21 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to allow the running at large
of dogs without the required dog tags attached.
(Ord. 10, passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.22 DOGS IN HEAT; CONFINEMENT.
   Every female dog in heat shall be confined in a building or secure enclosure
in such a manner that the dog cannot come into contact with another dog except
for planned breeding.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
91.02(A) shall, upon conviction, be fined $10 and costs.
   (C)   Anyone violating §
91.21 may be fined in any sum not to exceed $5 and the impounding of the dog
until said fine is paid.
(Ord. 10, passed - -; Ord. 12 1/2, passed 8-31-1964)
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Nuisances prohibited
   
92.02   Definitions
   
92.03   Public nuisances
   
92.04   Common law and statutory nuisances
   
92.05   Maintaining premises free of nuisances
   
92.06   Abatement procedure
   
92.07   Nuisances created by others
Violation and Abatement Procedures
   
92.20   Certain acts prohibited, subject to citation and abatement
   
92.21   Waiver
   
92.22   Authorized citation issuers
   
92.23   Minors
   
92.24   Notice issuance procedures
   
92.25   Appeal procedures
   
92.26   Abatement
   
92.27   Abatement fees and collection
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   The Town Council does hereby establish the following reasonable standards,
procedures and penalties for the prohibition of nuisances in its incorporated
boundaries and jurisdiction.
(Ord. 1-2019, passed 2-5-2019)
§ 92.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES. Any motor vehicles, or parts from motor vehicles,
which are left on public or private property within the town limits under
circumstances indicating a desertion, relinquishment, non-use or divestment of
the vehicle.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING. Any building other than a dwelling.
   DANGEROUS DISREPAIR. Dangerous or detrimental to life or health due to want
or lack of repair, defects in drainage systems, sewage systems or plumbing
systems, or due to lighting, ventilation or construction deficiencies, or due
to infection with a contagious disease, infestation with vermin, rodents or
insects, or due to the existence of unsanitary conditions likely to cause
sickness among the occupants of the dwelling or adjoining properties.
   DWELLING. Any building or part of a building or its premises used as a place
of residence or habitation and/or sleeping by any person that is in the town
limits.
   GARBAGE. Putrescible animal or vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   LITTER. Rubbish, refuse, waste material, offal, paper, glass, cans, bottles,
trash, debris or any foreign substance of whatever kind or description, whether
it is of value, which is not contained or disposed of in accordance with the
Town Council.
   NUISANCE. Public nuisance or health hazard.
   OBNOXIOUS GROWTH. Any plant growth exceeding 12 inches in height.
   REFUSE. All putrescible and non-putrescible solid waste (except body waste),
including, but not limited to, garbage, rubbish, street cleanings, dead
animals, abandoned motor vehicles, machines or other similar scrap or salvage
materials or industrial wastes.
(Ord. 1-2019, passed 2-5-2019)
§ 92.03 PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   (A)   The following conditions are declared to be public nuisances:
      (1)   Unfit dwellings. Dwellings that are in dangerous disrepair which
are visible from any public roadway;
      (2)   Dilapidated buildings. Any dwelling, accessory building, house or
other structure visible from any public roadway that is so out of repair and
dilapidated such that it constitutes a fire hazard or such that it is liable to
communicate fire, or which, due to inadequate maintenance or neglect, endangers
the public health, welfare or safety or materially interferes with the peaceful
enjoyment by owners or occupants of adjacent property;
      (3)   Accumulations of rubbish. An accumulation or dumping on any
premises of garbage, litter, refuse or other waste material which endangers the
public health, welfare or safety or materially interferes with the peaceful
enjoyment by owners or occupants of adjacent property because of the danger of
said material catching or communicating fire, or of said material attracting or
propagating vermin, rodents or insects, or of said material blowing into any
highway, road, street, sidewalk or adjoining property;
      (4)   Abandoned vehicles, trailers, appliances and the like. Includes
abandoned vehicles, abandoned mobile home trailers, intact and/or stripped,
boat trailers, portable boat docks, motorcycle trailers, snow mobile trailers,
camp trailers, house cars or any other types of recreation vehicle, whether
self-propelled, motor or not, other appliances, devices or machinery. Any
parking or storage of abandoned vehicles, as defined herein, or any other
junked, inoperative, partially dismantled or wrecked automobiles, vehicles,
machines or similar scrap or salvage materials on any private or public
property within an area of high population density for a period of time which
exceeds 30 days, except as otherwise permitted or authorized by law. This
provision includes refrigerators, stoves, washers, dryers or any other machine
or appliance or scrap or salvage materials, except as may be otherwise
permitted or authorized by law;
      (5)   Obnoxious growth. Any parcel of land consisting of six acres or
less containing obnoxious growth; and
      (6)   Endangerment. Any condition that endangers public health or that
creates or causes a health hazard.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, occupant or person having control
or management of any land covered under this subchapter to permit a public
nuisance or health hazard to develop thereon or to fail or refuse to correct
and remedy a public nuisance or health hazard that may exist on any land that
he or she may own, occupy, control or manage.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, business or organization to
place, leave, dump or accumulate any garbage, refuse or liter on any property
or in any building subject to this subchapter so as to cause, allow or afford
harborage for vermin, rodents or insects, or which creates a health hazard or
public nuisance.
   (D)   No person, business or organization shall operate or cause to be
operated any automobile, vehicle, machinery or material recycling establishment
or scrap or salvage operation, or any other place of business that fails to
comply with all county zoning regulations and all state statutes.
(Ord. 1-2019, passed 2-5-2019) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 COMMON LAW AND STATUTORY NUISANCES.
   In addition to what is declared in this subchapter to be a public nuisance,
those offenses which are known to the common law and statutes of the town as
public nuisances may be treated as such and be proceeded against as provided in
this subchapter or in accordance with any other provision of law.
(Ord. 1-2019, passed 2-5-2019)
§ 92.05 MAINTAINING PREMISES FREE OF NUISANCES.
   (A)   The maintenance of a litter-free environment at all construction and
demolition sites shall be the responsibility of the owner(s), contractor(s) and
subcontractor(s) thereof.
   (B)   All owners and lessees of loading and unloading docks shall maintain
those docks so as to prevent the accumulation and circulation into the
environment of refuse, garbage and litter.
   (C)   All owners and tenants of private dwellings shall maintain those
premises to prevent the accumulation and circulation into the environment of
refuse, garbage and litter, as well as the accumulation of obnoxious growth.
   (D)   All owners and tenants of vacant lots shall maintain the premises to
prevent the accumulation and circulation into the environment of refuse,
garbage and litter, as well as the accumulation of obnoxious growth.
   (E)   All owners and tenants of public and private parking lots shall
maintain the premises to prevent the accumulation and circulation into the
environment of refuse, garbage and litter, as well as the accumulation of
obnoxious growth.
(Ord. 1-2019, passed 2-5-2019) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   In addition to any other remedies or penalties available under the law, the
following procedures may be utilized for the abatement of nuisances.
   (A)   (1)   Any personnel so designated by the town and/or the County
Commissioners shall be responsible for serving notice upon the owner, occupant
and/or person having control or management of any land subject to the
provisions of this subchapter of any violation or violations of the provisions
of this subchapter and to demand that the violation or violations be abated
within seven days of said service, unless the violation constitutes an
immediate danger to the health or well-being of the community.
      (2)   In the event the violation or violations constitute an immediate
danger to the health or well-being of the community, the demand for abatement
shall require that the violation or violations be abated within 24 hours of
said service.
      (3)   Notice shall be served by personal service or certified mail.
However, if the address of the owner, occupant and/or person having control or
management of the subject property cannot be ascertained in the exercise of
reasonable diligence, the designated person appointed by the town or the County
Commissioners, or other designated personnel, shall make an affidavit to that
effect and service may be made by publication in a newspaper of general
circulation for two consecutive publications. In addition to newspaper
publication, a copy of the notice shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the
subject premises.
   (B)   In the event the owner, occupant and/or person having control or
management of the subject property fails to abate any violation or violations
within the time periods contained herein, the town may proceed to abate the
violation.
      (1)   The town may utilize independent contractors to assist in abating
any violations of this subchapter.
      (2)   Any person or persons utilized by the town to abate any violation
of this subchapter shall have full access to the subject property with all
necessary personnel, machinery and equipment.
      (3)   The town shall keep records detailing all costs incurred in order
to abate the nuisance, with the owner, occupant and/or person having control or
management of the subject property being responsible to the town for those
costs.
   (C)   In the event the town abates any violation or violations of the
provisions of this subchapter, the town shall obtain a lien upon the subject
property for all costs and expenses incurred as a result thereof, including,
but not limited to, all costs for labor, equipment, fuel, oil, attorney’s fees,
filing fees, publication fees, court costs and any other costs or expenses
incurred in the enforcement of the lien and any foreclosure action resulting
therefrom.
   (D)   (1)   In the event the owner, occupant and/or person having control or
management of property subject to a lien pursuant to this subchapter fails to
reimburse the town of all costs and expenses incurred by the town in abating a
violation or violations within 30 days of the violation having been abated, the
town or its designated representative may file a statement of lien claim with
the County Clerk.
      (2)   The statement of lien claim shall contain the legal description for
the subject property, the amount of the costs and expenses incurred by the town
related to the abatement of the violation or violations as of the date of
filing, the lien amount claimed by the town and the date that the nuisance was
abated.
      (3)   Notice of the statement of lien claim shall be mailed to the owner,
occupant and/or person having control or management of the property subject to
the lien if such person or persons’ address is known.
      (4)   Failure to record the notice of lien statement or to mail said
notice to the owner, occupant and/or person having control or management of the
property subject to the lien, or the failure of the owner, occupant and/or
person having control or management of the property subject to the lien, shall
not affect the town’s right to proceed with a foreclosure action.
   (E)   All property subject to a lien for unpaid nuisance abatement expenses
and costs shall be sold for nonpayment, and the proceeds from such sale shall
be applied to pay all costs and expenses incurred by the town in abating said
nuisance after deducting costs.
   (F)   All foreclosure actions brought pursuant to this subchapter shall be
in equity and in the name of the town.
(Ord. 1-2019, passed 2-5-2019)
§ 92.07 NUISANCES CREATED BY OTHERS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to the owner, occupant
and/or person having control or management of any property subject to hereto if
that person or persons did not cause, create or allow to be caused or created
the violation or violations in question to the extent that they may be
prosecuted criminally hereunder. This section does not, however, relieve any
such owner, occupant and/or person having control or management of any subject
property from the provisions herein addressing nuisance abatement.
(Ord. 1-2019, passed 2-5-2019)
VIOLATION AND ABATEMENT PROCEDURES
§ 92.20 CERTAIN ACTS PROHIBITED, SUBJECT TO CITATION AND ABATEMENT.
   (A)   (1)   The town prohibits the doing of an act, or the omission of a
duty or the suffering or permitting of a condition that injures or endangers
the comfort, repose, health or safety or others; offends decency; is offensive
to the senses; unlawfully interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct or
renders dangerous for passage any public or private street, highway, sidewalk,
stream, ditch or drainage; in any way renders other persons insecure in life or
the use of property; or essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment
of life and property or tends to depreciate the value of the property of
others.
      (2)   Examples of common nuisances include tall grass and weeds,
accumulations of trash or rubbish, accumulations of stagnant water and
conditions which provide shelter for rats, mice, snakes and other vermin.
   (B)   If a Code Enforcement Official/the Town Marshal determines that a
nuisance exists on your property, you will receive either a written warning
citation or an official citation. The citation will provide a statement of the
violation and the actions needed to be taken to correct the violation/abate the
nuisance.
   (C)   Unless it is an emergency condition where safety is impacted, you will
be provided at least seven days to correct the nuisance. It will also provide
you a method to appeal the citation to the Town Council. If you do not timely
abate the violation or successfully appeal it to the Town Council, the town is
entitled to enter your property to correct the condition and place a lien on
your property for the cost of correction.
(Ord. 4-2019, passed 5-7-2019; Ord. 1-2020, passed 3-3-2020) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.21 WAIVER.
   A person may apply for a waiver from the requirements of §
92.20 of this code to the Town Council, which may grant such a waiver in its
sole discretion when it deems it to be in the public interest. Such waiver must
specify the property, date and hours for which it applies.
(Ord. 4-2019, passed 5-7-2019; Ord. 1-2020, passed 3-3-2020)
§ 92.22 AUTHORIZED CITATION ISSUERS.
   Citations for violation of §
92.20 of this code may be issued by any sworn member of the town, the Town
Marshal or designated town employees or by any sworn special police officer.
(Ord. 4-2019, passed 5-7-2019)
§ 92.23 MINORS.
   A custodial parent shall be responsible for ensuring that any child under 18
years of age complies with §
92.20 of this code and is responsible for any fine imposed.
(Ord. 4-2019, passed 5-7-2019)
§ 92.24 NOTICE ISSUANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Inspection. Whenever a complaint is made that a public nuisance exists
or has existed within the town, the Town Marshal shall inspect or cause to be
inspected the premises and shall make a written report of his or her findings.
Whenever practicable, the Town Marshal shall include photographs in his or her
report.
   (B)   Notice to owner or to person or persons responsible. Whenever the Town
Marshal determines that a nuisance exists, a notice of violation and demand for
abatement shall be given to the owner or the person or persons responsible for
the property, including, but not limited to, any tenant. The town will take
enforcement action only with the owner or responsible party at the time the
violation is identified.
   (C)   Notice of correction order. Such notice shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Include a description of the real estate sufficient for
identification;
      (3)   Include a statement of the violation or violations and section(s)
of the code violated and why the notice is being issued;
      (4)   Include a correction order allowing a reasonable amount of time of
at least seven days (excepting cases of emergency or safety concerns) from the
time when the notice is served to abate the nuisance; and
      (5)   Include a notice containing the right to appeal the determination
to the Town Council.
   (D)   Emergency or safety concerns. When an official finds that a condition
existing on a property qualifies as an emergency or safety concern, the
official shall include on the notice of correction order a statement indicating
such a finding and allowing a period of time of not less than 24 hours to abate
the nuisance.
   (E)   Duplicate notice to property maintenance company. When an official has
reason to believe that there is a property maintenance or servicing company
monitoring a given property on behalf of the owner, a bank holding mortgage
rights to the property or a corporate operator, the official may provide
duplicate notice to said property maintenance or servicing company. The
provision of additional notice under this division (E) shall not eliminate any
notice requirement for the owner or responsible party of the property and shall
not render the property maintenance or servicing company liable for failure to
abate, unless otherwise provided in this subchapter.
   (F)   Method of service. Notice shall be deemed to be properly served if a
copy is sent by certain return receipt mail or hand delivered by an employee of
the town, or by leaving a copy of the notice at the location of the property in
a conspicuous location and mailing a copy of the notice by first class mail to
the last known address of the person to whom notice must be given.
   (G)   Continuous abatement notice for tall grass, weeds and rank vegetation.
If an initial notice of violation was provided, a continuous abatement notice
may be posted at the property at the time of abatement instead of by equivalent
service. A continuous abatement notice shall serve as notice to the real
property owner and/or responsible party that each subsequent violation during
the same year for which the initial notice of the violation was provided may be
abated by the municipality or its contractors.
(Ord. 4-2019, passed 5-7-2019)
§ 92.25 APPEAL PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Appeal to Town Board. Any person aggrieved by a determination of the
Town Marshal to the effect that a notice of violation or order served is in
error or should, due to hardship, be modified or be entitled to a variance from
enforcement, or that a reasonable extension of time for the compliance should
be granted upon the grounds of a demonstrated case of hardship and evidence of
an actual undertaking to correct the violation, together with a legitimate
intent to comply within a reasonable time period, may appeal to the Town
Council for rescission of the notice or order, or for a modification, variance
or extension of time for compliance.
   (B)   Procedure and hearing. A request for rescission, modification,
variance or extension of time shall be made in writing to the Town Clerk-
Treasurer, to be placed on the Town Council agenda within ten days of the
petitioner’s receipt of a copy of the notice or order. The Town Council shall
schedule a hearing within 30 days of receipt of the request.
   (C)   Open hearing. All hearings before the Town Council shall be open to
the public. The petitioner, the petitioner’s representative, the official who
issued the violation and any persons whose interests are affected shall be
given an opportunity to be heard.
   (D)   Findings. Prior to ruling on an appeal, the Town Council shall make
the following findings:
      (1)   The violator was served with a notice of violation;
      (2)   The notice of correction order that was served stated the specific
nature of the violation, corrective action needed to be taken to abate the
violation, a sufficient description of the real estate upon which the
violations exist and a specific time period for abatement of violation;
      (3)   Within the time period stipulated by the notice of correction
order, the violator failed to comply with the correction order by not abating
the violation and/or not bringing the property into compliance with the code;
      (4)   Upon expiration of the date indicated for compliance in the
correction order, the premises or structure was being maintained in violation
of specific provisions of law and/or conditions imposed by the Town Council as
a prerequisite to the modification of a previous compliance order; and
      (5)   Determination that a violation exists on the property.
   (E)   Board decision. At the conclusion of a hearing at which a continuance
is not granted, the Town Council may reverse, affirm or modify the order,
notice, requirement, decision or determination appealed from, and may make such
order, requirement, decision or determination as justice would require. The
Town Council’s determination and findings of fact shall be recorded in the Town
Council’s minutes, and if a notice or order is affirmed or modified, the Town
Council shall, in the determination on appeal, reestablish a reasonable time
line to make the repairs and improvements required to bring the dwelling unit,
structure or improvement into compliance with the provisions of this
subchapter.
   (F)   Court review. Any interested person, whether or not a previous party
to the appeal, shall have the right to apply to the appropriate court for a
writ of certiorari to correct errors of law.
   (G)   Stays of enforcement. Appeals of notice and orders (other than
imminent danger notices) shall stay the enforcement of the notice and order
until the Board of Public Works and Safety rules on the appeal.
(Ord. 4-2019, passed 5-7-2019)
§ 92.26 ABATEMENT.
   Upon expiration of the seven-day notice period (and any subsequent appeal,
if filed), the town may proceed at once to cause the nuisance to be abated and
charge the cost thereof against the owner and/or occupant of said property. The
liability created herein shall be joint and several as to the owners and
occupants or tenants and shall include any attorney’s fees incurred as part of
collection.
(Ord. 4-2019, passed 5-7-2019)
§ 92.27 ABATEMENT FEES AND COLLECTION.
   (A)   In the event the town shall cause to be abated a nuisance on any
property, then as compensation to the town for its services in causing the
abatement, the owner and/or occupant shall be charged the following fees:
      (1)   For each inspection necessary to determine compliance: $25;
      (2)   For determining private property ownership when necessary: $50;
      (3)   For each time a first class letter is written to the occupant or
owners: $10;
      (4)   For labor necessary to abate the nuisance: $50 per person-hour, or
fraction thereof;
      (5)   For each piece of equipment used in abating the nuisance: $75 per
machine-hour, or fraction thereof; and
      (6)   The actual costs of all materials and parts used in abating the
nuisance.
   (B)   If work is performed by an independent contractor, the owner/occupant
shall be required to reimburse the town for all such costs.
(Ord. 4-2019, passed 5-7-2019)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   In addition to any other remedy provided in §§
92.01 through
92.07 of this code or under any other applicable law, any person or persons
violating any provision of §§
92.01 through
92.07 shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $1,500. Each day’s continued
violation shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
92.20 of this code shall be subject to the following fines (escalating fines
shall be measured on a calendar-year basis):
         (a)   First offense: $1,000;
         (b)   Second offense: $1,500;
         (c)   Third offense: $2,000; and
         (d)   Subsequent offenses: $3,000.
      (2)   Each day a violation occurs shall constitute a separate offense.
      (3)   The enforcement of a first offense within a calendar year shall be
within the jurisdiction of the town.
      (4)   All enforcement of offenses subsequent to the first offense within
a calendar year shall be within the jurisdiction of the town.
      (5)   A custodial parent shall be responsible for ensuring that any child
under 18 years of age complies with §
92.20 and is responsible for any fine imposed.
      (6)   Citations for violation of §
92.20 may be issued by any sworn member of the town, the Town Marshal, the Town
Code Enforcement Officer(s) or designated town employees, or by any sworn
special police officer.
(Ord. 1-2019, passed 2-5-2019; Ord. 4-2019, passed 5-7-2019; Ord. 1-2020,
passed 3-3-2020)
CHAPTER 93: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Excavations and Construction
   
93.01   Opening permit required
   
93.02   Application and cash deposit
   
93.03   Restoration of pavement
   
93.04   Barriers around excavations
   
93.05   Warning lights
   
93.06   Sidewalk construction
Obstructions
   
93.20   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
93.21   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
93.22   Materials on street or sidewalk
EXCAVATIONS AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 93.01 OPENING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than an authorized town official,
to make any opening in any street, alley, sidewalk or public way of the town
unless a permit to make the opening has been obtained prior to commencement of
the work.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.02 APPLICATION AND CASH DEPOSIT.
   Each permit for making an opening shall be confined to a single project and
shall be issued by the authorized town official. Application shall be made on a
form prescribed by the Town Council, giving the exact location of the proposed
opening, the kind of paving, the area and depth to be excavated and other facts
as may be provided for. The permit shall be issued only after a cash deposit
sufficient to cover the cost of restoration has been posted with the authorized
town official, conditioned upon prompt and satisfactory refilling of
excavations and restoration of all surfaces disturbed.
§ 93.03 RESTORATION OF PAVEMENT.
   (A)   The opening and restoration of a pavement or other surface shall be
performed under the direction and to the satisfaction of the authorized town
official and in accordance with rules, regulations and specifications approved
by the Town Council.
   (B)   Upon failure or refusal of the permittee satisfactorily to fill the
excavation, restore the surface and remove all excess materials within the time
specified in the permit, or where not specified therein, within a reasonable
time after commencement of the work, the town may proceed without notice to
make the fill and restoration, and the deposit referred to in §
93.02 of this code shall be forfeited. Thereupon, the deposit shall be paid
into the appropriate town fund, except for the part demanded and paid to the
permittee as the difference between the deposit and the charges of the town for
restoration services performed by it. If the amount of the services performed
by the town should exceed the amount of the deposit, the Clerk-Treasurer or
other proper administrative officer shall proceed to collect the remainder due
from the permittee.
§ 93.04 BARRIERS AROUND EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or opening any
street, sidewalk, alley or other public way shall have the excavation or
opening fully barricaded at all times to prevent injury to persons or animals.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.05 WARNING LIGHTS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating, or otherwise in any
manner obstructing, a portion or all of any street, sidewalk, alley or other
public way at all times during the night shall install and maintain at least
two illuminated red lamps, which shall be securely and conspicuously posted on,
at or near each end of the obstruction or excavation, and if the space involved
exceeds 50 feet in extent, at least one additional lamp for each added 50 feet,
or portion thereof, excavated or obstructed.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.06 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   It shall be the duty of the authorized town official to supervise the
construction or repair of sidewalks within the town. He or she shall cause
specifications to be prepared for the construction of the various kinds of
pavements and transmit the specifications to the Town Council for approval.
When the specifications are approved, the Town Council shall advertise for
proposals to do all the work which may be ordered by the town in the
construction and repair of sidewalks and shall authorize the town executive to
contract therefor, for a period not exceeding one year, with the lowest
responsible bidder, who shall give bond for the faithful performance of the
work. The town executive, if authorized by the Town Council, may make separate
contracts for the different kinds of work with different parties.
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 93.20 UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the town by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk or other public way without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.21 STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk or other public way
within the town by erecting thereon any fence or building or permitting any
fence or building to remain thereon. Each day that any fence or building is
permitted to remain upon the public way shall constitute a separate offense.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.22 MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk. No owner, occupant or
person having the care of any building or lot of land bordering on any street
or sidewalk shall permit it to be encumbered with barrels, boxes, cans,
articles or substances of any kind so as to interfere with the free and
unobstructed use thereof.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 94: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
94.01   Skateboard use restrictions
§ 94.01 SKATEBOARD USE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No skateboarding or similar activities shall be permitted in Harris
Park after 9:00 p.m.
   (B)   Skateboarding is not permitted at any time on park tables or any other
park furnishing, whether inside or outside the shelter.
(Ord. 03-20-07-1, passed 3-20-2007) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
      
111.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
112.   ENTERTAINMENT AND AMUSEMENTS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   Licenses required to engage in certain trades, businesses or
professions
   
110.02   Application for license
   
110.03   Standards; issuance of license
   
110.04   Date and duration of license
   
110.05   License not transferable
   
110.06   License certificate to be displayed
   
110.07   Revocation or suspension
   
110.08   Appeal and review
   
110.09   Exemptions
§ 110.01 LICENSES REQUIRED TO ENGAGE IN CERTAIN TRADES, BUSINESSES OR
PROFESSIONS.
   No person shall engage in any of the trades, businesses or professions for
which licenses are required by any provision of this code or any other
ordinance of the town without first applying for and obtaining a license from
the Clerk-Treasurer or other duly authorized issuing authority.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.02 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   All original applications for licenses, unless otherwise specifically
provided, shall be made to the Clerk-Treasurer in writing upon forms to be
furnished by him or her and shall contain:
      (1)   The name of the applicant and of each officer, partner or business
associate;
      (2)   His or her present occupation and place of business;
      (3)   His or her place of residence for the five years next preceding the
date of application;
      (4)   The nature and location of the intended business or enterprise;
      (5)   The period of time for which the license is desired;
      (6)   A description of the merchandise to be sold, if for a vendor; and
      (7)   Other information concerning the applicant and his or her business
as may be reasonable and proper, having regard to the nature of the license
desired.
   (B)   Renewal of an annual license may be granted to a licensee in good
standing upon the original application unless otherwise provided.
   (C)   With each original or renewal application, the applicant shall deposit
the fee required for the license requested.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to knowingly make any false statement or
representation in the license application.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.03 STANDARDS; ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application for a license accompanied by the proper
fee, if approval by another officer or department is not required, the Clerk-
Treasurer shall forthwith deposit the fee in the General Fund of the town and
issue to the applicant a proper license certificate signed by the Clerk-
Treasurer and any other appropriate town official. If for any reason the
license is not issued, the license fee shall be returned to the applicant.
   (B)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (C)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals or general welfare.
Tangible evidence of any of the following will constitute valid reasons for
disapproval of an application:
      (1)   The applicant has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   The applicant has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   The applicant has committed prior violations of ordinances
pertaining to itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors and the like;
      (4)   The applicant has committed prior fraudulent acts;
      (5)   The applicant has a record of continual breaches of solicited
contracts; or
      (6)   The applicant has an unsatisfactory moral character.
§ 110.04 DATE AND DURATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   A license shall not be valid beyond the expiration date therein
specified and, unless otherwise provided, shall not extend beyond December 31
of the year issued. However, at any time after December 14, licenses may be
issued for the ensuing calendar year. Unless otherwise specified, the full
annual fee will be required of licensees irrespective of the date of issue of
the license.
   (B)   In no event shall a license be granted to any business or any person
for a longer time than one year.
§ 110.05 LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   Every license shall be issued to a real party in interest in the enterprise
or business and, unless otherwise provided, no license shall be assigned or
transferred.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.06 LICENSE CERTIFICATE TO BE DISPLAYED.
   Every licensee carrying on business at a fixed location shall keep posted in
a prominent place upon the licensed premises the license certificate. Other
licensees shall carry their license certificates at all times and, whenever
requested by any officer or citizen, shall exhibit the license.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.07 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be suspended or revoked for any of
the following reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony or conviction of the licensee
of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way so as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals or general
welfare of the public.
§ 110.08 APPEAL AND REVIEW.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
110.03 or
110.07 of this code shall have the right to appeal to the Town Council. The
appeal shall be taken by filing with the Town Council, within 14 days after
notice of the decision has been mailed to the person’s last known address, a
written statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The Town Council shall
set the time and place for a hearing, and notice for the hearing shall be given
to the person by mail at his or her last known address at least ten days prior
to the date set for the hearing.
   (B)   The order of the Town Council after the hearing shall be final.
§ 110.09 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any business, occupation
or profession which is exempt from municipal licensing or license taxes
pursuant to state or federal law.
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License requirement
   
111.03   Application procedure
   
111.04   Standards for issuance
   
111.05   Revocation procedure
   
111.06   Standards for revocation
   
111.07   Appeal procedure
   
111.08   Exhibition of identification
   
111.09   Town policy on soliciting
   
111.10   Notice regulating soliciting
   
111.11   Duty of solicitors to ascertain notice
   
111.12   Prohibited solicitation
Statutory reference:
   Local regulation authorized, see I.C. 25-37-1-11
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler or solicitor, as defined in this section.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is not
restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the town and who, in
the furtherance of the business, uses any building, structure, vehicle or any
place within the town.
   PEDDLER. Any person, not an itinerant merchant, who:
      (1)   Travels from place to place by any means carrying goods for sale,
or making sales, or making deliveries; or
      (2)   Without traveling from place to place, sells or offers goods for
sale from any public place within the town.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels, by any means, from place to place taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a SOLICITOR is not
a peddler.
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in that activity within the town.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set from
time to time by the Town Council.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the Clerk-Treasurer. This application shall be signed by the
applicant if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership, or by the
President if a corporation. The applicant may be requested to provide
information concerning the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the town;
         (b)   The local address of the individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of the individual; and
         (d)   The capacity in which the individual will act.
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
the applicant’s business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character and quality of the goods or services to
be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock; and
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom the goods are manufactured or grown,
and where the goods are at the time of application.
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
and
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, the individual identified in division
(A)(2)(a) above or the person identified in division (A)(3) above has been
convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each offense
and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant; and
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their application, if required by the town, credentials from the person, if
any, for whom the applicant proposes to do business which authorize the
applicant to act as the representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to any attachments required under division (C) above,
a statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior to
the date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless the investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant has done any of the following
will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   Has made wilful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors and the like;
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts.
§ 111.05 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the
Clerk-Treasurer after notice and hearing pursuant to the standards in §
111.06 of this code. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in
writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time
and place of the hearing. The notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his or
her last known address at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
§ 111.06 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony or conviction of the licensee
of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way so as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals or general
welfare of the public.
§ 111.07 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
111.04 or
111.06 of this code shall have the right to appeal to the Town Council. The
appeal shall be taken by filing with the Town Council, within 14 days after
notice of the decision has been mailed to the person’s last known address, a
written statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The Town Council shall
set the time and place for a hearing, and notice for the hearing shall be given
to the person in the same manner as provided in §
111.05 of this code.
   (B)   The order of the Town Council after the hearing shall be final.
§ 111.08 EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event that
more than one place within the town shall be used to conduct the business
licensed, separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a license to each peddler or solicitor
licensed under this chapter. The license shall contain the words “Licensed
Peddler” or “Licensed Solicitor,” the expiration date of the license and the
number of the license. The license shall be kept with the licensee during the
time he or she is engaged in the business licensed.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.09 TOWN POLICY ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the town that the occupants of the
residences in the town shall make the determination of whether solicitors shall
be, or shall not be, invited to their respective residences.
§ 111.10 NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING.
   (A)   Notice of the refusal of invitation to solicitors to any residence
shall be given on a weatherproof card, approximately three inches by four
inches in size, exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence,
indicating the determination by the occupant and containing the applicable
words, as follows:
   “NO SOLICITORS INVITED”
   (B)   The letters shall be at least one-third inch in height. For the
purpose of uniformity, the cards shall be provided by the Chief of Police to
persons requesting, at the cost thereof.
   (C)   The card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon.
§ 111.11 DUTY OF SOLICITORS TO ASCERTAIN NOTICE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every solicitor, upon going onto any premises
in the town upon which a residence is located, to first examine the notice
provided for in §
111.10 of this code, if any is attached, and be governed by the statement
contained on the notice. If the notice states “NO SOLICITORS INVITED,” then the
solicitor, whether registered or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart
from the premises.
   (B)   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether
invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.12 PROHIBITED SOLICITATION.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or
to create any sound in any manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of the residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof and engage in soliciting in defiance of the notice exhibited
at the residence in accordance with the provisions of §
111.10 of this code.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 112: ENTERTAINMENT AND AMUSEMENTS
Section
   
112.01   Poolrooms
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 POOLROOMS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor against the town for any
person, firm or corporation to operate, manage or keep open a poolroom in the
town on Sunday.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor against the town for any
person, firm or corporation to operate, manage or keep open a poolroom between
the hours of 12:00 a.m., midnight, and 7:00 a.m. the following morning, Eastern
Standard Time, on Monday through Saturday.
   (C)   The term POOLROOM means any place or establishment maintaining and
keeping one or more tables where the public is invited to play pool or
billiards.
(Ord. 14, passed 8-31-1964) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be fined $10 and costs.
(Ord. 14, passed 8-31-1964)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   WEAPONS
CHAPTER 130: WEAPONS
Section
Firearms on Town Property
   
130.01   Prohibition
   
130.02   Signs required
   
130.03   Exemptions
FIREARMS ON TOWN PROPERTY
§ 130.01 PROHIBITION.
   No person shall carry a concealed firearm in or on any property, park,
building or portion of a building now or hereafter owned, leased as lessee,
operated, occupied, managed or controlled by the town, as well as the
appurtenant premises to the buildings, upon which appropriate signage has been
placed indicating that concealed firearms are prohibited therein.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.02 SIGNS REQUIRED.
   Signs shall be visibly posted on the exterior of each entrance by which the
general public can access the building, appurtenant premises or park. The town
shall exercise discretion in determining the necessity of and appropriate
locations for other signs posted on the interior of the building, appurtenant
premises or park.
§ 130.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The prohibitions set forth in this chapter shall not apply to persons
who are exempt from concealed weapons prohibitions under state or federal law
or to any duly authorized local, state or federal law enforcement officer while
on duty.
   (B)   The prohibitions set forth in this chapter shall not apply to highways
or public highways owned or administered by the town.
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
150.01   State Building Code adopted by reference
   
150.02   State enforcement statutes adopted by reference
   
150.03   Building Commissioner designated; building inspection services
§ 150.01 STATE BUILDING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   Pursuant to the authority granted under I.C. 22-13-2-3, the town hereby
adopts by reference the Indiana Building Code, contained in 675 I.A.C. 13-2.6-
1 et seq., including any future amendments.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to adopt future Building Code amendments by reference, see I.C.
22-13-2-3
§ 150.02 STATE ENFORCEMENT STATUTES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority granted under I.C. 36-7-9-3, the town hereby
adopts by reference I.C. 36-7-9, pertaining to the enforcement of building
standards.
   (B)   The enforcement authority responsible for the administration of the
statutes adopted under this section shall be the town executive, or such other
executive department as may be established or designated by ordinance.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST shall have
the same meaning as set forth in I.C. 36-7-9-2.
§ 150.03 BUILDING COMMISSIONER DESIGNATED; BUILDING INSPECTION SERVICES.
   The town designates the County Building Commissioner as its Building
Commissioner and authorizes building inspection services in accordance with the
terms and fees set forth in the County Building Code Ordinance.
(Res. -, passed 7-13-1995)
CHAPTER 151: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND ZONING
Section
   
151.01   County Comprehensive Plan Ordinance adopted by reference
   
151.02   County Unified Zoning Ordinance adopted by reference
§ 151.01 COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN ORDINANCE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The town adopts the County Comprehensive Plan Ordinance, as amended from
time to time and approved by town ordinance, by reference as if herein set out
in full.
(Ord. passed 12-1-1979)
§ 151.02 COUNTY UNIFIED ZONING ORDINANCE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The town adopts the County Unified Zoning Ordinance, as amended from time to
time and approved by town ordinance, by reference as if herein set out in full.
(Ord. passed 12-1-1979; Ord. passed 11-3-1994; Ord. 95-04-06, passed 4-6-1995;
Ord. 6-5-95-A, passed 6-6-1995)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS AND VACATIONS
      
II.   FUNDS
      
III.   BONDS AND FINANCING
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS AND VACATIONS
 
Ord. No. Passed Date Description
-        3-27-1972   Vacation of a portion of Front Street lying east of Lot 1
                     and the north half of Lot 2.
                     Annexation of real estate, being part of the south half of
1993-11  11-3-1993   Section 13, Township 2 North, Range 1 West of the first
                     principal meridian in the township.
                    
 
TABLE II: FUNDS
 
 
Ord. No.  Passed Date Description
1990-5-02 5-2-1990    Town of Patriot Promotional Fund established.
97-04-09  9-4-1997    Riverboat Revenue Sharing Fund established.
11-3-10   11-3-2010   Park Board Non-Reverting Fund established.
                     
 
TABLE III: BONDS AND FINANCING
 
Ord. Passed Description
No.  Date
05-         Loan renewal through First Financial Bank to finance town’s matured
20-  - -    debt.
12
6-5  - -    Issuance of Waterworks System Revenue Bonds, second series.
85-1 11-4-  Issuance of Waterworks Revenue Bonds of 1985, Series A and B.
     1985
91-  10-2-
02-  1991   Issuance of Sewage Works Revenue Bonds of 1991, Series A and B.
10
           
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Cite Code Section
I.C. Cite          Code Section
3-10-6             32.02
3-10-7             32.02
3-13-9-3           32.06
4-21.5-3-1         51.069;
                   52.15
5-2-1-9            32.21;
                   32.24
5-3-1              31.082
5-11-10-1.6        34.04
5-11-10-2          34.03
5-14-1.5           31.020
5-15-1.5-1 et seq. 33.06;
                   33.24
5-14-1.5-3.5       31.024
5-14-1.5-3.6       31.024
5-14-1.5-4(a)      31.023
5-14-1.5-4(b)      31.024
5-14-1.5-4(c)      31.024
5-14-1.5-6.1       31.021
5-14-3-3           31.021
5-14-3-4(b)(12)    31.021
6-1.1-17           34.31;
                   34.32
6-1.1-17-3         34.30
8-1.5-3-4(d)       50.03
8-1.5-3-9          50.01
8-14-1             34.07
8-14-2             34.07
8-22-2             31.021
8-22-3             31.021
9-13-2-6           70.01
9-13-2-47          70.01
9-13-2-49.3        70.01
9-13-2-56          70.01
9-13-2-73          70.01
9-13-2-77          70.01
9-13-2-84          70.01
9-13-2-105(a)      70.01
9-13-2-105(b)      70.01
9-13-2-108         70.01
9-13-2-118         70.01
9-13-2-121(a)      70.01
9-13-2-155         70.01
9-13-2-157         70.01
9-13-2-178         70.01
9-13-2-196(a)      70.01
9-19               70.01
9-21-1-3           Ch. 71
9-21-5-6           Ch. 71
9-21-12-13         70.01
9-21-20-1          70.01
9-21-20-2          70.01
9-21-20-3          70.01
13-22              31.082
13-23              31.082
13-24              31.082
13-25-4            31.082
13-25-5            31.082
13-25-5-8.5(f)     31.082
16-18-2-110        70.01
16-22-8            70.01
22-9-1-4 et seq.   90.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.   90.01
22-9.5-2-2         90.02
22-9.5-2-3         90.02
22-9.5-2-4         90.02
22-9.5-2-8         90.02
22-9.5-2-9         90.02
22-9-5-6           90.02
22-9-5-6(d)(3)     90.02
22-9-5-6(d)(5)     90.02
22-9.5-2-11        90.02
22-9.5-2-13        90.02
22-9.5-3           90.03
22-9.5-3 et seq.   90.10
22-9.5-4-8         90.11
22-9.5-5           90.02
22-9.5-5-1         90.03
22-9.5-6           90.02;
                   90.11
22-13-2-3          150.01
25                 31.021
25-37-1-11         Ch. 111
33-35-1            35.09
33-35-3-1          32.03
33-35-3-2          32.03
33-36-2            35.09
33-36-2-1          35.01;
                   35.02
33-36-2-2          35.02
33-36-2-3          35.03
33-36-2-4          35.09
33-36-3            35.03
33-36-3-1          35.04
33-36-3-2          35.05
33-36-3-3          35.06
33-36-3-5          35.07
33-36-3-6          35.08
33-36-3-7          35.09
33-37              35.08
33-37-4            35.08
33-37-7-6          35.08
34-13-3-1 et seq.  36.15;
                   36.16
34-13-3-12         36.16
35-47-5-13(a)      32.25
36-1-7             32.06
36-1-10            31.021
36-1-11            31.021
36-5-2-3(a)        31.001
36-5-2-3(b)        31.001
36-5-2-3(c)        31.001
36-5-2-3(d)        31.001
36-5-2-3(e)        31.001
36-5-2-3(f)        31.001
36-5-2-3(g)        31.001
36-5-2-4.1         31.082
36-5-2-4.2         31.081
36-5-2-6           31.002
36-5-2-7           31.004
36-5-2-8           31.026
36-5-2-9           31.003
36-5-2-9.2         31.025
36-5-2-9.4(a)      31.080
36-5-2-9.4(b)      31.081
36-5-2-9.6         31.080
36-5-2-9.8         31.081
36-5-2-10          31.082
36-5-2-10.2        31.083
36-5-3-3           34.30
36-5-3-4           34.31
36-5-3-5           34.32
36-5-4-2           34.01
36-5-4-3           34.02
36-5-4-4           34.03
36-5-4-6           34.04
36-5-4-7           34.05
36-5-4-12          34.06
36-5-4-13(b)       34.07
36-5-6-2           32.03
36-5-6-3(a)        32.01
36-5-6-3(b)        32.02
36-5-6-3(c)        32.02
36-5-6-3(d)        32.02
36-5-6-3(e)        32.02
36-5-6-3(f)        32.02
36-5-6-4           32.02
36-5-6-5           32.03
36-5-6-5.1         32.05
36-5-6-6           32.03
36-5-6-7           32.04
36-5-6-8           32.04
36-5-6-9           32.06
36-5-7-2           32.20
36-5-7-3           32.21
36-5-7-4           32.22
36-5-7-5           32.23
36-5-7-6           32.24
36-5-7-7           32.25
36-7               31.081;
                   31.082
36-7-4-211         33.35
36-7-4-217         33.36
36-7-4-218(a)      33.37
36-7-4-218(e)      33.37
36-7-4-218(f)      33.37
36-7-4-220         33.38
36-7-9             150.02
36-7-9-2           150.02
36-7-9-3           150.02
36-8               32.21;
                   32.24
                   
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res.  No. Date Passed Code Section
-         1-7-1985    30.02
-         7-13-1995   150.03
                     
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.   Date Passed Code Section
05-20-12   - -         TSO Table III
6-5        - -         TSO Table III
10         - -         91.21;
                       91.99
11         - -         72.15;
                       72.99
12-9-14    - -         52.11
                       72.01—
2013-12-16 - -         72.14;
                       72.99
12 1/2     8-31-1964   91.02;
                       91.99
14         8-31-1964   112.01;
                       112.99
-          3-27-1972   TSO Table I
-          12-1-1979   151.01
-          12-1-1979   151.02
85-1       11-4-1985   TSO Table III
1990-5-02  5-2-1990    TSO Table II
                       54.01—
                       54.03;
91-08-07   8-7-1991    54.05;
                       54.06;
                       54.99
                       51.001—
                       51.005;
                       51.020—
                       51.028;
91-2-09    10-2-1991   51.040—
                       51.049;
                       51.060—
                       51.069;
                       51.080—
                       51.082
91-02-10   10-2-1991   TSO Table III
                       52.01—
91-18-09   10-2-1991   52.10;
                       52.14—
                       52.17
                       51.022;
92-9-01    9-2-1992    51.023;
                       51.026;
                       51.029
93-06-02   6-2-1993    52.12
                       90.01—
93-07-07   7-7-1993    90.11;
                       90.99
93-09-01   9-1-1993    50.02
1993-11    11-3-1993   TSO Table I
-          11-3-1994   151.02
95-04-06   4-6-1995    151.02
6-5-95-A   6-6-1995    151.02
6-5-95-C   6-6-1995    33.35—
                       33.38
6-5-95A    7-6-1995    33.35—
                       33.38
12-07-95 B 12-7-1995   36.02
97-04-09   9-4-1997    TSO Table II
99-5-6     5-6-1999    50.01
12-10-03   12-10-2003  33.20—
                       33.24
05-27-06   6-27-2005   54.04;
                       54.99
05-29-11   12-20-2005  53.01
05-16-06   5-16-2006   52.13
1-16-07    1-16-2007   53.02
03-20-07-1 3-20-2007   94.01
2-3-09     2-3-2009    33.01—
                       33.06
11-3-10    11-3-2010   TSO Table II
02-15-2011 2-15-2011   36.01
-          2-20-2012   33.01—
                       33.06
                       90.01—
2013-5-20  5-20-2013   90.11;
                       90.99
18-9-4     9-4-2018    34.08
                       92.01—
1-2019     2-5-2019    92.07;
                       92.99
                       10.01—
03-2019    4-2-2019    10.16;
                       10.99
                       92.20—
4-2019     5-7-2019    92.27;
                       92.99
5-2019     8-13-2019   32.20;
                       32.26
                       92.20;
1-2020     3-3-2020    92.21;
                       92.99
1-2021     - -2021     53.01
2-2021     - -2021     52.07
                      
 
