PERRY COUNTY, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2021 S-8 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance O-C-20-8, passed 12-15-2020; and
State legislation current through Indiana Legislative Service,
2021 Acts, Pamphlet No. 3
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   COUNTY STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Short title
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Catchlines of sections
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Reasonable time
   
10.12   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.13   Limitation periods
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.16   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.17   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
   
10.18   Unauthorized alterations or tampering with code
   
10.19   Recordation and publication of ordinances; effective date
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLE.
   The ordinances embraced in the following titles, chapters and sections shall
constitute and be designated the County Code of Perry County, Indiana, and may
be so cited. Code title, chapter and section headings do not constitute any
part of the law as contained in the code.
(1984 Code, § 1-1)
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or subsection.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning, application
or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 CATCHLINES OF SECTIONS.
   The catchlines of the several sections of this code printed in boldface type
are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the sections and
shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of those sections; nor as any part of
the sections; nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of those sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(1984 Code, § 1-3)
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate meaning in
law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      COUNTY. County of Perry, State of Indiana.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      OATH. Construed to include any affirmation in all cases which, by law, an
affirmation may be substituted for an OATH, and in those cases the words SWEAR
and SWORN shall be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICERS GENERALLY. Whenever any officer is referred to by title, such as
Auditor, Sheriff and the like, the reference shall be construed as if followed
by the words “of Perry County.”
      OWNER. When applied to any building or land, shall include any part
owner, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant or
tenant by the entirety of the whole or of a part of that building or land.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes every species of property except real
property as herein defined.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      PROPERTY. Includes both real and personal property.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any street, highway, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard
or open space adjacent thereto and any lake or stream.
      QUORUM. A majority of the members of a board, commission or committee
holding office, unless otherwise specifically provided in this code.
      REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
      ROAD. Construed to embrace streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, alleys,
viaducts and all other public highways in the county.
      SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians, excluding parkways.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The word THE STATE or THIS STATE shall be construed to mean the
State of Indiana.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT. When applied to a building or land, shall include any
person holding written or oral lease of or who occupied the whole or a part of
the building or land, either alone or with others.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing or other modes of
representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5) (1984 Code, § 1-2)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a statute stating that the provisions of an act are
severable as provided in division (B) does not affect the operation of division
(B) with respect to that act.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8) (1984 Code, § 1-9)
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution refers to any
board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is incorrectly
stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or following the effective
date, the rights, powers, duties or liabilities placed with that entity are or
were transferred to a different entity; then the named board, bureau,
commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.12 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   (A)   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former
section or law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section
or law is not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any
section shall not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture or liability
incurred under the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides.
The section shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of
sustaining any proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty,
forfeiture or liability.
   (B)   The repeal provided for in division (A) above shall not affect any of
the following:
      (1)   Any offense or acts committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture
incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective
date of this code;
      (2)   Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment
of money for the county, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the county
or any evidence of the county’s indebtedness or any contract or obligations
assumed by the county;
      (3)   Administrative ordinances or resolutions of the Board of
Commissioners not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of the code;
      (4)   Any right or franchise granted by any ordinance of the county;
      (5)   Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating,
relocating, opening, paving, widening or vacating any road in the county;
      (6)   Any ordinance appropriating, transferring or authorizing the
expenditure of funds of the county;
      (7)   Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes;
      (8)   Any ordinance zoning or rezoning specific property;
      (9)   Any ordinance establishing or prescribing grades in the county;
      (10)   Any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes
therefor;
      (11)   Any ordinance extending or contracting the boundaries of the
county;
      (12)   Any ordinance prescribing the number, classification or
compensation of any county officers or employees, not inconsistent herewith; or
      (13)   Any ordinance declaring certain property to be a public nuisance
and authorizing procedures for the demolition of the same.
(1984 Code, § 1-8) (Ord. C-84-5, passed 12-17-1984)
§ 10.13 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
(1984 Code, § 1-4)
§ 10.16 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the county published in 1984 and subsequently amended, the
previous code section number shall be indicated in the history by “(1984 Code,
§      ).”
§ 10.17 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.18 UNAUTHORIZED ALTERATIONS OR TAMPERING WITH CODE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in the county to change or amend, by
additions or deletions, any part or portion of this code, or to insert or
delete pages, or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with the code in any
manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the county to be misrepresented
thereby.
(1984 Code, § 1-5)
§ 10.19 RECORDATION AND PUBLICATION OF ORDINANCES; EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   Each ordinance adopted by the County Commissioners or County Council
shall, if directed, be recorded by the Auditor in the minute books and a copy
kept in an ordinance file. Due proof of publication of all ordinances requiring
publication together with the affidavit of the printer or publisher shall be
obtained by the Auditor and attached to the original of each ordinance adopted
by the County Commissioners or County Council in the minute books.
(1984 Code, § 1-6)
   (B)   Each ordinance adopted by the County Commissioners or County Council
shall, if directed, be published by the Auditor in a newspaper of general
circulation in the county and printed in the English language, in two
publications, each one week apart, and each ordinance shall take effect in 14
days subsequent to the date of the first publication, unless another date is
later stated in the ordinance in which event it shall take effect upon the date
so stated. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect upon the date
of their adoption unless a different date is stated in the ordinance.
(1984 Code, § 1-7)
Statutory reference:
   Recording, publishing county ordinances, see I.C. 36-2-4-8
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
(1984 Code, § 1-10)
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
(1984 Code, § 1-11)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
CHAPTER 11: COUNTY STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   County flag
§ 11.01 COUNTY FLAG.
   (A)   County history.
      (1)   Meeting at Corydon on September 7, 1814, the Indiana Territorial
Legislature passed acts forming three new counties: #11, Switzerland County,
effective on October 1, # 12 and #13, Perry and Posey Counties, effective on
November 1. This effective date for Perry County was two years and six weeks
before Indiana was admitted into the Union on December 11, 1816 as the
nineteenth state. Perry County was formed from part of Madison Township of
Gibson County and from Tobin Township and part of Ohio Township of Warrick
County.
      (2)   Perry County is one of the earliest counties to be named after
Commodore Oliver Hazard Perry. At the time, he was America’s newest genuine
hero. The act forming Perry County, Indiana, was passed three days before the
first anniversary of Perry’s decisive defeat of the British on Lake Erie on
September 10, 1813.
      (3)   This first form of the county was nearly twice the size of that of
the present. The formations of Spencer, Dubois and Crawford Counties in 1818
and the transfer of 24 square miles to Crawford by a law of January 23, 1827
established the present boundaries.
   (B)   County flag.
      (1)   The design of the county flag incorporates the founding year and
the present boundaries. The three most striking natural features of the county
are also represented. The blue and white waves denote the internal streams and
lakes as well as the waters of the Ohio River which forms more than half of the
boundary on the south and southeast sides. The green hills and the green
woodlands are depicted immediately above the blue of the water.
      (2)   On November 1, 1989 the county will have been in Indiana for 175
years.
      (3)   To commemorate this milestone, the County Chamber of Commerce
formed a committee to design a county flag. Members of this committee were J.B.
Land, Chamber President, Dr. Joseph LeClere, Danny Coffey, Bert Fenn, Michael
Rutherford, Mr. and Mrs. Roy York and Sharmon Jarboe. Actual construction of
the flag based on the committee’s design was done by Carrot Top Industries,
Hillsborough, North Carolina.
(Flag adopted 8-5-1989)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   COUNTY OFFICIALS
      
32.   COUNTY ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   CORRECTIONS
      
34.   COURTS
      
35.   ELECTIONS
      
36.   FUNDS
      
37.   TAXATION AND FINANCES
      
38.   COUNTY POLICIES
      
39.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
      
40.   PURCHASING AND ASSET POLICIES
      
41.   PERSONNEL REGULATIONS
      
42.   FEES
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   County seat
§ 30.01 COUNTY SEAT.
   The county seat of Perry County shall be changed from Cannelton, Indiana to
Tell City, Indiana, effective at 12:01 a.m., eastern standard time, on August
15, 1994.
(Ord. O-C-94-3, passed 8-1-1994)
CHAPTER 31: COUNTY OFFICIALS
Section
Board of Commissioners
   
31.01   Establishment and provisions
   
31.02   Districts established
County Council
   
31.15   Establishment and provisions
   
31.16   Districts established
County Officials
   
31.30   Generally
   
31.31   County Assessor
   
31.32   County Auditor
   
31.33   County Coroner
   
31.34   County Prosecutor
   
31.35   County Recorder
   
31.36   County Sheriff
   
31.37   County Surveyor
   
31.38   County Treasurer
   
31.39   County Highway Engineer
Authorizing the Use of Credit Cards
   
31.50   Authorized
   
31.51   Issuance and use
   
31.52   Designated parties
   
31.53   Rules governing use
Claim Payments
   
31.65   Allowing claim payments in advance of Board allowance
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
§ 31.01 ESTABLISHMENT AND PROVISIONS.
   For provisions regarding the Board of County Commissioners, see I.C. 36-2-2-
1 et seq.
(1984 Code, § 3-1)
§ 31.02 DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The county shall be divided into three districts for the purpose of
electing members of the Board of County Commissioners.
   (B)   The districts are as follows:
      (1)   District No. 1 shall consist of Troy Township;
      (2)   District No. 2 shall consist of Leopold, Tobin and Union Townships;
and
      (3)   District No. 3 shall consist of Anderson, Clark and Oil Townships.
(1984 Code, § 3-2) (Ord. 89-C-1, passed 1-3-1989)
COUNTY COUNCIL
§ 31.15 ESTABLISHMENT AND PROVISIONS.
   For provisions regarding the County Council, see I.C. 36-2-3-1 et seq.
(1984 Code, § 4-1)
§ 31.16 DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED.
   Perry County shall be divided into four contiguous, single-member districts
which shall contain the following precincts:
   (A)   District 1. Cannelton 1, Cannelton 2, Tell City 1, Tell City 2 and
Troy Township 2.
   (B)   District 2. Tell City 3, Tell City 4, Tell City 5, Tell City 6 and
Tell City 8.
   (C)   District 3. Anderson, Tell City 7, Troy Township 1 and Troy.
   (D)   District 4. Clark 1, Clark 2, Derby, Leopold, Oil, Rono and Tobin.
(1984 Code, § 4-2) (Ord. 11-1973, passed 12-17-1973; Ord. O-C-13-5, passed 12-
16-2013)
COUNTY OFFICIALS
§ 31.30 GENERALLY.
   Pursuant to I.C. 36-1-3-1 et seq., the county shall have the right to
exercise any power or perform any function necessary to the public interest in
the conduct of its county or internal affairs; provided the exercise of power
is not prohibited by the Constitution of the United States or denied or
preempted by any other law or is not vested by any other law in a city, county
or state entity, special purpose district or municipal or school corporation.
The exercise of these powers shall be limited in no way, but shall not conflict
with the provisions of I.C. 36-1-3-1 et seq., as amended and supplemented.
(1984 Code, § 2-1)
§ 31.31 COUNTY ASSESSOR.
   For provisions concerning the County Assessor, see I.C. 36-2-15-1 et seq.
(1984 Code, § 2-2)
§ 31.32 COUNTY AUDITOR.
   For provisions concerning the County Auditor, see I.C. 36-2-2-11, 36-2-2-12
and 36-2-9-1 et seq.
(1984 Code, § 2-3)
§ 31.33 COUNTY CORONER.
   For provisions concerning the County Coroner, see I.C. 36-2-14-1 et seq.
(1984 Code, § 2-4)
§ 31.34 COUNTY PROSECUTOR.
   For provisions concerning the County Prosecutor, see I.C. 33-39-1-1 et seq.
(1984 Code, § 2-5)
§ 31.35 COUNTY RECORDER.
   For provisions concerning the County Recorder, see I.C. 36-2-13-1 et seq.
(1984 Code, § 2-6)
§ 31.36 COUNTY SHERIFF.
   For provisions concerning the County Sheriff, see I.C. 36-2-13-1 et seq.
(1984 Code, § 2-7)
§ 31.37 COUNTY SURVEYOR.
   For provisions concerning the County Surveyor, see I.C. 36-2-12-1 et seq.
(1984 Code, § 2-8)
§ 31.38 COUNTY TREASURER.
   For provisions concerning the County Treasurer, see I.C. 36-2-10-1 et seq.
(1984 Code, § 2-9)
§ 31.39 COUNTY HIGHWAY ENGINEER.
   (A)   There is hereby established the full-time position of County Highway
Engineer, pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 8-17-5.
   (B)   Effective May 18, 1998, there is hereby employed a County Highway
Engineer at an annual salary as to be determined.
   (C)   The County Auditor is hereby directed to certify the employment of the
County Highway Engineer to the Auditor of State in accordance with the
provisions of I.C. 8-17-5-9 and take any additional actions required to obtain
the distribution to the county of the grant-in-aid subsidy provided for in I.C.
8-17-5-10.
(Res. R-C-98-5, passed 5-11-1998)
AUTHORIZING THE USE OF CREDIT CARDS
§ 31.50 AUTHORIZED.
   Under the terms and conditions of this subchapter, credit card use is
authorized in the county.
(Res. R-C-09-5, passed 12-7-2009)
§ 31.51 ISSUANCE AND USE.
   The issuance and use of credit cards in the county shall be handled by the
Auditor of the county, who has the specific delegated authority of the Board to
do so.
(Res. R-C-09-5, passed 12-7-2009)
§ 31.52 DESIGNATED PARTIES.
   With respect to each department or division of county government, a
responsible party shall be designated and is hereby designated as follows:
   (A)   Judge of the County Circuit Court;
   (B)   Clerk of the County Circuit Court;
   (C)   Sheriff of the county;
   (D)   Assessor of the county;
   (E)   Recorder of the county;
   (F)   Auditor of the county;
   (G)   Treasurer of the county;
   (H)   Prosecutor of the county;
   (I)   County Highway Superintendent;
   (J)   Head of the Park and Recreation Department;
   (K)   Head of the Emergency Management Department;
   (L)   Head of the County Health Department; and
   (M)   County Administrator.
(Res. R-C-09-5, passed 12-7-2009)
§ 31.53 RULES GOVERNING USE.
   (A)   The use of the credit card is limited to reasonable governmental
purposes only.
   (B)   When the purpose for which the credit card has been issued has been
accomplished, the card shall be returned to the custody of the responsible
person (the elected official or head of the department).
   (C)   The head of each department or elected official who issues credit
cards to governmental employees shall maintain a log which includes the name of
the individual requesting usage of the card, his or her position, the estimated
amounts to be charged, fund and account numbers to be charged and the date the
card is to be issued and returned. The department head or elected official
shall monitor the use of the credit card and ensure that it is used for only
reasonable governmental purposes.
   (D)   Credit cards should not be used to bypass the accounting system.
Purchase orders and receipts shall be acquired and maintained.
   (E)   Payment shall not be made on the basis of a statement or credit card
slip only. Supporting documents such as paid bills and receipts must be
available.
   (F)   Any interest or penalty incurred due to late filing or furnishing of
documentation by an office holder, department head or employee shall be the
responsibility of that office holder, department head or employee.
   (G)   A reasonable annual fee approved by the Auditor may be paid.
(Res. R-C-09-5, passed 12-7-2009)
CLAIM PAYMENTS
§ 31.65 ALLOWING CLAIM PAYMENTS IN ADVANCE OF BOARD ALLOWANCE.
   (A)   The following categories are designated for pre-payment procedures:
      (1)   Property or services purchased or leased from the United States
government, its agencies or its political subdivisions;
      (2)   License or permit fees;
      (3)   Insurance premiums;
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
      (5)   General grant programs where advance funding is not prohibited and
the contracting party posts sufficient security to cover the amount advanced;
      (6)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute;
      (7)   Maintenance or service agreements;
      (8)   Leases or rental agreements;
      (9)   Bond or coupon payments;
      (10)   Payroll;
      (11)   State or federal taxes;
      (12)   Unemployment claims;
      (13)   Expenses that must be paid because of emergency circumstances;
      (14)   Conference registrations approved by the Board of Commissioners;
      (15)   Reimbursement for conference expenses incurred while attending
approved conferences;
      (16)   Charge card expenses incurred by county offices for lawful
purposes; and
      (17)   Postage.
   (B)   Pursuant to state law, each payment of expenses must be supported by a
fully itemized invoice or bill and certification by the County Auditor. The
Board of Commissioners shall review and allow the claims at its next regular or
special meeting following the pre-approved payment of the expense. A payment of
expenses under this section must be published in the manner provided in I.C.
36-2-6-3 whereby the County Auditor shall publish all claims for consideration
of the county executive at least three days before each session of the Board of
Commissioners in which the Commissioners approve claims.
(Ord. O-C-01-6, passed 12-3-2001)
CHAPTER 32: COUNTY ORGANIZATIONS
Section
County Organizations
   
32.01   Department of Aviation
   
32.02   Metropolitan School District
   
32.03   Weed Control Board
   
32.04   County Highway, Road and Street Advisory Committee
   
32.05   Port Authority
   
32.06   Department of Parks and Recreation
   
32.07   County Health Department
   
32.08   County Engineering Department
   
32.09   County Convention, Recreation and Visitor Promotion Commission
   
32.10   Department of Economic Development
   
32.11   Community Corrections Advisory Board
   
32.12   Community Action Agency
Planning and Zoning
   
32.25   County Planning and Zoning Commission
   
32.26   Department of Redevelopment
   
32.27   County Area Redevelopment Council
   
32.28   County Redevelopment Authority
COUNTY ORGANIZATIONS
§ 32.01 DEPARTMENT OF AVIATION.
   (A)   The County Council does hereby favor the acquisition, improvement,
operation and maintenance of an airport or landing field for the county under
and pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 8-22 et seq, as amended.
   (B)   It is hereby declared to be a necessity for the acquisition,
improvement, operation and maintenance of an airport or landing field in the
county.
   (C)   There is hereby established, as one of the executive departments of
the county a Department of Aviation which shall be under the control of a board
of four members known as the Board of Aviation Commissioners. The members of
the Board shall be appointed by the Board of County Commissioners and not more
than two members of the Board shall be of the same political party. The members
of the Board shall serve without compensation, but shall be paid their actual
expenses, of not to exceed $1,200 per annum for the entire Board.
   (D)   The Board of Aviation Commissioners shall have all of the powers and
authority as conferred by the provisions of Chapter 190 of the 1945 Acts of the
State General Assembly, as amended.
   (E)   It is resolved by the County Council that it hereby adopts and accepts
the provisions of the Indiana Uniform Airport Authority Act, I.C. 8-22-3-1 et
seq., and hereby establishes the County Airport Authority.
(1984 Code, § 6-1) (Ord. passed 6-15-1961; Res. CC-1-90, passed 3-22-1990)
§ 32.02 METROPOLITAN SCHOOL DISTRICT.
   The following are hereby established as the Board Member Districts of
Metropolitan School District of the county:
   (A)   District No. 1. All that territory now comprising the Hagedorn and
Sparrow election precincts of Anderson Township and the Bristow and Adyeville
election precincts of Clark Township;
   (B)   District No. 2. All that territory now comprising the Siberia and
Union town election precincts of Clark Township and the St. Croix and
Branchville election precincts of Oil Township and the Leopold election
precinct of Leopold Township; and
   (C)   District No. 3. All that territory now comprising the Tobinsport, Rome
and Gerald election precincts of Tobin Township and the Derby and Rono election
precincts of Union Township and the Oriole election precinct of Oil Township.
(1984 Code, § 11-1) (Ord. passed 2-5-1962)
§ 32.03 WEED CONTROL BOARD.
   (A)   From and after the passage of this section, there shall be established
a Weed Control Board composed of the members hereinafter designated, to be
known as the County Weed Control Board, which shall exist in accordance with
the provisions of this section as hereinafter set forth, and as the same is
from time to time amended and/or repealed.
   (B)   (1)   The County Weed Control Board shall consist of the following
members to be appointed by the Board of Commissioners:
         (a)   One township trustee from the county;
         (b)   One Soil and Water Conservation District Supervisor;
         (c)   A representative from the agricultural community of the county;
         (d)   A representative from the County Highway Department or an
appointee of the Board of Commissioners; and
         (e)   A cooperative extension service agency from the county to serve
in a non-voting advisory capacity.
      (2)   Each Board member shall be appointed for a term of four years. All
vacancies in the membership of the Board shall be filled for the unexpired term
in the same manner as the initial appointment. The Board shall elect a
Chairperson and a Secretary. The members of the Board are not entitled to
receive any compensation, but are entitled to traveling and other expenses as
may be necessary in the discharge of their duties. The Board may appoint an
executive director and employ necessary technical, professional and other
assistants and it shall fix the qualifications, duties and salaries of these
employees subject to the permission of the County Council. The County Highway
Supervisor and the Soil and Water Conservation District Supervisor or employees
serving the county shall serve as inspectors for the Board. They shall make
periodic inspections and report their findings to the Board and the Executive
Director, if any.
   (C)   The powers and duties of the Weed Control Board include the following:
      (1)   Taking all necessary and proper steps to control and contain
noxious weeds which have adverse significance on agricultural production in
this state;
      (2)   Entering upon any land, public or private, at any reasonable time
after giving 48 hours notice to the person in possession of the land to inspect
for noxious weeds unless permission is granted to enter earlier;
      (3)   Purchasing supplies, material and equipment;
      (4)   Acquiring by gift or purchase, holding or disposing of, any real
property in the name of the Board, to include facilities such as offices,
laboratories, operational buildings, rights-of-way and easements;
      (5)   Making contracts for the purpose of carrying out the duties of the
Board;
      (6)   Entering into cooperative agreements with appropriate organizations
for the purpose of assuring technical assistance in developing and carrying out
the purposes of the Board;
      (7)   Identifying problems determined to be of importance to the public
welfare and developing control programs appropriate to each situation;
      (8)   Undertaking investigations to determine the extent of infestation
of noxious weed species, along with their effect on agricultural production in
the county;
      (9)   Employing the latest technological advances to control and contain
noxious weeds in the county;
      (10)   Accepting gifts and grants of money, services or property for any
use consistent with the objectives of the Board;
      (11)   Exercising all other powers necessary to carry out the purposes of
this section; and
      (12)    Performing those additional duties as the Board of Commissioners
may prescribe.
   (D)   The Weed Control Board shall require persons owning real estate
located anywhere in the county and any persons owning easements, rights-of-way
or other similar interests in real estate located in the county to control and
contain any noxious weeds growing on the property. A five-day written notice to
remove any noxious weeds shall be issued by the Board and served by certified
or registered mail addressed to the latest address of the person or to his or
her resident agent. In the alternative, notice may be servied personally by the
County Sheriff.
   (E)   The following are noxious weeds under this section:
      (1)   Canada thistle (Cirsium arvense);
      (2)   Johnson grass; and
      (3)   Sorghum almum (Sorghum halepense).
   (F)   Any person who fails to begin a program recommended by the Weed
Control Board to control and contain noxious weeds within the time prescribed
under division (D) above is guilty of a Class C infraction.
   (G)   The State Cooperative Extension shall provide technical assistance to
the County Weed Control Board in order to control and contain the growth and
spread of noxious weeds.
(1984 Code, § 11-2) (Ord. 1982-C-1, passed 5-3-1982) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   See also nuisance weed regulations in §§
94.01 et seq.
§ 32.04 COUNTY HIGHWAY, ROAD AND STREET ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
   (A)   From and after the passage of this section, there shall be established
an advisory committee composed of five members to be known as the County
Highway, Road and Street Advisory Committee, which shall exist in accordance
with the provisions of this section as hereinafter set forth, and as the same
is from time to time amended and/or repealed.
   (B)   (1)   From and after the passage of this section the members of the
County Highway, Road and Street Advisory Committee (hereinafter “the Advisory
Committee”) shall be nominated and appointed as follows:
         (a)   Two members of the Board of Commissioners;
         (b)   Two members by the County Council; and
         (c)   One member by the 75% majority vote of the four members of the
Advisory Committee nominated and appointed by the Board of Commissioners and
County Council.
      (2)   The nomination and appointment of all members to the Advisory
Committee shall be made not later than 15 days after the passage of this
section. The members nominated and appointed shall be promptly notified of
their appointment and nomination by the body making the nomination and
appointment under this section. The members’ terms of office shall run
commencing upon the subscription to the oath of office as hereinafter
described, and run the following number of years from February 1 following the
original appointment: one member appointed by the Board of Commissioners for a
term of one year; one member appointed by the Board of Commissioners for a term
of two years; one member appointed by the County Council for a term of one
year; one member appointed by the County Council for a term of two years; and
the member appointed by the four members of the Advisory Committee for a term
of three years.
      (3)   At the expiration of the respective terms of each member of the
Advisory Committee, as originally appointed, their respective successors shall
be nominated and appointed before the expiration of the term in the same manner
as the original nominee, and each succeeding member shall serve for a term of
four years.
      (4)   In the event that the Board of Commissioners, County Council or
Advisory Committee members shall fail to make a nomination and appointment
within the time specified herein, the executive officer of each body may select
and appoint a person without a nomination.
      (5)   In the event any person appointed as a member shall fail to qualify
as hereinabove provided, within ten days after mailing to him or her the notice
of his or her appointment or if any member after qualifying, shall die, resign
or vacate the office, or be removed as hereinafter provided, a new member shall
be nominated and appointed to fill the vacancy in the same manner as the member
in respect to whom the vacancy occurs, and the member so appointed shall serve
for the remainder of the vacated term. Members shall hold over after the
expiration of their terms until their respective successors have been duly
appointed and have qualified.
   (C)   (1)   Each member, before entering upon his or her duties, shall take
and subscribe an oath of office in the usual form, to be endorsed upon the
certificate of his or her appointment, which shall be promptly filed with the
Auditor of the county.
      (2)   The Advisory Committee originally appointed shall meet with 30 days
after its appointment at a time and place designated jointly by the Board of
Commissioners and County Council for the purpose of organization, and shall
meet to reorganize in February of each succeeding year. The Advisory Committee
shall elect one of its members as President, one as Vice President and one as
Secretary. Each of these officers shall serve from the date of his or her
election until January 31 next following his or her election and until his or
her successor is elected and qualified.
   (D)   The Advisory Committee shall be authorized to adopt by-laws, rules and
regulations as it may deem necessary. Regular or special meetings shall be held
at a time as it may determine and upon the notice as it may fix, either by
resolution or in accordance with the provision of the by-laws, rules and
regulations adopted. A majority of the Advisory Committee shall constitute a
quorum. A concurrence of a majority of the Advisory Committee at a meeting or a
unanimous consent signed by each member shall be sufficient to authorize any
action. At a minimum, the Advisory Committee shall meet once each quarter
during the calendar year.
   (E)   Any member may be removed from office at the discretion of the body
which nominated and appointed him or her, except that the member of the
Advisory Committee appointed and nominated by the members of the Advisory
Committee may be removed from office by the joint action of the Board of
Commissioners and County Council. Removal from office may be made without
cause.
   (F)   A member of the Advisory Committee shall disclose any pecuniary
interest in any employment, financing agreement or any contract and the like in
any action taken by the Advisory Committee and the members shall not vote on
any such matter.
   (G)   The members of the Advisory Committee shall receive no salaries but
shall be entitled to reimbursement for any expenses necessarily incurred in the
performance of their duties. The members shall be entitled to a per diem
allowance not to exceed the sum of $25 for each day a member attends a meeting
of the Advisory Committee.
   (H)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Advisory Committee to investigate,
study and survey the network of county highways, roads and streets to develop a
four-year road plan (hereinafter “county road plan”), whose objective is to
provide a network of county highways, roads and streets that will accommodate
all traffic needs safely, efficiently and economically.
      (2)   To this end, the Advisory Committee shall at a minimum be guided by
and use the following planning elements in developing the county road plan:
         (a)   Road numbering and marking;
         (b)   County highway, road and street inventory;
         (c)   Functional classification of roads;
         (d)   Geometric standards for county highways, roads and streets;
         (e)   Traffic and accident records; and
         (f)   Rating county highways, roads and streets for condition.
   (I)   For the purposes of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      COUNTY ROAD INVENTORY. An itemized listing of all highway, road and
street sections in the county system, including: road number and/or name,
length, right-of-way, roadbed, roadway width; and type of surface, road
junctions, railroad crossings, bridge structures and minor drainage structures.
      FUNCTIONAL CLASSIFICATION OF COUNTY HIGHWAYS, ROADS AND STREETS.
Classification of county highway, roads and streets and grouping of the same
according to the function or kind of service they perform.
      GEOMETRIC STANDARDS FOR COUNTY ROADS.  The geometric standards of width,
gradient, curvature and site distance.
      RATING COUNTY HIGHWAYS, ROADS AND STREETS FOR CONDITIONS. A comparison of
the design standards with the actual road condition and express the extent to
which the highway, road or street is deficient.
      ROAD NUMBERING AND MARKING. The identification of each county highway,
road and street by either number and/or name for the convenience of the
traveling public and for use in developing a road inventory and cost record
use.
      TRAFFIC AND ACCIDENT RECORD. A continuing program of data collection in
monitoring traffic flow and accidents on the county highway, road and street
system.
   (J)   (1)   In addition to the foregoing, the Advisory Committee shall
investigate, study and survey the network of county highways, roads and streets
to develop the Advisory Committee’s recommendation for an application for a
loan to be submitted by the County Council to the State Department of Highways
from the Distressed Road Fund and in making the recommendation to the County
Council, the Advisory Committee shall be guided by and use the following
minimum criteria in developing its recommendation:
         (a)   Traffic counts and projected traffic;
         (b)   Area served;
         (c)   Surface material and conditions;
         (d)   Base material and depth;
         (e)   Drainage, including culverts;
         (f)   Width of roadway and right-of- way;
         (g)   Soils upon which the road is placed;
         (h)   Topography;
         (i)   Seasonal weather conditions and the effect on road repairs and
maintenance; and
         (j)   The minimum transportation needs of all areas of the county
regardless of population or vehicle regulation.
      (2)   In making the recommendation to the County Council, the Advisory
Committee shall have prepared a map depicting all highways, roads and streets
in the system of the county and a proposed program of work covering the current
and immediately following calendar year.
   (K)   The Advisory Committee shall consult from time to time and use as a
guide a publication issued by Purdue University, Engineering Experiment Station
in cooperation with the County Commissioners of the state, entitled County Road
Management Guidelines for Boards of County Commissioners, a copy of which shall
be kept on file with the Auditor of the county.
   (L)   (1)   The Board of Commissioners may appoint and hire a duly licensed
and qualified engineer to practice in the state, who upon qualification shall
become the County Highway Engineer (hereinafter “the Highway Engineer”). The
Highway Engineer shall perform any and all duties necessary to be performed by
him or her in implementing the county road plan, developing an application for
a loan to the State Department of Highways from the Distressed Road Fund, and
under a job description to be developed by the Advisory Committee.
      (2)   The Highway Engineer shall attend all meetings of the Advisory
Committee and provide any technical and engineering advice requested by the
Advisory Committee.
      (3)   The Highway Engineer shall attend all meetings of the Advisory
Committee and provide any technical and engineering advice requested by the
Advisory Committee.
      (4)   The Advisory Committee and office of Highway Engineer shall be
funded by the Board of Commissioners in the manner and to the extent the Board
of Commissioners deems necessary.
(1984 Code, § 14-1) (Ord. 81-23, passed 11-2-1981)
§ 32.05 PORT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Establishment of Port Authority. A port authority to be known as the
County Port Authority is hereby established and shall have the powers and
jurisdiction enumerated in I.C. 8-10-5-1 through 8-10-5-20.
   (B)   Board of Directors. The Port Authority shall be governed by a Board of
Directors consisting of five members, who shall be appointed by the Board of
Commissioners of the county. Each Director shall have been a qualified elector
of the county for a period of at least three years preceding his or her
appointment. The Directors of the Authority first appointed shall serve
staggered terms. Thereafter each successor shall serve for a term of four
years, except that any person appointed to fill a vacancy shall be appointed to
only the unexpired term, and any Director shall be eligible for reappointment.
The County Board of Commissioners may remove a Director at any time for
misfeasance, nonfeasance or malfeasance in office.
   (C)   Procedure. The Directors shall elect one of their membership as
Chairperson, and another as Vice Chairperson, and shall designate their terms
of office and shall appoint a Secretary, who need not be a Director. A majority
of the Board of Directors shall constitute a quorum, the affirmative vote of
which shall be necessary for any action taken by the Port Authority. No vacancy
in the membership of the Board shall impair the rights of a quorum to exercise
all the rights and perform all the duties of the Port Authority.
   (D)   Compensation of Board members. Each member of the Board of Directors
of the Port Authority shall be entitled to receive from the Port Authority a
sum of money as the Board of Directors may determine as compensation for his or
her service as Director, and reimbursement for his or her reasonable expenses
in the performance of his or her duties.
(1984 Code, § 11-60) (Res. R-C-91-1, passed 1-2-1991; Res. R-C-05-2, passed 1-
17-2005)
§ 32.06 DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Department of Parks and Recreation for
the county. The Department shall consist of a Park and Recreation Board, a
Superintendent and other appropriate personnel as the Board determines.
   (B)   (1)   The Park and Recreation Board shall consist of five members
appointed as follows:
         (a)   Two members shall be appointed by the Judge of the County
Circuit Court;
         (b)   One member shall be appointed by the County Commissioners; and
         (c)   Two members shall be appointed by the County Council.
      (2)   The aforementioned members shall be appointed on the basis of their
interest and knowledge of parks and recreation but no more than one member
appointed by the Judge of the County Circuit Court and no more than one member
appointed by the County Council shall be affiliated with the same political
party. No member of the County Council, no member of the County Commissioners,
no Mayor of a city in Perry County and no member of a City Council in Perry
County may serve on the Board.
      (3)   The Circuit Court Judge’s appointments are for one- and three-year
terms, respectively. The County Executive’s appointment is for a two-year term.
The County Council’s appointments are for two- and four-year terms,
respectively. As a term expires, each new appointment is for a four-year term.
All terms expire on the first Monday in January, but a member continues in
office until his or her successor is appointed.
   (C)   A member of the Park and Recreation Board may be removed only for
cause upon specific written charges filed against him or her. The charges shall
be filed with and heard by the appointing authority unless the appointing
authority is bringing the charges. If the appointing authority is bringing the
charges, the County Council shall appoint a Hearing Officer. The Hearing
Officer shall fix a date for a public hearing and give public notice of at
least ten days in advance of the hearing. At the hearing, the member is
entitled to present evidence and argument and to be represented by counsel.
   (D)   (1)   All meetings of the Park and Recreation Board are open to the
public. The Board shall fix the time and place of its regular meetings, but it
shall meet at least quarterly. Special meetings of the Board may be called by
the President or by any two members by written request to the Secretary. The
Secretary shall send to each member, at least two days before a special
meeting, a written notice fixing the time, place and purpose of the meeting;
provided, however, the written notice of a special meeting is not required if
the time of the special meeting is fixed at a regular meeting or if all the
members are present at the special meeting. At its first regular meeting each
year, the Board shall elect a President and a Vice President. The Vice
President may act as President during the absence or disability of the
President. The Board may select a Secretary either from within or outside its
membership. A majority of the members constitutes a quorum. Action of the Board
is not official unless it is authorized by at least three members present and
acting.
      (2)   If the Board determines that members or employees should attend a
state, regional or national conference dealing with parks and recreation
problems, it may authorize the payment of the actual expenses involved in
attending the conference. However, the amount must be available as part of the
Board’s appropriation. Each member of the Board shall be paid $25 for his or
her attendance at each meeting of the Board, maximum of $300 per member per
year. The county shall provide suitable quarters for holding meetings and
conducting the work of the Board. The duties of the Board of Park and
Recreation are as follows:
         (a)   To exercise general supervision of and make rules for the
Department;
         (b)   Establish rules governing the use of the park and recreational
facilities by the public;
         (c)   Provide adequate police protection for its property and
activities, either by requesting assistance from state, municipal or county
police authorities or by having specified employees deputized as police
officers; deputized employees, however, are not eligible for police pension
benefits or other emoluments of police officers;
         (d)   Appoint the necessary administrative officers of the Department
and fix their duties;
         (e)   Establish standards and qualifications for the appointment of
all personnel and approve their appointments without regard to politics;
         (f)   Make recommendations in an annual report to the County
Commissioners and the County Council concerning the operation of the Board and
status of park and recreation programs in the county;
         (g)   Prepare and submit an annual budget in the same manner as other
executive departments of the county; and
         (h)   Appoint a member of the Board to serve on another kind of board
or commission whenever a statute allows a Park and Recreation Board to do this.
   (E)   (1)   The Board of Park and Recreation shall have the following
powers:
         (a)   Enter into contracts and leases for facilities and services;
         (b)   Contract with persons for joint use of facilities for the
operation of park and recreation programs and related services;
         (c)   Contract with another Board, another governmental unit or school
corporation for the use of park and recreation facilities or services, and a
township or school corporation may contract with the Board for the use of park
and recreation facilities or services;
         (d)   Acquire and dispose of real and personal property, within or
outside the state;
         (e)   Exercise the power of eminent domain under statutes available to
municipalities;
         (f)   Sell, lease or enter into an royalty contract for the natural or
mineral resources of land that it owns, the money received to be deposited in a
nonreverting capital fund to the Board;
         (g)   Engage in self-supporting activities including the authority to
charge reasonable fees for the provision of certain activities;
         (h)   Contract for special and temporary services and professional
assistance;
         (i)   Delegate authority to perform ministerial acts in all cases
except for final action of the Board as necessary;
         (j)   Prepare, publish and distribute reports and other materials
relating to activities authorized by this section;
         (k)   Sue and be sued collectively by its legal name as the “Perry
County Park and Recreation Board,” with service of process being had upon the
President of the Board but costs may not be taxed against the Board or its
members in any action;
         (l)   Invoke any legal, equitable or special remedy for the
enforcement of this section, or the Board’s own action taken under this
section; and
         (m)   Release and transfer, by resolution, part of the area over which
it has jurisdiction for park and recreational purposes to park authorities of
another governmental unit for park and recreational purposes upon petition of
the Park and Recreation Board of the acquiring governmental unit.
      (2)   The Board may also lease any buildings or grounds belonging to the
county and located within a park to a person not to exceed 25 years. The lease
may authorize the lessee to provide upon the premises educational, research,
veterinary or other proper facilities for the exhibition of wild or domestic
animals in wildlife parks, dining facilities, swimming facilities, golf
courses, skating facilities, dancing facilities, amusement rides generally
found in amusement parks or other recreational facilities. The lease may be
made for more than one year only to the highest and best bidder, after notice
that the lease will be made has been given by publication in accordance with
I.C. 5-3-1, as amended.
   (F)   (1)   The Board may sell or order sold through a designated
representative, by public or private sale, any personal property the Board has
declared to be surplus at a regular or special meeting and is declared to have
an aggregate appraised value of $5,000 or less. Whenever the Board decides to
sell at a private sale, the Board must employ a qualified appraiser to
determine a reasonable selling price for each kind of surplus item and must
publish in the manner provided in I.C. 5-3-1, as amended, the following:
         (a)   The fact that a private sale will be held;
         (b)   The location of the sale;
         (c)   The dates at the beginning and end of the sale;
         (d)   The time of day during which the sale will take place;
         (e)   The kind of items to be sold at the sale; and
         (f)   The price of each kind of item, which may not be less than the
reasonable selling price determined by a qualified appraiser.
      (2)   If the Board decides to sell at public sale, the Board shall
conduct the sale in the manner provided by law for the county.
   (G)   The Park and Recreation Board may appoint a Superintendent of Parks
and Recreation. The Board may not consider political affiliation in the
selection of the Superintendent. The Superintendent must be qualified by
training or experience in the field of parks or recreation or have a
certification or an advanced degree in the field of parks or recreation.
   (H)   If a Superintendent is appointed by the Park and Recreation Board,
under the direction of the Board, he or she shall:
      (1)   Propose annually a plan for the operation of the Department;
      (2)   Administer the plan as approved by the Board;
      (3)   Supervise the general administration of the Department;
      (4)   Keep the records of the Department and preserve all records and
documents of the Department;
      (5)   Recommend persons for appointment as assistants if the Board
determines there is a need;
      (6)   Appoint the employees of the Department, subject to the approval of
the Board, according to the standards and qualifications fixed by the Board and
without regard to political affiliation;
      (7)   Prepare and present to the Board annual reports; and
      (8)   Perform other duties that the Board directs.
   (I)   If the Board determines that the size of the Department’s operation
requires assistance for the Superintendent, the Board may appoint, upon the
recommendation of the Superintendent, one or more assistants. The Board shall
determine their qualifications on a basis similar to that prescribed for the
Superintendent. Assistants are directly responsible to the Superintendent and
shall perform the duties specified by the Superintendent.
   (J)   Every officer and employee who handles money in the performance of
duties as prescribed by this section shall execute an official bond for the
term of office or employment before entering upon the duties of the office or
employment. The County Council may, under I.C. 5-4-1-18, as amended authorize a
blanket bond to cover all officers’ and employees’ faithful performance of
duties. The penal amounts of the bond shall be fixed by the County Council. All
bonds shall be filed and recorded in the office of the County Recorder.
   (K)   (1)   The Park and Recreation Board may create an advisory council on
special committees composed of citizens interested in parks and recreation. In
selecting such a council or special committees, the Board shall give
consideration to the groups in the community particularly interested in parks
and recreation. In a resolution creating an advisory council or special
committee, the Board shall specify the terms of its members and purposes for
which it is created. The advisory council or a special committee shall:
         (a)   Study the projects and problems specified by the Board and
recommend to the Board additional problems in need of study;
         (b)   Advise the Board concerning these subjects, particularly as they
relate to different areas and groups in the community; and
         (c)   Upon the invitation of the Board, sit with and participate in
the deliberations of the Board, but without the right to vote.
      (2)   The advisory council or special committee shall report only to the
Board and shall make inquiries and reports only in those areas specified by the
Board’s resolution creating the council or the committee.
   (L)   The Park and Recreation Board may accept gifts, donations and
subsidies for park and recreational purposes. However, a gift or transfer of
property to the Board may not be made without its approval. A gift or grant of
money shall be deposited in a special nonreverting fund to be available for
expenditure by the Board for purposes specified by the grantor. The disbursing
officer of the county may draw warrants against the fund only upon vouchers
signed by the President and Secretary of the Board.
   (M)   The territory within the boundaries of the county comprises a special
taxing district for the purpose of levying special benefit taxes for park and
recreational purposes as provided in this section. The County Council shall
determine and provide the revenues necessary for the operation of the
Department or for capital expenditures not covered by the issuance of bonds by:
      (1)   A special levy to be used exclusively for these purposes;
      (2)   A special appropriation; or
      (3)   Both of these methods.
   (N)   Once the Park and Recreation Board is established, upon its request,
the County Council shall establish, by ordinance, a special nonreverting
capital fund for the purposes of acquiring land or making specific capital
improvements. The County Council may include in the Board’s annual budget an
item and an appropriation for these specific purposes. Money placed in the
nonreverting capital fund may not be withdrawn except for the purposes for
which the fund was created unless the County Council repeals the ordinance. The
County Council may not repeal the ordinance under suspension of the rules.
   (O)   (1)   The Park and Recreation Board may establish a cumulative
building fund to provide money for:
         (a)   Building, remodeling and repair of park and recreation
facilities; or
         (b)   Purchase of land for park and recreation purposes.
      (2)   Before a fund may be established, the proposed action must be
approved by the County Council and by the State Board of Tax Commissioners.
      (3)   If the Park and Recreation Board decides to establish a cumulative
building fund, it shall give notice and hold a public hearing for the taxpayers
affected after approval by the County Council and before the proposed action is
presented to the State Board of Tax Commissioners for approval. Notice of the
proposal and the public hearing must be given by publication in accord with
I.C. 5-3-1, as amended.
      (4)   If, after the public hearing, the proposed action is submitted for
approval to the State Board of Tax Commissioners, the State Board of Tax
Commissioners shall require notice of that submission to be given to the
taxpayers of the county by publication in accord with I.C. 5-3-1, as amended.
If 30 or more taxpayers of the unit file a petition with the County Auditor not
later than 30 days after the publication, setting forth their objections to the
proposed fund, the County Auditor shall immediately certify the petition to the
State Board of Tax Commissioners.
      (5)   Whether or not a petition of objection is received, the State Board
of Tax Commissioners shall, within a reasonable time, fix the date for a
hearing on the proposal to establish a fund. The hearing shall be held in the
county. Notice of the hearing shall be given to the County Auditor who shall
publish it in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1, as amended. If a petition of
objection was filed, notice shall also be given to the first ten taxpayers
whose names appear upon the petition by a letter signed by the Secretary or any
member of the Board and sent by mail with fully prepaid postage to the Auditor
and to those taxpayers at their usual place of residence at least five days
before the date fixed for the hearing. After the hearing upon the proposal, the
State Board of Tax Commissioners shall certify their approval, disapproval or
modification of the proposal to the County Auditor.
      (6)   The action of the State Board of Tax Commissioners with respect to
the proposed levy is final and conclusive. To provide for the Cumulative
Building Fund, the County Council may levy a tax not to exceed $0.05 on each
$100 of assessed valuation of real and personal taxable property within the
county. The tax may be levied annually beginning with the first annual tax levy
after approval by the State Board of Tax Commissioners and may continue for a
period not exceeding ten years. The tax shall be advertised annually as are
other tax levies. After the levy has been approved, the County Council may
reduce or rescind the annual levy.
      (7)   Before August 2 of a year, a petition for reduction or revision of
the levy may be filed with the County Auditor by at least 50 taxpayers of the
county that sets forth their objections to the levy. The petition shall be
certified to the State Board of Tax Commissioners, and the State Board of Tax
Commissioners shall, within a reasonable time, fix a date for the hearing on
the petitions. The hearing shall be held in the county. Notice of the hearing
shall be given to the County Auditor who shall publish it in accordance with
I.C. 5-3-1, as amended. Notice shall also be given to the first ten taxpayers
whose names appear upon the petitions by a letter signed by the Secretary or
any member of the Board and sent by mail with fully prepaid postage to the
Auditor and to those taxpayers at their usual place of residence at least five
days before the date fixed for the hearing. After the hearing, the State Board
of Tax Commissioners may reduce or rescind the levy, and this action is final
and conclusive.
      (8)   The tax shall be collected and held in the special fund known as
the County Park and Recreation Cumulative Building Fund. The Fund may not be
expended for a purpose other than the purpose for which it was levied.
Expenditures may be made from the Fund only after an appropriation has been
made in the manner provided by statute for making other appropriations.
   (P)   (1)   Park and recreation facilities and programs shall be made
available to the public free of charge as far as possible; provided, however,
if it is necessary in order to provide a particular activity, the Board may
charge a reasonable fee. The County Council shall designate the Fund or funds
into which the County Treasurer shall deposit fees from golf courses, swimming
pools, skating rinks or other major facilities requiring major expenditures
from management and maintenance. Money received from fees other than from major
facilities or received from the sale of surplus property shall be deposited by
the County Treasurer either in the special nonreverting operating fund or in
the nonreverting capital fund as directed by the Park and Recreation Board.
However, if neither fund has been established, money received from fees or from
the sale of surplus property shall be deposited into the County General Fund.
Money from either special fund may be disbursed only on approved claims,
allowed and signed by the President and Secretary of the Board.
      (2)   Money placed in the special nonreverting capital fund may not be
withdrawn except for purposes for which the fund was created unless the County
Council repeals the ordinance establishing the fund. The County Council may not
repeal the ordinance under suspension of the rules. Money procured from fees or
received from the sale of surplus property shall be deposited at least once
each month with the County Treasurer.
   (Q)   The Park and Recreation Board may acquire real property or a work of
improvement and finance the same by the issuance of bonds. In doing so, the
Park and Recreation Board shall comply with the procedures provided by state
law. This specifically includes obtaining an ordinance approving the bond issue
from the County Council. Additionally, the Park and Recreation Board in order
to raise money to pay all bonds shall levy annually a special tax upon all the
real and personal property located in the district sufficient to pay the
principal of the bonds as they mature including accrued interest. The Board
shall have the tax to be levied each year certified to the Auditor of the
county in which the district is located at the time for certification of tax
levies. The tax shall be collected and enforced by the County Treasurer in the
same manner as other taxes are collected and enforced. As the tax is collected,
it shall be accumulated and kept in a separate fund to be known as the Park
District Bond Fund. The tax shall be applied in payment of the district bonds
and interest as they mature and may not be used for another purpose.
   (R)   A person who knowingly discharges a firearm into or inside a park or
shoots an arrow with a bow into or inside a park commits a Class B misdemeanor.
This does not apply to an area that the Park and Recreation Board designates as
a hunting, firearm sport or archery area.
(1984 Code, § 12-1, 12-3) (Ord. 1983-C-5, passed 7-5-1983; Ord. 89-CC-21,
passed 8-24-1989) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 32.07 COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 16-20-2-1, there is hereby established and ordained a
local health department for the county.
   (B)   All prior actions of the existing County Health Department are hereby
confirmed and the seven member Board of Health heretofore operating the
Department are confirmed as the Board of Health of the local Health Department
hereby established.
   (C)   On or before December 31, 1991, a new Board of Health shall be
appointed to serve staggered terms in accordance with I.C. 16-20-2-10.
(Ord. C-91-2, passed 9-16-1991)
§ 32.08 COUNTY ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT.
   There is hereby established, pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 8-17-5-13, a
County Engineering Department, which initially shall have two divisions, the
County Highway Engineering Division and the Port Authority Engineering
Division.
(1984 Code, § 5-32) (Res. R-C-98-4, passed 5-11-1998)
§ 32.09 COUNTY CONVENTION, RECREATION AND VISITOR PROMOTION COMMISSION.
   (A)   There is hereby created a commission to promote the development and
growth of the convention, recreation and visitor industry in the county to be
known as the County Convention, Recreation and Visitor Promotion Commission
(hereinafter “the Commission”).
   (B)   The Commission shall consist of 11 members, of which six shall be
appointed by the County Board of Commissioners and five shall be appointed by
the Mayor of the City of Tell City, the county’s largest municipality. At least
one of the members must be engaged in the hotel or motel business in the
county, and no more than a simple majority of the members shall be affiliated
with the same political party. Each member must reside in the county.
   (C)   All terms of office of Commission members shall begin on January 1;
provided that initial appointments shall be effective when made and shall be
staggered, with three members appointed by the Board of Commissioners and two
members appointed by the Mayor serving an initial term expiring December 31,
1995, and three members appointed by the Board of Commissioners and three
members appointed by the Mayor serving an initial term expiring December 31,
1996. Subsequent appointments shall be for two-year terms. A member whose term
expires may be reappointed to serve another term. If a vacancy occurs, the
appointing authority shall appoint a qualified person to serve for the
remainder of the term. If an initial appointment is not made by February 1,
1995, or a vacancy is not filled within 30 days, the Commission shall appoint a
member by majority vote.
   (D)   A member of the Commission may be removed for cause by his or her
appointing authority.
   (E)   Members of the Commission may not receive a salary. However,
Commission members are entitled to reimbursement for necessary expenses
incurred in the performance of their respective duties.
   (F)   Each Commission member, before entering his or her duties, shall take
an oath of office in the usual form, to be endorsed upon his or her certificate
of appointment and promptly filed with the Clerk of the Circuit Court of the
county.
   (G)   The Commission shall meet after January 1 each year for the purpose of
organization. It shall elect one of its members President, another Vice
President, another Secretary and another Treasurer. The members elected to
those offices shall perform the duties pertaining to the offices. The first
officers chosen shall serve from the date of their election until their
successors are elected and qualified. A majority of the Commission constitutes
a quorum, and the concurrence of a majority of the Commission is necessary to
authorize any action.
(1984 Code, § 12-5) (Res. R-C-95-14, passed 7-3-1995)
§ 32.10 DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT.
   The County Department of Economic Development (“Department”), controlled by
the County Economic Development Commission (“Commission”), is hereby created
and granted all powers and duties of the Department and the Commission as set
forth in I.C. 36-7-11.9 and 36-7-12.
(Ord. O-CC-04-2, passed 4-2-2004)
§ 32.11 COMMUNITY CORRECTIONS ADVISORY BOARD.
   The Board of County Commissioners does hereby establish a Community
Corrections Advisory Board consisting of members as are mandated in I.C. 11-12-
2-2, for terms as are mandated in I.C. 11-12-2-2.
(Res. R-C-07-7, passed 11-19-2007)
§ 32.12 COMMUNITY ACTION AGENCY.
   The Lincoln Hills Development Corporation is hereby designated as the
community action agency for the county pursuant to and in accordance with the
1967 amendments to the Economic Opportunity Act being 42 U.S.C. §§ 2701 et seq.
(1984 Code, § 5-3)
PLANNING AND ZONING
§ 32.25 COUNTY PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
   There is hereby established a County Zoning and Planning Commission,
consisting of nine members, which shall be constituted in accordance with and
have all the powers provided under Chapter 174 of the Acts of 1947.
(1984 Code, § 17-1) (Ord. passed 8-2-1965)
§ 32.26 DEPARTMENT OF REDEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners of the county now deems it to be in the
best interest of the county and its citizens to afford a maximum opportunity
for rehabilitation, redevelopment or economic development of areas by private
enterprise and the county by establishing a Department of Redevelopment.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners hereby establishes the Department of
Redevelopment of the county. The Department will be controlled by a Board of
five members known as the County Redevelopment Commission.
   (C)   Pursuant to the Act (I.C. 36-7-14 and I.C. 36-7-25), all of the
territory within the corporate boundaries of the county will be a taxing
district to be known as the Redevelopment District of the county for the
purpose of levying and collecting special benefit taxes for redevelopment
purposes as provided in the Act. The Board of Commissioners finds and
determines that all of the taxable property within this special taxing district
will be considered to be benefitted by the redevelopment projects and economic
development projects carried out under the Act to the extent of the special
taxes levied under the Act.
(Order C-1-1991, passed 11-15-1991)
§ 32.27 COUNTY AREA REDEVELOPMENT COUNCIL.
   The County Area Redevelopment Council, an incorporated association of
individuals, is hereby authorized and empowered to represent the Board of
Commissioners in all matters pertaining to the development of an overall
economic development program for the county and to represent the county as
coordinator of redevelopment activities as the official representative of the
area under the Area Redevelopment Act (Pub. L. No. 87-27) of the Congress of
the United States.
(1984 Code, § 5-1) (Res. 2-1978, passed 3-6-1978)
§ 32.28 COUNTY REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The county hereby creates a redevelopment authority under the Act
(I.C. 36-7-14.5) to be known as the County Redevelopment Authority
(“Authority”) as a separate body corporate and politic and as an
instrumentality of the county.
   (B)   The Authority is organized for the following purposes:
      (1)   Financing, constructing and leasing local public improvements to
the County Redevelopment Commission;
      (2)   Financing and constructing additional improvements to local public
improvements owned by the Authority and leasing them to the County
Redevelopment Commission;
      (3)   Acquiring all or a portion of one or more local public improvements
from the County Redevelopment Commission by purchase or lease and leasing these
local public improvements back to the County Redevelopment Commission, with any
additional improvements that may be made to them;
      (4)   Acquiring all or a portion of one or more local public improvements
from the County Redevelopment Commission by purchase or lease to fund or refund
indebtedness incurred on account of those local public improvements to enable
the County Redevelopment Commission to make a savings in debt service
obligations or lease rental obligations or to obtain relief from covenants that
the County Redevelopment Commission considers to be unduly burdensome; and
      (5)   Any other purposes permitted by the Act, including the issuance of
bonds to finance local public improvements.
   (C)   The Board of Directors of the Authority shall be composed of three
members who are residents of the county and shall be appointed by the Board of
Commissioners for three-year terms.
(1984 Code, § 27-1) (Order O-C-2-1992, passed 2-3-1992)
CHAPTER 33: CORRECTIONS
Section
County Sheriff’s Merit Board
   
33.001   Purpose and authority
   
33.002   Membership
   
33.003   Terms of office
   
33.004   Political affiliation of Board members
   
33.005   Compensation of Board members
   
33.006   Officers of the Board
   
33.007   Quorum
   
33.008   Meetings
   
33.009   Approval of current rankings
   
33.010   Establishment of ranks
   
33.011   Qualification for ranks
   
33.012   Promotion examinations
   
33.013   Promotions
   
33.014   Number and salaries of personnel
   
33.015   Discipline and removal of officers
   
33.016   Time of meetings
   
33.017   Special meetings
   
33.018   Public notice of meetings
   
33.019   Posting of agenda
   
33.020   Open meetings and secret ballot votes
   
33.021   Quorum
   
33.022   Officers of the Board
   
33.023   Memoranda or minutes of meetings
   
33.024   Public inspection of memoranda or minutes
   
33.025   Documents submitted to Board
   
33.026   Personnel file
   
33.027   Conduct of nondisciplinary meetings; in general
   
33.028   Disciplinary hearings; charges a jurisdictional prerequisite
   
33.029   Disciplinary hearings; notice
   
33.030   Disciplinary hearings; time
   
33.031   Disciplinary hearings; basic procedure
   
33.032   Disciplinary hearings; public hearing
   
33.033   Disciplinary hearings; right to counsel
   
33.034   Disciplinary hearings; order and finding of fact
   
33.035   Disciplinary hearings; political activity
   
33.036   Approval and classification of ranks
   
33.037   Approval of standards and prerequisites for superior rank
   
33.038   Approval of promotion examinations
   
33.039   Approval of current rankings
   
33.040   Approval of promotions
   
33.041   Approval of new officers
   
33.042   Effective date
County Sheriff’s Reserve Unit
   
33.055   Establishment
   
33.056   Number of members
   
33.057   Appointment
   
33.058   Powers
   
33.059   Training and probationary period
   
33.060   Course of study; rules and regulations
Criminal History Requests
   
33.075   Definitions
   
33.076   Request governed by I.C. 5-2-5-5
   
33.077   Procedure
   
33.078   County Law Enforcement Education Fund
County Jail Inmate Medical Care
   
33.090   Inmates who are exempt
   
33.091   Co-payments
   
33.092   Inmates exempt from co-payments
   
33.093   County Sheriff’s duties
   
33.094   County Medical Care for Inmates Fund
Reimbursement to County by Prisoners/Detainees
   
33.110   Application
COUNTY SHERIFF’S MERIT BOARD
§ 33.001 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The State General Assembly, by its passage of I.C. 36-8-10-3(a), has
made mandatory the establishment of a sheriff’s merit board in each county of
the state.
   (B)   There is hereby established a sheriff’s merit board to be known as the
County Sheriff’s Merit Board (hereinafter “the Board”), to have the
organization, powers and duties and rules of procedure hereinafter set forth in
§§
33.002 through
33.042
(1984 Code, § 15-1) (Ord. 82-CC-8, passed 4-22-1982)
§ 33.002 MEMBERSHIP.
   The Board shall be composed of five county residents, three of whom shall be
appointed by the County Sheriff, and two of whom shall be elected by a majority
vote of the members of the county police force and County Sheriff’s Department,
the elections to be conducted under procedures established by the Board. No
active county police officer may serve on the Board.
(I.C. 36-8-10-3(b)) (1984 Code, Ch. 15, Art I, § 1) (Ord. 82-CC-8, passed 4-22-
1982)
§ 33.003 TERMS OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-8-10-3, the original members of the Board shall be
appointed as follows:
      (1)   One of the Sheriff’s appointees for a term of one year;
      (2)   One of the Sheriff’s appointees and one of the force’s nominees for
terms of two years;
      (3)   One of the Sheriff’s appointees for a term of three years; and
      (4)   One of the force’s nominees for a term of four years.
   (B)   Upon the expiration of the members’ terms of office as established in
division (A)(1) through (A)(4) above, all subsequent appointments to the Board
shall be for terms of four years or for the remainder of unexpired terms.
   (C)   All members serve during their respective terms until their successors
have been appointed and qualified.
   (D)   Members may be removed only for cause duly adjudicated by declaratory
judgement of the County Circuit Court.
(I.C. 36-8-10-3(b)) (1984 Code, Ch. 15, Art I, § 2) (Ord. 82-CC-8, passed 4-22-
1982)
§ 33.004 POLITICAL AFFILIATION OF BOARD MEMBERS.
   Not more than two of the members appointed by the Sheriff or more than one
of the members elected by the officers may belong to the same political party.
(I.C. 36-8-10-3(b)) (1984 Code, Ch. 15, Art I, § 3) (Ord. 82-CC-8, passed 4-22-
1982)
§ 33.005 COMPENSATION OF BOARD MEMBERS.
   As compensation for service, each member of the Board is entitled to receive
from the county $15 per day for each day, or fraction of a day, that he or she
is engaged in transacting the business of the Board.
(I.C. 36-8-10-3(c)) (1984 Code, Ch. 15, Art I, § 4) (Ord. 82-CC-8, passed 4-22-
1982)
§ 33.006 OFFICERS OF THE BOARD.
   As soon as practicable after the members of the Board have been appointed,
they shall meet upon the call of the Sheriff and organize by electing a
President and a Secretary from among their membership.
( I.C. 36-8-10-3(c)) (1984 Code, Ch. 15, Art I, § 5) (Ord. 82-CC-8, passed 4-
22-1982)
§ 33.007 QUORUM.
   Three members of the Board constitute a quorum for the transaction of
business.
(I.C. 36-8-10-3(c)) (1984 Code, Ch. 15, Art I, § 6) (Ord. 82-CC-8, passed 4-22-
1982)
§ 33.008 MEETINGS.
   The Board is hereby empowered to and shall hold regular monthly meetings
throughout the year as is necessary to transact the business of the Sheriff’s
Department.
(I.C. 36-8-10-3(c)) (1984 Code, Ch. 15, Art II, § 7) (Ord. 82-CC-8, passed 4-
22-1982)
§ 33.009 APPROVAL OF CURRENT RANKINGS.
   The Board shall have power to approve of all members of the county police
force holding superior rank, grade or position upon the Board’s assumption of
its responsibilities.
(1984 Code, Ch. 15, Art II, § 8) (Ord. 82-CC-8, passed 4-22-1982)
§ 33.010 ESTABLISHMENT OF RANKS.
   The Board shall have power to approve of the establishment by the Sheriff of
a classification of ranks, grades and positions for county police officers in
the Department, exclusive of the positions of first deputy and prison matron.
(I.C. 36-8-10-10(a)) (1984 Code, Ch. 15, Art II, § 9) (Ord. 82-CC-8, passed 4-
22-1982)
§ 33.011 QUALIFICATION FOR RANKS.
   The Board shall have power to approve of the Sheriff’s setting of reasonable
standards of qualifications and fixing of prerequisites of training, education
and experience for each rank, grade and position established.
(I.C. 36-8-10-10(a)(1)(2)) (1984 Code, Ch. 15, Art II, § 10) (Ord. 82-CC-8,
passed 4-22-1982)
§ 33.012 PROMOTION EXAMINATIONS.
   The Board shall have power to approve of the Sheriff’s devising and
administering of examinations designed to test applicants for the
qualifications required for the respective ranks, grades or positions in the
county police force and the County Sheriff’s Department.
(I.C. 36-8-10-10(b)) (1984 Code, Ch. 15, Art II, § 11) (Ord. 82-CC-8, passed 4-
22-1982)
§ 33.013 PROMOTIONS.
   The Board shall have power to appoint to superior rank, grade or position
only those applicants who in their opinion and in that of the Sheriff best meet
the standards and prerequisites prescribed by the Board and the Sheriff.
(I.C. 36-8-10-10(b)) (1984 Code, Ch. 15, Art II, § 12) (Ord. 82-CC-8, passed 4-
22-1982)
§ 33.014 NUMBER AND SALARIES OF PERSONNEL.
   The Board shall have power to recommend the number and salaries of the
personnel of the county police force and the County Sheriff’s Department, but
the County Council shall determine the Sheriff’s Department’s budget and
salaries.
(I.C. 36-8-10-4(b)) (1984 Code, Ch. 15, Art II, § 13) (Ord. 82-CC-8, passed 4-
22-1982)
§ 33.015 DISCIPLINE AND REMOVAL OF OFFICERS.
   The Board shall have power to conduct fair public hearings (reviewable by
the County Circuit Court) on the matter of discharge, demotion or temporary
suspension of more than 15 days of members of the county police force and the
County Sheriff’s Department, other than probationers, after charges are
preferred in writing against the members, and after a copy of the charges is
delivered to the member by certified mail. The Board shall have subpoena
powers, enforceable by the County Circuit Court, for the purpose of hearings.
(1984 Code, Ch. 15, Art II, § 14) (Ord. 82-CC-8, passed 4-22-1982)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see I.C. 36-8-10-11(a), (d)
§ 33.016 TIME OF MEETINGS.
   The Board shall meet regularly, as necessary to transact required business,
at 7:30 p.m. on the fourth Monday of each month, at a suitable place designated
by the President of the Board.
(1984 Code, Ch. 15, Art III, § 15) (Ord. 82-CC-8, passed 4-22-1982)
§ 33.017 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   Special meetings may be held at any other time whenever called by the
President or by any other three members, provided that each member is given
notice in advance, including the business to be transacted. In all cases except
those involving emergency, notice shall be in writing and shall be given at
least 48 hours in advance.
(1984 Code, Ch. 15, Art III, § 16) (Ord. 82-CC-8, passed 4-22-1982)
§ 33.018 PUBLIC NOTICE OF MEETINGS.
   The provisions of I.C. 5-14-1.5-5 shall govern the giving of public notice
of the date, time and place of any meetings, executive sessions or rescheduled
or reconvened meetings of the Board.
(1984 Code, Ch. 15, Art III, § 17) (Ord. 82-CC-8, passed 4-22-1982)
§ 33.019 POSTING OF AGENDA.
   A copy of the Board’s agenda for a given meeting shall be posted at the
entrance to the location of the meeting prior thereto.
(I.C. 5-14-1.5-4(a)) (1984 Code, Ch. 15, Art III, § 18) (Ord. 82-CC-8, passed
4-22-1982)
§ 33.020 OPEN MEETINGS AND SECRET BALLOT VOTES.
   Subject to the limitations of I.C. 5-14-1.5-6.1, all meetings of the Board
shall be open at all times for the purpose of permitting members of the public
to observe and record them. Secret ballot votes shall not be taken at any
meeting.
(I.C. 5-14-1.5-3) (1984 Code, Ch. 15, Art III, § 19) (Ord. 82-CC-8, passed 4-
22-1982)
§ 33.021 QUORUM.
   Pursuant to I.C. 36-8-10-3(c), three members of the Board shall constitute a
quorum. A majority vote thereof shall be sufficient to pass upon any business
before the Board.
(1984 Code, Ch. 15, Art III, § 20) (Ord. 82-CC-8, passed 4-22-1982)
§ 33.022 OFFICERS OF THE BOARD.
   At the first regular meeting, to be held upon the call of the Sheriff, and
annually thereafter, the members of the Board shall elect a President and a
Secretary, each of whom shall serve one year after the election.
(I.C. 36-8-10-3(c)) (1984 Code, Ch. 15, Art III, § 21) (Ord. 82-CC-8, passed 4-
22-1982)
§ 33.023 MEMORANDA OR MINUTES OF MEETINGS.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 5-14-1.5-4(b), the Secretary shall keep the following
memoranda or minutes with respect to all meetings of the Board:
      (1)   The date, time and place of the meeting;
      (2)   The members of the Board recorded as either present or absent;
      (3)   The general substance of all matters proposed, discussed or
decided; and
      (4)   A record of all votes taken by individual members if there is a
roll call.
   (B)   The memoranda or minutes shall be kept in a permanently bound book
which shall be surrendered to the succeeding Secretary.
(1984 Code, Ch. 15, Art III, § 22) (Ord. 82-CC-8, passed 4-22-1982)
§ 33.024 PUBLIC INSPECTION OF MEMORANDA OR MINUTES.
   The memoranda or minutes of any meeting of the Board are to be made
available within a reasonable period of time after any meeting for the purpose
of informing the public of the Board’s proceedings. All memoranda or minutes
are to be open for public inspection and copying.
(I.C. 5-14-1.5-4(b)) (1984 Code, Ch. 15, Art III, § 23) (Ord. 82-CC-8, passed
4-22-1982)
§ 33.025 DOCUMENTS SUBMITTED TO BOARD.
   (A)   The Secretary shall prepare and distribute to each Board member and to
the Sheriff a copy of each document presented to the Board that is of a nature
that should be immediately available to each member and to the Sheriff.
   (B)   These documents, however, shall remain the property of the Board and
shall be returned to the Board by the Sheriff and any member upon his or her
leaving office.
(1984 Code, Ch. 15, Art III, § 24) (Ord. 82-CC-8, passed 4-22-1982)
§ 33.026 PERSONNEL FILE.
   The Secretary shall maintain a personnel file which shall contain a folder
for each member of the county police force and the County Sheriff’s Department.
Each folder shall contain copies of all documents pertinent to the appointment
and service of each member of the force and Department. The Sheriff shall
furnish to the Secretary copies of all documents. The Secretary shall surrender
these files to the succeeding Secretary.
(1984 Code, Ch. 15, Art III, § 25) (Ord. 82-CC-8, passed 4-22-1982)
§ 33.027 CONDUCT OF NONDISCIPLINARY MEETINGS; IN GENERAL.
   The President of the Board shall preside over and conduct all non-
disciplinary meetings of the Board. He or she shall be responsible for the
presentation of all business to the Board at all meetings. Any business may be
continued in whole or in part to the next meeting of the Board. To the extent
that the conduct of meetings of the Board is not prescribed by statutes of the
state or ordinances of the county, the rules of parliamentary procedure known
as Robert’s Rules of Order shall govern the conduct of all Board meetings. The
President’s interpretation of these rules shall prevail.
(1984 Code, Ch. 15, Art III, § 26) (Ord. 82-CC-8, passed 4-22-1982)
§ 33.028 DISCIPLINARY HEARINGS; CHARGES A JURISDICTIONAL PREREQUISITE.
   The Board shall not hold a hearing to dismiss, demote or temporarily suspend
any county police officer until the President has received two written copies
of the charges preferred by the Sheriff against the officer. The charges shall
be in sufficient detail to inform the Board of the officer’s alleged misconduct
and to enable the accused officer to adequately prepare his or her defense.
These charges shall also be accompanied by a summary of supporting evidence. As
a matter of convenience to the Sheriff, he or she should prepare three copies
of any charges and summaries of supporting evidence, and retain one copy for
himself or herself. The Board shall establish and approve the forms to be used
for the preferring of charges and for the summary of supporting evidence.
(1984 Code, Ch. 15, Art III, § 27) (Ord. 82-CC-8, passed 4-22-1982)
§ 33.029 DISCIPLINARY HEARINGS; NOTICE.
   Upon receipt of two copies of the charges and summaries of supporting
evidence, the President of the Board shall set a date, time and place for the
disciplinary hearing and shall deliver written notice thereof to the Sheriff
and to the officer charged. The officer’s notice shall be sent by certified
mail, and one copy of each of the charges and summary of supporting evidence
shall be submitted therewith. The Board shall establish and approve the form of
the notice to be sent out.
(1984 Code, Ch. 15, Art III, § 28) (Ord. 82-CC-8, passed 4-22-1982)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see I.C. 36-8-10-11(a)
§ 33.030 DISCIPLINARY HEARINGS; TIME.
   Hearings shall be held as soon as possible after the Board’s receipt of the
two copies of the charges and summaries of supporting evidence preferred by the
Sheriff, but the hearings shall be held not less than ten days nor more than 30
days after the receipt except upon a showing or finding of good cause for
setting a hearing date outside those limits.
(1984 Code, Ch. 15, Art III, § 29) (Ord. 82-CC-8, passed 4-22-1982)
§ 33.031 DISCIPLINARY HEARINGS; BASIC PROCEDURE.
   The President of the Board shall preside over all disciplinary hearings
falling within the jurisdiction conferred on the Board by I.C. 36-8-10-11 and §
33.015. However, the President, at his or her discretion, may appoint another
person to preside over any hearing. The hearings shall follow the usual
procedure of the state trial courts concerning arraignment, opening statements,
presentation of evidence, rebuttal and arguments, except that the Board, at the
direction of the presiding officer, may accept evidence not necessarily
admissible in the state trial courts. Pursuant to I.C. 36-8-10-11(d) and §
33.015, the Board shall have subpoena powers, enforceable by the County Circuit
Court, which may be exercised in connection with any and all disciplinary
hearings before it.
(1984 Code, Ch. 15, Art III, § 30) (Ord. 82-CC-8, passed 4-22-1982)
§ 33.032 DISCIPLINARY HEARINGS; PUBLIC HEARING.
   In order to afford the accused officer a public hearing, the Board shall be
obliged to comply with the requirements of the State Open Door Law, being I.C.
5-14-1.5-1 et seq., with respect to all disciplinary hearings.
(1984 Code, Ch. 15, Art III, § 31) (Ord. 82-CC-8, passed 4-22-1982)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see I.C. 36-8-10-11(a), I.C. 5-14-1.5
§ 33.033 DISCIPLINARY HEARINGS; RIGHT TO COUNSEL.
   In accordance with I.C. 36-8-10-11(a), the accused officer may be
represented by counsel. The Sheriff or other person appointed by him or her
shall present the evidence against the accused officer.
(1984 Code, Ch. 15, Art III, § 32) (Ord. 82-CC-8, passed 4-22-1982)
§ 33.034 DISCIPLINARY HEARINGS; ORDER AND FINDING OF FACT.
   The final decision of the Board shall be made in the form of an order either
dismissing the charges or, if the Board finds that there is substantial
evidence to support the charges, specifying the sanction(s) to be imposed. The
Board shall make specific findings of fact in writing in support of its order.
(1984 Code, Ch. 15, Art III, § 33) (Ord. 82-CC-8, passed 4-22-1982)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see I.C. 36-8-10-11(b)
§ 33.035 DISCIPLINARY HEARINGS; POLITICAL ACTIVITY.
   No member of the county police force or County Sheriff’s Department shall be
dismissed, demoted or temporarily suspended because of his or her political
affiliation, except that the member may not solicit votes or campaign funds for
himself, herself or others while in uniform or on duty.
(I.C. 36-8-10-11(c)) (1984 Code, Ch. 15, Art III, § 34) (Ord. 82-CC-8, passed
4-22-1982)
§ 33.036 APPROVAL AND CLASSIFICATION OF RANKS.
   Whenever the Sheriff desires the approval of the Board for a classification
of ranks, grades and positions within the Department or for a reclassification
of same, he or she shall deliver to the Board, in quintuplicate, the
classification or reclassification along with a recommendation, also in
quintuplicate, for same setting out reasons for the classification or
reclassification. As a matter of convenience to the Sheriff, he or she should
prepare six copies each of any proposed classification or reclassification and
recommendation, and retain one copy for himself or herself.
(1984 Code, Ch. 15, Art III, § 35) (Ord. 82-CC-8, passed 4-22-1982)
§ 33.037 APPROVAL OF STANDARDS AND PREREQUISITES FOR SUPERIOR RANK.
   Whenever the Sheriff desires the approval of the Board for his or her
setting of reasonable standards and the fixing of prerequisites of training,
education and experience for each rank, grade or position within the
Department, he or she shall deliver to the Board, in quintuplicate, copies of
the standards and prerequisites along with his or her recommendations for same,
also in quintuplicate, setting out his or her reasons for same. As a matter of
convenience to the Sheriff, he or she should prepare six copies each of any
proposed standards and or prerequisites, and retain one copy for himself or
herself.
(1984 Code, Ch. 15, Art III, § 36) (Ord. 82-CC-8, passed 4-22-1982)
§ 33.038 APPROVAL OF PROMOTION EXAMINATIONS.
   Whenever the Sheriff desires the approval of the Board for his or her
devising and administration of examinations for all ranks, grades and positions
in the Department, he or she shall deliver to the Board, in quintuplicate,
copies of the examinations and plans for the administration of the examinations
along with his or her recommendations in writing, also in quintuplicate,
setting out the reasons for same. As a matter of convenience to the Sheriff, he
or she should prepare six copies each of any examinations and plans for
administration, and retain one copy for himself or herself.
(1984 Code, Ch. 15, Art III, § 37) (Ord. 82-CC-8, passed 4-22-1982)
§ 33.039 APPROVAL OF CURRENT RANKINGS.
   For approval of members of the Department holding superior ranks, grade or
position, upon the Board’s assumption of its responsibilities, the Sheriff
shall prepare and present to the Board a written recommendation for each member
setting out the reasons as to why the member should continue to hold the
position. These documents shall be in septuples with a copy of each for each
member of the Board and for the Sheriff, and one each for the two established
personnel files.
(1984 Code, Ch. 15, Art III, § 38) (Ord. 82-CC-8, passed 4-22-1982)
§ 33.040 APPROVAL OF PROMOTIONS.
   (A)   Whenever the Sheriff desires the approval of the Board for the
promotion of a member of the Department to superior rank, grade or position, he
or she shall submit to the Board the following documents in duplicate (one copy
for each of the two established personnel files):
      (1)   A letter of recommendation for the promotion;
      (2)   A document showing the member’s rating and that of others who
desired the promotion as determined by examination and other qualification
determinations set by the Sheriff with the approval of the Board; and
      (3)   A waiver request for each deficiency of requirements for the rank,
grade or position previously set by the Sheriff with the approval of the Board.
   (B)   The Board shall have power to approve the form of all of the above
documents.
(1984 Code, Ch. 15, Art III, § 39) (Ord. 82-CC-8, passed 4-22-1982)
§ 33.041 APPROVAL OF NEW OFFICERS.
   (A)   Whenever the Sheriff desires the approval of the Board to appoint a
new member to the Department, he or she shall submit to the President of the
Board the following documents (one copy for the two established personnel
files):
      (1)   Two copies of the application filed by the person;
      (2)   Two copies of the investigation reports of the applicant;
      (3)   Two copies of recommendation for appointment by the Sheriff;
      (4)   Two copies of waiver request for each deficiency the applicant may
have regarding the requirements for the applicants previously set by the
Sheriff and approved by the Board;
      (5)   Two copies of the birth certificate of the applicant;
      (6)   Two copies each of high school and college transcripts;
      (7)   Two copies of search and seizure waiver;
      (8)   Two copies of the lie detector test waiver;
      (9)   Two copies of FBI fingerprint return; and
      (10)   Two copies of physical exam report.
   (B)   The   Board shall have the power to approve the forms to be used for
divisions (A)(1) through (A)(4) and divisions (A)(7), (A)(8) and (A)(10) above.
(1984 Code, Ch. 15, Art III, § 40) (Ord. 82-CC-8, passed 4-22-1982)
§ 33.042 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall take effect as of January 15, 1983.
(1984 Code, Ch. 15, Art III, § 41) (Ord. 82-CC-8, passed 4-22-1982; Ord. 82-CC-
17, passed 9-7-1982)
COUNTY SHERIFF’S RESERVE UNIT
§ 33.055 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established, pursuant to I.C. 36-8-3-20, the County Police
Reserves, which shall be known as the County Sheriff’s Reserve Unit.
(1984 Code, § 15-2) (Ord. C-83-6, passed 9-6-1983)
§ 33.056 NUMBER OF MEMBERS.
   The maximum number of members of the Reserve Unit shall be 50.
(1984 Code, § 15-2) (Ord. C-83-6, passed 9-6-1983)
§ 33.057 APPOINTMENT.
   All members of the County Sheriff’s Reserve Unit shall be appointed by the
County Sheriff’s Merit Board.
(1984 Code, § 15-2) (Ord. C-83-6, passed 9-6-1983)
§ 33.058 POWERS.
   The members of the County Sheriff’s Reserve Unit shall have all the police
powers as provided for by the provisions of I.C. 36-8-3-20.
(1984 Code, § 15-2) (Ord. C-83-6, passed 9-6-1983)
§ 33.059 TRAINING AND PROBATIONARY PERIOD.
   No member of the County Sheriff’s Reserve Unit shall be appointed until he
or she has completed the training and probationary period specified by the
County Sheriff’s Merit Board.
(1984 Code, § 15-2) (Ord. C-83-6, passed 9-6-1983)
§ 33.060 COURSE OF STUDY; RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The County Sheriff’s Merit Board shall prepare and approve a course of study
for the County Sheriff’s Reserve Unit and rules and regulations covering the
operation and conduct of the County Sheriff’s Reserve Unit. The rules and
regulations may, among other things, provide for rules and regulations relating
to the conduct of the County Sheriff’s Reserve Unit, disciplinary provisions
and all other matters affecting the operation of the County Sheriff’s Reserve
Unit.
(1984 Code, § 15-2) (Ord. C-83-6, passed 9-6-1983)
CRIMINAL HISTORY REQUESTS
§ 33.075 DEFINITIONS.
   Definitions of any terms used herein shall be those definitions contained in
I.C. 20-26-2-1.5, as amended from time to time.
(1984 Code, § 16-53) (Ord. O-C-03-5, passed 5-5-2003)
§ 33.076 REQUEST GOVERNED BY I.C. 5-2-5-5.
   On request, the County Sheriff’s Department shall release, or allow
inspection, of a limited criminal history to non-criminal justice organizations
or individuals only as allowed by I.C. 10-13-3-27, as amended from time to
time.
(1984 Code, § 16-53) (Ord. O-C-03-5, passed 5-5-2003)
§ 33.077 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   On request for release or inspection of a limited criminal history,
the County Sheriff’s Department shall do the following:
      (1)   Require a form, provided by them, to be completed. This form shall
be maintained for a period of two years and shall be available to the records
subject upon request;
      (2)   Collect a $3 fee to defray the cost of processing a request for
inspection; and
      (3)   Collect a $7 fee to defray the cost of processing a request for
release.
   (B)   The fees may be adjusted from time to time as allowed by I.C. 10-13-3-
30, as amended from time to time.
   (C)   The County Sheriff’s Department shall edit the information so that the
only information released or inspected is information which has been requested
and is limited criminal history information.
(1984 Code, § 16-53) (Ord. O-C-03-5, passed 5-5-2003)
§ 33.078 COUNTY LAW ENFORCEMENT EDUCATION FUND.
   (A)   The revenues collected pursuant to this subchapter shall be deposited
into a special fund established and maintained by the County Auditor known as
the County Law Enforcement Education Fund.
   (B)   The amounts claimed for expenditures by the County Sheriff’s
Department from the County Law Enforcement Continuing Education Fund do not
require appropriation prior to expenditure, and may be utilized by the County
Sheriff’s Department for law enforcement continuing education.
(Ord. O-C-03-6, passed 7-7-2003)
COUNTY JAIL INMATE MEDICAL CARE
§ 33.090 INMATES WHO ARE EXEMPT.
   (A)   This subchapter does not apply to a person confined to the county jail
who:
      (1)   Maintains a policy of insurance from a private company covering:
         (a)   Medical care;
         (b)   Dental care;
         (c)   Eye care; or
         (d)   Any other health care related service.
      (2)   Is willing to pay for the person’s own medical care; or
      (3)   Is committed to the Department of Correction.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (A) above, a person confined to the
county jail shall be required to pay to the County Sheriff a prescription set-
up fee in an amount of not more than $10 for each prescription medication
provided to the inmate.
(Ord. O-C-95-2, passed 2-6-1995; Ord. O-C-03-9, passed 11-3-2003; Ord. O-C-03-
7, passed 9-3-2003; Ord. O-C-08-2, passed 1-7-2008)
§ 33.091 CO-PAYMENTS.
   Except as provided in §
33.092, a person confined to the county jail shall be required to make a co-
payment in an amount of not more than $15 for each provision of any of the
following services:
   (A)   Medical care;
   (B)   Dental care;
   (C)   Eye care;
   (D)   Any other health care related service; and
   (E)   When a medical evaluation is performed by a correctional health care
officer.
(Ord. O-C-95-2, passed 2-6-1995; Ord. O-C-03-9, passed 11-3-2003; Ord. O-C-08-
3, passed 1-23-2008)
§ 33.092 INMATES EXEMPT FROM CO-PAYMENTS.
   A person confined to the county jail is not required to make the co-payment
under this section if:
   (A)   The person does not have funds in the person’s commissary account or
trust account at the time the service is provided;
   (B)   The person does not have funds in the person’s commissary account or
trust account within 60 days after the service is provided;
   (C)   The service is provided in an emergency;
   (D)   The service is provided as a result of an injury received in the
county jail; or
   (E)   The service is provided at the request of the Sheriff or jail
administrator.
(Ord. O-C-95-2, passed 2-6-1995; Ord. O-C-03-9, passed 11-3-2003)
§ 33.093 COUNTY SHERIFF’S DUTIES.
   The Perry County Sheriff shall:
   (A)   Collect up to $15 from the commissary account or inmate trust account
within 60 days from the date the services are provided;
   (B)   Deposit these funds in a separate account and forward these funds to
the County Auditor on a monthly basis; and
   (C)   Maintain records of all transactions and make those records available
to the County Auditor upon request.
(Ord. O-C-95-2, passed 2-6-1995; Ord. O-C-03-9, passed 11-3-2003)
§ 33.094 COUNTY MEDICAL CARE FOR INMATES FUND.
   (A)   The County Auditor shall deposit all funds received into the County
Medical Care for Inmates Fund.
   (B)   The County Medical Care for Inmates Fund shall be used solely to
offset county expenditures from the County General Fund for inmate medical
care.
(Ord. O-C-95-2, passed 2-6-1995; Ord. O-C-03-9, passed 11-3-2003)
REIMBURSEMENT TO COUNTY BY PRISONERS/DETAINEES
§ 33.110 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Any person who is:
      (1)   Sentenced for a felony or misdemeanor;
      (2)   Subject to lawful detention as defined in state law in the county
jail for a period of more than 72 hours;
      (3)   Not a member of a family that makes less than 150% of the federal
income poverty level; and
      (4)   Not detained as a child subject to the jurisdiction of a juvenile
court shall reimburse the county for the sum of the following amounts:
         (a)   The lesser of:
            1.   The per diem amount now and hereafter fixed by the County
Council; or
            2.   Thirty dollars multiplied by each day or part of a day that
the person is lawfully detained under I.C. 35-33-11-3 for more than six hours.
         (b)   The direct cost of investigating whether the person is indigent;
and
         (c)   The cost of collecting the amount for which the person is liable
under this section.
   (B)   The County Sheriff shall collect the amounts due from a person under
this section. If the County Sheriff does not collect the amount due to the
county, the County Attorney may collect the amount due.
   (C)   There is hereby established a nonreverting county prisoner
reimbursement fund under the provisions of I.C. 36-2-13-16.
(Ord. O-C-98-7, passed 9-11-1998; Ord. O-C-12-4, passed 4-2-2012)
CHAPTER 34: COURTS
Section
Circuit Court
   
34.01   County Circuit Court
County Public Defender Board
   
34.15   Board established
   
34.16   Definitions
   
34.17   Board membership and appointment
   
34.18   Powers and duties of the Board
   
34.19   Authority of judges
   
34.20   Scope
   
34.21   Effective date
Court Security
   
34.35   Security guidelines
CIRCUIT COURT
§ 34.01 COUNTY CIRCUIT COURT.
   For provisions concerning the County Circuit Court, see I.C. 33-28-1 et seq.
and 33-33-62.
(1984 Code, § 2-10)
COUNTY PUBLIC DEFENDER BOARD
§ 34.15 BOARD ESTABLISHED.
   The County Public Defender Board is hereby established for the purpose of
providing legal representation to indigent defendants/respondents in criminal,
juvenile, probation violation, extradition, child support, civil commitments
and other proceedings where the right to counsel has been established by law.
(Ord. O-C-01-1, passed 2-5-2001)
§ 34.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. The County Public Defender Board created by this subchapter.
   INDIGENT DEFENDANT/RESPONDENT. A person who requests legal representation
and is determined by the court to be entitled to legal representation at public
expense.
   LEGAL REPRESENTATION.
      (1)   The services of an attorney provided to a defendant/respondent in a
matter originating in a state court in the county involving:
         (a)   A person charged with a crime as defined in state law;
         (b)   An act of delinquency as defined in I.C. 31-37-1-2;
         (c)   A violation of a condition of probation established as a part of
a sentence in a juvenile or criminal matter;
         (d)   Detention of a person subject to extradition to another
jurisdiction;
         (e)   Proceedings to collect unpaid child support pursuant to I.C. 31-
16-12-1;
         (f)   Civil commitment and contempt proceedings; or
         (g)   Other proceedings where the right to counsel at public expense
has been established by law.
      (2)   The term LEGAL REPRESENTATION includes services in connection with
all pre-trial, trial and appellate proceedings in which an indigent defendant/
respondent has a right to counsel.
(Ord. O-C-01-1, passed 2-5-2001)
§ 34.17 BOARD MEMBERSHIP AND APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   The Board shall consist of three members; one member appointed by the
County Commissioners; and two members from different political parties
appointed by majority vote of the Judge of the Circuit Court.
   (B)   The initial term of the member appointed by the County Commissioners
shall expire on December 31, 2001. The initial term of one member appointed by
the Judge shall expire on December 31, 2002, and the initial term of the other
member appointed by the Judge shall expire on December 31, 2003.
   (C)   After the initial terms of each member, appointments shall be for
three-year terms. Members of the Board shall serve until their successor is
appointed. An appointment to fill a vacancy shall be made by the authority
appointing the member vacating the position and shall be for the remainder of
the unexpired term.
   (D)   The following persons shall be ineligible to serve as members of the
Board:
      (1)   A city, town or county attorney;
      (2)   A law enforcement officer;
      (3)   A judge; or
      (4)   A court employee.
   (E)   Board members shall serve without pay but may receive reimbursement
for expenses incurred in connection with the member’s duties if approved by the
Board.
   (F)   Two members of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of
conducting the business of the Board. Decisions of the Board shall be approved
by a majority of the members present.
   (G)   The Board shall meet at least quarterly or upon call of its
Chairperson or any two members of the Board.
   (H)   The Board shall elect its Chairperson by a majority vote of the Board.
(Ord. O-C-01-1, passed 2-5-2001)
§ 34.18 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE BOARD.
   The Board shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   Prepare a comprehensive plan for providing legal representation to
indigent defendants/respondents in the county in accordance with I.C. 33-40-7-
5. The comprehensive plan shall, at a minimum, provide for:
      (1)   Legal representation to an indigent defendant/respondent at the
earliest possible point in time;
      (2)   Legal representation to an indigent defendant/respondent by the
same attorney or attorneys through the pendency of the matter to the greatest
extent possible; and
      (3)   Professional development and continuing legal education and other
services for public defenders.
   (B)   Establish policies and procedure for the provision of competent legal
representation for indigent defendants/ respondents in criminal, juvenile,
probation violation, extradition, child support and criminal contempt, and
other matters pursuant to the comprehensive plan;
   (C)   Establish guidelines and procedures for the determination of indigency
and for the appropriate reimbursement for legal representation provided at
public expense in accordance with I.C. 33-40-7 et seq.;
   (D)   Recommend an annual operating budget for the Board and monitor the
expenditures of funds; and
   (E)   Prepare and submit to the County Council and the general public an
annual report on the operation of the Board.
(Ord. O-C-01-1, passed 2-5-2001)
§ 34.19 AUTHORITY OF JUDGES.
   Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to abridge the authority of any
judge of the county from appointing counsel for any person entitled thereto
under the Constitution of the United States or the Constitution of the state.
(Ord. O-C-01-1, passed 2-5-2001)
§ 34.20 SCOPE.
   Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to create a right of reimbursement
pursuant to I.C. 33-40-6, except to the extent that any claims for
reimbursement comply with I.C. 33-9-14 and the standards of the State Public
Defender Commission.
(Ord. O-C-01-1, passed 2-5-2001)
§ 34.21 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be in full force and effect upon passage, approval and
publication.
(Ord. O-C-01-1, passed 2-5-2001)
COURT SECURITY
§ 34.35 SECURITY GUIDELINES.
   (A)   All persons entering the county courthouse consent to an inspection of
their person, any package, briefcase or purse.
   (B)   All persons, except those persons noted in division (E) below, are
prohibited from entering the county courthouse while carrying any of the
following:
      (1)   A deadly weapon, as defined by state law;
      (2)   A firearm, as defined by I.C. 35-47-1-5;
      (3)   An electric stun weapon, as defined by I.C. 35-47-8-1;
      (4)   A stun gun, as defined by I.C. 35-47-8-2;
      (5)   A taser, as defined by I.C. 35-47-8-3;
      (6)   A knife;
      (7)   An explosive device;
      (8)   A club; or
      (9)   Any other object that, in the manner in which it is used, or is
intended to be used is readily capable of causing serious bodily injury, as
defined by state law.
   (C)   Any person refusing to comply with this section will be denied
entrance into the county courthouse, and anyone knowingly violating this
section will be subject to contempt of court pursuant to I.C. 34-47-3.
   (D)   This section is in conjunction with
Chapter 131 of this code of ordinances. The penalty for violating this section
is a fine up to $2,500.
   (E)   (1)   The following persons, who are in the courthouse for official
business and duly authorized to carry deadly weapons, are exempt from this
order:
         (a)   Law enforcement officers under state law;
         (b)   State Department of Correction officers;
         (c)   Community correction officers;
         (d)   Judicial officers; and
         (e)   Probation officers.
      (2)   Employees of the county who carry chemical spray devices for
personal protection are also exempt.
      (3)   The persons described as exempt from this section shall not be
exempt if they or any member of their family is a party to any proceeding
taking place in court.
(Order passed 12-6-2001)
CHAPTER 35: ELECTIONS
Section
   
35.01   Precincts
   
35.02   Precinct election judges
   
35.03   Help America Vote Act; voting system reimbursement funds
§ 35.01 PRECINCTS.
   The precincts so established for the county, by order of the State Election
Board are confirmed as the county voting precincts, which are designated, a
copy of which is available in the office of the Circuit Court Clerk.
(1984 Code, § 5-2) (Order passed - -; Res. C-86-2, passed 4-7-1986; Ord. 86-3,
passed 4-7-1986; Ord. 86-2, passed 4-7-1986; Res. passed 4-7-1986; Order passed
1-3-1989; Order passed 1-30-1990; Order passed 2-5-1990)
§ 35.02 PRECINCT ELECTION JUDGES.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to order judges of each
precinct named herein to perform duties and have the rights of election
sheriffs within the precincts hereinafter named pursuant to I.C. 3-6-6-5(b).
   (B)   Order. The Board of Commissioners orders that judges in each precinct
of the county shall perform the duties and shall have the rights of the
election sheriffs within the following named precincts:
      (1)   Cannelton Precinct #1;
      (2)   Cannelton Precinct #2;
      (3)   Cannelton Precinct #3;
      (4)   Cannelton Precinct #4;
      (5)   Tell City Precinct #1;
      (6)   Tell City Precinct #2;
      (7)   Tell City Precinct #3;
      (8)   Tell City Precinct #4;
      (9)   Tell City Precinct #5;
      (10)   Tell City Precinct #6;
      (11)   Tell City Precinct #7;
      (12)   Tell City Precinct #8;
      (13)   Tell City Precinct #9;
      (14)   Troy;
      (15)   Gillis;
      (16)   Boyd;
      (17)   Lupp;
      (18)   Tobinsport;
      (19)   Rome;
      (20)   Gerald;
      (21)   Derby;
      (22)   Rono;
      (23)   Leopold;
      (24)   Oriole;
      (25)   Branchville;
      (26)   St. Croix;
      (27)   Uniontown;
      (28)   Siberia;
      (29)   Adyeville;
      (30)   Bristow;
      (31)   Sparrow; and
      (32)   Hagedorn.
   (B)   (1)   Pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 3-6-6-25, as amended
effective July 1, 1997, each election inspector shall be entitled to a per diem
of $100 per day for performance of the duties of office imposed on that person
that are performed on election day.
      (2)   Each election judge and poll clerk or assistant poll clerk, shall
be entitled to a per diem of $75 per day for the performance of the duties of
office imposed on that person that are performed on election day.
(Ord. O-C-95-10, passed 10-16-1995; Ord. O-C-97-5, passed 7-7-1997)
§ 35.03 HELP AMERICA VOTE ACT; VOTING SYSTEM REIMBURSEMENT FUNDS.
   (A)   Subject to the availability of Title III requirement monies to the
county under the Help America Vote Act of 2002 being 42 U.S.C. §§ 15031 et
seq., the county will make all permanent and temporary improvements to each
polling place not later than October 1, 2004 to comply with the polling place
accessibility standards set forth in I.C. 3-11-8, and to the extent possible,
make any additional improvements identified in the May 2004 HAVA polling place
survey that are not specifically required by state or federal law.
   (B)   The county will submit a report to the State Election Division no
later than December 31, 2004 (or no later than December 31, 2005 for
reimbursement approved after 2003). The report under this division must list
the polling place accessibility problems identified in the May 2004 survey of
polling places and indicate whether these problems have been resolved by
temporary or permanent improvements, or whether the polling place has been
relocated to an accessible facility. If the report indicates that the problems
have not yet been resolved, the report must indicate how the county will
resolve the problem no later than March 31, 2006. The county agrees to submit
any additional reports required by the State Election Division until the county
reports that the polling place accessibility requirements identified in the May
2004 survey have been resolved. The report must be certified as accurate by
majority vote of the County Election Board, following review and opportunity
for written comments to be added to the report by the local advisory council
described in division (E) below.
   (C)   The county acknowledges that the Secretary of State and co-directors
of the State Election Division may extend the October 1, 2004 deadline until
March 31, 2006, for a specific polling place, if it is impossible or
impractical for the county to ensure the polling place’s compliance by October
1, 2004.
   (D)   As of December 31, 2005, each polling place will contain at least one
voting system to permit a voter who is blind or visually impaired to vote
privately and independently.
   (E)   No later than December 31, 2003, the county legislative body will
adopt an ordinance to establish a local advisory council comprised of
representatives of the disabilities community and elderly voters to provide
assistance to the county in choosing polling places. The council may include
any number of members, but must include at least two representatives of the
disabilities communities or elderly voters. The county executive shall appoint
the members and shall encourage county residents with a variety of backgrounds,
partisan affiliations and perspectives to participate. If county residents are
not available to serve on the council, the county executive may partner with
the Governor’s Planning Council on Disabilities to carry out the functions of
the council.
   (F)   (1)   The county fiscal body pledges that Section 101 funds received
by the county will be used to pay any outstanding obligations incurred by the
county for the voting system purchase subject to the reimbursement.
      (2)   The county fiscal body pledges that if the obligations incurred by
the county to obtain this voting system have been paid in full or in part as of
this date, that the remaining Section 101 funds will be used to improve the
administration of elections for federal office in the county.
      (3)   No later than 30 days after adoption of this section, the county
will establish a separate nonreverting account in which all Section 101 funds
will be deposited.
      (4)   The county agrees to refund to the state no later than May 1, 2006
an amount equal to the Section 101 funds received by the county if the
Secretary of State and the co-directors of the State Election Division
determine on March 1, 2006 that the county has not:
         (a)   Provided at least one voting system in each polling place of the
county no later than December 31, 2005 to permit a voter who is blind or
visually impaired to vote privately and independently in accordance with Pub.
L. No. 209-2003 being I.C. 3-7-33-1 et seq.; or
         (b)   Honored one or more of the certifications made by the county in
this section regarding polling place accessibility or the permitted uses of
these funds.
   (G)   (1)   The county fiscal body pledges that Section 102 HAVA monies
received by the county will be used to pay any outstanding obligations incurred
by the county for the voting system purchase subject to the reimbursement.
      (2)   The county fiscal body pledges that if the obligations incurred by
the county to obtain this voting system have been paid in full or in part as of
this date, that the remaining Section 102 funds will be used to improve the
administration of elections for federal office in the county.
      (3)   No later than 30 days after adoption of this section, the county
will establish a separate nonreverting account in which all Section 102 funds
will be deposited.
      (4)   The county agrees to refund to the state no later than May 1, 2006
an amount equal to the Section 102 funds received by the county if the
Secretary of State and the co-directors of the State Election Division
determine on March 1, 2006 that the county has not:
         (a)   Replaced the lever voting machines (or punch card voting
systems) in each precinct in the county no later than December 31, 2005; or
         (b)   Honored one or more of the certifications made by the county in
this section regarding polling place accessibility or the permitted uses of
these funds.
   (H)   (1)   The county fiscal body pledges that Title III requirement monies
and state matching funds received by the county will be used to pay any
outstanding obligations incurred by the county for the voting system purchase
subject to the reimbursement.
      (2)   The county fiscal body pledges that if the obligations incurred by
the county to obtain this voting system have been paid in full or in part as of
this date, that the remaining Title III requirement monies and state matching
funds will be used to improve the administration of elections for federal
office in the county.
      (3)   No later than 30 days after adoption of this section, the county
will establish a separate nonreverting account in which all Title III
requirement monies and state matching funds will be deposited.
      (4)   The county agrees to refund to the state no later than May 1, 2006
an amount equal to the Title III requirement monies and state matching funds
received by the county if the Secretary of State and the co-directors of the
State Election Division determine on March 1, 2006 that the county has not:
         (a)   Provided at least one voting system in each polling place of the
county no later than December 31, 2005 to permit a voter who is blind or
visually impaired to vote privately and independently in accordance with Pub.
L. No. 209-2003 being I.C. 3-7-33-1 et seq.; or
         (b)   Honored one or more of the certifications made by the county in
this section regarding polling place accessibility or the permitted uses of
these funds.
(Res. R-C-04-2, passed - -; R-C-04-3, passed - -; R-C-04-4, passed - -)
CHAPTER 36: FUNDS
Section
   
36.01   Cumulative Capital Development Fund
   
36.02   Community Economic Development Fund
   
36.03   Enhanced Access Fund
   
36.04   Rainy Day Fund
   
36.05   Cumulative Bridge Fund
   
36.06   County Law Enforcement Fund
   
36.07   County Highway Excise Surtax and Wheel Tax Fund
   
36.08   Non-Reverting Operating Fund for the Parks and Recreation Department
   
36.09   Inmate Housing Fund
   
36.10   Animal Shelter Fund
§ 36.01 CUMULATIVE CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby adopted and created a Cumulative Capital Development
Fund for the following purposes set out in I.C. 36-9-14.5-2.
   (B)   The Board will adhere to the provisions of I.C. 36-9-14.5. The
proposed fund will not exceed $0.0333 on each $100 of assessed valuation. The
tax rate will be levied beginning with taxes for 2008 payable 2009.
(1984 Code, § 16-3) (Ord. C-84-5, passed 8-6-1984; Ord. C-90, passed 7-2-1990;
Ord. O-C-95-8, passed 7-24-1995; Ord. O-C-08-9, passed 7-7-2008)
§ 36.02 COMMUNITY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT FUND.
   (A)   By Executive Order EO-C-95-1 dated February 6, 1995, Executive Order
EO-C-96-1 and Ordinance O-C-04-6 passed by the County Council on July 22, 2004,
the county has pledged up to 30% of its distributive share of EDIT revenues to
pay debt service or lease rentals on obligations issued to finance the
acquisition of land and certain infrastructure improvements in or serving Perry
County Economic Development Areas No. 2 and 3 respectively. The pledges are
hereby reaffirmed and incorporated in the Plan.
   (B)   The county will deposit the funds into a separate interest-varying
account identified as the EDIT Community Economic Development Fund, pursuant to
the provisions of that certain interlocal agreement dated as of December 6,
1993, by and between the county, the City of Tell City and the Town of Troy.
The funds shall be utilized and expended to satisfy the pledges. The balance,
if any, shall be utilized and expended as follows:
      (1)   Up to and not to exceed $15,000 thereof shall be paid to the County
Port Authority to assist in defraying the annual salary of the Vice President
and CEO of the County Port Authority; and
      (2)    Any balance remaining thereafter shall be used and expended
pursuant to the terms of the interlocal agreement at the request of the County
Development Corporation to provide financial incentives to attract new
industrial investment, assist existing industry and develop infrastructure to
advance industrial development in the county.
   (C)   For the three-year period beginning January 1, 2015, from the revenue
it receives from the county economic development income tax, the county shall
utilize an amount up to but not exceeding $15,500 to make improvements to the
existing Emergency Management Services building that are necessary for its
occupation by certain governmental agencies.
(Ord. O-C-99-9, passed 8-16-1999; Ord. O-C-04-7, passed 7-22-2004; Am. Ord. O-
C-15-3, passed 6-1-2015)
§ 36.03 ENHANCED ACCESS FUND.
   The County Council hereby recognizes that the County Recorder’s office is
entering into a contract with a third party to provide electronic access to
certain records the County Recorder’s office is required to maintain. Because
the County Recorder’s office will charge a fee for that access, this body
hereby establishes an Enhanced Access Fund into which those fees will be
deposited. The Fund shall be administered by the County Recorder’s office and
the Fund shall be subject to appropriation and expenditure for the purposes of
replacement, improvement and expansion of capital expenditures and for the
reimbursement of operating expenses incurred in providing enhanced access to
public information and the Enhanced Access Fund is dedicated to those purposes.
(Ord. O-CC-08-3, passed 6-26-2008)
§ 36.04 RAINY DAY FUND.
   (A)   Creation. There is hereby established a Rainy Day Fund to receive
transfers of unused and unencumbered funds raised by a general or special tax
levy on taxable property within the county whenever the purpose of the tax levy
has been fulfilled and an unused and unencumbered balance remains.
   (B)   Purposes of the Fund. The funds on deposit in the Rainy Day Fund may
be used for the operation of the county and its various departments, when the
county does not have sufficient levies or funds to pay these costs, including,
but not limited to, salaries and wages, costs of services, supplies, equipment,
capital improvements, repairs and similar expenditures.
   (C)   Transfer to Fund. On or before December 31 of each year, the County
Council shall determine the amount, if any, of any unused and unencumbered
funds available to be transferred to the Rainy Day Fund which transfer may not
exceed more than 10% of the county’s total budget for that fiscal year.
   (D)   Appropriations. The County Council may authorize expenditure of funds
from the Rainy Day Fund by appropriations made in the same manner as other
funds are appropriated that receive tax monies, upon making a finding that the
proposed use of the funds is consistent with the intent of the Fund.
(Ord. O-CC-08-1, passed 3-27-2008)
§ 36.05 CUMULATIVE BRIDGE FUND.
   Pursuant to I.C. 8-16-3-1 et seq., there is hereby established a Cumulative
Bridge Fund for the county to provide funds for the cost of construction,
maintenance and repair of bridges, approaches and grade separations. The Fund
will not exceed $0.10 on each $100 of assessed valuation. The tax rate will be
levied beginning with taxes for 2006 payable in 2007.
(Ord. O-C-95-7, passed 7-24-1995; Ord. O-CC-04-4, passed 12-16-2004; Ord. O-C-
06-6, passed 7-19-2006)
§ 36.06 COUNTY LAW ENFORCEMENT FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created a County Law Enforcement Fund. The Auditor of
the county is hereby authorized to create and maintain the Law Enforcement
Fund. Money from this Fund shall be subject to appropriation in accordance with
I.C. 36-2-5-2. The Fund shall consist of deposits in the form of voluntary
surrender fees; fees designated in plea agreements, pretrial diversion
agreements and by court order; and money received as a result of forfeiture
under federal law and any related regulations adopted by the United States
Department of Justice.
   (B)   The purpose of the Law Enforcement Fund shall be to provide money for
use by the prosecuting attorney to aid and assist the law enforcement agencies
in the county to further enforce the laws of the state, including, but not
limited to, the purchase of equipment, supplies and personnel, so that
offenders rather than taxpayers are paying to fight the war on drugs.
   (C)   All money collected under this section shall be deposited by the
Treasurer of the county, who shall deposit the funds at the direction of the
prosecuting attorney into a trust account entitled the County Law Enforcement
Fund. The County Commissioners shall disperse all money collected under this
section, including any interest earned from the account, at the request of the
prosecuting attorney in accordance with the purpose of this Fund. Any money
remaining in the Fund at the end of the year shall not revert to any other fund
but shall continue in the Law Enforcement Fund.
(Ord. O-C-05-3, passed 10-17-2005; Ord. O-C-07-5, passed 8-6-2007)
§ 36.07 COUNTY HIGHWAY EXCISE SURTAX AND WHEEL TAX FUND.
   (A)   The Commissioners authorize the Auditor and Treasurer to invest the
surtax and wheel tax in a separate fund called the County Highway Excise Surtax
and Wheel Tax Fund.
(1984 Code, § 5-4)
   (B)   The purpose of this Fund is to have a fund into which the county may
place surplus funds annually above what is needed by the county to repay any
and all outstanding loans from the Distressed Road Fund administered by the
State Department of Transportation. Effective calendar year 2004, $60,000
annually of the county’s surtax and wheel tax revenue shall be dedicated to the
Distressed Loan Repayment Fund toward the repayment of any and all such loans.
All surtax and wheel tax revenues collected in excess of $60,000 annually shall
be placed in the newly established Surplus Surtax and Wheel Tax Fund to be
dedicated to the construction, reconstruction, repair and maintenance of county
roads as the county deems appropriate.
(Ord. O-CC-04-3, passed 5-20-2004)
§ 36.08 NON-REVERTING OPERATING FUND FOR THE PARKS AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT.
   The County Council hereby establishes a special Non-Reverting Operating Fund
for the Parks and Recreation Department for the purpose of allowing the
Department to deposit receipts it collects from its various activities which it
sponsors. The monies that are collected by the Department are to be used to
purchase equipment and other items of tangible personal property for the
Department.
(Ord. O-CC-12-2, passed 4-26-2012)
§ 36.09 INMATE HOUSING FUND.
   The Perry County Auditor shall establish the Inmate Housing Fund as a non-
reverting fund. All payments received by the Perry County Sheriff for housing
inmates from other county jails or detention centers shall be deposited into
this fund. All amounts deposited into this fund shall be accumulated and remain
in this fund, along with any and all interest derived therefrom, and such fund
shall be a non- reverting fund. Amounts accumulated in this fund may be
expended by the Perry County Sheriff only after proper appropriation by the
Perry County Council and for the following costs and uses:
   (A)   All costs incurred and associated with housing inmates from
jurisdictions other than Perry County;
   (B)   For expenses of operating the Perry County Detention Center including,
but not limited to, salaries, maintenance, repair, and replacement of portions
of the Perry County Detention Center; and
   (C)   For the purchase of necessary equipment and vehicles for use by the
Perry County Sheriff’s Office.
(Ord. O-C-17-5, passed 6-5-2017)
§ 36.10 ANIMAL SHELTER FUND.
   (A)   There shall be established a non-reverting fund known as the Perry
County Animal Shelter Fund.
   (B)   Any amounts located in said fund shall be dedicated to the provision
of animal shelter services by or on behalf of the county.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, the provision of animal shelter services
shall mean the maintenance of an animal shelter for the care, shelter,
placement and disposition of abandoned and stray animals found within the
county as well as any other expenses necessary to be incurred for the provision
of such animal shelter services.
   (D)   The Perry County Animal Shelter Fund shall not revert to the general
fund, and the Perry County Commissioners shall have control of the budgeting
and appropriation of funds from said account, subject to the right of the Perry
County Council to approve such appropriations and budget.
(Ord. O-C-20-7, passed 12-7-2020)
CHAPTER 37: TAXATION AND FINANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
37.001   Payments to County Treasurer for real estate taxes
   
37.002   County Income Tax Special Account
   
37.003   Transfer of budgeted line items under the 100 category
Annual Excise Surtax and Wheel Tax
   
37.015   Established
Innkeeper’s Tax
   
37.030   Established
   
37.031   Application
   
37.032   Rate
   
37.033   Reporting
   
37.034   Account
   
37.035   Effective date
Homestead Credit
   
37.050   Homestead credit
County Option Income Tax
   
37.065   Established
County Economic Development Income Tax
   
37.080   Established
Special Legislation: Economic Development Income Tax
   
37.085   Established
Capital Improvement Plan
   
37.095   Adopted
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 37.001 PAYMENTS TO COUNTY TREASURER FOR REAL ESTATE TAXES.
   (A)   Effective September 5, 2012, all payments must be by cash, money order
or certified or cashier’s check to the County Treasurer for real estate taxes:
      (1)   For the purpose of bringing the taxes current to avoid the real
estate being sold at tax sale or commissioner’s sale;
      (2)   Submitted in the 30-day period immediately preceding the date of
the tax sale or commissioner’s sale; and
      (3)   For the purpose of redeeming any real estate previously sold at tax
sale or commissioner’s sale.
   (B)   During the periods set forth above, the Treasurer shall not accept or
be required to accept any personal checks in payment for the taxes or
redemption nor shall the tender of any personal checks constitute the payment
of the taxes or a valid redemption.
(Ord. O-C-98-8, passed 12-7-1998; Ord. O-C-12-10, passed 9-5-2012)
§ 37.002 COUNTY INCOME TAX SPECIAL ACCOUNT.
   The County Income Tax Council elects to reduce the required county income
tax special account balance from a six-month balance to a three-month balance.
(Res. R-CC-95-1, passed 3-23-1995)
§ 37.003 TRANSFER OF BUDGETED LINE ITEMS UNDER THE 100 CATEGORY.
   (A)   No county officeholder or other official administering funds approved
in any county budget shall use funds budgeted and appropriated for any one line
item under the 100 category of any budget for the payment of any other line
item in the 100 category unless and until the officeholder or official has
applied for a transfer of funds for the different line item budgetary purpose
and the application for transfer has been approved by the County Council.
   (B)   Prior to the application and approval of the transfer of funds, no
county officeholder or other official administering funds in any county budget
shall submit or approve a claim for the use category for the payment of any
other line item in the 100 category and no claim shall be approved and no
warrant shall be issued for the payment of any claim.
(1984 Code, § 5-7) (Ord. CC-84-17, passed 9-4-1984)
ANNUAL EXCISE SURTAX AND WHEEL TAX
§ 37.015 ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Beginning January 1, 2015 and until further amended by ordinance, all
passenger vehicles, trucks of less than 11,000 pounds declared gross vehicle
weight, motorcycles and motor driven cycles, registered in the county, that are
subject to an excise tax (in lieu of property tax) shall also be subject to an
annual excise surtax of 10% to be paid with the registration of any of the
above vehicles.
   (B)   Beginning January 1, 1982, and until further amended by ordinance, all
of the following six classes of motor vehicles registered in the county, shall
be subject to an annual wheel tax as set out in the following schedule, to be
paid with the registration of the motor vehicles.
Motor Vehicle Classification Annual Wheel Tax
Motor Vehicle Classification Annual Wheel Tax
Buses                        $30
Recreation vehicles          $15
Semi-trailers                $20
Motor Vehicle Classification Annual Wheel Tax
Tractors                     $30
Trailers                     $5
Trucks                       $30
 
   (C)   The following motor vehicles are exempt from the local option annual
wheel tax:
      (1)   Vehicles owned by the state;
      (2)   A state agency or a political subdivision;
      (3)   Church buses; and
      (4)   Vehicles subject to the annual excise surtax.
   (D)   Beginning January 1, 1982, all of the excise surtax and wheel tax
collected on motor vehicles registered in the county shall be distributed, as
provided in I.C. 6-3.5-5.
   (E) Divisions (A) and (B) above, which impose the local option annual excise
surtax at the maximum allowable rate and the local option annual wheel tax,
shall not be decreased or rescinded, at any time, during which any portion of a
loan obtained by the county under I.C. 8-14-8 is unpaid, or if any bonds issued
by the county under I.C. 8-14-9 are outstanding.
   (F)   The County Council shall not approve any resolution submitted to it
under I.C. 8-14-9-7(b), as recommended to it by the Local County Road and
Bridge Board of the county, as that term is defined in I.C. 8-14-9-3, during
any time period where any portion of a loan obtained by the county under I.C.
8-14-8 is unpaid.
   (G)   The County Council shall apply to the State Department of Highways for
a loan from the Distressed Road Fund created by I.C. 8-14-8, and at the time of
the submission of the application shall notify the State Board of Tax
Commissioners that it has made the application. The application shall include,
at a minimum, the following:
      (1)   A map depicting all roads and streets in the system of the county;
and
      (2)   A copy of the county’s proposed program of work covering the
current and immediately following calendar year.
   (H)   In submitting the application for a loan to the State Department of
Highways from the Distressed Road Fund, the County Council shall be guided by
and use the following minimum criteria in developing its application for the
loan:
      (1)   Traffic counts and projected traffic;
      (2)   Areas served;
      (3)   Surface material and conditions;
      (4)   Base material and depth;
      (5)   Drainage, including culverts;
      (6)   Width of roadway and right-of-way;
      (7)   Soils upon which the road is placed;
      (8)   Topography;
      (9)   Seasonal weather conditions and the effect on road repairs and
maintenance; and
      (10)   The minimum transportation needs of all areas of the county
regardless of population or vehicle registration.
   (I)   (1)   Upon approval of the application for a loan from the Distressed
Road Fund by the State Department of Highways, the county shall enter into a
loan agreement with the State Department of Highways which shall specify, as a
minimum, the purposes for which the loan is to be used and the terms of
repayment of the loan. The maximum term of repayment of the loan shall not
exceed ten years. If the loan is repaid within the term of repayment specified
in the loan agreement it shall not be subject to interest.
      (2)   If the loan is not fully repaid within the term of the repayment,
the balance that remains unpaid at the end term of repayment shall be subject
to interest at the rate of 12% per year.
   (J)   The County Council President and a committee of members to be
appointed by the County Council President are hereby authorized to negotiate
any and all other terms and conditions of the loan agreement, as in their sole
discretion, they deem necessary or advantageous to the county and its citizens
in consummating the loan agreement. The loan agreement shall be signed by the
President of the County Council, the appointed committee members and attested
to by the Auditor of the county.
   (K)   The County Council may hereafter, at any time, by written resolution
establish a local county road and bridge board to be known as the Local County
Road and Bridge Board of the county and a special taxing district to be known
as the Local County Road and Bridge District of the county. The written
resolution authorizing the creation of a local county road and bridge board and
special taxing district shall, at a minimum, incorporate all of the then
existing provisions of I.C. 18-14-9, to which may be added any and all other
terms, conditions or provisions, which the County Council deems necessary to
carry out the intent of I.C. 8-14-9.
(1984 Code, § 16-1) (Ord. CC-81-11, passed 6-22-1981; Ord. 1983-CC-13, passed
7-28-1983; Ord. O-CC-14-2, passed 11-20-2014)
Cross-reference:
   County Highway Excise Surtax and Wheel Tax Fund, see §
36.07
INNKEEPER’S TAX
§ 37.030 ESTABLISHED.
   An innkeeper’s tax is hereby levied on every person engaged in the business
of renting or furnishing, for periods of less than 30 days, any room or rooms,
lodgings or accommodations and any hotel, motel, inn and tourist cabin located
in the county.
(Ord. O-CC-95-2, passed 5-25-1995)
§ 37.031 APPLICATION.
   This tax does not apply to gross income received in a transaction in which a
person rents a room, lodging or accommodations for a period of 30 days or
longer.
(Ord. O-CC-95-2, passed 5-25-1995)
§ 37.032 RATE.
   The initial rate of this tax is 5% on the gross retail income derived from
lodging income only and is in addition to the state gross retail tax imposed
under I.C. 6-2.5 et seq.
(Ord. O-CC-95-2, passed 5-25-1995)
§ 37.033 REPORTING.
   This subchapter requires the tax be reported on forms approved by the County
Treasurer and that the tax shall be paid monthly to the County Treasurer. The
tax shall be paid to the County Treasurer not more than 30 days after the end
of the month in which the tax is collected.
(Ord. O-CC-95-2, passed 5-25-1995)
§ 37.034 ACCOUNT.
   (A)   The County Treasurer shall establish a convention, recreation and
visitor promotion account and shall deposit into this fund all amounts received
by the levying of this tax.
   (B)   Money in this fund may be expended only to promote and encourage
conventions, trade shows, special events, recreation and visitors, or
industrial development, within the county.
(Ord. O-CC-95-2, passed 5-25-1995)
§ 37.035 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall become effective on September 1, 1995.
(Ord. O-CC-95-3, passed 7-27-1995)
HOMESTEAD CREDIT
§ 37.050 HOMESTEAD CREDIT.
   The County Income Tax Council imposes a 4% increase in the homestead credit
which shall be uniform for all homesteads in the county. This section shall
take effect on January 1, 1991. This increase shall be allowed in addition to
the existing homestead credit as set out in I.C. 6-1.1-20.9-1 et seq.
(Res. R-CC-90-6, passed 5-15-1990)
COUNTY OPTION INCOME TAX
§ 37.065 ESTABLISHED.
   The County Income Tax Council imposes the county option income tax on the
county taxpayers of the county. The county option income tax is imposed at a
rate of 0.3% on the resident county taxpayers of the county and at a rate of
0.075% on all other county taxpayers. This tax takes effect July 1, 1993.
(Res. R-CC-2-90, passed 2-19-1990; Res. CC-93-3, passed 3-25-1993)
COUNTY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT INCOME TAX
§ 37.080 ESTABLISHED.
   The County Income Tax Council imposes the county economic development income
tax on the county taxpayers of the county. The county economic development
income tax is imposed at a rate of 0.6% on the county taxpayers of the county.
This tax takes effect July 1, 2006.
(Res. R-CC-3-90, passed 2-19-1990; Res. CC-93-2, passed 3-20-1993; Ord. O-CC-
06-1, passed 5-30-2006)
SPECIAL LEGISLATION: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT INCOME TAX
§ 37.085 ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The Council hereby finds that, pursuant to I.C. 6-3.6-7-17, there is a
need to impose additional economic development income tax (EDIT) on the
adjusted gross income tax of county taxpayers at the rate of 0.5% for the
Project and to pay annual lease rentals due under a lease to be entered into
with the Perry County Redevelopment Authority for the Project.
   (B)   The Council hereby imposes an additional county economic development
income tax rate on county taxpayers of 0.5% (Additional EDIT). The Additional
EDIT tax rate increase takes effect October 1, 2012.
   (C)   The Additional EDIT tax rate imposed in division (B) may only be
imposed until the later of the year in which the financing described in the
recitals above is completed or the year in which the lease entered into to
finance the Project is fully paid.
   (D)   The County Auditor shall record all votes taken on this section and
immediately send a certified
copy of the results by certified mail to the Indiana Department of Revenue.
   (E)   This section takes effect October 1, 2012.
(Ord. O-CC-12-1, passed 4-26-2012)
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLAN
§ 37.095 ADOPTED.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners of the county hereby adopts the Capital
Improvement Plan. The purpose of the Plan is to specify the uses of the
revenues to be received by the county for the county economic development
income tax (EDIT) imposed under I.C. 6-3.5-7, as amended from time to time.
   (B)   Two copies of the Plan shall be kept on file in the office of the
County Auditor for public inspection.
(Ord. passed 12-5-1990; Ord. C-91-1, passed 4-15-1991; Ord. O-C-6-92, passed
12-28-1992; Ord. passed 5-6-1994; Res. R-C-95-18, passed 11-27-1995; Res. R-C-
96-5, passed 4-1-1996; Executive Order EO-C-96-1, passed 8-5-1996; Ord. O-C-97-
2, passed 4-7-1997; Ord. O-C-99-8, passed 6-7-1999; Ord. O-C-00-4, passed 5-1-
2000; Ord. O-C-02-2, passed 1-2-2002; Ord. O-C-02-3, passed 5-3-2002; Ord. O-C-
03-2, passed 2-3-2003; Ord. O-C-04-1, passed 3-1-2004; Ord. O-C-05-1, passed 4-
4-2005; Ord. O-C-06-3, passed 2-6-2006; Ord. O-C-07-1, passed 5-7-2007; Ord. O-
C-08-7, passed 4-21-2008; Ord. O-C-09-2, passed 3-18-2009; Ord. O-C-09-3,
passed 4-6-2009; Ord. O-C-10-1, passed 4-5-2010; Ord. O-C-11-2, passed 4-20-
2011; Ord. O-C-11-3, passed 5-2-2011; Ord. O-C-12-1, passed 1-18-2012; Ord. O-
C-13-2, passed 3-4-2013; Ord. O-C-14-1, passed 1-6-2014; Ord. O-C-14-2, passed
4-8-2014; Ord. O-C-15-1, passed 1-20-2015; Ord. O-C-16-8, passed 11-5- 2016;
Ord. O-C-16-7, passed 11-15-2016; Ord. O- C-17-1, passed 2-6-2017; Ord. O-C-17-
8, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. O-C-17-9, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. O-C-18-2, passed
2-5-2018; Ord. O-C-18-5, passed 5-7-2018; Ord. O-C-20-3, passed 3-10- 2020)
CHAPTER 38: COUNTY POLICIES
Section
   
38.01   No smoking policy
§ 38.01 NO SMOKING POLICY.
   (A)   The entirety of the county courthouse located in Tell City and the
county courthouse annex located in Cannelton are designated nonsmoking areas.
   (B)   Appropriate signs indicating the foregoing designations shall be
installed in each of the foregoing buildings.
(1984 Code, § 13-12) (Ord. C-1-1987, passed 7-6-1987; Ord. O-C-96-1, passed 3-
4-1996)
CHAPTER 39: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
39.01   Definitions
   
39.02   General scope and intent: liberal construction of powers
   
39.03   Limitations: nonsupersession of emergency powers of County Sheriff
   
39.04   Limitations: nonsupersession of emergency powers of incorporated
municipalities: conformance of municipal regulations with county regulations
County Emergency Management Advisory Council
   
39.15   County Emergency Management Advisory Council establishment
   
39.16   County Emergency Management Advisory Council officers
   
39.17   Duties of Emergency Management Advisory Council
   
39.18   Department of Emergency Management: establishment, organization and
constituency of the department
   
39.19   Director of Emergency Management: appointment, qualification and tenure
   
39.20   Director of Emergency Management: general powers and duties
   
39.21   Deputy Director: general powers and duties
   
39.22   Board of Commissioners: general administrative powers, duties, and
tests of emergency operations plans
   
39.23   Qualifications and appointment of emergency management volunteers
   
39.24   Departmental personnel administration; status of paid employees;
establishment of merit system if federal funding is used
   
39.25   Departmental budgeting and finance
   
39.26   Comprehensive emergency management plan: formulation, content and
adoption of plan
   
39.27   Countywide jurisdiction of Department of Emergency Management, county
emergency operations plan, and related officials power
County Emergency Management Program: Emergency Powers, Regulations and
Procedures
   
39.40   Applicability of chapter
   
39.41   Pre-disaster responsibilities of Department of Emergency Management
   
39.42   Special emergency powers and duties of Chief Executive Officer;
declaration of local disaster emergency
   
39.43   Special emergency powers and duties of Chief Executive Officer;
designation of a local travel advisory
   
39.44   Special emergency powers and duties of Chief Executive Officer;
convention of emergency meeting of Board of Commissioners; special meeting
procedures
   
39.45   Special emergency powers and duties of Chief Executive Officer;
plenipotentiary powers in absence of board quorum
   
39.46   Special emergency powers and duties of Board of Commissioners
   
39.47   Special emergency powers and duties of Director of Emergency
Management; recommendations to commissioners on special emergency actions
   
39.48   Special emergency powers and duties of Director of Emergency
Management; power to implement emergency operations plans during presumptive
state of emergency; rendering of assistance by Department of Emergency
Management
   
39.49   General duties of county officers and employees during emergency
   
39.50   Priority of emergency orders, rules, and regulations
   
39.51   Noncompliance with emergency orders, rules, and regulations;
obstruction or impersonation of emergency management authorities; penalties and
enforcement
   
39.52   Limitation of liability during state of emergency or emergency
management tests
   
39.53   Reimbursement for use of property commandeered during emergency
Personnel
   
39.65   Merit system established for Emergency Management Agency of Perry
County
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 39.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
   CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER. Of the county, as referred to in I.C. 10-14-3-29(a)
for purposes of declaring a local disaster emergency, and as referred to
hereinafter, means the presiding officer of the County Board of Commissioners
established under I.C. 36-2-2. The presiding officer shall be considered as the
regularly designated President of the Board, except if he is absent or
incapacitated, and the Board has a regularly designated President Pro Tem.,
then the President Pro Tem., shall be considered as the Chief Executive
Officer. If the President is absent or incapacitated and there is no designated
President Pro Tem., then the remaining two Commissioners shall select among
themselves one to be presiding officer in the same manner as when an ordinary
business meeting needs to be conducted in the absence of the President. If both
the President and another Commissioner are absent or incapacitated, then the
remaining Commissioner shall be considered the presiding officer.
   COUNCIL. Unless clearly referring to the County Council, means the Perry
County Emergency Management Advisory Council as established under §
39.15.
   DIRECTOR. Refers to the County Director of Emergency Management as
established and appointed pursuant to §
39.19.
   DISASTER. Occurrence or imminent threat of widespread or severe damage,
injury, or loss of life or property resulting from any natural or manmade
cause, including but not limited to fire, flood, earthquake, wind, storm, oil
spill, other water contamination requiring emergency action to avert danger or
damage, air contamination, drought, explosion, riot, or hostile military or
paramilitary action.
   EMERGENCY. A condition resulting from enemy attack, or other hostile action,
or from natural disaster, or from manmade disasters, which cannot be handled by
normal operating personnel or facilities.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. The preparation for and the coordination of all
emergency functions, other than functions for which military forces or other
federal agencies are primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize, and repair
injury and damage resulting from disasters. These functions include, without
limitation, firefighting services, police services, medical and health
services, rescue, engineering, warning services, communications, radiological,
chemical and other special weapons defense, evacuation of persons from stricken
areas, emergency welfare services, emergency transportation, plant protection,
temporary restoration of public utility services, and other functions related
to civilian protection, together with all other activities necessary or
incidental to the preparation for and coordination of the foregoing functions.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT VOLUNTEER. Any person who serves without compensation
in the Department of Emergency Management including persons and private
agencies or government units offering services to the county during emergency
situations or mutual aid to other emergency situations or mutual aid to other
emergency services who request assistance.
   PARTICIPATING EMERGENCY SERVICE.
      (1)   Any county department or agency designated by the Commissioners to
participate in emergency activities; and
      (2)   Any department or agency of the state, another county, a
municipality or other municipal corporation, or a volunteer organization
designated to participate in the county's emergency management programs and
activities pursuant to a cooperative or mutual aid agreement entered into
pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-17.
   PERSONNEL. County officers and employees and emergency management
volunteers, unless otherwise indicated.
   PLAN or EMERGENCY PLAN. The current local comprehensive emergency management
plan whose preparation and updating are mandated by I.C. 10-14-3-9.
   NATIONAL INCIDENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (NIMS). Federal, state, local, and
tribal governments, the private sector, and non-governmental agencies working
effectively and efficiently together to prepare for, respond to and recover
from domestic incidents, regardless of cause, size, or complexity.
(Ord. C-88-4, passed 2-4-2013)
§ 39.02 GENERAL SCOPE AND INTENT: LIBERAL CONSTRUCTION OF POWERS.
   The general intent of §
39.01 through §
39.53 is to provide for all necessary and dispensable powers and procedure
reasonably needed to prevent, cope with, or make more tolerable emergency
conditions. For this, and all powers, both ministerial and discretionary, as
conferred herein shall be liberally construed and shall be construed as
intending to supplement and augment, and not to limit, any other powers or
reasonable exercise of discretion which may ordinarily pertain to county
officers, employees, departments, and agencies.
(Ord. C-88-4, passed 2-4-2013)
§ 39.03 LIMITATIONS: NONSUPERSESSION OF EMERGENCY POWERS OF COUNTY SHERIFF.
   Nothing in §
39.01 through §
39.53 is intended to supersede or delimit any statutory powers of the County
Sheriff to determine, respond to, and provide for the control of public
disasters and other emergency situations.
(Ord. C-88-4, passed 2-4-2013)
§ 39.04 LIMITATIONS: NONSUPERSESSION OF EMERGENCY POWERS OF INCORPORATED
MUNICIPALITIES: CONFORMANCE OF MUNICIPAL REGULATIONS WITH COUNTRY REGULATIONS.
   Nothing in §
39.01 through §
39.53 is intended to supersede or delimit the powers of any incorporated
municipality under I.C. 10-14-3-17(c) to adopt and implement emergency plans,
and promulgate and enforce special emergency regulations and procedures in the
event of an actual emergency affecting such municipality. However, pursuant to
I.C. 10-14-3-22, such regulations and procedures as promulgated by the
municipal authorities may not be inconsistent with the Perry County emergency
regulations and procedures.
(Ord. C-88-4, passed 2-4-2013)
COUNTY EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ADVISORY COUNCIL
§ 39.15 COUNTY EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ADVISORY COUNCIL ESTABLISHMENT.
   In accordance with I.C. 10-14-3-17(c), there is established a Perry County
Emergency Management Advisory Council which shall consist of a maximum of nine
members, each of which shall be appointed by the Board of County Commissioners
for two-year terms, as follows:
   (A)   The President of the Perry County Board of Commissioners;
   (B)   The president of the Perry County Council;
   (C)   The mayor of each city located in the county;
   (D)   An individual representing the legislative bodies of all towns located
in the county;
   (E)   Representatives of private and public agencies or organizations which
can be of assistance to emergency management as the organizing group considers
appropriate, who are appointed to Council by the County Emergency Management
Advisory Council.
(Ord. C-88-4, passed 2-4-2013)
§ 39.16 COUNTY EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ADVISORY COUNCIL OFFICERS.
   The Advisory Council shall have a Chairman, Vice-Chairman, Recording
Secretary, and Vice-Recording Secretary.
(Ord. C-88-4, passed 2-4-2013)
§ 39.17 DUTIES OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ADVISORY COUNCIL.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-17(d), the County Emergency Management
Advisory Council shall exercise general supervision and control over the
emergency management and disaster program of the county and shall select or
cause to be selected, a County Emergency Management Director, who shall have
direct responsibility for the organization, administration, and operation of
the emergency management program in the county; shall be responsible to the
chairman of the Emergency Management Advisory Council; and shall not hold any
other local or state government office.
   (B)   The Advisory Council shall meet at least once quarterly.
(Ord. C-88-4, passed 2-4-2013)
§ 39.18 DEPARTMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT: ESTABLISHMENT, ORGANIZATION AND
CONSTITUENCY OF THE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Department of Emergency Management
within the executive branch of the county government for the purpose of
utilizing to the fullest extent possible the personnel and facilities of
existing county departments and agencies to prepare for and meet any emergency
as defined in §
39.02. The County Commissioners and Director of Emergency Management shall be
responsible for its organization, administration and operation. The department
shall consist of the following:
      (1)   An executive head of the Department of Emergency Management, who
shall be known as the Director of Emergency Management appointed in accordance
with §
39.19;
      (2)   One or more Deputy Directors who shall be appointed by the Director
with the approval of the Advisory Council;
      (3)   Emergency management volunteers, as deemed necessary and appointed
by the Director in accordance with §
39.23;
      (4)   The employees, equipment, and facilities of all county departments
and agencies suitable for, or adaptable to, emergency management and designated
by the County Commissioners to participate in the emergency management
activity;
      (5)   Staff officers with responsibility for communications and warning,
health and medical care, law enforcement, fire, search and rescue, public
information, public works and transportation in accordance with the
comprehensive emergency management plan; and
      (6)   Such assistants, clerical help, and other employees as deemed
necessary to the proper functioning of the department, who may be appointed by
the Director.
   (B)   However, notwithstanding any other provision of this section, no
compensated position may be established within the Department of Emergency
Management nor any person appointed to such position, without the authorization
of the County Council pursuant to I.C. 36-2-5- 3(a) and the making of
sufficient appropriations to pay such compensation. This provision does not
give the County Council any power of approval over particular candidates for
any positions, but refers only to their general statutory powers to determine
the numbers of officers, deputies, and employees of county departments,
classify positions, and adopt schedules of compensation. In addition, it is
also the intent of this section that emergency management and disaster
assignments shall be as nearly consistent with normal duty assignments as
possible.
(Ord. C-88-4, passed 2-4-2013)
§ 39.19 DIRECTOR OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT: APPOINTMENT, QUALIFICATION AND
TENURE.
   The Director of Emergency Management shall be appointed by the County
Emergency Management Advisory Council. Qualifications for Director will be
determined by the Advisory Council with input from County Commissioners,
provided that pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-17, the Director may hold no other
local, state, or federal office. The appointment of the Director shall be
permanent unless the Council determines the Director to be inadequate to
fulfill his responsibilities, which shall include dereliction of duties
(including failure to provide the State Department of Homeland Security
required annual reports and documentation), malfeasance in office,
incompetence, insubordination or deliberate disregard of the directives of
superior county or state authorities, or physical or mental incapacity to
perform his duties.
(Ord. C-88-4, passed 2-4-2013)
§ 39.20 DIRECTOR OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT: GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Director, subject to the direction and control of the Advisory
Council and/or County Commissioners, shall be executive head of the Department
of Emergency Management and pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-17(d)(2)(A) has direct
responsibility for the organization, administration, and operation of the
emergency management organization, including the following specific powers and
duties:
      (1)   The Director shall be responsible for public relations,
information, and education regarding all phases of emergency management.
      (2)   The Director shall be responsible for the development of a county
emergency operating plan, and upon adoption, shall be responsible for such
implementation, and revision of the plan as to maintain it on a current state
of readiness at all times. This plan shall include all cities within the
county.
      (3)   The Director shall coordinate, within Perry County, all activities
for emergency management and shall maintain liaison and coordinate with all
other affected agencies, public and private.
      (4)   The Director shall coordinate the recruitment and training for
volunteer personnel and agencies to augment the personnel and facilities of the
county for emergency management purposes.
      (5)   The Director may seek, negotiate, and enter into (with the approval
or ratification of the Commissioners and to the extent consistent with the
State Department of Homeland Security Plan and program) mutual-aid arrangements
with other public and private agencies for emergency management purposes, and
take all steps in accordance with such arrangements to comply with or take
advantage thereof in the event of an actual emergency affecting the parties.
      (6)   The Director may, when such offer has been approved by the
Governor, accept any offer of the federal government to provide for the use of
the county any services, equipment, supplies, materials, or funds for emergency
management purposes by way of gift, grant or loan.
      (7)   The Director may seek and accept from any person, firm or
corporation, any gratuitous offers to provide services, equipment, supplies,
materials, funds, or licenses, or privileges to use real estate or other
premises, to the county for emergency management purposes.
      (8)   The Director may issue proper insignia and papers to emergency
management workers and other people directly concerned with emergency
management.
      (9)   The Director shall participate in the NIMS, thereby enhancing the
joint efforts of the national and state governments to improve the ways by
which emergency response personnel respond to threats against our homeland.
   (B)   The Director, in addition to the powers and duties expressly provided
above, shall be construed to have all powers and duties of a local emergency
management director as provided under I.C. 10-14-3. In particular, but not by
limitation, the Director, through the Department of Emergency Management, may
perform or cause to be performed with respect to the county, any function
parallel or analogous to those performed on a statewide basis by Indiana
Department of Homeland Security under I.C. 10-14-3.
(Ord. C-88-4, passed 2-4-2013)
§ 39.21 DEPUTY DIRECTOR: GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   If a Deputy Director has been appointed pursuant to §
39.18(A)(2), he or she shall during normal times, assist the Director in the
performance of his duties. During an emergency, the Deputy Director shall
assist the Director and fulfill the duties of the Director in the absence or
inability of the Director to serve. If more than one Deputy Director is
appointed pursuant to §
39.18(A)(2), the Director shall designate at the time of the appointment of
second and subsequent Deputy Directors, the order of priority in which Deputy
Directors shall fulfill the duties of Director in the absence or inability of
the Director to serve.
(Ord. C-88-4, passed 2-4-2013)
§ 39.22 BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS: GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POWERS, DUTIES, AND
TESTS OF EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLANS.
   The powers and duties of the County Commissioners pertaining to emergency
management in time of normal county operation are to:
   (A)   Maintain general supervision over the planning and administration for
the Department of Emergency Management;
   (B)   Adopt the emergency management and disaster plans; and
   (C)   Coordinate the emergency management activities and make assignments of
emergency management activities and make assignments of emergency management
duties to county forces in order to meet situations not covered in the normal
duties and powers of such agencies. In addition the County Commissioners may
take all necessary action to conduct tests of the emergency management plans.
Emergency Management tests may be conducted at any time with or without prior
notification. All emergency tests conducted within the boundaries of Perry
County shall be coordinated with the Department of Emergency Management and the
Perry County Sheriff’s Department.
(Ord. C-88-4, passed 2-4-2013)
§ 39.23 QUALIFICATIONS AND APPOINTMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT VOLUNTEERS.
   (A)   The Director shall make sure that all volunteer personnel meet the
following qualifications before he or she is sworn in as a member:
      (1)   Be at least 18 years of age;
      (2)   Not convicted of a felony; and
      (3)   Complete and have on file an application form.
   (B)   Upon satisfaction of the above requirements and the taking of an oath,
the applicant is officially a member of the Perry County Department of
Emergency Management.
(Ord. C-88-4, passed 2-4-2013)
§ 39.24 DEPARTMENTAL PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION; STATUS OF PAID EMPLOYEES;
ESTABLISHMENT OF MERIT SYSTEM IF FEDERAL FUNDING IS USED.
   In general, any paid employees of the Department of Emergency Management
shall have the same employment status and shall be governed by the same uniform
personnel policies, rules, and procedures that apply to other county employees.
However, in the event that and during such times as the county emergency
management program may hereafter be directly supported by federal funding, the
Board of Commissioners shall adopt and implement a merit system applicable only
to paid employees of the Department other than the Director. Such merit system
shall conform to the standards and comply with other requirements as set forth
in CPG 1-3: Federal Assistance Handbook, Emergency Management Direction and
Control Programs (January, 1984) or subsequent editions thereof as may be in
effect at the time.
(Ord. C-88-4, passed 2-4-2013)
§ 39.25 DEPARTMENTAL BUDGETING AND FINANCE.
   The Advisory Council shall advise the Director in the preparation of the
budget. The County Council shall appropriate such funds as it may deem
necessary for the purpose of emergency management. All funds appropriated or
otherwise available to the Department of Emergency Management shall be
administered by the Director, subject to the approval of the County
Commissioners, in the same manner as provided by law or ordinance for other
county funds, except as otherwise provided under §
39.46(A)(9) through §
39.46(A)(11).
(Ord. C-88-4, passed 2-4-2013)
§ 39.26 COMPREHENSIVE EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PLAN: FORMULATION, CONTENT AND
ADOPTION OF PLAN.
   (A)   A county comprehensive emergency management plan, referred to as the
inter- jurisdictional disaster emergency plan by I.C. 10-14-3-17(h), shall be
adopted by resolution of the Perry County Commissioners. In the preparation of
this plan, as it pertains to county organization, it is the intent that the
services, equipment, facilities, and personnel of all existing departments and
agencies shall be utilized to the fullest extent possible. The following
content shall be adopted:
      (1)   The comprehensive emergency management plan shall include, at
minimum, the following:
         (a)   An administrative section which includes:
            1.   Authorities and directives.
            2.   Terms and definitions.
            3.   Acronyms/abbreviations.
            4.   Financial management.
         (b)   A hazards-specific section which includes:
            1.   Unique hazards.
            2.   Special events.
         (c)   An operations section which includes:
            1.   Coordination and control emergency support function.
            2.   Communications and warning emergency support function.
            3.   External affairs emergency support function.
            4.   Resource management emergency support function.
            5.   Emergency management emergency support function.
         (d)   An emergency services section which includes:
            1.   Firefighting emergency support function.
            2.   Health and medical emergency support function.
            3.   Search and rescue emergency support function.
            4.   Public safety and security emergency support function.
            5.   Hazardous materials emergency support function.
         (e)   An infrastructure support section which includes:
            1.   Transportation emergency support function.
            2.   Public works and engineering emergency support function.
            3.   Energy emergency support function.
         (f)   Human support section which includes:
            1.   Mass care, housing and human services emergency support
function.
            2.   Agriculture and natural resources emergency support function.
   (B)   In addition, all emergency services within the county shall develop
and coordinate standard operating procedures subject to the requirements of the
comprehensive emergency management plan the Department of Emergency Management
in order to include such plans within the county comprehensive plan. When
approved, it shall be the duty of all county departments and agencies to
perform the functions and duties assigned by the plan and to maintain their
portion of the plan in a current state of readiness at all times.
(Ord. C-88-4, passed 2-4-2013)
§ 39.27 COUNTYWIDE JURISDICTION OF DEPARTMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT, COUNTY
EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN, AND RELATED OFFICIALS POWER.
   Except as provided by §
39.03 and §
39.04, the jurisdiction of the County Department of Emergency Management and
the jurisdiction and applicability of the county comprehensive emergency
management plan, as adopted pursuant to §
39.26, and the exercise of any powers of the Chief Executive Officer of the
county and the County Board of Commissioners under §
39.40 through §
39.53, shall be comprehensive and inclusive countywide and effective in both
the incorporated and unincorporated areas of the county.
(Ord. C-88-4, passed 2-4-2013)
COUNTY EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PROGRAM: EMERGENCY POWERS, REGULATIONS AND
PROCEDURES
§ 39.40 APPLICABILITY OF CHAPTER.
   This chapter shall apply whenever:
   (A)   A state of emergency affecting all or part of the county has been
declared by the Governor pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-12;
   (B)   A state of emergency affecting all or part of the county has been
declared by the Chief Executive Officer of the county pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-
29(a) and §
39.42 hereof, is preparing to, or has declared a local disaster emergency
affecting all or part of the county.
   (C)   A presumptive state of emergency is deemed to exist affecting all or
part of the county causing the Director to invoke and implement emergency plans
and procedures in accordance with §
39.46; or
   (D)   When the Board of Commissioners has implemented a test of the county's
emergency plans and procedures in accordance with §
39.22, to the extent necessary or dispensable to such test.
(Ord. C-88-4, passed 2-4-2013)
§ 39.41 PRE-DISASTER RESPONSIBILITIES OF DEPARTMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT.
   The Department of Emergency Management primary pre-disaster responsibility
shall be the warning function as prescribed in the warning plan and emergency
communications as prescribed in the communications plan for the entire county,
including all cities and towns.
(Ord. C-88-4, passed 2-4-2013)
§ 39.42 SPECIAL EMERGENCY POWERS AND DUTIES OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER;
DECLARATION OF A LOCAL DISASTER EMERGENCY.
   In the event of actual or threatened enemy attack or disaster affecting the
county, the Chief Executive Officer of the county may declare a local disaster
emergency pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3- 29(a) for any period not to exceed seven
days. The declaration shall be in writing and indicate the nature of the
disaster and the conditions which have brought it about, and the area or areas
threatened and to which the state of emergency applied (which may include the
entire county or only designated parts thereof). The declaration shall be filed
in the offices of the County Clerk, the County Auditor, and the clerk of any
incorporated municipality included in the declared disaster area and shall be
announced or disseminated to the general public by the best means available.
However, the declaration is not invalidated nor ineffective if any of the
filing and dissemination requirements cannot be complied with due to the
prevailing adverse circumstances. Such a declaration is not necessary if the
Governor, pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-12, has already proclaimed a statewide or
area-wide state of emergency including the county.
(Ord. C-88-4, passed 2-4-2013)
§ 39.43 SPECIAL EMERGENCY POWERS AND DUTIES OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER;
DESIGNATION OF A LOCAL TRAVEL ADVISORY.
   If the Chief Executive Officer of a political subdivision issues a local
travel advisory as part of an emergency declaration under I.C. 10-14-3-29.5,
the Chief Executive Officer shall designate the travel advisory as falling into
one of the following categories:
    (A)   Advisory. The lowest level of local travel advisory, means that
routine travel or activities may be restricted in areas because of a hazardous
situation, and individuals should use caution or avoid those areas.
   (B)   Watch. Conditions are threatening to the safety of the public. During
a watch local travel advisory, only essential travel, such as to and from work
or in emergency situations, is recommended and emergency action plans should be
implemented by businesses, schools, government agencies, and other
organizations.
   (C)   Warning. The highest level of local travel advisory, means that travel
may be restricted to emergency management workers only. During a warning, local
travel advisory, individuals are directed to:
      (1)   Refrain from all travel;
      (2)   Comply with necessary emergency measures;
      (3)   Cooperate with public officials and disaster services forces in
executing emergency operations plans; and
      (4)   Obey and comply with the lawful directions of properly identified
officers.
(Ord. C-88-4, passed 2-4-2013)
§ 39.44 SPECIAL EMERGENCY POWERS AND DUTIES OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER;
CONVENTION OF EMERGENCY MEETING OF BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS; SPECIAL MEETING
PROCEDURES.
   As soon as possible after a disaster emergency affecting the county is
declared either by the Governor or by the Chief Executive Officer of the
county, the Chief Executive Officer of the county shall convene a meeting of
the County Commissioners to perform their legislative and administrative
functions as the situation may demand. If the Chief Executive Officer fails or
is unable to perform the above duty, the meeting shall be convened by some
other member of the Board of Commissioners, or by the Auditor or the
successively empowered county officers, in accordance with I.C. 36-2-2-8. Any
such meeting of the Commissioners shall automatically be deemed an emergency
meeting subject only to such procedural provisions of law as govern emergency
meetings of County Commissioners, including relaxation of any applicable notice
requirements that may be held in any convenient and available place. The
meeting shall continue without adjournment for the duration of the disaster
emergency, but may be recessed for reasonable periods of time as necessary and
permitted by the circumstances.
(Ord. C-88-4, passed 2-4-2013)
§ 39.45 SPECIAL EMERGENCY POWERS AND DUTIES OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER;
PLENIPOTENTIARY POWERS IN ABSENCE OF BOARD QUORUM.
   In the event that a quorum of the Board of Commissioners cannot be assembled
for purposes of the meeting required under §
39.43, the Chief Executive Officer of the county shall be considered a
plenipotentiary representative of the Board and shall have all powers and may
take all actions of the full Board under §
39.46(A)(2) through §
39.46(A)(13) until the assemblage of a quorum is possible.
(Ord. C-88-4, passed 2-4-2013)
§ 39.46 SPECIAL EMERGENCY POWERS AND DUTIES OF BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.
   (A)   At the meeting convened under §
39.43, the Commissioners may exercise any of their normal executive and
legislative powers to the extent related to the emergency and necessary to deal
therewith. In addition, however, they may also exercise any of the following
special and extraordinary powers:
      (1)   The Commissioners may extend the period of a state of emergency
declared by the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to §
39.42 to last more than seven days if necessary.
      (2)   The Commissioners may terminate the state of emergency, except for
a state of emergency proclaimed by the Governor.
      (3)   The Commissioners may order the activation and implementation of
the county's comprehensive emergency management and disaster control plan that
has been adopted pursuant to §
39.26, or such several component parts thereof as may be relevant to the
emergency.
      (4)   The Commissioners may assemble and utilize emergency management
forces, including personnel of the Department of Emergency Management,
participating emergency services, and any other forces at the disposal of the
Commissioners hereunder for emergency management purposes.
      (5)   The Commissioners may order volunteer forces to the aid of the
county, state, or political subdivisions thereof as soon as practicable. Those
volunteer forces will be under the direction of the Department of Emergency
Management.
      (6)   The Commissioners may, to the extent permitted by I.C. 10-14-3-31
and subject to its provisions, command services from and/or requisition the use
of equipment, facilities, supplies, or other property belonging to other
organizations, corporations, or private persons as necessary to control the
emergency and protect and provide for the public safety and welfare.
      (7)   The Commissioners may order the evacuation of all or part of the
population from stricken areas of the county, and prescribe routes, modes of
transportation, and destinations for such evacuation.
      (8)   The Commissioners may make provision for availability and use of
temporary emergency housing, which housing need not necessarily comply with any
minimum housing standards, building or zoning regulations, etc., which would
govern the use and location of premises for housing purposes during normal
times.
      (9)   The Commissioners may suspend, for the duration of the state of
emergency (or for a lesser period as they determine), any provisions of or
procedures prescribed by ordinances of the county if they would be impractical
during the emergency, would interfere with the implementation and carrying out
of emergency plans, or would be inimical to actions necessary to protect the
public safety and welfare; provided, however, that except in accordance with
division (10) hereinafter the Commissioners may not suspend any provisions of
ordinances or procedures which are mandated by statute.
      (10)   In the event of enemy attack, or when the state of emergency has
been proclaimed by the Governor, the Commissioners may also in accordance with
I.C. 10-14-3-17(j)(5) may waive any procedures or requirements of statute, or
of county ordinances reflecting statutory requirements and mandates, and
pertaining to the appropriation and expenditure of public funds, the incurrence
of obligations, the performance of public works, the entering into contracts,
the employment of permanent or temporary workers or utilization of volunteer
workers, the rental of equipment, or the purchase and distribution of supplies,
materials, and facilities.
      (11)   The Commissioners may assign special emergency duties and
functions to any county offices, departments, and agencies irrespective of
their usual duties and functions, and any unexpended and unencumbered monies
budgeted and appropriated for the operation of such offices, departments, and
agencies and not otherwise dedicated by law to different and specified purposes
may within the scope of each major budget and appropriation category (major
object classification), be utilized and expended for the purpose of carrying
out such special emergency duties and functions.
      (12)   The Commissioners may make and promulgate such emergency
regulations as may be deemed necessary to protect life and property, preserve
order, conserve critical resources, or implement and carry out the provisions
of the county's or state's disaster plans, including but not limited to the
power to order the roads closed, establish curfews, close business, or any
action that they deem necessary to save lives and recover from a declared
emergency. This power also includes the power to supplement, modify, or suspend
any general contingency regulations which may have been incorporated as part of
the county's previously adopted emergency operations plan. Any emergency
regulations adopted under this subsection shall not be effective until
promulgated, which promulgation shall be by written filing in the offices of
the County Clerk and County Auditor as required by I.C. 10-14-3-22, provided
however, that should such filing be impossible because of the emergency
situation, such regulations shall be effective and enforceable notwithstanding.
Such regulation shall have the full force of law and shall be enforceable by
any police officer in accordance with I.C. 10-14-3-24.
      (13)   The Commissioners may request the state or the United States or
their agencies and political subdivisions to send aid (including financial
assistance) if the situation is beyond the control of the regular and emergency
county forces and resources.
   (B)   All actions and regulations under this section may be by executive
order, and need not be made or adopted by ordinance or resolution, but shall be
consistent with and subordinate to any actions, orders, or regulations made by
the Governor or a state agency implementing state emergency operations plans.
(Ord. C-88-4, passed 2-4-2013)
§ 39.47 SPECIAL EMERGENCY POWERS AND DUTIES OF DIRECTOR OF EMERGENCY
MANAGEMENT; RECOMMENDATIONS TO COMMISSIONERS ON SPECIAL EMERGENCY ACTIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the Director to make recommendations and advise the
Board of Commissioners or the Chief Executive Officer on any actions which it
would be necessary or desirable to take under §
39.45 in the event of any emergency.
(Ord. C-88-4, passed 2-4-2013)
§ 39.48 SPECIAL EMERGENCY POWERS AND DUTIES OF DIRECTOR OF EMERGENCY
MANAGEMENT; POWER TO IMPLEMENT EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLANS DURING PRESUMPTIVE
STATE OF EMERGENCY; RENDERING OF ASSISTANCE BY DEPARTMENT OF EMERGENCY
MANAGEMENT.
   In the event that an emergency clearly exists or is imminent within the
county, and a state of emergency has not been declared by the Governor nor is
any person having the powers of the Chief Executive Officer of the county
present to declare such an emergency pursuant to §
39.42, the Director may temporarily presume the existence of a state of
emergency even though not officially declared and may, as his own judgment
dictate, invoke, implement, and carry out such provisions of the county's
adopted comprehensive emergency management and disaster control plan as are
necessary to cope with the emergency and protect the public safety and welfare,
and shall be construed to have all powers necessary and dispensable to doing so
to the extent not specifically limited by statute or specifically limited
herein, until such time as a Chief Executive Officer becomes available. This
section also applies to the Deputy Director to the extent that the Deputy
Director is required to assume the duties of the Director, as provided by §
39.21, in the latter's absence or incapacitation during the emergency.
Assistance from the Department of Emergency Management may be rendered without
a declaration of an emergency in order to assist local emergency services in
time of need.
(Ord. C-88-4, passed 2-4-2013)
§ 39.49 GENERAL DUTIES OF COUNTY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES DURING EMERGENCY.
   All officers and employees of the county shall cooperate with and give
active support to the County Commissioners and the County Emergency Management
Director in all emergency management operations, and shall comply with all
orders of the Commissioners and County Emergency Management Director issued
pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. C-88-4, passed 2-4-2013)
§ 39.50 PRIORITY OF EMERGENCY ORDERS, RULES, AND REGULATIONS.
   At all times when the orders, rules, and regulations made and promulgated
pursuant to this chapter shall be in effect, they supersede all existing
ordinances, orders, rules, and regulations insofar as the latter may be
inconsistent therewith.
(Ord. C-88-4, passed 2-4-2013)
§ 39.51 NONCOMPLIANCE WITH EMERGENCY ORDERS, RULES, AND REGULATIONS;
OBSTRUCTION OR IMPERSONATION OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AUTHORITIES; PENALTIES AND
ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Whenever this chapter applies as provided in §
39.40, it shall be unlawful and a penal ordinance violation for any person to:
      (1)   Willfully obstruct, hinder, or delay the Commissioners, the
Director of Emergency Management, participating emergency services, authorized
emergency management volunteers, or other authorities from implementing,
carrying out, and enforcing emergency plans and procedures;
      (2)   Fail to observe, abide by, and comply with any emergency management
duties, orders, regulations, and procedures as made applicable to such person
by the appropriate authorities; or
      (3)   Falsely wear or carry identification as a member of the County
Department of Emergency Management, or to otherwise falsely identify or purport
himself to be a county emergency management authority.
   (B)   Any regular or reserve police officer of the State of Indiana or any
of its political subdivision, or any member of the County Department of
Emergency Management or a participating emergency service, is hereby empowered
to issue and serve a civil citation against any person found to be committing
an offense described above. Any person who commits an offense as described
above shall be liable to a fine of $2,500; such fine to be subject, however, to
the discretion of the court of jurisdiction.
(Ord. C-88-4, passed 2-4-2013)
§ 39.52 LIMITATION OF LIABILITY DURING STATE OF EMERGENCY OR EMERGENCY
MANAGEMENT TESTS.
   The county, its assigned personnel, and participating emergency services,
shall be held blameless and without responsibility for the loss of life or
injury to persons or the destruction of any property during an emergency
management test or emergency as performed under the direction of the Emergency
Management Director.
(Ord. C-88-4, passed 2-4-2013)
§ 39.53 REIMBURSEMENT FOR USE OF PROPERTY COMMANDEERED DURING EMERGENCY.
   Pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-31, compensation for property shall be paid only if
the property was commandeered or otherwise used in coping with a disaster
emergency and its use or destruction was ordered by a county official shall be
reimbursed for its use by the county in a manner approved by the County
Council.
(Ord. C-88-4, passed 2-4-2013)
PERSONNEL
§ 39.65 MERIT SYSTEM ESTABLISHED FOR EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY OF PERRY
COUNTY.
   (A)   There is hereby established a merit system of personnel administration
for all employees of the emergency management of Perry County, which shall be
administered by the Perry County Emergency Management Advisory Council in
accordance with the Standards of a Merit System of Personnel Administration
outlined in the Federal Assistance Handbook, CPG 1-3, Appendix A, as the same
may be from time to time amended or superseded.
   (B)   Emergency management employees who have completed a probationary
period of employment will not be separated except for cause, or for reasons of
curtailment of work or lack of funds.
(Ord. C-88-4, passed 2-4-2013)
CHAPTER 40: PURCHASING AND ASSET POLICIES
Section
Purchasing
   
40.01   Definitions
   
40.02   Purchasing agency
   
40.03   Purchasing agents
   
40.04   Purchasing rules
Fixed Asset Capitalization Policy
   
40.15   Definitions
   
40.16   Land
   
40.17   Machinery and equipment
   
40.18   Buildings
   
40.19   Improvements other than buildings
   
40.20   Recording and accounting
   
40.21   Safeguarding of assets
Uniform Internal Control Standards
   
40.30   Adoption
   
40.31   Authorization
   
40.32   Personnel responsibilities
   
40.33   Implementation
PURCHASING
§ 40.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically set forth herein, all the definitions contained in I.C.
5-22-2 and elsewhere through I.C. 5-22 shall apply throughout this subchapter.
(Ord. O-C-98-5, passed 7-6-1998)
§ 40.02 PURCHASING AGENCY.
   The Board of Commissioners hereby determines that it is the purchasing
agency for the county.
(Ord. O-C-98-5, passed 7-6-1998)
§ 40.03 PURCHASING AGENTS.
   The Board of Commissioners hereby designates the following persons to serve
as purchasing agents for the county:
   (A)   Each elected county official for purchases required by that official’s
office;
   (B)   The Circuit Court Judge for purchases of the Circuit Court;
   (C)   The County Highway Superintendent for the County Highway Department;
   (D)   County extension educators for the county extension office;
   (E)   The Planning and Zoning Director for the County Planning and Zoning
Commission;
   (F)   The Park and Recreation Board President for the County Park and
Recreation Board;
   (G)   The Veterans Service Officer for the County Veterans Service office;
   (H)   The Emergency Management Director for the County Emergency Management
office;
   (I)   The emergency telephone office for the needs of that office;
   (J)   The Soil and Water Board Chairperson for the County Soil and Water
Conservation District;
   (K)   The County Engineer for the County Department of Engineering;
   (L)   The County Health Officer for the County Health Department; and
   (M)   Other county employees as are designated from time to time, in
writing.
(Ord. O-C-98-5, passed 7-6-1998; Ord. O-C-98-6, passed 8-3-1998)
§ 40.04 PURCHASING RULES.
   There are hereby adopted and promulgated the following rules, which shall
regulate purchases by each of the purchasing agents hereinabove set forth.
   (A)   Purchasing agents shall prepare and maintain specifications in
accordance with the provisions of I.C. 5-22-5-1 through I.C. 5-22-5-5.
   (B)   Purchasing agents may purchase services using any procedure the
purchasing agency considers and determines appropriate, as provided in I.C. 5-
22-6-1 and I.C. 5-22-6-2.
   (C)   Purchasing agents shall follow the procedures set forth in I.C. 5-22-
7, unless another purchasing method is required or authorized by I.C. 5-22, in
which case another purchasing method shall be used if so required and may be
used if so authorized.
   (D)   Pursuant to I.C. 5-22-8, and subject to the provisions of I.C. 5-22-8-
1(b), a purchasing agent may make a purchase expected to be less than $25,000
on the open market, without notices or bids.
   (E)   Pursuant to I.C. 5-22-9-1, when a purchasing agent makes a written
determination that the use of competitive sealed bidding is either not
practicable or not advantageous to the county, the purchasing agent may award a
contract using the procedure provided by I.C. 5-22-9 instead of competitive
sealed bidding under I.C. 5-22-7.
   (F)   Pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions of I.C. 5-22-10, a
purchasing agent may make a special purchase in the following situations:
      (1)   When there exists, under emergency conditions, a threat to public
health, welfare or safety;
      (2)   When there exists a unique opportunity to obtain supplies or
services at a substantial savings to the county;
      (3)   At auctions;
      (4)   Purchase of data processing contracts or license agreements for
purchase of software programs or supplies or services, when only one source
meets the using agency’s reasonable requirements;
      (5)   When purchase of the required supplies or services under another
purchasing method would seriously impair the functioning of the using agency;
      (6)   When the purchasing agency has solicited for a purchase under
another purchasing method and has not received a responsive offer;
      (7)   When there is only one source of supply and the purchasing agent
determines in writing that there is only one source for the supply; and
      (8)   As permitted by any other provision on I.C. 5-22-10, upon written
approval thereof by the purchasing agency.
   (G)   Purchasing agents shall comply with the provisions of I.C. 5-22-15-21
for promoting the purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States.
Supplies manufactured in the United States shall be specified and purchased
unless the purchasing agent determines that any of the following apply:
      (1)   The supplies are not manufactured in the United States in
reasonably available quantities;
      (2)   The price of the supplies manufactured in the United States exceeds
by an unreasonable amount the price of available and comparable supplies
manufactured outside the United States;
      (3)   The quality of the supplies is substantially less than the quality
of comparably priced available supplies manufactured outside the United States;
or
      (4)   The purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States is not
in the public interest.
(Ord. O-C-98-5, passed 7-6-1998)
FIXED ASSET CAPITALIZATION POLICY
§ 40.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAPITAL OUTLAYS. Expenditures which benefit both the current and future
fiscal periods. This includes costs of acquiring land or structures;
construction or improvement of buildings, structures or other fixed assets; and
equipment purchases having an appreciable and calculable period of usefulness.
These are expenditures resulting in the acquisition of or addition to the
government’s general fixed assets.
   FIXED ASSETS. Tangible assets of a durable nature employed in the operating
activities of the unit and that are relatively permanent and are needed for the
production or sale of goods or services are termed property, plant and
equipment or fixed assets. These assets are not held for sale in the ordinary
course of business. This broad group is usually separated into classes
according to the physical characteristics of the items (e.g., land, buildings,
improvements other than buildings, machinery and equipment, furniture and
fixtures).
   TANGIBLE ASSETS. Assets that can be observed by one or more of the physical
senses. They may be seen and touched and, in some environments, heard and
smelled.
(Ord. O-C-97-8, passed 11-3-1997)
§ 40.16 LAND.
   (A)   This county will capitalize all land purchases, regardless of cost.
   (B)   Exceptions to land capitalization are land purchased outright, as
easements or rights-of-way for infrastructure. Examples of infrastructures are
roads and streets, street lighting systems, bridges, overpasses, sidewalks,
curbs, parking meters, street signs, viaducts, wharves and stormwater
collection. Original cost of land will include the full value given to the
seller, including relocation, legal serves incidental to the purchase
(including title work and opinion), appraisal and negotiation fees, surveying
and costs for preparing the land for its intended purpose (including
contractors and/or county workers (salary and benefits), such as demolishing
buildings, excavating, clean up and/or inspection.
   (C)   A department will record donated land at fair market value on the date
of transfer plus any associated costs.
   (D)   Purchases made using federal or state funding will follow the source
funding policies and above procedures.
(Ord. O-C-97-8, passed 11-3-1997)
§ 40.17 MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   The definition of MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT is an apparatus, tool or
conglomeration of pieces to form a tool. The tool will stand alone and not
become a part of a basic structure or building.
   (B)    This county will capitalize and tag items with an individual value
equal to or greater than $500. Machinery combined with other machinery to form
one unit with a total value greater than the above mentioned limit will be one
unit. Any machinery and equipment with a value greater than $250 and which
contains a serial number will also be capitalized and tagged.
   (C)   Shipping charges, consultant fees and any other cost directly
associated with the purchase, delivery or set up, (including contractors and/or
county workers (salary benefits)), which makes the equipment operable for its
intended purpose will be capitalized.
   (D)   (1)   Improvements or renovations to existing machinery and equipment
will be capitalized only if the result of the change meets all of the following
conditions:
         (a)   Total costs exceed $500;
         (b)   The useful life is extended two or more years; and
         (c)   The total costs will be greater than the current book value and
less than the fair market value.
      (2)   Examples include:
         (a)   A work truck being equipped with screens, lights or radios for
use as a single unit throughout its life expectancy is considered one unit. If
the Sheriff is constantly changing light bars or radios to other vehicles, the
county will capitalize each piece of equipment separately, if it meets the
required dollar amount;
         (b)   A department’s computer (CPU, monitor, keyboard and printer) is
considered one unit;
         (c)   A department will record donated machinery and equipment at fair
market value on the date of transfer with any associated costs; and
         (d)   Purchases made using federal or state funding will follow the
source funding policies and above procedures.
(Ord. O-C-97-8, passed 11-3-1997; Ord. O-C-19-6, passed 12-30-2019)
§ 40.18 BUILDINGS.
   (A)   A department will capitalize buildings at full cost with no
subcategories for tracking the cost of attachments. Examples of attachments are
roofs, heating, cooling, plumbing, lighting or sprinkler systems or any part of
the basic building. The department will include the cost of items designed or
purchased exclusively for the building.
   (B)   A department’s new building will be capitalized only if it meets the
following conditions:
      (1)   The total cost exceeds $5,000; and
      (2)   The useful life is greater than two years.
   (C)   A department improving or renovating an existing building will
capitalize the cost only if the result meets all of the following conditions:
      (1)   The total cost exceeds $5,000;
      (2)   The useful life is extended two or more years; and
      (3)   The total cost will be greater than the current book value and less
than the fair market value.
   (D)   Capital building costs will include preparation of land for the
building, architectural and engineering fees, bond issuance fees, interest cost
(while under construction), accounting costs if material and any costs directly
attributable to the construction of a building.
   (E)   A department will record donated buildings at fair market value on the
date of transfer with any associated costs.
   (F)   Purchases made using federal or state funding will follow the source
funding policies and above procedures.
(Ord. O-C-97-8, passed 11-3-1997)
§ 40.19 IMPROVEMENTS OTHER THAN BUILDINGS.
   (A)   The definition of this group is improvements to land for better
enjoyment, attached or not easily removed, and will have a life expectancy of
greater than two years.
   (B)   Examples are walks, parking areas and drives, golf cart paths,
fencing, retaining walls, pools, outside fountains, planter underground
sprinkler systems and other similar items.
   (C)   Improvements do not include roads, streets or assets that are of value
only to the public. Roads or drives upon county-owned land that provide support
to our facilities are assets. A sidewalk down the road for public enjoyment is
an infrastructure improvement and is not capitalized. However, sidewalks
installed upon county-owned land for use by the public and for the support of
the facility are capital assets.
   (D)   The county will capitalize new improvements other than buildings only
if they meet the following conditions:
      (1)   The total cost exceeds $5,000; and
      (2)   The useful life is greater than two years.
   (E)   A department will capitalize improvements or renovations to existing
improvements other than buildings only if the result meets the following
conditions:
      (1)   The total cost exceeds $5,000;
      (2)   The asset’s useful life is extended two or more years; and
      (3)   The total cost will be greater than the current book value and less
than the fair market value.
   (F)   A department’s donated improvements other than buildings will be
recorded at fair market value on the date of transfer with any associated
costs.
   (G)   Purchases made using federal or state funding will follow the source
funding policies and above procedures.
   (H)   The definitions of HISTORICAL COST is the cash equivalent price
exchanged for goods or services at the date of acquisition. Land, buildings,
equipment and most inventories are common examples of items recognized under
the historical cost attribute.
(Ord. O-C-97-8, passed 11-3-1997)
§ 40.20 RECORDING AND ACCOUNTING.
   (A)   The county and its various departments shall classify capital
expenditures as capital outlays within the fund from which the expenditure was
made in accordance with the Chart of Accounts of the Cities and Towns
Accounting Manual. The cost of property, plant and equipment includes all
expenditures necessary to put the asset into position and ready for use. For
purposes of recording fixed assets of the county and its departments, the
valuation of assets shall be based on the historical cost or where the
historical cost is indeterminable, by estimation for those assets in existence.
   (B)   In addition, an asset register (prescribed Form 211) shall be
maintained to provide a detail record of the capital assets of the governmental
unit.
(Ord. O-C-97-8, passed 11-3-1997)
§ 40.21 SAFEGUARDING OF ASSETS.
   Accounting controls shall be designed and implemented to provide reasonable
assurances that:
   (A)   Capital expenditures made by the county and its various departments be
in accordance with actions documented in the minutes;
   (B)   Adequate detail records be maintained to assure accountability for
county-owned assets;
   (C)   Access to assets be permitted in accordance with appropriate
authorization; and
   (D)   The recorded accountability for assets be compared with the existing
assets at least every two years and appropriate action be taken with respect to
any differences.
(Ord. O-C-97-8, passed 11-3-1997)
UNIFORM INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS
§ 40.30 ADOPTION.
   (A)   The county adopts and directs the minimum level of internal control
standards and internal control procedures for an internal control system that
includes the following five standards to promote government accountability and
transparency as described in the Uniform Internal Control Standards for Indiana
Political Subdivisions guidance document from the State Board of Accounts dated
September 2015 and as thereafter modified:
      (1)   Control environment;
      (2)   Risk assessment;
      (3)   Control activities;
      (4)   Information and communication; and
      (5)   Monitoring.
   (B)   The county adopts the internal control standards above so as to
establish an effective internal control system for the county through its
design, implementation and operation.
   (C)   The county directs that the above standards be used to design,
implement, operate and modify current operations, reporting and compliance
objections that will safeguard the assets of the county, promote reliability,
accountability and transparency of financial and non-financial information and
to assure compliance with laws and regulations for each office, department and
personnel (as defined in § 40.32) for an effective and reasonable internal
control system of the county.
(Ord. O-C-16-6, passed 11-7-2016)
§ 40.31 AUTHORIZATION.
   The county authorized the Commissioners and Auditor to review the current
internal control system of the county and adopt a policy for the future
internal control system to be effective after June 30, 2016 and perform an
annual review, or more if determined necessary for compliance with this
subchapter.
(Ord. O-C-16-6, passed 11-7-2016)
§ 40.32 PERSONNEL RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The personnel, whether an official or employee, of the county whose
official duties include receiving, processing, depositing, disbursing, or
otherwise having access to funds that belong to the federal government, state
government, a political subdivision, or another governmental entity shall
comply with these minimum internal control standards and procedures and another
policy regarding standards and procedures determined necessary by the county
now and as modified in the future.
   (B)   The personnel of the county whose official duties include receiving,
processing, depositing, disbursing, or otherwise having access to funds that
belong to the federal government, state government, a political subdivision, or
another governmental entity shall be trained at least once during a calendar
year and annually thereafter, unless on leave status, on the minimum internal
control standards and procedures and any other standards and procedures
determined necessary by the county and shall cooperate with the county fiscal
officer or designee so that the fiscal officer can timely certify to the State
Board of Accounts that the training was received annually by the personnel as
provided by law.
   (C)   The county authorizes the County Auditor to determine the position and
persons who are the personnel referred to in divisions (D) and (E) and notify
such personnel.
   (D)   All elected and appointed officials and employees of the county are
hereby directed to abide by and to cooperate fully in the implementation of the
internal control system of the county.
   (E)   An employee who fails to abide by or cooperate with the
implementation, compliance and certifications connected with the internal
control system commits a violation that may result in the discipline, including
termination, of the employee.
   (F)   An elected or appointed official of the county who fails to abide by
or cooperate with the implementation and the mandated certifications of the
internal control system may be subject to any action allowed by law.
(Ord. O-C-16-6, passed 11-7-2016)
§ 40.33 IMPLEMENTATION. 
   This subchapter may be implemented by any and all of the following actions
or such others as authorized by the Commissioners:
   (A)   Posting a copy of this subchapter in its entirety in at least one of
the locations in the county where it posts employer posters or other notices to
its employees;
   (B)   Providing a copy of this subchapter to its employees and elected and
appointed officials;
   (C)   Providing or posting a notice of the adoption of this subchapter; or
   (D)   Any such other action or actions that would communicate the policies
established by this subchapter to its employees and elected and appointed
officials.
(Ord. O-C-16-6, passed 11-7-2016)
CHAPTER 41: PERSONNEL REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
41.001   Membership in professional associations
   
41.002   Membership in State Association of Commissioners
   
41.003   Conditions for use of information obtained on disk, tape or any
electronic format
   
41.004   Deferred compensation
   
41.005   Unified plan
   
41.006   Direct deposit
   
41.007   Public Employees Retirement Fund (PERF) eligibility for county
employees
   
41.008   County Highway Department caps and jackets
   
41.009   Conflict of interest policy and minimum threshold
Travel Policy
   
41.020   Mileage
   
41.021   Mileage rate
   
41.022   Registration fees
   
41.023   Meal subsistence
   
41.024   Lodging
   
41.025   Parking fees
   
41.026   Long distance phone calls
   
41.027   Air travel
   
41.028   Advance travel claims
   
41.029   Documentation of travel claims
   
41.030   Non-allowable travel charges
   
41.031   Specific state statutes relating to travel expenses
   
41.032   Annual review of travel policy
   
41.033   Return of advance payments in the event of nonattendance
   
41.034   Abuse of travel policy
Business Continuity Plan Regarding Disasters Affecting Computers
   
41.045   Declaring a disaster
   
41.046   Disaster recovery team and contact list
   
41.047   Recovery responsibilities
   
41.048   Backup processing
   
41.049   Operation of the office during the interim period (for more than one
application)
   
41.050   Training, testing and maintaining the plan
   
41.051   Current hardware configuration and list of software
Drug Free Workplace
   
41.065   Unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensation, possession or use of
a controlled substance
   
41.066   Policy; purpose
   
41.067   Regulations; testing of safety sensitive employees
   
41.068   Drivers; testing
   
41.069   Retention of records and confidentiality
Personnel Policy
   
41.080   Adopted by reference
County Employee Handbook
   
41.095   Adopted by reference
County Highway Personnel Policies Handbook
   
41.110   Adopted by reference
 
   
41.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 41.001 MEMBERSHIP IN PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS.
   Pursuant to the authority granted by the county fiscal body in I.C. 36-1-3-
1 et seq.:
   (A)   Individual county officeholders are encouraged to join their
respective professional associations;
   (B)   The County Council hereby approves that dues or membership fees for
individual county officeholders will be approved, appropriated or expended from
county funds payable to one state association for county elected officeholders.
   (C)   Reasonable expenses for travel, meals and lodging actually expended by
county officeholders in attending professional activities designed to improve
their knowledge and skills shall be allowed and reimbursed up to the limits
provided in the respective officeholder’s budget as that budgetary amount is
approved by the county fiscal body.
(Ord. CC-87-4, passed 2-26-1987)
§ 41.002 MEMBERSHIP IN STATE ASSOCIATION OF COMMISSIONERS.
   The Board of Commissioners of the county should belong to the State
Association of Commissioners and the county shall pay the dues for membership
in the organization.
(1984 Code, § 5-5) (Ord. C-4-1983, passed 7-5-1983)
§ 41.003 CONDITIONS FOR USE OF INFORMATION OBTAINED ON DISK, TAPE OR ANY
ELECTRONIC FORMAT.
   (A)   A person who receives information on disk, tape or in any electronic
format under I.C. 5-14-3-3(d) may not use the information for commercial
purposes.
   (B)   Specifically, a person who receives information on a disk or tape or
in any electronic format is prohibited from:
      (1)   Selling that information;
      (2)   Advertising that information;
      (3)   Soliciting the purchase of merchandise, goods or services with that
information; or
      (4)   Selling, loaning, giving away or otherwise delivering the
information obtained by the request of any other person for these purposes.
   (C)   Use of information received under I.C. 5-14-3-3(d) in connection with
the preparation and publication of use for non-profit activities or for
academic research is not prohibited.
   (D)   This section does not apply to electronic formatted data provided by
GIS of the county.
(Ord. O-C-08-8, passed 6-2-2008) Penalty, see §
41.999
§ 41.004 DEFERRED COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners adopts the state public employee deferred
compensation plan (“plan”) and the trust agreement (“trust”) for the plan for
its employees as the participating employer’s only 457 plan with on-going
contributions.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners acknowledges that the Deferred Compensation
Committee (“trustees”) are only responsible for the plan and have no
responsibility for other employee benefit plans maintained by the Board of
Commissioners.
   (C)   The Board of Commissioners hereby adopts the terms of the adoption
agreement, which is attached hereto and made a part of this section. The
adoption agreement sets forth the employees to be covered by the plan, the
benefits to be provided by the Board of Commissioners under the plan, and any
conditions imposed by the Board of Commissioners with respect to, but not
inconsistent with, the plan. The Board of Commissioners reserves the right to
amend its elections under the adoption agreement, so long as the amendment is
not inconsistent with the plan or the Internal Revenue Code or other applicable
law and is approved by the trustees of the plan.
   (D)   (1)   The Board of Commissioners shall abide by the terms of the plan
and the trust, including amendments to the plan and the trust made by the
trustees of the plan, all investment, administrative and other service
agreements of the plan and the trust, and all applicable provisions of the
Internal Revenue Code and other applicable law.
      (2)   The Board of Commissioners accepts the administrative services to
be provided by the Administrator of the plan and any services provided by a
service manager as delegated by the Administrator or trustees. The Board of
Commissioners acknowledges that fees will be imposed with respect to the
services provided and that these fees will be charged to the participants’
accounts and not to the Board of Commissioners.
   (E)   (1)   (a)   The Board of Commissioners may terminate its participation
in the plan, if it takes the following actions:
            1.   A resolution must be adopted terminating its participation in
the plan; and
            2.   The resolution must specify when the participation in the plan
shall end.
         (b)   The trustees shall determine whether the resolution complies
with the plan, and all applicable federal and state laws, shall determine an
appropriate effective date, and shall provide appropriate forms to terminate
ongoing participation. However, distributions under the plan of existing
accounts to participants will be made in accordance with the plan.
      (2)   The Board of Commissioners acknowledges that the plan contains
provisions for involuntary plan termination.
   (F)   The Board of Commissioners acknowledges that all assets held in
connection with the plan, including all contributions to the plan, all property
and rights acquired or purchased with these amounts and all income attributable
to these amounts, property or rights shall be held in trust for the exclusive
benefit of participants and their beneficiaries under the plan. No part of the
assets and income of the plan shall be used for, or diverted to, purposes other
than for the exclusive benefit of participants and their beneficiaries and for
defraying reasonable expenses of the plan. All amounts of compensation deferred
pursuant to the plan, all property and rights acquired or purchased with the
amounts and all income attributable to those amounts, property or rights held
as part of the plan, shall be transferred to the trustees to be held, managed,
invested and distributed as part of the trust fund in accordance with the
provisions of the plan. All contributions to the plan must be transferred by
the Board of Commissioners to the trust fund. All benefits under the plan shall
be distributed solely from the trust fund pursuant to the plan.
   (G)   This section and the adoption agreement shall be submitted to the
trustees for their approval. The trustees shall determine whether the
resolution complies with the plan, and, if it does, shall provide appropriate
forms to the Board of Commissioners to implement participation in the plan. The
trustees may refuse to approve an adoption agreement by an employer that does
not have state statutory authority to participate in the plan. The governing
body hereby acknowledges that it is responsible to assure that this section and
the adoption agreement are adopted and executed in accordance with the
requirements of applicable law.
(Res. R-C-96-1, passed 1-22-1996; Res. R-C-02-1, passed 3-4-2002)
§ 41.005 UNIFIED PLAN.
   (A)   The county shall establish a unified plan, which plan shall, as far as
practicable, be essentially the same plan now in effect for the county with the
employees of the Tell City-Perry County Public Library (hereinafter “library”).
   (B)   This Commission shall enter into an agreement with the library which
shall provide, among other matters, that the unified plan shall not be altered
or amended without the action and consent of the Board, that this Board shall
have the sole right to determine who shall be the administrator, trustee and
insurer under the unified plan, and that the library shall agree to make an
initial contribution to the county employee benefit trust of the unified plan
in the amount required for each employee by the terms of the unified plan, and
that the library agrees that if the employee benefit trust is depleted below
the amount that would have been in the trust if library employees had not been
included in the unified plan, the library shall, as soon as practicable
thereafter, pay into the employee benefit trust the amount necessary to restore
it to the prior level.
(Res. R-C-98-6, passed 5-11-1998)
§ 41.006 DIRECT DEPOSIT.
   (A)   Employees wishing to participate in the county’s payroll direct
deposit program may enroll only during the first week of each quarter. The
Auditor’s office, as the Administrator of this program, will send a notice
reminding employees of the enrollment periods. The employee must complete a
direct deposit authorization in the form prescribed by the Auditor before
direct deposit begins.
   (B)   Employees wishing to make changes to their payroll direct deposit,
such as changing the depository, accounts and the like, shall submit the
changes only during the first week of each quarter. The employee must complete
a direct deposit payroll change request/authorization form as prescribed by the
Auditor.
   (C)   In the event of a bona fide emergency, the Auditor may grant an
exception to the foregoing requirements.
   (D)   All employees will be paid by a direct deposit into an account of
their choosing.
(Res. R-C-99-13, passed 12-6-1999; Ord. O-C-20-8, passed 12-15-2020)
§ 41.007 PUBLIC EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT FUND (PERF) ELIGIBILITY FOR COUNTY
EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Under the state’s PERF statute, an employee who performs no more than
600 hours of service during a calendar year and who was hired prior to July 1,
1982 is ineligible for membership in PERF.
   (B)   An employee who performs services during the calendar year of fewer
than 1,000 hours per year is not eligible for PERF.
   (C)   Those employees who perform at least 1,000 hours of service per year
for the county in their employment are hereby declared full-time employees and
are thus required to participate in PERF.
   (D)   Those employees who perform less than 1,000 hours per year of service
for the county are hereby declared to be part-time employees and thus are not
eligible to participate in PERF.
   (E)   (1)   Effective October 6, 2003, the employer desires to pick up all
of the additional employee contributions made by employees through a binding
irrevocable payroll deduction authorization. No additional employee
contributions prior to the employer’s adoption of this division shall be
picked-up.
      (2)   Additional employee contributions for state law purposes, are being
paid by the employer in lieu of contributions by the employee.
      (3)   The employer shall comply with all of the terms and provisions of
the pick-up regulation and applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code.
(Res. CC-93-2A, passed 1-28-1993; Res. R-C-03-4, passed 10-6-2003)
§ 41.008 COUNTY HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT CAPS AND JACKETS.
   (A)   The County Highway Department shall purchase caps bearing appropriate
insignia identifying the wearers as Highway Department employees for all its
employees.
   (B)   The County Highway Department shall purchase jackets bearing similar
insignia for each employee who had attained his or her tenth anniversary of his
or her date of employment with the Department.
   (C)   The foregoing ordered purchases shall be made subject to the
appropriation of sufficient additional funding for the purchases from the
appropriate employee compensation account.
(Ord. C-88-5, passed 9-1-1988)
§ 41.009 CONFLICT OF INTEREST POLICY AND MINIMUM THRESHOLD.
   The Board of Commissioners hereby establishes a conflicts of interest policy
for all Perry County officials and employees wherein Perry County officials and
employees are bound by the duties of their office or employment to avoid all
conflicts of interest, but that the dollar threshold of $200 is hereby
established for any single event, meeting, or function below which any
financial interest or value of any gratuity is not considered substantial and
may be accepted.
(Ord. O-C-17-2, passed 3-6-2017)
TRAVEL POLICY
§ 41.020 MILEAGE.
   (A)   Mileage for use of a personal vehicle will be reimbursed at a rate set
and approved by the state and in effect at the time the travel expense was
incurred. Attendees are encouraged to use a county-owned vehicle, if available,
in lieu of receiving a mileage allowance. In addition, attendees are encouraged
to carpool in the event of more than one attendee attending the same function,
and mileage reimbursement will be allowable only to the attendee providing the
personal vehicle.
   (B)   If a balance exists from an advance travel claim in which the attendee
did not spend the entire advance, the balance may be applied to the mileage
reimbursement.
   (C)   Reimbursement for mileage shall not be paid in advance of travel;
however, a travel claim must be submitted on a state-prescribed General Form
#101 mileage claim within three months after travel has occurred.
(Ord. O-C-06-12/O-CC-06-2, passed 12-20-2006)
§ 41.021 MILEAGE RATE.
   (A)   Each member of the Board of Commissioners of the county and each
member of the County Council shall be reimbursed, at the rate per mile then
approved by the state for employees of the state, for all miles driven in that
member’s vehicle when on county business as that term is hereinafter defined.
   (B)   The payment shall be made from funds appropriated by the County
Council and included in the respective budgets of the County Council and this
Board.
   (C)   For the purposes of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      COUNTY BUSINESS.
         (a)   Includes:
            1.   Trips within the county to view and inspect county highways,
county highway and building construction projects and county buildings;
            2.   Trips to meet with county or state officials for the purpose
of discussing matters of interest and concern to the county, whether or not the
meetings are sponsored by organizations of county officials;
            3.   Trips to attend public meetings of organizations, whether or
not the Commissioner or Council member is a member of those organizations, when
the Commissioner or Council member deems the content of that meeting to be of
interest and concern to county government and when his or her attendance would
not occur, but for the fact that he or she holds public office in the county;
and
            4.   Trips to meet with any person or persons possessing expertise
or unique information desirable for county government to obtain.
         (b)   As used herein, COUNTY BUSINESS shall not include trips outside
the state or attendance at regular or special meetings of the County Council or
Board of Commissioners of the county.
   (D)   The County Auditor shall be reimbursed, at the rate per mile then
approved by the state for employees of the state, for all miles driven to
attend meetings of the County Council or Board of Commissioners of the county
which are held at a starting time after the regular business hours of the
county courthouse have ended, the payment to be made from funds appropriated by
the County Council and included in the respective budgets of the County Council
and this Board.
   (E)   The mileage reimbursement entitlements herein enacted shall not apply
to trips made prior to the appropriations hereinabove described having been
duly made by the County Council. Claims for reimbursement shall be filed and
approved in the same manner as required by law for other claims for services
rendered to the county.
   (F)   The mileage reimbursement rate for all persons who incur mileage
expense on business for the county shall be the sum of $0.36 per mile. This
rate shall go into full force and effect effective with travel beginning March
1, 2016.
(Ord. 89-C-3, passed 2-6-1989; Ord. O-CC-04-1, passed 2-26-2004; Ord. O-CC-05-
1, passed 10-27-2005; Ord. O-CC-08-4, passed 6-26-2008; Ord. O-CC-09-1, passed
10-22-2009; Ord. O-CC-11-1, passed 5-19-2011; Ord. O-CC-15-1, passed 7-23-2015;
Ord. O-CC-16-1, passed 2-25-2016)
§ 41.022 REGISTRATION FEES.
   Registration fees may be paid in advance of the respective meeting or
conference upon submission of a claim and proper documentation (i.e.,
registration form, agenda, meeting notice and the like) to the County Auditor.
In most cases, registration fees are to be paid from budgeted funds, unless
otherwise stipulated by the state agency or organization coordinating the
conference. Certifications received after returning from county business should
be submitted to the County Auditor to be attached to the appropriate travel
claim.
(Ord. O-C-06-12/O-CC-06-2, passed 12-20-2006)
§ 41.023 MEAL SUBSISTENCE.
   Meal subsistence will be provided up to a maximum of $35 per day, except in
the event of certain state statutes which supersede this section. The attendee
must submit actual itemized meal receipts after returning from county business
to be entitled to reimbursement. Credit card receipts that are not itemized
which show only the total meal amount are not acceptable. Gratuities or tips
will be reimbursed at a rate not to exceed 15% of the meal costs. Also, the
purchase of snacks and soft drinks between meals is not a reimbursable expense.
(Ord. O-C-06-12/O-CC-06-2, passed 12-20-2006)
§ 41.024 LODGING.
   (A)   Lodging expenses will be allowed in an amount equal to the conference
rate for lodging, or if no conference rate is applicable, then at a rate not to
exceed a double occupancy rate at the conference facility or nearest
accommodations. No lodging allowances will be paid by the county for attendance
at meetings, training sessions or conferences that last only one day or less
and that are held 50 miles or less from the county courthouse.
   (B)   Most hotels will recognize and accept the sales tax exemption
certificate in order that the county, as a governmental unit, does not pay
sales tax. Upon an attendee’s making hotel reservations, the attendee shall
inquire as to the hotel’s policy on accepting tax exempt certificates in an
effort to save the county the expense of paying sales tax.
   (C)   The attendee shall submit a receipt to the Auditor’s office from the
hotel or other meeting place where the accommodations were provided.
(Ord. O-C-06-12/O-CC-06-2, passed 12-20-2006)
§ 41.025 PARKING FEES.
   Attendees shall be entitled to an allowance or reimbursement equal to the
cost of parking when required or necessary at the conference facility. The
attendee shall submit parking receipts upon returning from travel.
(Ord. O-C-06-12/O-CC-06-2, passed 12-20-2006)
§ 41.026 LONG DISTANCE PHONE CALLS.
   Allowance will be provided only for long distance calls made from the
conference facility and/or hotel for the purpose of handling county business.
(Ord. O-C-06-12/O-CC-06-2, passed 12-20-2006)
§ 41.027 AIR TRAVEL.
   Allowance will be provided only in the event that the cost of airline
tickets and rental vehicles is less costly than the traditional means of travel
and/or in the event of air travel being advantageous due to time constraints
and the urgency of the situation, i.e., transporting a prisoner to/from the
county. Approval of the County Council is recommended for air travel if there
is sufficient time to obtain approval before travel arrangements are made.
(Ord. O-C-06-12/O-CC-06-2, passed 12-20-2006)
§ 41.028 ADVANCE TRAVEL CLAIMS.
   (A)   The county recognizes that the time period required to receive
reimbursement through the normal claims process may occasionally cause
financial hardship on the attendees, and therefore, the county allows for an
advance for the cost of meeting registrations, lodging and estimated meal
expenses.
   (B)   Except for meeting registrations, the request for advance travel must
be made no more than seven days and no less than two days in advance of the
conference or meeting.
   (C)   Every effort should be made to prevent processing of meeting
registrations after the scheduled deadlines so that the county will not be
paying out additional fees for late registrations.
   (D)   The travel advance request shall be submitted to the Auditor’s office
on a claim form along with a copy of the conference or meeting registration
form and/or agenda showing the purpose, date and location of the meeting. The
Auditor’s office may deny issuing an advance travel check if sufficient backup
is not included on the claim.
   (E)   Travel advance shall be issued by the Auditor’s office only if the
respective attendee’s department budget has sufficient appropriation available
in the travel account. Under no circumstances shall the Auditor’s office issue
a travel advance if there is not sufficient appropriation available, nor can
travel be paid out of another department’s budget other than the department
requesting the advance.
   (F)   Requests for travel advances cannot exceed $500 or the prevailing
lodging costs for the associated travel, whichever is greater, for an
individual attendee. Advances cannot be sought and will not be issued for
mileage reimbursement.
   (G)   Itemized receipts from advance travel claims shall be submitted to the
Auditor’s office within three days after returning from county travel.
(Ord. O-C-06-12/O-CC-06-2, passed 12-20-2006)
§ 41.029 DOCUMENTATION OF TRAVEL CLAIMS.
   All travel expenses, except mileage, for which attendees are requesting
payment and/or reimbursement must be submitted on a state- prescribed County
Form No. 17 claim form and supported by substantial documentation, including
registration forms or meeting agendas giving the date, purpose and registration
fee amount. Actual itemized receipts are necessary for all other expenditures
such as lodging, meals and parking. Attendees must submit completed travel
expense claims for all individual expenses within 30 days after travel. Travel
expenses for which an attendee seeks reimbursement must have been budgeted by
the County Council. Expenses not budgeted may not be reimbursed, except for
state-called meetings in which the expenses are to be paid from funds not
appropriated as dictated by state statute.
(Ord. O-C-06-12/O-CC-06-2, passed 12-20-2006)
§ 41.030 NON-ALLOWABLE TRAVEL CHARGES.
   (A)   Certain travel expenses shall not be reimbursed by the county, and
therefore, if incurred, shall be the responsibility of the attendee. Non-
allowable travel charges include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Out-of-state travel, unless prior approval is granted by the
Commissioners;
      (2)   Hotel in-room charges, such as movies, bars, concessions and the
like;
      (3)   Personal entertainment or travel related thereto;
      (4)   Alcoholic beverages;
      (5)   Personal phone charges;
      (6)   Valet services, unless valet service is the only option available;
      (7)   In-county meal expenses prior to, or upon return from, travel;
      (8)   Snacks and drinks purchased between meals;
      (9)   Travel expenses for accompanying spouse or non-county employee
guest of the attendee; and
      (10)   Traffic fines for parking, speeding and the like.
   (B)   Travel expenses incurred that are not otherwise addressed within this
subchapter will be reviewed for approval at the discretion of the
Commissioners.
(Ord. O-C-06-12/O-CC-06-2, passed 12-20-2006)
§ 41.031 SPECIFIC STATE STATUTES RELATING TO TRAVEL EXPENSES.
   It is recognized that certain state statutes govern the amounts of allowable
travel reimbursements, and these statutes shall supersede this subchapter.
These statutes include but are not limited to the following:
   (A)   I.C. 5-11-14-1 regarding State Board of Accounts called conferences
for the offices of Auditor, Treasurer, Recorder, Circuit Court Clerk and County
Council. All payments, except registration fees, shall be paid from the County
General Fund from funds not otherwise appropriated;
   (B)   I.C. 6-1.1-35-3 regarding the Department of Local Government Finance
instructional sessions for Assessors and other assessing officials, such as
members of the Property Tax Assessment Board of Appeals and County Auditors.
Reimbursements for these sessions shall be paid from unappropriated funds, with
the allowance for meal subsistence to amount to $26 per day, unless otherwise
stated in specific documentation provided by the Department of Local Government
Finance;
   (C)   I.C. 3-6-4.2-14 regarding State Election Division instructional
meetings for the office of Circuit Court Clerk and county election board
officials. All allowances are to be paid from the County General Fund without
appropriation, with the allowance for meal subsistence to amount to $24 per day
for instructional meetings, unless otherwise stated in specific documentation
provided by the State Election Division; and
   (D)   I.C. 33-39-6-1 regarding conferences for prosecuting attorneys.
Registrations, lodging, meals and mileage are to be paid from the General Fund.
(Ord. O-C-06-12/O-CC-06-2, passed 12-20-2006)
§ 41.032 ANNUAL REVIEW OF TRAVEL POLICY.
   This subchapter may be reviewed annually by the County Board of
Commissioners and County Council with due consideration being given to any
changes in state statute and the state’s then existing travel policy and
procedures.
(Ord. O-C-06-12/O-CC-06-2, passed 12-20-2006)
§ 41.033 RETURN OF ADVANCE PAYMENTS IN THE EVENT OF NONATTENDANCE.
   If for any reason an attendee fails to attend a conference or meeting for
which the attendee has drawn estimated advance expenses, the attendee shall
promptly repay to the County Auditor the entire amount of the advance payment.
(Ord. O-C-06-12/O-CC-06-2, passed 12-20-2006)
§ 41.034 ABUSE OF TRAVEL POLICY.
   Abuse of this travel policy subchapter, including falsifying expense reports
to reflect costs not incurred by the employee, can be grounds for disciplinary
action, up to and including termination of employment.
(Ord. O-C-06-12/O-CC-06-2, passed 12-20-2006)
BUSINESS CONTINUITY PLAN REGARDING DISASTERS AFFECTING COMPUTERS
§ 41.045 DECLARING A DISASTER.
   (A)   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      COMPLETE DISASTER. A disastrous event has occurred which has affected the
office to the extent that the office will be inaccessible for an extended
period of time or the computer must be replaced.
      PARTIAL DISASTER. A disastrous event has occurred which rendered the
computer inoperable for up to a week, but access to the office is not affected.
   (B)   A partial disaster for a particular office may be declared by the
officeholder, or in the absence of the officeholder, the first deputy.
   (C)   A complete disaster for a particular office may be declared by the
officeholder, or in the absence of the officeholder, a first deputy.
   (D)   If a complete disaster is declared, replacement computers will be
placed in available office space at the county courthouse annex located at 125
South Eighth Street in Cannelton, Indiana. Information processing would occur
there until courthouse offices are restored.
   (E)   To obtain emergency funding for replacement computers, the County
Auditor or the County First Deputy Auditor shall be contacted at home if a
complete disaster has occurred in which the courthouse is completely
inaccessible. In the case of a partial disaster, where access to the office is
not affected and the phone system is in working order, the County Auditor’s
office shall be contacted at (812) 547-6427. Computers can be replaced by the
respective vendors as outlined in §
41.046 in approximately one week’s time. In the event of a complete disaster,
the Spencer County Auditor’s office, which has the same system as this county,
has committed to allowing this county temporary use of their system until a
time that replacement equipment has been received and installed.
(Ord. O-C-00-7, passed 12-4-2000)
§ 41.046 DISASTER RECOVERY TEAM AND CONTACT LIST.
   Once a disaster has been declared, the following contacts must be made
immediately:
   (A)   Disaster recovery team; and
   (B)   Vendor contacts.
      (1)   For Auditor’s office, Treasurer’s office and Assessor’s office:
         Manatron
         4625 West 86th Street, Suite 800
         Indianapolis, IN 46268
         Phone: 1-800-422-2835
      (2)   For Recorder’s office:
         Fidlar & Chambers Co.
         P.O. Box 6248
         Rock Island, IL 61204-6248
         Phone: 1-309-794-3200
      (3)   For Clerk’s office:
         Computer Systems, Inc. (CSI)
         12975 Parkside Drive
         Fishers, IN 46038
         Phone: 1 -800-860-1274 or 317-913-4160
(Ord. O-C-00-7, passed 12-4-2000)
§ 41.047 RECOVERY RESPONSIBILITIES.
 
Person              Responsibilities
Commissioners       Declare disaster and contact department heads and members
                    of disaster recovery team
County Auditor;     Retrieve latest complete backup
County Recorder;    Contact vendors for hardware and/or software
County Clerk;       Retrieve latest backup of data
Court Administrator Restore from backups when new computer(s) are installed;
                    work with software vendors to restore all software
 
   (A)   For retrieval of the Auditor’s, Treasurer’s and Assessor’s computer,
in the Auditor’s absence, any of the Auditor’s office deputies can retrieve
latest data backup, restore the system from latest backups after new computers
are installed and work with software vendors to restore all software.
   (B)   For retrieval of the Recorder’s computer, in the Recorder’s absence,
either of the Recorder’s office deputies can retrieve latest data backup,
restore the system from latest backups after new computers are installed and
work with software vendors to restore all software.
   (C)   For retrieval of Clerk’s computer, in the Clerk’s absence, the Court
Administrator or any of the Clerk’s office deputies can retrieve latest data
backup, restore the system from latest backups after new computers are
installed and work with software vendors to restore all software.
(Ord. O-C-00-7, passed 12-4-2000)
§ 41.048 BACKUP PROCESSING.
   (A)   Auditor’s, Treasurer’s and Assessor’s computer systems.
      (1)   Each night the data on the VAX system is manually backed up and the
data on the NT server open Windows system is automatically backed up after
insertion of a backup tape by an Auditor’s office deputy. Each morning, the
backups are checked for completeness. If the backup was performed successfully,
any one of the Auditor’s office deputies stores the prior night’s backup in the
fire safe in the Auditor’s rear storage room.
      (2)   At the beginning of each month, the Auditor takes a current backup
tape for both systems home so that backups are stored offsite.
      (3)   At the end of every quarter and year-end, a complete backup is
performed and taken offsite to the fire-safe vault at the Cannelton Branch of
Fifth Third Bank.
   (B)   Recorder’s computer system. The Recorder’s system is backed up nightly
utilizing a “platter” backup system. One week’s worth of backups are stored in
the fireproof vault in the Recorder’s records room. The Recorder also keeps a
previous week’s backup at his or her home, and on a quarterly basis, stores a
backup platter at the Cannelton Branch of Fifth Third Bank.
   (C)   Clerk’s computer system. Each night an automatic backup of all data
with a printout will be produced at the Court Administrator’s printer. The
printout indicates if the backup has been successful. If it has, that tape is
removed and a new one inserted for the following night. The backup tape is then
stored off-site. If the backup is not complete, a manual backup is run. There
are three sets of fire tapes, all stored off-site. The tapes are replaced
semiannually.
(Ord. O-C-00-7, passed 12-4-2000)
§ 41.049 OPERATION OF THE OFFICE DURING THE INTERIM PERIOD (FOR MORE THAN ONE
APPLICATION).
   (A)   Auditor, Treasurer and Assessor.
      (1)   The following list outlines critical applications ranked in the
order they are to be brought up on a replacement computer:
         (a)   Payroll;
         (b)   Claims processing/open windows general ledger;
         (c)   Treasurer’s fund accounting; and
         (d)   Tax billing.
      (2)   In the event the applications cannot be restored in sufficient time
to continue business operations, critical financial functions will continue as
follows. Payroll and claims procedures can be completed manually by typing or
handwriting checks. Other than checks, no other critical forms are needed. If
it would be possible to retrieve the checks from the courthouse, those could be
used. In the event of a complete disaster where checks could not be retrieved
from the courthouse, the Auditor’s office would work with the local banks to
urgently obtain checks. No special procedures are needed to receipt money since
receipts would continue to be written by hand. All other associated procedures
can be completed once a computer has been installed.
      (3)   Copies can be made of deeds for property transfers and held until a
time that transfer records can be restored.
      (4)   Manual handwritten data will suffice for a temporary period of time
for most Auditor’s office functions normally handled on the computer until the
computers are restored.
   (B)   Recorder.
      (1)   The following list outlines critical applications ranked in the
order they are to be brought up on a replacement computer:
         (a)   Deeds;
         (b)   Mortgages; and
         (c)   Other miscellaneous documents to be recorded.
      (2)   In the event the applications cannot be restored in sufficient time
to continue business operations, critical functions will continue as follows.
Documents to be recorded will be held until a time they can be copied or
recorded. There are no critical forms which are needed for business operations
in the event of a disaster.
   (C)   Clerk.
      (1)   The following list outlines critical applications ranked in the
order they are to be brought up on a replacement computer:
         (a)   Financial;
         (b)   Receipts; and
         (c)   Chronological case summary (CCS).
      (2)   In the event the applications cannot be restored in sufficient time
to continue business operations, critical financial functions will continue as
follows. The office will manually write receipts and all other associated
procedures can be completed once a computer has been installed. The Clerk can
retrieve any critical forms which are needed for business operations, and he or
she will maintain a supply of the forms in the event they are needed.
(Ord. O-C-00-7, passed 12-4-2000)
§ 41.050 TRAINING, TESTING AND MAINTAINING THE PLAN.
   (A)   Each member of the disaster recovery team will have a copy of this
document at their home. Also a copy will be stored in the fire-safe vault at
the Cannelton Branch of Fifth Third Bank. Training will consist of review of
this business continuity plan followed by a meeting discussing the plan.
   (B)   The plan is to be tested in stages as follows:
      (1)   A restore will be done with the latest backup from the respective
offsite locations;
      (2)   The contacts and phone numbers in the plan will be reviewed for
correctness; and
      (3)   The Auditor, Recorder, Clerk and Court Administrator will review
the procedures to continue business functions using interim procedures and/or
to temporarily maintain the records on a manual basis.
   (C)   Every six months, the Auditor, Recorder and Clerk and Court
Administrator will review the plan and again test again to determine if it is
up-to-date. Any additions or corrections will cause a new plan to be
distributed to each member of the team.
(Ord. O-C-00-7, passed 12-4-2000)
§ 41.051 CURRENT HARDWARE CONFIGURATION AND LIST OF SOFTWARE.
   (A)    Hardware and operating system. A list of Auditor’s, Recorder’s and
Clerk’s hardware and contact names are on file.
   (B)   Software. A list of Auditor’s, Recorder’s and Clerk’s software and
contact names are on file.
(Ord. O-C-00-7, passed 12-4-2000)
DRUG FREE WORKPLACE
§ 41.065 UNLAWFUL MANUFACTURE, DISTRIBUTION, DISPENSATION, POSSESSION OR USE OF
A CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE.
   (A)   Pursuant to the Drug Free Workplace Act being 41 U.S.C. §§ 701 et
seq., the county is required to notify employees that the unlawful manufacture,
distribution, dispensation, possession or use of a controlled substance in the
workplace is prohibited, whether or not the employee is on duty. In addition,
an employee who is convicted of a drug statute violation arising out of conduct
occurring in the workplace must notify his or her department head (and if the
violator is a department head, then he or she shall notify the Board of
Commissioners of the county) no later than five days after the conviction. As a
condition of employment, all employees must abide by these rules. Any employee
who violates these rules will be subject to discipline up to and including
termination.
   (B)   Employees should be aware that all county employees and their families
can receive confidential counseling through Southern Hills Counseling Center,
Inc. located in the Professional Building, Highway 66 in Tell City. Southern
Hills offers short-term counseling as well as referral, when appropriate, to
long term counseling or specialized counseling. Southern Hills can refer
employees to appropriate programs to deal with drug or alcohol problems. For
information or to schedule an appointment, Southern Hills may be reached at
(812) 547-7905.
   (C)   Any supervisory employee who learns of an employee’s violation of this
policy, or of an employee’s conviction of a drug statute violation for conduct
occurring in the workplace shall immediately notify the department head.
Failure to notify the department head will subject the supervisory employee to
appropriate discipline.
(Res. R-C-91-12, passed 10-7-1991)
§ 41.066 POLICY; PURPOSE.
   (A)   The county is concerned with the public’s safety and workplace safety
for employees. This alcohol and drug abuse policy is designed to ensure that
employees are fit for duty. The county believes that employees in safety
sensitive positions cannot safely operate vehicles while under the influence of
any controlled substance or while under the influence of alcohol. This policy
applies to all employees who perform safety sensitive jobs, including mechanics
and employees who are required to hold a commercial driver’s license (CDL) to
perform their job function. This policy covers truck drivers, bus drivers,
mechanics, heavy equipment operators and any other positions that require a
commercial driver’s license. Safety sensitive employees are expected and
required to be in suitable mental and physical condition while at work,
performing their jobs satisfactorily and behaving appropriately. When the use
of alcohol and other drugs interfere with these expectations, a driver’s
failure to meet these basic expectations could result in disciplinary action.
It is for this purpose that the county has implemented the following substance
abuse policy which includes testing for the presence of drugs and alcohol. The
intent of the county is to also ensure that the county is in compliance with
federal law.
   (B)   This policy addresses the use of alcohol and illegal drugs or
substances on many fronts. The use, possession, sale, purchase or transfer of
unauthorized or illegal drugs or substances, or the abuse or misuse of legal
drugs on county property, while on county business or while operating vehicles
and equipment, is prohibited. Drinking alcoholic beverages resulting in having
any measurable amount of alcohol, as defined in the federal regulations, in his
or her system during working hours is prohibited, whether on or off county
property. Working hours include all breaks. Off-duty use of drugs and alcohol
is prohibited to the extent it affects an employee’s attendance or performance
and his or her ability to pass required DOT alcohol and controlled substance
tests. Any violation of this policy is grounds for discipline, up to and
including termination.
   (C)   Physician-directed use of drugs can affect behavior and performance.
When the use of drugs adversely affects job performance or safety, it is in the
best interest of the driver, co-workers, the public and the county that the
driver take sick or vacation days, or if necessary, unpaid leave in accordance
with the personnel policies concerning requesting medical leaves.
   (D)   The county reserves the right to terminate any employee in a safety
sensitive position who violates the county’s drug and alcohol abuse policy.
Reporting to work under the influence of alcohol or non-prescribed drugs or
using same while on the job are listed as cause for discipline up to and
including immediate dismissal in the personnel policies. The supervisor or his
or her designee is authorized to implement this policy and program, including a
periodic review of the program to address any problems, changes and/or
revisions of it, and maintenance of all records required by the federal
regulations. The supervisor or his or her designee is responsible for
communicating this policy to all employees in safety sensitive positions and is
accountable for its consistent enforcement.
   (E)   Nothing contained in this policy shall be construed or interpreted so
as to create or give rise to any contractual rights for employees of the
county. This policy does not constitute an offer of continued employment to any
employee and no contractual rights will be created in any employee by his or
her commencing or continuing work after the adoption of this policy.
(Res. R-C-95-24, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 41.067 REGULATIONS; TESTING OF SAFETY SENSITIVE EMPLOYEES.
   All safety sensitive employees will be tested for alcohol and drug abuse in
accordance with the approved procedures when directed by the supervisor or his
or her designee. The county will specify the testing site and provide tests and
test interpretations at no cost to employees.
(Res. R-C-95-24, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 41.068 DRIVERS; TESTING.
   (A)   Pre-employment. Under no circumstances will an individual be placed in
a safety sensitive position without proof of a successful completion of drug
tests. Any individual who refuses to submit to drug tests, or has a positive
controlled substance test result, as defined by the federal regulations, will
not be considered for employment with the county.
   (B)   Random.
      (1)   A minimum rate of 50% of employees in safety sensitive positions
shall be tested annually for drugs and 25% of employees in these positions
shall be tested annually for alcohol.
      (2)   Random drug and alcohol testing may be combined. For example, when
testing at 50% drug random rate and 25% alcohol random rate, half of the
randomly selected drivers chosen for testing would be tested for both drugs and
alcohol, while the rest could be tested only for drugs. Alcohol testing will be
conducted just prior to, during or immediately following performance of a
safety sensitive function.
      (3)   Random testing selection requires:
         (a)   Employee remains in pool;
         (b)   Use valid random selection process;
         (c)   Do not announce dates for testing; and
         (d)   Test 50% of drivers for drugs and 25% of drivers for alcohol.
   (C)   Post accident.
      (1)   Drivers are required to submit to drug and alcohol testing as soon
as possible following a DOT accident which involves the loss of human life, or
the driver receives a citation under the state or local law for a moving
traffic violation arising from the accident.
      (2)   A driver who is subject to post accident testing shall remain
readily available for testing for a period up to eight hours or he or she may
be deemed by the county to have refused to subject to testing. Nothing in this
section shall be construed to require the delay of necessary medical treatment
or to prohibit the driver from leaving the scene of an accident for a period
necessary to obtain assistance in responding to the accident or to obtain
necessary medical care.
      (3)   No driver required to take a post accident alcohol test shall use
alcohol for eight hours following the accident or until he or she undergoes a
post accident alcohol test, whichever occurs first.
      (4)   If a driver is seriously injured and cannot submit to testing at
the time of the accident, he or she shall provide the necessary authorization
for obtaining hospital reports and other documents that would indicate whether
there were any drugs or alcohol in his or her system.
      (5)   The results of a breath or blood test for the use of alcohol, or a
urine test for the use of drugs, conducted by federal, state or local officials
having independent authority for the test, shall be considered to meet the
requirements for post accident testing if the results are obtained by the
county.
      (6)   Actions to take in a post accident testing situation:
         (a)   Treat injuries;
         (b)   Work with law enforcement;
         (c)   Explain the need for testing;
         (d)   Work with medical facility;
         (e)   Collect specimens promptly; and
         (f)   Document events.
   (D)   Reasonable suspicion.
      (1)   The county is required to test for the use of alcohol and
controlled substances upon reasonable suspicion. REASONABLE SUSPICION is
defined to mean, that the county believes the behavior, speech, body odor or
appearance of an employee while on duty are indicative of the use of alcohol
and/or controlled substances. The conduct must be witnessed by a supervisor, if
so trained. Supervisors will receive at least two hours of training to further
their knowledge of possible signs of alcohol and/or drug abuse that influences
an employee’s fitness for duty. The mere possession of alcohol does not
constitute a need for an alcohol test. The witness must have received training
in the detection of probable alcohol and drug use by observing a person’s
behavior. If it is at all possible, the witness should not conduct the alcohol
test in order to protect the driver.
      (2)   Alcohol testing is authorized only if the observations are made
during, just before or just after the period of the work day of the employee. A
written record shall be made of the observations leading to a reasonable
suspicion alcohol and/or controlled substance test. This record is to be signed
by the supervisor who requires a reasonable suspicion test and shall include
all observations that culminated in the test(s) being administered.
         (a)   If a reasonable suspicion alcohol test is not administered
within two hours following the observations, the witness shall prepare and
maintain on file a record stating the reasons the alcohol test was not
administered promptly. In addition, if not administered within eight hours, all
attempts to administer the test shall cease. A record shall be prepared and
maintained stating why the alcohol test was not administered.
         (b)   Prior to the start of the work, a driver must report to his or
her immediate supervisor, use of any prescription and/or over the counter drugs
which may affect job performance or the safety of others. It is the driver’s
responsibility to obtain from his or her physician a determination as to
whether or not the drug could affect job performance.
         (c)   All information obtained in the course of testing of drivers
shall be protected as confidential medical information. No data concerning this
information will be made a part of the employee’s personnel file nor will it be
provided to any other party without the direct written consent of the driver,
unless the results are grounds for discipline and/or the grievance procedure is
requested by the employee.
         (d)   Failure to sign a release for alcohol and drug testing will be
classified as refusal to carry out an order of a supervisor and the employee
shall be terminated.
         (e)   Refusal to submit to alcohol and/or controlled substance testing
as required will be recorded as a positive test. Refusal to submit to an
alcohol or controlled substance test means that an employee:
            1.   Fails to provide adequate breath for testing without valid
medical explanation after he or she has received notice of the requirement for
breath testing in accordance with this policy;
            2.   Fails to provide adequate urine for controlled substance
testing without a valid medical explanation after he or she has received notice
of the requirement for testing in accordance with this policy; or
            3.   Engages in conduct that clearly obstructs the testing process.
      (3)   As stipulated in the federal regulations, an employee testing
positive for alcohol (.04 or greater) or for a controlled substance shall be
prohibited from driving or performing a safety sensitive function for the
county and referred to the supervisor. Employees testing .02 or greater, but
less than .04 shall also not drive or perform safety sensitive functions for
the county, nor shall the county permit him or her to perform safety sensitive
functions, until the start of the employee’s next regularly scheduled duty
period, but not less than 24 hours following administration of the test or
until a disposition of possible discipline is decided. Employees may be subject
to discipline, up to and including discharge.
      (4)   (a)   Performing a safety sensitive function means a driver is
considered to be performing a safety sensitive function during any period in
which he or she is actually performing, ready to perform or immediately
available to perform any safety sensitive function.
         (b)   A SAFETY SENSITIVE FUNCTION is defined as:
            1.   All time spent at a facility, or other property, or on any
public property, waiting to be dispatched, unless the driver has been relieved
from duty by the county;
            2.   All time spent inspecting equipment, otherwise inspecting,
servicing or conditioning any motor vehicle at any time;
            3.   All driving time spent at the driving controls of a motor
vehicle in operation;
            4.   All time, other than driving time, in or upon any motor
vehicle;
            5.   All time loading or unloading a vehicle, supervising, or
assisting in the loading or unloading, attending a vehicle being loaded or
unloaded, or remaining in readiness to operate the vehicle;
            6.   All time spent performing the driver requirements relating to
an accident; and
            7.   All time repairing, obtaining assistance or remaining in
attendance upon a disabled vehicle.
(Res. R-C-95-24, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 41.069 RETENTION OF RECORDS AND CONFIDENTIALITY.
   Records will be maintained, in keeping with federal regulations, by the
county drug and alcohol testing contracted services.
(Res. R-C-95-24, passed 12-11-1995)
PERSONNEL POLICY
§ 41.080 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The personnel policies are adopted and incorporated by reference herein as
fully as if set out at length in this code of ordinances. Two copies of the
personnel policies are on file and are available for public inspection.
(Res. passed 4-2-1990; Res. R-C-96-3, passed 2-5-1996; Ord. O-C-98-4, passed 7-
6-1998; Ord. O-CC-99-1, passed 1-11-1999; Ord. O-C-10-3, passed 7-7-2010; Ord.
O-CC-10-1, passed 11-1-2010; Ord. O-C-10-6, passed 11-1-2010; Ord. O-C-11-4,
passed - -; Ord. O-CC-11-3, passed - -; Ord. O-C-11-5, passed - -; Ord. O-C-12-
6, passed 6-4-2012; Ord. O-CC-13-1, passed 4-25-2013; Ord. O-CC-13-2, passed 5-
30-2013; Ord. O-C-13-3, passed 6-3-2013; Ord. O-C-18-7, passed 12-5-2018; Ord.
O-C-18-8, passed 12-18-2018; Ord. O-CC-18-1, passed 12-20-2018)
COUNTY EMPLOYEE HANDBOOK
§ 41.095 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The County Employee Handbook is adopted and incorporated by reference herein
as fully as if set out at length in this code of ordinances. Two copies of the
County Employee Handbook are on file and are available for public inspection.
(Res. R-C-02-7, passed 12-2-2002; Res. R-C-02-8, passed - -; Res. R-C-03-3,
passed 5-5-2003; Ord. O-CC-06-5, passed 12-14-2006; Ord. O-C-06-11, passed 12-
4-2006; Ord. O-CC-08-2, passed 4-24-2008; Ord. O-C-08-6, passed 4-7-2008)
COUNTY HIGHWAY PERSONNEL POLICIES HANDBOOK
§ 41.110 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The County Highway Personnel Policies Handbook is adopted and incorporated
by reference herein as fully as if set out at length in this code of
ordinances. Two copies of the County Highway Personnel Policies Handbook are on
file and are available for public inspection.
(Ord. O-C-10-4, passed 7-7-2010 ; Ord. O-C-11-6, passed - -; Ord. O-CC-11-2,
passed - -)
§ 41.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   A person who uses information in a manner contrary to §
41.003 may be prohibited by the County Commissioners from obtaining a copy of
any further data under I.C. 5-14-3-3(d) and may be subject to a civil penalty
of up to $2,500.
(Ord. O-C-08-8, passed 6-2-2008)
CHAPTER 42: FEES
Section
General Fees
   
42.001   Copy and facsimile fees
   
42.002   Real property endorsement fee
   
42.003   Recording fee
   
42.004   Bad checks
   
42.005   Dog tag fees
   
42.006   Bulk form copies; manner and fees
County Health Department Fees
   
42.020   Health Department fees
   
42.021   Mortgage inspection
Planning and Zoning Fees
   
42.035   Road reviews
Landfill Fees
   
42.050   County landfill fees
Sheriff Department’s Fees
   
42.065   Foreclosure sales
   
42.066   Accident reports
   
42.067   Inspection fee
   
42.068   Fingerprinting fee
Electronic Map Data Fees
   
42.080   Title
   
42.081   Definitions
   
42.082   Fee schedule
   
42.083   Exceptions to fee schedule
   
42.084   Third party contractor
   
42.085   Payment
   
42.086   Compliance with state statutes
   
42.087   Use restrictions and notice
   
42.088   Electronic Map Generation Fund
   
42.089   Dispute resolution
   
42.090   Effective date
 
   
42.999   Penalty
GENERAL FEES
§ 42.001 COPY AND FACSIMILE FEES.
   The following fee schedule is hereby established for copies of public
records made by the county and each of its departments and agencies effective
January 1, 2007.
   (A)   For photocopies of all public records, the fee shall be $0.10 per page
per side. Written receipts will not be issued for copying costs that total less
than an accumulative $0.50.
   (B)   For photocopies of public records produced in a format other than
photocopying, including, but not limited to, computer tapes and diskettes, the
fee shall be equal to the actual cost of copying that particular public record.
   (C)   This fee schedule shall apply in all instances except those instances
in which another fee is prescribed by statute under state law or under a court
order.
   (D)   For facsimiles, the fee shall be $0.50 per page for transmitting and
for receiving facsimiles. This fee includes facsimiles transmitted to toll free
numbers.
   (E)   (1)   The County Auditor may charge the following copying fees for
aerial plat photocopies:
         (a)   Four dollars per page for a 20-inch by 24-inch photo plat; and
         (b)   Two dollars per page for an 11- inch by 17-inch, 8.5-inch by 14-
inch or 8.5-inch by 11-inch photo plat.
      (2)   Any funds received from the sale of aerial plat photocopies shall
be deposited into the Plat Book Fund.
(Ord. O-CC-99-2, passed 10-28-1999; Ord. O-CC-06-4, passed 12-14-2006; Res. R-
C-07-1, passed 2-21-2007)
§ 42.002 REAL PROPERTY ENDORSEMENT FEE.
   (A)   Beginning July 1, 2019, the Auditor of the county is authorized to
collect a fee for each real property endorsement made by the Auditor in the
amount of $10 for each legal description of each parcel contained in the deed
with respect to which a taxing information number has been established;
provided, however, that no public utility shall be charged more than $10 for
each easement presented to the Auditor regardless of the number of parcels
contained in said easement.
   (B)   Such revenues collected pursuant to this section are hereby dedicated
to the fund for the use of maintaining plat books and shall be placed in a
dedicated fond, namely, Plat Book Fee Fund.
(Ord. O-C-03-3, passed 3-3-2003; Ord. O-C-17-4, passed 4-18-2017; Ord. O-C-19-
1, passed 1-2- 2019; Ord. O-C-19-2, passed 6-18-2019)
§ 42.003 RECORDING FEE.
   (A)   The County Recorder is authorized to charge and collect a supplemental
fee for recording a single document in the amount of $3, which fee shall be in
addition to other fees provided by law for recording a document.
   (B)   All revenue received from these fees shall be deposited in the
Recorder’s Records Perpetuation Fund and used for the purposes of these funds.
   (C)   This section is effective October 1, 1995.
(Ord. O-C-95-6, passed 7-3-1995; Ord. O-C-95-9, passed 9-18-1995)
§ 42.004 BAD CHECKS.
   (A)    In the event the County Prosecutor sends a notice required under I.C.
26-2-7-3, the person receiving the notice shall be required to pay the amounts
required by state law in cash or certified funds to the office of the County
Prosecutor, including a service charge payable to the County Prosecutor in the
amount of $20 or 5% of the face of the amount of the check, whichever is
greater, but not to exceed $250.
   (B)   The County Prosecutor may establish and maintain a trust checking
account into which shall be deposited the principal amount of any bad check
along with all other fees collected from the issuer thereof. The purpose of the
fund is for deposits of monies received under division (A) above.
   (C)   A Prosecutor’s Special Fee Fund is hereby established. All fees
collected under division (A) above shall be regularly delivered to the County
Treasurer in the manner of fees collected by county officers for deposit into
the Prosecutor’s Special Fee Fund. The County Council may only appropriate
monies on deposit in the Prosecutor’s Special Fee Fund for purposes of the
Prosecutor’s office, at the request of the Prosecutor, these appropriations may
be made for any purpose. County monies may lawfully be appropriated to the
Prosecutor’s office and need not be limited to attributable costs of the
functions and services from which the fees derive.
   (D)   The amount of any dishonored check paid to the County Prosecutor shall
be paid from the Prosecutor’s trust checking account to the name and address of
the check payee with no appropriation from the County Council being necessary.
   (E)   (1)   The Treasurer of the county shall charge and collect a surcharge
of $20 from any person or entity presenting and tendering payment to the
Treasurer of the county which is dishonored or returned unpaid for any reason.
The charge shall not be considered an interest charge, finance charge, a time
price differential or any charge of a similar nature.
      (2)   All surcharge funds collected by the Treasurer of the county shall
be paid into the General Fund.
(Ord. O-C-99-1, passed 3-1-1999; Ord. O-C-06-4, passed 3-6-2006)
§ 42.005 DOG TAG FEES.
   The Perry County Animal Shelter, Inc. is designated to receive $0.50 from
each dog tax payment hereafter collected by the Township Assessor or Township
Trustee, as the case may be, of each township of the county. The Perry County
Animal Shelter, Inc. shall use the funds disbursed to it to maintain an animal
shelter.
(Ord. C-1-88, passed 3-7-1988; Ord. O-C-97-3, passed 4-7-1997)
§ 42.006 BULK FORM COPIES; MANNER AND FEES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
      BULK FORM COPY. An aggregation of:
         (a)   Copies of all recorded documents received by the County Recorder
for recording in a calendar day, week, month, or year; except military
discharges as restricted by I.C. 10-17- 2-4;
         (b)   The indices for finding, retrieving, and viewing all recorded
documents received by the County Recorder for recording in a calendar day,
week, month, or year; or
         (c)   Both divisions (a) and (b).
      BULK USER. An individual, corporation, partnership, limited liability
company or unincorporated association that receives bulk form copies under a
contract with the County Recorder.
      COPY. A reproduction, including an image of a recorded document or
indices created by:
         (a)   Duplicating electronically stored data onto a disk, tape, drum,
or any other medium of electronic data storage; or
         (b)   Reproducing on microfilm.
      INDICES. All of the indexing information used by the County Recorder for
finding, retrieving, and viewing a recorded document.
      RECORDED DOCUMENT. A writing, paper, document, plat, map, survey, or
anything else received at any time for recording or filing in the public
records maintained by the County Recorder or the County Recorder’s designee.
   (B)   Manner and form of production. It is hereby established that the Perry
County Recorder shall provide bulk form copies to a bulk user only by
electronically transmitting the copies using an electronic transfer process.
   (C)   Procedure for requesting bulk form copies. 
      (1)   A bulk user must submit a written request to the County Recorder
that identifies the requested bulk form copies with reasonable particularity.
Unless the request is refused under division (F), upon receipt of a valid
written request, the County Recorder or the County Recorder’s designee shall
provide the bulk form copies to the bulk user by the method or methods
established by this section. The bulk form copies shall be provided within a
reasonable time after the later of the following events:
         (a)   The Recorder’s archival process is completed and bulk form
copies become available in the County Recorder’s Office.
         (b)   The bulk form user executes a contract that meets the
requirements of division (E) of this section with:
            1.   The County Recorder; and
            2.   If the County Recorder uses a third party to provide bulk copy
services, the County Recorder’s designee.
      (2)   The County Recorder or the County Recorder’s designee shall work
with reasonable diligence to ensure that bulk form copies are timely produced
to the bulk user.
   (D)   Fees charged for bulk form copies. 
      (1)   Based on a cost study dated August 24, 2017, by the Perry County
Recorder (which is incorporated herein by reference), this Board finds and
determines that the costs incurred by the Perry County Recorder of producing
bulk form copies (including applying a watermark or other protective feature)
substantially exceed both the standard fee of $0.10 per page or per recorded
document fixed by I.C. 36-2-7-10.1(d), and the fee hereafter fixed.
Accordingly, the following fee schedule is hereby adopted:
         (a)   $0.20 per page for a copy of a recorded document, including the
instrument’s book and page, if applicable.
         (b)   $0.20 per recorded document for a copy of the indices used by
the County Recorder for finding, retrieving, and viewing a recorded document.
      (2)   The fees charged by the County Recorder are subject to the
following requirements:
         (a)   The County Recorder shall pay the fees into the County Treasury
at the end of each calendar month;
         (b)   The fees prescribed and collected under this section supersede
all other fees for bulk form copies required by law to be charged for services
rendered by the County Recorder to bulk users;
         (c)   All revenue generated by the County Recorder under this section
shall be deposited in the County Recorder’s Records Perpetuation Fund and used
by the Recorder in accordance with I.C. 36-2-7-10(f).
         (d)   The Recorder shall periodically update and verify the cost study
referred to in division (D)(1) above.
   (E)   Bulk user contract; termination.
      (1)   (a)   A bulk user must enter into a contract with the County
Recorder, and if the County Recorder uses a third party to provide bulk copy
services, the County Recorder’s designee, in order to receive bulk form copies.
The contract must be in writing and must require that the bulk user agree not
to do any of the following:
            1.   Except as provided in division (F) of this section, provide,
transfer, or allow the transfer of any copy of a recorded document obtained by
the bulk user under this section to a third party.
            2.   Engage in unauthorized access to recorded documents.
            3.   Engage in unauthorized alteration of recorded documents.
         (b)   A contract required under this section may not include any
restrictions on a bulk form user’s use of the bulk form copies other than those
contained in this section.
      (2)   If a bulk user does not comply with a contract, the County Recorder
may terminate the contract, immediately stop providing bulk form copies to the
bulk user, and refuse to provide the bulk form copies required by the bulk user
if all termination provisions and procedures in the contract have been met by
the County Recorder. The County Recorder may refuse subsequent requests from a
bulk user for bulk form copies in the following circumstances:
         (a)   The bulk user is a person that has had a previous bulk form copy
contract terminated by the County Recorder because the Recorder determined that
the bulk user failed to comply with the contract.
         (b)   The bulk user is a corporation or limited liability company in
which a person has a majority or controlling interest and:
            1.   The person requested bulk form copies under a previous
contract with the County Recorder; and
            2.   The contract was terminated by the County Recorder because the
County Recorder determined that the person failed to comply with the contract.
   (F)   Resale of bulk form copies by a bulk user.
      (1)   (a)   A bulk user that is licensed under I.C. 27-1-15.6-6(d) or
holds a certificate of authority under I.C. 27-7-3-6 may provide bulk form
copies related to the specific order for a title search (as defined in I.C. 27-
7-3-2) when operating as:
            1.   A title plant for the issuance of title insurance as defined
in I.C. 27-7-3-2; or
            2.   A title company as defined in I.C. 27-7-3-2.
         (b)   A bulk user that meets the requirements of this division may
charge its customers a fee for using the bulk form copies obtained by the bulk
user that may not exceed the costs incurred by the bulk user for obtaining the
bulk form copies. A bulk user that meets the requirements of this division may
not resell, provide, transfer, or allow the transfer of any copy of a recorded
document, whether in bulk form or as individual copies or images, to any other
bulk user or title plant.
      (2)   A bulk user that does not meet the requirements of division (F)(1)
(a) above is prohibited from selling, offering for sale, advertising for sale,
soliciting a purchase of, loaning, giving away, allowing subscription service
to, or otherwise transferring, providing or allowing the transfer of bulk form
copies for commercial purposes to a third party, whether the copies are in bulk
form or individual copies or images.
   (G)   Enhanced access not affected. This section does not apply to enhanced
access authorized under I.C. 5-14-3-3 and any Perry County Ordinances
promulgated thereunder, including, but not limited to, Ordinance O-CC-08- 3,
codified as §
36.03.
   (H)   Watermarking. The recorder shall watermark all bulk form copies with
the following:
      “PROPERTY OF PERRY COUNTY, IN. – NOT FOR RESALE.”
(Ord. O-C-17-6, passed 9-19-2017; Ord. O-C-18-1, passed 1-19-2018; Ord. O-C-20-
6, passed 9-15- 2020)
COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT FEES
§ 42.020 HEALTH DEPARTMENT FEES.
Service Fee
Service                                 Fee
Birth certificate - combination         $15
Birth certificate - single              $10
Death certificate                       $10
Correction to birth or death            $5
certificates
Court-ordered affidavit of amendment of $25
birth certificate
Court-ordered paternity affidavit       $25
Genealogy                               $25 (for first request plus $5 per hour
                                        after the first hour of research)
(Ord. O-C-08-10, passed 9-3-2008; Ord. O-C-13-6, passed 12-20-2013)
§ 42.021 MORTGAGE INSPECTION.
   The County Board of Health does hereby establish the following;
 
Service                        Fee
VA and FHA mortgage inspection $35
 
(Ord. 1982-H-1, passed 7-5-1983)
PLANNING AND ZONING FEES
§ 42.035 ROAD REVIEWS.
   Any individual(s) who shall file a petition for the vacation or moving of a
county road in the county shall, at the time of filing the petition, also file
with the Auditor of the county a fee in the amount of $75 to pay for road
viewers and other expenses as are necessary in the determination of the
petition.
(Ord. 1983-C-2, passed 4-4-1983)
LANDFILL FEES
§ 42.050 COUNTY LANDFILL FEES.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-9-30-21, the users of the county landfill shall
pay just and equitable fees for the use of and the service rendered by the
facilities.
   (B)   The fees for the use of the services rendered by the county landfill
shall be as follows:
 
Service                                                          Fee
Dogs                                                             $2 each
Packer loads; charge determined by capacity of commercial packer $1.50 per yard
Pick-up truck half ton, three-quarter ton                        $3 per load
Truck, one ton                                                   $8 per load
Truck with 12-foot bed or longer; one and one-half two ton       $15 per load
 
(Ord. 1983-CC-12, passed 6-23-1983)
SHERIFF DEPARTMENT’S FEES
§ 42.065 FORECLOSURE SALES.
   (A)   (1)   The Sheriff’s Sale Program is approved and established to
provide the procedure for the Sheriff to contract for certain administrative,
technical, clerical and related services that are reasonable and appropriate in
order to effectively prepare for, manage and implement foreclosure sales.
      (2)   The Sheriff is authorized to negotiate and execute a contract with
a third party to obtain administrative, technical, clerical and related
services in order for the Sheriff to conduct the Sheriff’s sale program.
      (3)   The Sheriff’s sale contract shall provide for the delivery of
services by a contractor in compliance with all applicable statutory provisions
for the conduct of foreclosure sale proceedings and the Sheriff’s sale program.
The contract shall also provide for payment of a fee not to exceed $100 for
each cause number scheduled in the Sheriff’s sale program to the contractor for
the services.
   (B)   The expense incurred by the Sheriff shall be $100. The Sheriff of the
county is hereby authorized to charge a fee of $200 for each mortgage
foreclosure sale. One hundred dollars shall be utilized by the Sheriff to pay
the services of the contract referenced in division (A) above while the other
$100 shall be deposited in the County General Fund for appropriation for the
operating expenses of the Sheriffs Department.
(Ord. O-C-05-6, passed 12-5-2005; Ord. O-C-06-2, passed 2-15-2006; Ord. O-C-09-
4, passed 7-15-2009)
§ 42.066 ACCIDENT REPORTS.
   (A)   The County Sheriff’s office shall charge $12 per copy for each
accident report it provides to any person or entity who requests the same.
   (B)   The amounts collected by the County Sheriff’s office for copies of
accident reports shall be deposited into a separate account established and
maintained by the County Auditor and known as the Accident Report Account which
account may be utilized by the County Sheriff as allowed by law.
(Ord. O-CC-07-1, passed 3-22-2007; Ord. O-CC-17-1, passed 1-26-2017)
§ 42.067 INSPECTION FEE.
   (A)   There is hereby established an inspection fee for a vehicle inspection
made by members of the County Sheriff’s Department including the Sheriff,
regular deputies or reserves or other officers by allowed by statute. These
fees shall be payable by the person requesting the inspection. The fee shall be
paid at the time of the inspection. Upon payment of the fee, the person making
the inspection shall issue a receipt.
   (B)   The amount of the inspection fee shall be $5. All inspections shall
take place at the County Sheriff’s Department unless otherwise agreed to by the
County Sheriff’s Department. Nothing herein shall be interpreted to require any
inspector to travel to any location outside the boundaries of the county to
make an inspection.
   (C)   The revenues collected pursuant to this section shall be deposited in
a Special Vehicle Inspection Fund which is hereby established by this section.
The Common Council, as the fiscal body of the county, must appropriate the
money collected from these fees only for law enforcement purposes.
(Ord. O-C-03-4, passed 5-5-2003)
§ 42.068 FINGERPRINTING FEE.
   (A)   If the Sheriff’s Department provides fingerprinting services to
members of the public upon request, the Sheriff’s Department may charge a fee
of $3 to each member of the public requesting such services.
   (B)   The revenues collected pursuant to this section shall be deposited
into a special fund established and maintained by the County Auditor know as
the County Law Enforcement Continuing Education Fund.
   (C)   The amounts claimed for expenditures by the Sheriff’s Department from
the County Law Enforcement Continuing Education Fund do not require
appropriation prior to expenditure, and may be utilized by the Sheriff’s
Department for law enforcement continuing education.
(Ord. O-C-12-8, passed 7-2-2012)
ELECTRONIC MAP DATA FEES
§ 42.080 TITLE.
   This subchapter and any parts herein shall be known as the county electronic
map subchapter.
(Ord. 2007-O-C-07-2/O-CC-07-2, passed 6-20-2007)
§ 42.081 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ELECTRONIC MAP DATA. Copyrighted data created and provided by a public
agency from an electronic geographic information system.
    PERSON. In accordance with I.C. 5-14-3-2, an individual, a corporation, a
limited liability company, a partnership, an unincorporated association or a
governmental entity.
(Ord. 2007-O-C-07-2/O-CC-07-2, passed 6-20-2007)
§ 42.082 FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 5-14-3-8(j), the county may charge a fee, uniform to
all persons for providing electronic map data that is based upon a reasonable
percentage of the county’s direct cost of maintaining upgrading and enhancing
the electronic map and for the direct cost of supplying the electronic map in
the form requested by the person(s).
   (B)   In the case where disclosable and nondisclosable electronic map data
are combined, I.C. 5-14-3-6 provides that the county may charge a reasonable
fee for the county’s direct cost of computer programming to separate
disclosable from nondisclosable electronic map data.
   (C)   It is hereby established by the County Commissioners and County
Council that the initial fee schedule for the transmission of electronic map
data is as set forth in division (E) below.
   (D)   If the county contracts with a third party contractor to handle the
transmission of county electronic map data, the third party contractor shall
receive two-thirds, and the county one-third of the fees charged the person for
electronic map data. This fee schedule shall be reviewed on an annual basis and
may be changed on an annual basis to reflect the change in the cost in
providing the electronic map data.
   (E)   The fee schedule for the transmission of county electronic map data,
effective as of June 20, 2007, is as follows:
      (1)   Complete map data layers.
         (a)   An annual fee of $1,500, paid in advance, for the continuous
transmission of available and disclosable countywide non-photo electronic map
data layers;
         (b)   A fee of $750, paid in advance for a one time delivery of
available and disclosable countywide non-photo electronic map data layers
delivered on a CD; and
         (c)   A fee of $750, paid in advance, for a one time delivery of a
county’s most recent aerial photo layer delivered on CDs.
      (2)   Subsets of map data layers (for less than countywide areas). A fee
of $75 per hour for the preparation of one time specifically requested subsets
of county electronic map data.
      (3)   Separating disclosable and nondisclosable data. A fee of $ 150 per
hour for computer programming required to separate disclosable and
nondisclosable electronic map data if this is required as part of a one time
map data request.
(Ord. 2007-O-C-07-2/O-CC-07-2, passed 6-20-2007)
§ 42.083 EXCEPTIONS TO FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 5-14-3-8(k), any public agency, as defined by I.C. 5-
14-3-2, located within the county or within adjacent counties that agrees to
share with the county any electronic map information that that public agency
might have, if any, that is of the same type as is being shared by the county,
the county will agree to automatically approve a data sharing application with
that public agency and waive that portion of the electronic map fee that would
otherwise be retained by the county.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 5-14-3-8(k), the county’s retained portion of the
electronic map fee shall be waived at the county’s discretion if the use of the
electronic map data will be used for a noncommercial purpose, including the
following:
      (1)   Public agencies that do not agree to share with county the same
type of electronic map data being provided by the county;
      (2)   Nonprofit activities;
      (3)   Journalism; and/or
      (4)   Academic research.
(Ord. 2007-O-C-07-2/O-CC-07-2, passed 6-20-2007)
§ 42.084 THIRD PARTY CONTRACTOR.
   (A)   In accordance with I.C. 5-14-3-3.6, electronic map information may be
provided to person(s) through the county’s own computer gateway, or by
agreement through a computer gateway of a third party contractor. I.C. 5-14-3-
3.6(e) provides that a contract entered into under this section may require the
payment of a reasonable fee to either the third party contractor, the county,
or both.
   (B)   In accordance with I.C. 5-14-3-4, neither the county nor the third
party contractor shall disclose electronic map data that is specifically
excepted from disclosure requirements.
(Ord. 2007-O-C-07-2/O-CC-07-2, passed 6-20-2007)
§ 42.085 PAYMENT.
   Where the county is using its own computer gateway for the provision to
person(s) of electronic map data, payment shall be made by the person(s) at the
time of delivery. Where the county has entered into an agreement with a third
party contractor to provide electronic map data through the third party
contractor’s computer gateway, the third party contractor shall handle the
billing and invoicing of the fees charged and shall agree to send by United
States mail that portion of the fee due the county to the county’s Electronic
Map Generation Fund within ten business days of the receipt of payment of fees
to the third party contractor by the person(s) making the purchase.
(Ord. 2007-O-C-07-2/O-CC-07-2, passed 6-20-2007)
§ 42.086 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE STATUTES.
   Nothing herein shall compel any office or their contracted third party
contractor to charge a fee for copies if the fee imposed by this subchapter is
contrary to state law. In the event the fees in this subchapter are contrary to
any charges established by state statute, the state statute shall apply.
(Ord. 2007-O-C-07-2/O-CC-07-2, passed 6-20-2007)
§ 42.087 USE RESTRICTIONS AND NOTICE.
   (A)   Pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 5-14-3-3(e), no person, other than
those authorized in writing by the Board of Commissioners, may use the
electronic map data provided by the county for commercial purposes, including
to sell, advertise or solicit the purchase of merchandise, goods or services,
or sell, loan, give away or otherwise deliver the information obtained by
request to any other person for these purposes. This includes the repackaging
or assimilation of electronic map data for a commercial purpose in paper or
electronic media. The electronic map data may be used as a reference for
determining the accuracy of maps developed independently from the county’s
electronic map data.
   (B)   A person who uses information in a manner contrary to this subchapter
or a rule or ordinance adopted under I.C. 5-14-3-3 may be prohibited by the
county from obtaining any electronic map data. The following notice regarding
data ownership, restrictions and qualifications shall be provided to every
person that receives a copy of the county’s electronic map data.
      “Perry County electronic map data is the property of Perry County,
Indiana. All electronic map data supplied by Perry County has been derived from
public records that are constantly undergoing change and is not warranted for
content or accuracy. The county does not guarantee the positional or thematic
accuracy of the data. The cartographic digital file server is not a legal
representation of any of the features depicted, and the county disclaims any
assumption of the legal status they represent. Any implied warranties,
including warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose,
shall be and/or expressly excluded. The data represents an actual reproduction
of data contained in the county’s computer files. This data may be incomplete
or inaccurate, and is subject to modifications and changes. Therefore, the
county cannot be held liable for errors or omissions in the data. The
recipient’s uses and reliance upon the data is at the recipient’s risk. By
using this data, the recipient agrees to protect, hold harmless and indemnify
the county and its employees and officers. This indemnity covers reasonable
attorney fees and all court costs associated with the defense of the county
arising out of this disclaimer. The recipient may copy this data into computer
memory or onto computer storage devices and prepare derivative works from it
for the recipient’s own use.
      Pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 5-14-3-3(e), no person, other than
those authorized in writing by the Board of Commissioners may use the
electronic map data provided by the county for commercial purposes, including
to sell, advertise or solicit the purchase of merchandise, goods or services,
or sell, loan, give away or otherwise deliver the information obtained by
request to any other person for these purposes. A person who uses information
in a manner contrary to a rule or ordinance adopted under I.C. 5-14-3-3(e) may
be prohibited by the Board of Commissioners from obtaining any electronic map
data.
      Please refer to Ordinance O-C-07-2 for any other restrictions on the use
of electronic map data or penalties for the misuse electronic map data.”
   (C)   A copy of the language contained in this section shall be
conspicuously posted in all offices where electronic map data is sold in the
county, and shall be provided to any person(s) (as defined by I.C. 5-14-3-2)
who desires to purchase electronic map data from the county.
(Ord. 2007-O-C-07-2/O-CC-07-2, passed 6-20-2007) Penalty, see §
42.999
§ 42.088 ELECTRONIC MAP GENERATION FUND.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 5-14-3-8.5, the County Council hereby establishes the
County Electronic Map Generation Fund. The Electronic Map Generation Fund shall
consist of fees charged for providing electronic map data to person(s) in
accordance with I.C. 5-14-3-8(j) and be subject to the appropriation by the
County Council.
   (B)   In accordance with I.C. 5-14-3-8.5(b), all funds collected in the
Electronic Map Generation Fund shall be specifically dedicated to the following
purposes:
      (1)   The maintenance, upgrading and enhancement of the electronic map;
and
      (2)   The reimbursement of expenses incurred by a public agency in
supplying an electronic map in the form requested by the person(s).
(Ord. 2007-O-C-07-2/O-CC-07-2, passed 6-20-2007)
§ 42.089 DISPUTE RESOLUTION.
   Any person who has a dispute, or seeks relief from the terms of this
subchapter may seek resolution of that dispute or relief from the Board of
Commissioners of the county.
(Ord. 2007-O-C-07-2/O-CC-07-2, passed 6-20-2007)
§ 42.090 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be effective on June 20, 2007.
(Ord. 2007-O-C-07-2/O-CC-07-2, passed 6-20-2007)
§ 42.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person(s) who violates the terms and conditions of §§
42.080 through
42.090 by failing to pay for purchased electronic map data shall be liable for
the total fee charged for the electronic map data plus attorney fees and the
cost of collection. Any person(s) who violates the restrictions on the use of
electronic map data as set forth in §
42.087 shall be guilty of an infraction and may be fined by the county up to
$2,500, and each violation shall be deemed a separate offence. Also, in the
event that there is an improper use of electronic map data as set forth in §
42.087 or in violation of state or federal law, the county may prohibit the
person(s) (as defined by I.C. 5-14-3-2) from obtaining any electronic map data
and seek injunctive relief from any misuse of electronic map data by the person
(s) who originally purchased the electronic map data or any other person(s) who
has received a copy of the electronic map data.
(Ord. 2007-O-C-07-2/O-CC-07-2, passed 6-20-2007)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SOLID WASTE
      
51.   PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS
CHAPTER 50: SOLID WASTE
Section
Public Disposal
   
50.01   Prohibition
   
50.02   Lawful disposal
   
50.03   Commercial enterprises disposal
   
50.04   Use of containers
   
50.05   Dead animals; prohibition
   
50.06   Rummaging
   
50.07   Interpretation
   
50.08   Authority
County Solid Waste Management District
   
50.20   Established
   
50.21   Territory
   
50.22   Composition of Board of Directors
   
50.23   Terms of Board of Directors
Solid Waste Haulers
   
50.35   Definition
   
50.36   Registration required
   
50.37   Quarterly report
   
50.38   Fee
Illegal Open Dumping
   
50.50   Title
   
50.51   Purpose
   
50.52   Definitions
   
50.53   Acts prohibited
   
50.54   Enforcement authority
   
50.55   Investigation
   
50.56   Enforcement and clean-up
   
50.57   Solid Waste Clean-Up Fund
 
   
50.99   Penalty
PUBLIC DISPOSAL
§ 50.01 PROHIBITION.
   It shall be unlawful to dump or otherwise dispose of trash, garbage, rubbish
or other refuse, of any type or description, anywhere in the county outside the
corporate limits of any city or town, except as hereinafter set forth.
(Ord. 1979-1, passed 1-5-1979; Ord. C-92-3, passed 4-4-1992) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.02 LAWFUL DISPOSAL.
   (A)   It shall be lawful for all persons except commercial enterprises to
dispose of trash, rubbish and refuse by placing the same in designated large
trash, rubbish and refuse containers provided by the Board of Commissioners at
locations to be designated by the Board from time to time; provided that the
disposal shall be limited to less than a truckload as hereinafter defined.
   (B)   For purposes of this subchapter, TRUCKLOAD is defined as any amount
which cannot be hauled in the passenger portion of any vehicle.
(Ord. 1979-1, passed 1-5-1979; Ord. C-92-3, passed 4-4-1992)
§ 50.03 COMMERCIAL ENTERPRISES DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Commercial enterprises and the operators of all trucks, except pickup
trucks, containing no more than the amount specified in §
50.02, are prohibited from disposing of trash, rubbish and other refuse in the
trash and refuse containers provided by the Board.
   (B)   For purposes of this subchapter, COMMERCIAL ENTERPRISES are defined as
all individuals, associations, partnerships, corporations and all entities,
other than individual household. The term commercial enterprises shall not,
however, include churches.
(Ord. 1979-1, passed 1-5-1979; Ord. C-92-3, passed 4-4-1992) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.04 USE OF CONTAINERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to dump or dispose of trash, rubbish or
other refuse on the ground or in any area outside the large trash, rubbish and
refuse containers provided by the Board, no matter how close to the container
the trash, rubbish or other refuse is deposited. All trash, rubbish and other
refuse must be placed in the containers. Failure to do so shall constitute a
violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 1979-1, passed 1-5-1979; Ord. C-92-3, passed 4-4-1992) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.05 DEAD ANIMALS; PROHIBITION.
   It shall be unlawful to dispose of any dead animal, or portion thereof, in
the trash, rubbish and refuse containers provided by the Board.
(Ord. 1979-1, passed 1-5-1979; Ord. C-92-3, passed 4-4-1992) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.06 RUMMAGING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to rummage through, sort through, remove
or otherwise move or disturb the contents of trash, rubbish and refuse
containers provided by the Board, or turn over the containers or dump the
contents thereof, except in the process of the disposal thereof by authorized
county employees or agents.
(Ord. 1979-1, passed 1-5-1979; Ord. C-92-3, passed 4-4-1992) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.07 INTERPRETATION.
   The foregoing provisions notwithstanding, none of the provisions of this
subchapter shall be interpreted to make it unlawful to dispose of trash,
rubbish or other refuse within the corporate limits of an incorporated city or
town in a container approved by the administration of that city or town for
collection and disposal by the city or town.
(Ord. 1979-1, passed 1-5-1979; Ord. C-92-3, passed 4-4-1992)
§ 50.08 AUTHORITY.
   This subchapter is enacted pursuant to the authority contained in I.C. 13-
20.
(Ord. 1979-1, passed 1-5-1979)
COUNTY SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT DISTRICT
§ 50.20 ESTABLISHED.
   The county has designated a county solid waste management district to be
known as the County Solid Waste Management District (the “District”), this
designation to be effective on August 1, 1990.
(Ord. passed 7-2-1990)
§ 50.21 TERRITORY.
   The District shall consist of all of the incorporated and unincorporated
territory of the county.
(Ord. passed 7-2-1990)
§ 50.22 COMPOSITION OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
   The Board of Directors of the District shall consist of:
   (A)   Two members appointed by the county executive from its membership;
   (B)   One member appointed by the county fiscal body from the membership of
the fiscal body;
   (C)   One member who is the executive of the City of Tell City, the
municipality having the largest population in the county;
   (D)   One member of the Common Council of the City of Tell City, the
municipality having the largest population in the county, which member shall be
appointed by the Common Council of Tell City;
   (E)   One member, who is appointed by the executive of the county:
      (1)   Who is the executive of the City of Cannelton, a city in the county
that is not the municipality having the largest population in the county; or
      (2)   Who is a member of the fiscal body of the Town of Troy, a town that
is not the municipality having the largest population in the county.
   (F)   One additional member appointed by the county executive of the county
from its membership.
(Ord. passed 7-2-1990)
§ 50.23 TERMS OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
   The term of office of each of the members of the Board of Directors shall be
coextensive with that member’s term of office as a member of the executive,
legislative or fiscal body from which that member is appointed.
(Ord. passed 7-2-1990)
SOLID WASTE HAULERS
§ 50.35 DEFINITION.
   For purposes of this subchapter, any owner or operator, whether an
individual, company, firm, corporation, partnership or other entity, who
operates a vehicle for the purpose of hauling, transporting or disposing of
solid waste which originates from any source other than the owner or operator’s
residence or business shall be a SOLID WASTE HAULER, whether or not the owner
or operator receives compensation for providing that service; provided that a
county governmental subdivision and its employee shall not be considered a
SOLID WASTE HAULER when hauling, transporting or disposing of solid waste for
and on behalf of the subdivision.
(Ord. O-C-94-6, passed 12-27-1994)
§ 50.36 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   All solid waste haulers shall be required annually to register and
obtain a permit before providing solid waste hauling, transportation or
disposal services within the County Solid Waste District. The permit shall be
obtained from the County Solid Waste Management Board.
   (B)   The solid waste hauler shall provide the following information on a
form provided by the Solid Waste Management Board:
      (1)   The hauler’s full name;
      (2)   The hauler’s address;
      (3)   The hauler’s daytime phone number and emergency phone number;
      (4)   The hauler’s designated responsible person to be in contact with
concerning its day-to-day operations;
      (5)   The general location of the waste hauler and route designation of
various areas served within the Waste Disposal District; and
      (6)   Where possible, maps of service territories.
(Ord. O-C-94-6, passed 12-27-1994)
§ 50.37 QUARTERLY REPORT.
   All solid waste haulers shall report, quarterly, to the District the total
volume of solid waste collected and the percentage or amount that was recycled.
(Ord. O-C-94-6, passed 12-27-1994)
§ 50.38 FEE.
   The Solid Waste Management District shall be entitled to impose a reasonable
fee for the issuance of the permit to defray the cost of its issuance and the
record keeping requirements associated therewith, which fee shall not exceed
$25 per vehicle per year.
(Ord. O-C-94-6, passed 12-27-1994; Ord. O-C-95-1, passed 2-6-1995)
ILLEGAL OPEN DUMPING
§ 50.50 TITLE.
   This subchapter is titled the illegal open dumping subchapter.
(Ord. O-C-97-1, passed 3-3-1997)
§ 50.51 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to prohibit open dumping of solid
waste; to establish penalties for violations thereof; and to provide for the
clean-up of open dumps. Littering and improper disposal at recycling stations
shall also be prohibited. This subchapter is intended to protect the citizens
of the county from the burden of costs related to dumping control and clean-up.
   (B)   The primary intent of the subchapter is to prevent illegal dumping, to
promote clean-up of dumps and to encourage proper waste management
alternatives. Elimination of illegal open dumping is necessary to protect human
health and the natural environment, to protect surface and groundwater from
pollution and to protect the value of property from the negative effects of
illegal dumps. Fines and sanctions are meant to deter violations of this
subchapter.
(Ord. O-C-97-1, passed 3-3-1997) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.52 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCUMULATE.
      (1)   As pertains to solid waste, means any one of the following:
         (a)   Improperly collecting solid waste in improper storage
containers;
         (b)   Collecting solid waste for a period exceeding 90 days; or
         (c)   Collecting solid waste in an accumulation greater than three
cubic yards.
      (2)   As pertains to construction/demolition materials, means any one of
the following:
         (a)   Improperly collecting construction/ demolition materials in an
improper storage container;
          (b)   Collecting construction/demolition materials for a period
exceeding 90 days; or
         (c)   Collecting construction/demolition materials in an accumulation
greater than 40 cubic yards.
   CONSTRUCTION/DEMOLITION MATERIALS. Any discarded construction or demolition
materials including, but not limited to, lumber, wood, paneling, drywall,
roofing, shingles, siding, plumbing, electrical, doors, windows, floor
coverings, cabinets and other similar materials.
   CONTAMINATION. As it pertains to recyclables shall be defined to include:
unrinsed containers with food or product residues; non-container glass
materials; containers that contained oil, pesticides, fertilizers, paint
products, herbicides, poisons or other hazardous materials; materials fouled
with dirt or other substances foreign to their original contents or
composition; wet or saturated newspapers; wet, saturated or waxed cardboard and
waxed paperboard products; plastic products not specifically accepted by the
program; and any other materials not specifically accepted by the recycling
program or any other condition which renders otherwise acceptable materials
unrecyclable.
   DISCARD. To abandon, bury, chuck, deposit, desert, discharge, dispose, drop,
dump, eliminate, emit, fling, heave, hurl, jettison, launch, leave, loft,
pitch, place, put, scrap, spill, throw or toss, any item, any solid waste or
derivative thereof or any inherently wastelike material in a manner so that the
discarded substance or material remains upon the land as solid waste.
   GARBAGE. For the purposes of this subchapter, all putrescible animal solid,
vegetable solid and semisolid wastes from the processing, handling,
preparation, cooking, serving or consumption of food or food materials.
   GENERATION. The act or process of producing solid waste.
   GENERATOR. The person whose actions or processes result in the unwanted
solid waste materials.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. 
      (1)   Any waste that, because of its quantity; concentration; or
physical, chemical or infectious characteristics may:
         (a)   Cause or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or
increase in serious irreversible, or incapacitating reversible, illness;
         (b)    Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health
or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, handled,
disposed of or otherwise managed;
         (c)   Be nondegradable or persistent in the environment;
         (d)   Be biologically magnified;
         (e)   Cause or tend to cause cumulative effects; or
         (f)   Be defined in 40 C.F.R. § 261.3 and any future amendments.
      (2)   This definition includes HOUSEHOLD HAZARDOUS WASTES and used
nonfood oils and solvents.
   INERT SOLID WASTE. Uncontaminated earth, rock, rigid, concrete, bricks,
tiles or aged asphalt. Uncontaminated natural wood, brush, leaves, wood chips,
sawdust and similar materials shall be considered to be INERT WASTE for the
purposes of this subchapter. Any asbestos-containing products shall not be
considered to be INERT WASTE for the purposes of this subchapter.
   INFECTIOUS WASTE. Any waste that is capable of transmitting a communicable
disease. This definition includes, but is not limited to, pathological wastes
(human tissues, blood, excreta and secretions), medical and laboratory wastes,
contaminated or fouled bedding, bandages, dressings and diapers, animal
carcasses, offals, excreta, body parts, bedding and other similar materials.
   LITTERING. Discarding any item of solid waste in any location other than a
proper waste storage container or disposal site. LITTERING shall include
leaving unsolicited or unwanted materials unless placed in a proper delivery
receptacle. LITTERING may also include any item of waste materials moved by
wind, water or animals onto a public way or onto an adjacent property.
LITTERING shall not include anything or any combination of items exceeding a
volume of one cubic foot.
   OPEN DUMP. For the purposes of this subchapter, shall be defined by the
definition in I.C. 13-11-2-146, meaning the consolidation of solid waste from
one or more sources or the disposal of solid waste at a single disposal site
that does not fulfill the requirements of a sanitary landfill or other land
disposal method prescribed by law or regulations, and that is established and
maintained without cover and without regard to the possibilities of
contamination of surface or subsurface water resources.
   OPEN DUMPING. For the purposes of this subchapter, shall be defined by the
definition in I.C. 13-11-2-147, meaning the act of disposing of solid waste at
an open dump. OPEN DUMPING shall include an accumulation of anything or any
combination of items exceeding a volume of one cubic foot.
   PERSON. For the purposes of this subchapter, shall be defined by the
definition in I.C. 13-11-2-14, meaning any individual, partnership,
copartnership, firm, company, corporation, association, joint stock company,
trust, estate, municipal corporation, city, school city, town, school district,
school corporation, county, any consolidated unit of government, political
subdivision, state agency or any other legal entity.
   RECYCLABLES. Materials segregated from the waste stream for the purposes of
collection and reprocessing to recover and reuse as a material resource. This
shall minimally include glass containers, newspaper, office paper, unwaxed
corrugated cardboard, aluminum and steel containers and certain plastic
containers. Other materials may be specified from time to time and may include
magazines, phone books, batteries, tires, oils, metals and any other item then
specified as accepted by recycling programs and services operating in the
county.
   SALVAGING. The controlled removal of reusable or recyclable waste materials
from a solid waste disposal facility with the consent of the owner of the waste
material.
   SCAVENGING. The uncontrolled, unauthorized and illegal removal of materials
from solid waste at any point in the waste management system.
   SOLID WASTE. Any garbage, refuse, sludge or other discharged or disposed
materials, including solid, liquid or semi-solid, or contained gaseous
materials resulting from any operation, activity or source. For the purposes of
this subchapter, this definition excludes hazardous and infectious wastes as
defined above.
   STORAGE.
      (1)   As pertains to solid waste, means proper temporary containment of
waste materials in a waste storage container for a period not to exceed 90 days
or an accumulation of three cubic yards, whichever is the first to occur.
      (2)   As pertains to construction/demolition materials means proper
temporary containment of waste materials in a waste storage container for a
period not to exceed 90 days or an accumulation of 40 cubic yards, whichever is
the first to occur.
   WASTE STORAGE CONTAINER. A proper and suitable receptacle used for the
temporary storage of solid waste, infectious or hazardous wastes while awaiting
collection. CONTAINERS shall be designed to prevent escape or leakage of
contents and should be resistant to scavenging animals. Plastic bags, paper
bags and corrugated boxes shall not be considered to be proper CONTAINERS for
outdoor storage of wastes.
   VECTOR. Any animal or substance capable of harboring and transmitting
microorganisms from one animal to another or to a human.
(Ord. O-C-97-1, passed 3-3-1997)
§ 50.53 ACTS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Violation of any of the following provisions shall constitute a Class
A violation of this subchapter.
      (1)   No person shall discard any infectious or hazardous waste materials
within the county.
      (2)   No person who owns real property in the county shall cause or
consent to the disposal, open dumping or discarding, upon that property, of any
solid waste, infectious waste or hazardous waste generated at any location not
owned by that person, or generated by any other person.
      (3)   No person shall interfere with the enforcement of this subchapter.
   (B)   Violation of any of the following provisions shall constitute a Class
B violation of this subchapter.
      (1)   No person shall discard any solid waste on the property of another
person except in an approved and (if required) permitted disposal facility,
transfer site, recycling facility or transfer station.
      (2)   No person shall commit any act specifically prohibited under I.C.
13-30-2-1:
         (a)   Depositing any contaminants upon the land in a place and manner
which creates, or which would create, a pollution hazard that violates or would
violate a rule adopted by one of the State Department of Environmental
Management Boards, or deposit or cause or allow the deposit of any contaminants
or solid waste upon the land except through the use of sanitary landfills,
incineration composting garbage grinding or another method acceptable to the
Solid Waste Management Board;
         (b)   Dumping, causing or allowing the open dumping of garbage or of
any other solid waste in violation of rules adopted by the Solid Waste
Management Board; or
         (c)   Disposing of solid waste in, upon or within the limits of or
adjacent to any public highway, state park, nature preserve or recreation area,
or in or immediately adjacent to any lake or stream, except in proper
containers provided for sanitary storage of solid waste, or except as a part of
a sanitary landfill operation or other land disposal method approved by the
Department.
      (3)   No person shall discard any solid waste within or adjacent to
county property, along roadways or highways, or within or adjacent to lakes and
streams, and elsewhere in the county except in an approved and permitted
disposal facility/transfer site or transfer station.
      (4)   No person shall discard any materials other than recyclables in any
facility or container intended for collecting recyclables.
      (5)   No person shall accumulate infectious or hazardous wastes, solid
waste or construction/demolition waste.
   (C)   Violation of any of the following provisions shall constitute a Class
C violation of this subchapter.
      (1)   No person shall discard any inert solid wastes for final disposal
or for use as fill materials without the express consent of the property owner.
      (2)   No person shall litter, nor permit any dependent minor or other
person for whom that person is legally responsible, to litter within the
county, or cause another person to litter.
      (3)   No person shall deposit any contaminated recyclable materials in
any facility or container intended for collecting recyclable materials.
      (4)   No person shall conduct salvaging of materials at any facility or
container intended for collecting recyclable materials without the prior
written permission of the facility operator.
      (5)   No person shall conduct scavenging of materials at any facility or
container intended for collecting recyclable materials.
      (6)   No person shall open dump any solid waste on his or her own
property, with the exception of materials defined as inert solid waste within
this subchapter.
   (D)   No person shall contract, or otherwise arrange or agree, with a third
party to engage in any act prohibited by this section. A violation of this
section shall be an offense of the same class as the violation committed by the
third party.
   (E)   Failure or refusal to bring property into compliance with this
subchapter after adjudication of a violation shall constitute a Class A
violation of this subchapter. Each day the noncompliance continues shall
constitute a separate violation of this subchapter.
   (F)   It shall not be a defense to an allegation or finding of violation of
this subchapter that other persons have participated in the violation, and any
person adjudicated to have violated this subchapter may be held liable for all
costs related to investigation, enforcement or action to achieve compliance
with this subchapter.
(Ord. O-C-97-1, passed 3-3-1997) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.54 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The following shall be authorized enforcement agents in the
enforcement of this subchapter within the limits of the county:
      (1)   The County Solid Waste District;
      (2)   The County Health Department; and
      (3)   Area law enforcement officials serving the county.
   (B)   The County Prosecutor shall be authorized to take all required court
action in the enforcement of this subchapter.
(Ord. O-C-97-1, passed 3-3-1997)
§ 50.55 INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the authorized enforcement agents to
investigate any reports or complaints of a violation of this subchapter. Any
person who violates any provision of this subchapter shall be subject to
punishment by fines or sanctions as set forth in §
50.99.
   (B)   If access to property is required, the investigation shall proceed on
a voluntary basis. If access is needed to proceed with an investigation, but is
denied, the authorized enforcement agents may seek any necessary
authorizations, including a search warrant, to enter the property.
   (C)   Witness accounts of any acts prohibited herein shall be considered as
evidence to identify violators. Any other pertinent evidence may be considered
to determine whether a violation of this subchapter has occurred.
(Ord. O-C-97-1, passed 3-3-1997) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.56 ENFORCEMENT AND CLEAN-UP.
   (A)   If a condition violating this subchapter exists on real property, the
authorized enforcement agents shall take the following actions.
      (1)   Certified notice shall be mailed to all owner(s) of record at his,
her or their last known mailing address. Owner(s) of record will be allowed 30
days from the day of receipt/refusal of notice to bring the property into
compliance or submit an acceptable clean-up plan specifying dates.
      (2)   If no action is taken by the property owner, the authorized
enforcement agents will take the appropriate actions to bring the property into
compliance with this subchapter.
      (3)   In case of an emergency, the authorized enforcement agents may take
immediate action and mail notice by no later than 48 hours following the
action. If action to bring compliance is taken, the costs involved may be
recovered as set forth in §
50.99.
   (B)   It shall be a violation of this subchapter to interfere with any
authorized enforcement agent while in the performance of duties hereunder.
   (C)   The owner of property on which illegal open dumping acts have occurred
may be included as a party in an enforcement action against a person who
committed the violation for the purposes of obtaining access to the land to
cleanup and properly dispose of the wastes.
   (D)   Enforcement of this subchapter may be brought pursuant to:
      (1)   I.C. 34-28-5-1; or
      (2)   I.C. 36-9-30.
   (E)   (1)   Whenever a law enforcement officer believes in good faith that a
person has committed an ordinance violation, the officer may detain that person
for a time sufficient to:
         (a)   Inform the person of the allegations; and
         (b)   Obtain the person’s name, address, phone number and date of
birth.
      (2)   A person who knowingly or intentionally refuses to provide the
above information commits a Class C misdemeanor pursuant to I.C. 34-4-32-3.
   (F)   A notice of ordinance violation shall state the name of the person to
whom the notice is being issued, the nature of the violation, the specific
section of this subchapter which has been violated, the date of the notice and
the fine imposed for the violation in accordance with §
50.99. The notice of ordinance violation shall direct the person to whom it is
issued to appear before the specific enforcement agent that issued the notice
of ordinance violation.
(Ord. O-C-97-1, passed 3-3-1997) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.57 SOLID WASTE CLEAN-UP FUND.
   (A)   All fines, penalties and clean-up costs assessed under this subchapter
shall be deposited into the County Solid Waste Clean-Up Fund. Collection of
those amounts shall constitute collection of money owed the unit pursuant to
I.C. 36-1-4-17.
   (B)   The funds collected in the County Solid Waste Clean-Up Fund shall be
administered under the direction of the County Solid Waste District Board of
Directors.
   (C)   The funds collected within the County Solid Waste Clean-Up Fund shall
be used for the following purposes at the discretion of the County Solid Waste
District Board of Directors: costs related to the clean-up and proper disposal
of materials collected at illegal open dumping, costs related to purchasing
equipment and/or staff training related to the clean-up of illegal open
dumping, costs related to court fees and attorney fees related to the
prosecution of illegal open dumping, costs related to educational materials
used to discourage solid waste disposal via illegal open dumping, costs related
to informing residents of and publicizing the existence of this subchapter and
associated ordinances, and other expenditures as deemed appropriate by the
County Solid Waste District Board of Directors.
(Ord. O-C-97-1, passed 3-3-1997)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for
which no other penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions
of §
10.99.
   (B)   Public disposal.
      (1)   A violation of any of the provisions of §§
50.01 through
50.08 shall be punishable by a fine of not less than $50 nor more than $500.
      (2)   The county shall pay a reward of $50 to any person providing
information which leads to the conviction of a violator of §§
50.01 through
50.08.
   (C)   Solid waste haulers. Failure to register and obtain the permit
required in §
50.36 shall be punishable by a fine of $200 for the first offense and $500 for
a second or subsequent offense. Each unregistered and unpermitted vehicle shall
constitute a separate offense.
   (D)   Open dumping.
      (1)   Any person who violates the provisions of §§
50.50 through
50.57 shall appear within 30 days at the office of the enforcement agent that
issued the notice of ordinance violation, and shall pay a fine as outlined in
division (D)(2) below. If a violator fails to appear at the office of the
enforcement agent that issued the notice of ordinance violation within 30 days
of the date of the notice of ordinance violation, an enforcement action may be
filed in the County Circuit Court, or any successor court. Upon conviction or
admission of any violation of §§
50.50 through
50.57 in the County Circuit Court, or any successor court, the violator shall
be subject to fines and penalties as outlined in division (D)(3) below.
      (2)   Any person who violates the provisions of §§
50.50 through
50.57 and appears within 30 days at the office of the enforcement agent that
issued the notice of ordinance violation shall pay a fine as follows:
         (a)   Any person whose acts constitute a Class A violation of §§
50.50 through
50.57 shall:
            1.   Pay a fine of $500;
            2.   Pay for and provide receipts evidencing all costs related to
the clean-up and proper disposal of the infectious waste, hazardous waste and/
or solid waste related to the violation; or reimburse the authorized
enforcement agents for all costs related to any clean-ups carried out by the
authorized agents; and
            3.   Provide receipts evidencing one year of contracted trash
disposal service by a licensed waste hauler.
         (b)   Any person whose acts constitute a Class B violation of §§
50.50 through
50.57 shall:
            1.   a.   Pay for and provide receipts evidencing all costs related
to the clean-up of solid waste and proper disposal of solid waste related to
the violation; or
               b.   Reimburse the authorized enforcement agents for all costs
related to the clean-ups carried out by the authorized enforcement agents.
            2.   Provide receipts evidencing one year of contracted trash
disposal service by a licensed waste hauler.
         (c)   Any person whose acts constitute a Class C violation of §§
50.50 through
50.57 shall pay for and provide receipts evidencing all costs related to the
clean-up of solid waste and proper disposal of solid waste related to the
violation; or reimburse the authorized enforcement agents for all costs related
to the clean-ups carried out by the authorized enforcement agents.
      (3)   Upon conviction or admission of any violation of §§
50.50 through
50.57 in the County Circuit Court, or any successor court, the violator shall
be deemed guilty and subject to the following penalties:
         (a)   Any person who commits a Class A violation of §§
50.50 through
50.57 shall be fined a sum of not less than $500 and not greater than $2,500
per violation;
         (b)   Any person who commits a Class B violation of §§
50.50 through
50.57 shall be fined a sum of not less than $500 and not greater than $1,000
per violation.
         (c)   Any person who commits a Class C violation of §§
50.50 through
50.57 shall be fined a sum of not less than $500 and not greater than $500 per
violation.
      (4)   Any person found to be in violation of any provision of §§
50.50 through
50.57 shall, in addition to any fines as set forth above, be assessed all costs
and expenses of the investigation, clean-up and removal of solid waste
connected with the violation, and shall, in addition, be liable for all
reasonable attorney fees and costs incurred by the county or district in the
enforcement of §§
50.50 through
50.57.
      (5)   Collection of money under any section of §§
50.50 through
50.57 shall constitute collection of money owed the unit pursuant to I.C. 36-1-
4-17.
(Ord. 1979-1, passed 1-5-1979; Ord. C-92-3, passed 4-4-1992; Ord. O-C-94-6,
passed 12-27-1994; Ord. O-C-97-1, passed 3-3-1997)
CHAPTER 51: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Definitions
Private Sewage Disposal Systems
   
51.15   Compliance required
   
51.16   Prohibition
   
51.17   Business requirements
   
51.18   Privies
   
51.19   Installation requirements
   
51.20   Defects
   
51.21   Connections to public sewers
   
51.22   New business or subdivision developments
   
51.23   Orders
Permits and Inspections
   
51.35   Permits
   
51.36   Inspections
Powers for Inspection
   
51.50   County Health Officer permitted to enter
Notices
   
51.65   Service
 
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface water and run-off and sewage.
   PERSON. An individual, firm or corporation.
   PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS. Any sewage disposal system not constructed,
installed, maintained, operated and owned by a municipality or a taxing
district established for that purpose.
   PUBLIC SEWER. Any sewer constructed, installed, maintained, operated and
owned by a municipality or a taxing district established for that purpose. A
county sewer installed for the purpose of carrying surface water run-off and
subsoil drainage shall not be considered a PUBLIC SEWER under this definition.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
groundwaters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
receiving, treating and disposing of sewage.
   SEWAGE. Any combination of human excreta and waste water from water closets,
laundries, sinks, bathing facilities and other objectionable waste waters.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
(Ord. 1979-2, passed 6-4-1979)
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS
§ 51.15 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available, all persons
owning or leasing property in the county shall comply with the following
provisions of this chapter for private sewage disposal systems.
(Ord. 1979-2, passed 6-4-1979)
§ 51.16 PROHIBITION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in an insanitary manner upon public or private property within the
county, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the county, any human
excrement or sewage.
(Ord. 1979-2, passed 6-4-1979) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.17 BUSINESS REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   At any business building situated within the county, where there is
installed a sewage disposal system which is not connected to a public sewer
system, and no public sewer system is available, there shall be established,
installed or constructed and maintained a private sewage disposal system which
shall comply with the standards of the State Board of Health as contained in
Bulletin H.S.E. 13 of the State Board of Health or in such other manner as
approved by the State Board of Health.
   (B)   Copies of Bulletin H.S.E. 13 are herewith incorporated by reference as
part of this section and two copies are filed in the office of the County
Auditor and County Health Officer for public inspection.
(Ord. 1979-2, passed 6-4-1979) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.18 PRIVIES.
   (A)   Any privy situated within the county shall be of the sanitary type and
shall be constructed and maintained in a clean condition and so that insects
and rodents cannot enter the vault.
   (B)   Any privy shall be located properly to protect water supplies from
contamination.
(Ord. 1979-2, passed 6-4-1979) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.19 INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All private residential sewage disposal systems and privies shall be
installed, constructed and maintained in an approved manner as described in
Bulletin H.S.E. 25R of the State Board of Health, copies of which are herewith
incorporated by reference as a part of this section and two copies filed in the
office of the County Auditor and County Health Officer for public inspection.
   (B)   (1)   The installation of any other private residential sewage
disposal systems not described in State Board of Health Bulletin H.S.E. 25R of
mechanical, chemical or other means may be approved by the County Health
Officer after the Board of County Commissioners has filed the requirements,
plans and specifications of the device or system in the office of the Auditor
and county health office of the county.
      (2)   The requirements, plans and specifications must bear the written
approval of the State Board of Health.
(Ord. 1979-2, passed 6-4-1979)
§ 51.20 DEFECTS.
   Should any defect exist or occur in any private sewage disposal system or
privy which would cause the sewage disposal system or privy to fail to meet the
requirements in §§
51.17,
51.18 and
51.19(A) and cause an insanitary condition, the defect shall be corrected
immediately by the owner or agent of the owner, occupant or agent of the
occupant. Failure to do so shall be a violation of this chapter and the
violator shall be subject to the penalties prescribed in §
51.99.
(Ord. 1979-2, passed 6-4-1979) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.21 CONNECTIONS TO PUBLIC SEWERS.
   Wherever a public combined or sanitary sewer becomes available and is within
50 feet of the property line of the residential or business property, served by
a private sewage disposal system or privy, situated within the county, a direct
connection shall be made to the sewer and any septic tanks, seepage pits,
outhouses, privy pits and similar sewage disposal and treatment facilities
shall be abandoned and filled in a safe and sanitary manner.
(Ord. 1979-2, passed 6-4-1979) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.22 NEW BUSINESS OR SUBDIVISION DEVELOPMENTS.
   Whenever a new business building or subdivision is developed in an area
where a public combined or sanitary sewer is available, a connection shall be
made to the sewer if the connection can be made at a reasonable cost.
(Ord. 1979-2, passed 6-4-1979)
§ 51.23 ORDERS.
   (A)   After receiving an order in writing from the County Board of Health or
the duly appointed Health Officer, the owner, agent of the owner, the occupant
or agent of the occupant of the property shall comply with the provision of
this chapter as set forth in the order and within the time limit included
therein.
   (B)   The order shall be served on the owner or the owner and the occupant
or on the agent of the owner but may be served on any person who, by contract
with the owner, has assumed the duty of complying with the provisions of an
order.
(Ord. 1979-2, passed 6-4-1979)
PERMITS AND INSPECTIONS
§ 51.35 PERMITS.
   Before a building permit is obtained for the construction of any building or
private residence where a private sewage disposal system or privy is to be
installed or where any alteration, repair or addition of an existing private
sewage system is planned, the owner or agent of the owner shall first obtain a
written permit signed by the County Health Officer. The application for the
permit shall be made on a form provided by the county, which application shall
be supplemented by any plans, specifications and other information as is deemed
necessary by the County Health Officer. A permit and inspection fee of $100
shall be paid to the County Health Department at the time the application is
filed.
(Ord. 1979-2, passed 6-4-1979; Ord. 1982-H-2, passed 2-1-1982; Ord. O-C-14-7,
passed 10-21-2014)
§ 51.36 INSPECTIONS.
   A permit for a private sewage disposal system or privy shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the County
Health Officer. He, she or his or her agent shall be allowed to inspect the
work at any stage of construction; and, in any event, the applicant for the
permit shall notify the County Health Officer when the work is ready for final
inspection, and before any underground portions are covered. The inspection
shall be made within two working days of the receipt of notice by the County
Health Officer.
(Ord. 1979-2, passed 6-4-1979)
POWERS FOR INSPECTION
§ 51.50 COUNTY HEALTH OFFICER PERMITTED TO ENTER.
   The County Health Officer or his or her agent bearing proper credentials and
identification shall be permitted to enter upon all properties at the proper
time for purposes of inspection, observation, measurements, sampling and
testing necessary to carry out the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1979-2, passed 6-4-1979)
NOTICES
§ 51.65 SERVICE.
   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter may be served
by the County Board of Health or the duly appointed Health Officer, with a
written order stating the nature of the violation and providing a time limit
for satisfactory correction thereof.
(Ord. 1979-2, passed 6-4-1979)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter shall be
guilty of an infraction. On conviction, the violator shall be punished for the
first offense by a fine of not more than $500; for the second offense by a fine
of not more than $1,000; and for the third and each subsequent offense by a
fine of not more than $1,000. Each day after the expiration of the time limit
for abating insanitary conditions and completing improvements to abate the
conditions as ordered by the County Board of Health or by the duly appointed
Health Officer of the county shall constitute a distinct and separate offense.
(Ord. 1979-2, passed 6-4-1979)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
71.   OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
      
72.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
73.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.01   Establishing speed limits on county roads
   
70.02   Traffic control devices
   
70.03   School zones
   
70.04   Regulation of truck traffic on county roads
§ 70.01 ESTABLISHING SPEED LIMITS ON COUNTY ROADS.
   Pursuant to I.C. 9-21-5-6, the maximum speed permitted on all county roads
should be 40 mph and it is now ordained that the maximum speed on all county
roads is 40 mph, except those areas where a lower maximum speed is duly posted.
(Ord. C-83-7, passed 10-3-1983)
§ 70.02 TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   The County Highway Superintendent is hereby authorized and directed
from time to time to place stop signs or yield signs at intersections in the
county highway system as the Superintendent, in his or her sole judgment, shall
deem necessary, or desirable to facilitate orderly traffic flow or provide for
the safety of motorists and the public.
   (B)   When these signs are so placed, all motorists shall be required, upon
penalties prescribed by law, to observe and obey the signs as if placed there
under direct order of the Board of Commissioners.
   (C)   The authority herein delegated to the Highway Superintendent, and all
successors in that position, shall remain in effect until revoked by order of
the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. C-86-6, passed 5-5-1986)
§ 70.03 SCHOOL ZONES.
    No person shall operate a vehicle in excess of 30 mph within a posted
school zone when children are present.
(Ord. O-C-11-1, passed 3-7-2011)
Cross-reference:
   School zones, see
Ch. 72, Sch. III
§ 70.04 REGULATION OF TRUCK TRAFFIC ON COUNTY ROADS.
   (A)   Truck defined. For the purpose of this section, TRUCK means a vehicle
with a weight of ten tons or more. The term TRUCK includes every self-propelled
commercial vehicle weighing ten tons or more used for the transport of goods or
property being operated on any highway, as defined by I.C. 9-13-2-73, in the
county.
   (B)   The Perry County Board of Commissioners, acting through the authority
granted to them by I.C. 8-17-1-40, 9-21-1-2(a), and/or 9-21-1-3(a)(8), may, by
motion passed at a public meeting, direct the Perry County Highway Department
to post signs prohibiting trucks, as defined herein, from utilizing the
designated county-maintained highway as a thruway under divisions (C) or (D)
below.
   (C)   The Perry County Highway Department may request that the prohibition
authorized in division (B) be for a specific period of time. Once the period of
time has elapsed, the prohibition will expire automatically and the Perry
County Highway Department shall remove any signage noting the prohibition as
soon as reasonably possible. Should the Perry County Highway Department believe
that the prohibition should be extended, a representative from the Perry County
Highway Department will request this extension at a Public Meeting of the Perry
County Board of Commissioners. Such extension may be authorized by the passage
of a motion of the Perry County Board of Commissioners to that effect.
   (D)   If the Perry County Highway Department believes that the prohibition
should be a permanent prohibition, rather than temporary, as outlined in
division (C), such prohibition must be passed by ordinance of the Perry County
Board of Commissioners. Any removal of a permanent prohibition may only be done
by passage of an ordinance of the Perry County Board of Commissioners.
   (E)   Pursuant to I.C. 9-21-1-3(b), upon the passage of such a motion or
ordinance, the prohibition "...is effective when signs giving notice of the
local traffic regulations are posted upon or at the entrances to the highway or
a part of the highway that is affected."
   (F)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Pursuant to I.C. 9-21-1-7, any prohibition adopted by the Perry
County Board of Commissioners does not apply to a person, team, motor vehicle,
and other equipment actually engaged in work on the surface of a highway.
      (2)   Any prohibition adopted by the Perry County Board of Commissioners
does not apply to an "authorized emergency vehicle" as defined by I.C. 9-13-2-
6.
      (3)   Any prohibition adopted by the Perry County Board of Commissioners
does not prohibit the necessary local operation of trucks, as defined by
division (A), from operation on any county-maintained highways for the purpose
of picking up and/or delivering materials on the county-maintained highway.
      (4)   Any prohibition adopted by the Perry County Board of Commissioners
does not apply to vehicles operating upon tracks, common carriers of public
passengers, school buses being utilized by an Indiana school corporation or
private school, service vehicles operated by a public utility, or vehicles
operated by the State of Indiana, Perry County, or contracts of the State of
Indiana or Perry County.
   (G)   Any person found to be in violation of this section shall be subject
to the penalties outlined in division (I) below. Pursuant to I.C. 9-21-1-2(b),
any fines collected pursuant to division (I) shall be deposited into the Perry
County General Fund.
   (H)   In addition to the temporary or permanent prohibitions authorized by
this section, the Perry County Highway Department is authorized to post warning
signs on any county- maintained roads that it deems appropriate in an effort to
warn truck traffic not to use certain roads of sharp curves, steep climbs,
narrow roadways, narrow bridges, school bus traffic, and/or other potentially
hazardous conditions. These signs are not meant to prohibit the truck traffic,
but rather to warn the truck drivers that certain roads may not be safe for
truck traffic, even if truck traffic has not been officially prohibited on the
county-maintained roads in question.
   (I)   Penalty. Any person found to be in violation of this section shall be
guilty of, and fined, as follows:
      (1)   First offense - Class C infraction: a fine of up to $500;
      (2)   Second offense - Class B infraction: a fine of up to $1,000;
      (3)   Third offense and any offense thereafter - Class A infraction: a
fine of up to $2,500 for each offense beginning with the third offense.
(Ord. O-C-19-3, passed 7-1-2019)
CHAPTER 71: OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
Section
   
71.01   Definition
   
71.02   State law
   
71.03   Regulations
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 DEFINITION.
   Off-road vehicles shall be defined as set forth in I.C. 14-8-2-185, as
amended from time to time.
(Ord. O-C-08-11, passed 12-1-2008)
§ 71.02 STATE LAW.
   The use of off-road vehicles in the state is provided for under I.C. 14-16-
1 et seq. and none of the provisions of this chapter are intended.
(Ord. O-C-08-11, passed 12-1-2008)
§ 71.03 REGULATIONS.
   Off-road vehicles are authorized on county roads and highways outside the
corporate limits of incorporated cities and towns subject to the following
provisions.
   (A)   Off-road vehicles must have operation lights as required by law and
the lights must be operating at all times.
   (B)   Use is limited to speeds not in excess of 20 mph.
   (C)   Use is limited to the driver of the off-road vehicle and the number of
passengers, if any, which the off-road vehicle is designed to accommodate
pursuant to manufacturer’s recommendations and specifications.
   (D)   Use is limited to compliance with all ordinances of the county and
laws and regulations of the state relative to the use of off-road vehicles and
relative to the use of public highways.
   (E)   An individual may not operate an off-road vehicle on a county road or
highway without a valid motor vehicle driver’s license.
   (F)   Any person operating an off-road vehicle on a county highway as
allowed herein shall have liability insurance specifically for the off-road
vehicle in accordance with the minimum insurance required for the operation of
other motor vehicles on public highways.
   (G)   Off-road vehicles being operated in accordance with this chapter are
only authorized to be operated on county roads and highways which are
maintained by the county as shown on the most recent county road map.
(Ord. O-C-08-11, passed 12-1-2008; Ord. O-C-09-1, passed 1-2-2009; Ord. O-C-10-
2, passed 4-5-2010) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   A violation of any part of this chapter will result in a fine in an amount
not to exceed $100. All fines shall be paid in to the office of the County
Clerk and shall be distributed by the County Clerk to the County Auditor to be
maintained as part of the County General Fund.
(Ord. O-C-08-11, passed 12-1-2008)
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limits
      
II.   Stop signs
      
III.   School zones
      
IV.   Weight limitations
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   The County Highway Superintendent shall immediately install signs at
appropriate locations on the following highways notifying the public of the
speed limit.
Location Speed Limit (mph) Ord. Date Passed
Location                                Speed Limit (mph) Ord.     Date Passed
County Highway 59 (1)                   30                O-C-98-3 7-6-1998
County Highways 140 and 34 (entire
length), commonly known as the Leopold- 35                C-92-1   3-12-1992
Mt. Pleasant Road (2)
Spring Road (County Road 61)            30                O-C-19-4 10-7-2019
Squirrel Road                           30                O-C-18-4 4-17- 2018
Switzer Road                            35                O-C-18-4 4-17- 2018
(1)   Violators are subject to a fine of not to exceed $500 per violation
(2)   Violators are subject to a fine of not less than $5 and no more than
$500
 
SCHEDULE II. STOP SIGNS.
   (A)   A stop sign shall be required on all three corners of the intersection
of County Highways 115, 128 and 132.
   (B)   The County Highway Superintendent is directed to install stop signs at
those locations.
   (C)   Upon the installation, all motorists shall be required to stop at each
entry into the intersection.
(Ord. C-86-5, passed 5-5-1986)
SCHEDULE III. SCHOOL ZONES.
   (A)   The portion of French Ridge Road No. 128 located from the western
property line of the real estate on which is located the Perry Central Schools
and school-related and sports facilities to the intersection of French Ridge
Road and Old State Road 37 shall be designated a school zone.
   (B)   The portion of Old State Road 37 beginning at its intersection with
French Ridge Road No. 128 and continuing north to the northern property line of
the real estate on which is located the Perry Central Schools and school
related and sports facilities shall be designated a school zone.
   (C)   Signs indicating the reduced school zone speed of 30 mph shall be
located where the reduced speed zone begins while a sign indicating the end of
the reduced speed zone shall be located at the end of the reduced speed zone.
   (D)   A person violating this regulation commits a Class B infraction.
(Ord. O-C-11-1, passed 3-7-2011)
Cross-reference:
   School zones, see §
70.03
SCHEDULE IV. WEIGHT LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Roads.
      (1)   Restricting use of certain county highways not to exceed 90 days.
         (a)   From and after the effective date hereof, for a time not to
exceed 90 total days in any one calendar year, which days shall be determined
as set forth in division (A)(1)(b) below, no vehicle with a gross weight in
excess of ten tons, except for those described in division (A)(1)(c) below,
shall be operated on or across the following county highways:
Location Common known or described as Weight Restriction Ord. Date Passed
Location Common known or described  Weight Restriction   Ord.   Date Passed
         as
CR 1     Tobinsport High Water Road Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 2     Girl Scout                 Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 3     German Ridge               Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 4     Millstone                  Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 5     Deer Creek to Beech Hall   Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 6     Echo Lake                  Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 7     Emory Hendershot           Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 8     Boyd                       Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 9     Bear Creek E. Ramsey       Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 10    Gerald Road                Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 11    Brushy Fork                Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 13    Johnes Hill                Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 15    Taylor Bridge              Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 16    Hilgenhold-Kleaving        Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 17    Begins near Neglie Creek   Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
         over Little Deer Creek     weight
CR 18    Terry (Keiser)             Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 18A   Clayton Sandage            Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 21    Luke Kellems               Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 24    Leopold Circle             Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 26    Leopold Circle             Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 27    Dexter-Magnet              Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 28    Avery Ridge-Cyril Kleaving Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 29    Huffman-Vaal Flat          Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 30    Bristow-Huffman            Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 31    Earl Gentry                Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 32    St. Johns                  Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 33    Gehlhausen Ridge           Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 34    Leopold-Magnet             Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 34A   Old Chappel Cemetery       Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 36    Parks Bottom               Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 37    Harold Lampkin             Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 38    Leopold-Oriole             Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 40    Branchville-Oriole         Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 41    Branchville-Doolittle      Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
         Mills                      weight
CR 44    Pete Bonifer               Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 45    Earl Ahl                   Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 49    Stowe                      Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 50    Ed Galey                   Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 51    Bolin Road                 Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 53    Bolin Road                 Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 57    Highwater                  Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 58    Bell Road                  Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 60    Dutschke Hollow            Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 62    Pestalozzi                 Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 65    Gerlach                    Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 66    Chestnut Grove             Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 70    Starlite                   Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 72    Troy Ridge                 Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 82    Lautner                    Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 83    Dutch Gruver               Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 84    Lautner Road               Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 86    Anthony Bruggeman          Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 88    Addison Taylor             Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 90    Alvin Schmidt              Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 91    Avery Ridge                Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 96    Addison Dam                Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 97    Rabbit Path                Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 99    Bob Rogier                 Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 101   Ralph Hubert               Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 104   Dewey Burton               Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 105   St. Joseph Church          Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 107   R. Kellems                 Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 112   Rabbit Path                Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 115   Gus Goffinet               Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 118   Huff                       Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 119   Leopold-Oriole             Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 121   Fred Saddler               Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 122   St. Joe                    Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 124   Louis Evrard               Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 125   Leopold Circle             Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 126   Gayer Road                 Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 128   French Ridge               Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 131   Hays Park                  Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 132   French Ridge               Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 133   Henry Little               Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 139   Oscar Fischer              Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 140   Leopold - 37               Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 146   Wm. Miller                 Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 147   Oak Ridge                  Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 149   Bill Like                  Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 152   Bristow-St. Meinrad        Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 154   Bristow-St. Meinrad        Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 158   Sinai Road                 Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 163   Ubelhor Ridge              Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 164   Julius Franchville         Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 165   Apolona Road               Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 166   Bandon                     Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 168   Apolona Road               Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 170   Elwood Frakes              Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 182   Joe Fritz-Hahus            Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 187   Hurrican-Schlacther        Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 196   Ferdinand State Forest     Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 201   Lawrence Kessens           Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 205   Hartwick                   Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 208   Delbert Riat               Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 211   Ira Anderson               Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 216   Will Heck                  Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 218   Carl Shutter               Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 219   John Walsh                 Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 227   Jim Casey                  Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 228   Deumel Road                Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 291   North Fourteenth Street    Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
CR 358   River Forest               Excess 10 tons gross 89-C-7 11-6-1989
                                    weight
 
         (b)   For each highway in division (A)(1)(a) above, the time period in
each calendar year when the weight restrictions shall be in effect shall begin
on the day on which a sign designating the provisions of these regulations is
erected or caused to be erected by the County Highway Superintendent at each
end of that portion of the highway affected hereby, and the restrictions shall
remain in effect until the Superintendent removes the signs. The Superintendent
is hereby authorized, upon inspection of the highway in question, to cause the
signs to be removed and re-erected on one or more occasions in any calendar
year, thus reimposing the weight limit on the highway in question any number of
times so long as the total days in which the weight restrictions are in effect
in any calendar year does not exceed 90 days.
         (c)   These regulations shall not apply to the following:
            1.   School buses;
            2.   Vehicles belonging to or employed by the County Highway
Department;
            3.   Fire trucks, ambulances or other emergency vehicles;
            4.   Grain and bean separators, combines, corn pickers, ensilage
cutters, corn shellers, corn shredders, hay rakers, manure spreaders, portable
saw mills, well drilling machinery and all seeding, cultivating and harvesting
equipment; and
            5.   Vehicles designed for and being used for the transportation
of:
               a.   Harvested crops or livestock;
               b.   Plant food materials or agricultural chemicals; or
               c.   Farm machinery.
         (d)   Every natural person, corporation, partnership, firm, company or
other entity which operates or proposes to operate a vehicle of a gross weight
of 20,000 pounds, except for those described in division (A)(1)(c) above, or
more upon any of the highways described in division (A)(1)(a) above in any
calendar year shall, prior to the operation of any vehicle on any of the
highways in any calendar year, register the vehicle at the office of the County
Highway Department at Derby, Indiana. It shall be unlawful to operate any
vehicle on any of these highways without a valid county registration
certificate. The County Highway Department shall maintain suitable forms for
the application and issuance of the registration certificates. No fee shall be
charged for the registration. Each registration shall expire one year from the
date of issuance, and must be renewed if the operator continues to operate any
vehicle on any of the highways in division (A)(1)(a) above.
         (e)   1.   Every natural person, corporation, partnership, firm,
company or other entity which operates or proposes to operate a vehicle of a
gross weight of 20,000 pounds or more, except for those described in division
(A)(1)(c) above, upon any of the highways described in division (A)(1)(a) above
in any calendar year shall, prior to the operation of any vehicle on any of
these highways in any calendar year, apply for and obtain a permit from the
office of the County Highway Department at Derby, Indiana. The application for
the permit shall describe the vehicle or vehicles for which the permit is
sought, and the portions of the county highway or highways over which the
vehicle or vehicles will travel. The Superintendent of the County Highway
Department is hereby delegated and granted authority to grant or deny the
permit, in whole or in part, in his or her discretion, taking into account the
nature and frequency of the hauling, the location, the condition of the
portions of highway or highways over which the permit is sought and the
probable effects of hauling on the highway portions. Each permit granted shall
expire at a time that the Superintendent shall, in his or her discretion,
determine. A permit holder may apply for a new or extended permit to be
effective upon expiration of any permit.
            2.   Any unsuccessful applicant for a permit may appeal the denial
thereof to the County Board of Commissioners, who shall decide if the requested
permit should be granted, using the same criteria used by the Superintendent
and set forth hereinabove.
            3.   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle on any county
highway without a valid permit. The County Highway Department shall maintain
suitable forms for the application and issuance of the permits. No fee shall be
charged for any application or permit.
            4.   The granting of a permit shall not enable the holder thereof
to operate the permitted vehicle or vehicles on any county highway in violation
of division (A)(1) above.
      (2)   Maximum weight limits on county roads.
 
Location                       Weight Restriction      Ord.     Date Passed
CR 59 (also known as Dauby’s 10 tons                 O-C-98-3 7-6-1998
Lane)
CR 86 (entire)                 Maximum 6 tons (12,000  C-83-8   10-3-1983
                               pounds) gross weight
Doolittle Mills Road, No. 41   Maximum weight limit of
from Overlook Road, No. 212 to 26,000 pounds           O-C-04-2 4-5-2004
the Crawford County line
Omaha Road, No. 219 from State Maximum weight limit of
Road 62 to Doolittle Mills     26,000 pounds           O-C-04-2 4-5-2004
Road, No. 41
 
   (B)   Bridges. The County Highway Department is now authorized and directed
to erect and maintain signs designating the following weight limits on each of
the respective bridges. The provisions of this division shall not be effective
until each sign designating the weight capacity is erected, posted and
maintained at each of the aforementioned bridges. The Department is further
authorized and directed, following the completion of the installation of these
signs, that the Department’s Superintendent in his or her discretion may lower
the weight capacity of each of the aforementioned bridges by erecting and
maintaining new signs reflecting the reduced capacity but may not increase the
capacity without consultation with an engineering firm registered in the state
and without a formal amendment to this division approved by the Board of
Commissioners of the county.
Bridge Maximum Weight Allowed Ord. Date Passed
Bridge               Maximum Weight  Ord.                  Date Passed
                     Allowed
#38, #75, #79, #84   2 tons (4,000   C-84-2; C-86-1; C-86- 7-2-1984; 2-3-1986;
and #123             pounds)         4                     5-5-1986
#62                  3 tons (6,000   C-84-2; C-86-1; C-86- 7-2-1984; 2-3-1986;
                     pounds)         4                     5-5-1986
#14, #19, #35, #132, 4 tons (8,000   C-84-2; C-86-1; C-86- 7-2-1984; 2-3-1986;
#134 and #150        pounds)         4                     5-5-1986
#63, #83 and #135    5 tons (10,000  C-84-2; C-86-1; C-86- 7-2-1984; 2-3-1986;
                     pounds)         4                     5-5-1986
#56, #71, #133 and   6 tons (12,000  C-84-2; C-86-1; C-86- 7-2-1984; 2-3-1986;
#159                 pounds)         4                     5-5-1986
#125                 7 tons (14,000  C-84-2; C-86-1; C-86- 7-2-1984; 2-3-1986;
                     pounds)         4                     5-5-1986
#24                  8 tons (16,000  C-84-2; C-86-1; C-86- 7-2-1984; 2-3-1986;
                     pounds)         4                     5-5-1986
#8, #59, #60, #80,   10 tons (20,000 C-84-2; C-86-1; C-86- 7-2-1984; 2-3-1986;
#119, #126, #130 and pounds)         4                     5-5-1986
#148
#72, #82, #94, #95,  12 tons (24,000 C-84-2; C-86-1; C-86- 7-2-1984; 2-3-1986;
#98 and #128         pounds)         4                     5-5-1986
#1, #2, #5, #6, #7,
#10, #11, #12, #15,
#17, #25, #26, #27,
#34, #36, #37, #54,
#55, #64, #65, #74,
#78, #81, #96, #97,
#111, #112, #113,
#114, #116, #117,    15 tons (30,000 C-84-2; C-86-1; C-86- 7-2-1984; 2-3-1986;
#118, #124, #127,    pounds)         4                     5-5-1986
#129, #131, #136,
#138, #139, #140,
#141, #142, #143,
#144, #146, #147,
#151, #155, #156,
#160, #161, #162,
#163, #164, #170,
#171, #172 and #173
#9 and #137          16 tons (32,000 C-84-2; C-86-1; C-86- 7-2-1984; 2-3-1986;
                     pounds)         4                     5-5-1986
#20, #21 and #22     18 tons (26,000 C-84-2; C-86-1; C-86- 7-2-1984; 2-3-1986;
                     pounds)         4                     5-5-1986
 
   (C)   Penalty.
      (1)   Any person violating any provision of this schedule, for which no
other penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
      (2)   Any person or other entity violating either division (A)(1)(a) or
(A)(1)(e) shall be fined no less than $100 and no more than $1,000. Violators
may, in addition, be enjoined from further operation of overweight vehicles on
any or all county highways. The minimum fine for second and subsequent offenses
shall be $500 and the maximum fine shall be $1,000.
      (3)   Any person or other entity violating division (A)(1)(d) above shall
be fined a minimum of $50 and a maximum of $500.
      (4)   Violators of the weight limit for County Road 59 (also know as
Dauby’s Lane) are subject to a fine of not to exceed $5 per violation.
      (5)   Upon conviction of violation of division (B) above, any person
shall for the first conviction thereof be punished by a fine of not more than
$100; for a second conviction the person shall be punished by a fine of not
more than $250; for a third or subsequent conviction the person shall be
punished by a fine of not more than $500.
CHAPTER 73: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Parking prohibited
SCHEDULE I. PARKING PROHIBITED.
 
Road              Location                             Ord. No. Passage Date
                  Beginning at its intersection with
Old State Road 37 French Ridge Road and extending in a O-C-14-3 5-5-2014
                  northerly direction for 2,500 feet
 
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   COUNTY HIGHWAYS AND BRIDGES
      
92.   COUNTY HOSPITAL
      
93.   FAIR HOUSING
      
94.   NUISANCES
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.001   Definitions
   
90.002   Funding of emergency veterinarian services
Prohibited Acts
   
90.035   Prohibited acts
   
90.036   Lost or stray animals
   
90.037   Controlled animals
   
90.038   Vaccination required
   
90.039   Reporting animal bites
   
90.040   Disposal, release or destruction of animals that have bitten
County Animal Welfare, Control and Education Board
   
90.055   Board established
   
90.056   Compensation of Board members
   
90.057   Board member terms
   
90.058   Appointment of successor Board members
   
90.059   Board member vacancies
   
90.060   Electing chairperson and vice chairperson
   
90.061   Powers and duties of Board
   
90.062   Use of resources
   
90.063   Implementing state and federal law
   
90.064   Approval of permits or licenses
   
90.065   County appointed animal shelter
   
90.066   Implementing rules and regulations for animal confines
   
90.067   Issuance, denial or revocation of license
   
90.068   Conditions on licenses/permits
   
90.069   Inspections
Animal Violations Clerk
   
90.085   Animal Violations Clerk
   
90.086   Complaints
   
90.087   Enforcement procedures
Animal Care and Control; Shelter
   
90.105   Impoundment of animals
   
90.106   Owner’s rights
   
90.107   Court hearing
   
90.108   Stray animals
   
90.109   Dangerous animals
   
90.110   Notice to owner
   
90.111   Ten-day hold
   
90.112   Fees for reclaiming or redeeming animals
   
90.113   Micro-chipping encouraged
Regulation of Dangerous Animals
   
90.125   Actions allowed by authorized persons prior to hearing
   
90.126   When animal may not be declared dangerous
   
90.127   Complaint procedure
   
90.128   Destruction of a dangerous animal
   
90.129   Precautions for dangerous animals required
   
90.130   Procedure before board
   
90.131   Harboring a dangerous animal
Violations
   
90.145   Procedure for the handling of complaints and violations
   
90.146   Waiver of fines
 
   
90.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON. To desert an animal or to leave the animal permanently in a place
without making provision for adequate long-term care of the animal or otherwise
dispose of any live animal on public or private property. The term does not
include leaving an animal in a place that is temporarily vacated for the
protection of human life during a disaster.
   AGENT. Person(s) 18 years or older authorized by an owner to act in the
owner’s behalf.
   ALPHA-ROLLOVER. A corrective and physically abusive training method that can
and often does trigger a dangerous and defensive response from the animal. It
is characterized by the rough throwing of the dog onto its back, holding down
by the throat, and placing a knee in the dog’s chest or stomach, screaming at
him or her and staring into his or her eyes.
   ALTERED ANIMAL. Any animal that has been operated on or has been given
medication to prevent it from procreating.
   ANIMAL. Any living, non-human vertebrate or non-vertebrate creature
domestic, wild or exotic.
   ANIMAL ASSEMBLAGE. The gathering on one lot of seven or more altered dogs
and/or altered cats over the age of six months.
   ANIMAL CARE AND CONTROL (ACC). The Perry County Animal Welfare, Control and
Education Board.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER (ACO). A person authorized to enforce the provisions
in this chapter and issue citations for violations of this chapter.
   ANIMAL DEALER. Any person who buys, sells, keeps or breeds animals for a
commercial purpose.
   ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENT. An animal dealer, animal day care facility, stable or
pet shop.
   ANIMAL NUISANCE. An animal which:
      (1)   Interferes with or molests passers-by or passing vehicles;
      (2)   Attacks other animals or persons;
      (3)   Damages private or public property;
      (4)   Causes frequent, long, continued, loud noises or other sounds
common to its species which disturb the comfort or repose of any person in the
immediate neighborhood of any residential area, not to include operations of
boarding kennels, kennels, training facilities or the practice of animal
husbandry;
      (5)   Is in heat which is not confined or restrained so as to prevent
attraction or contact with other animals;
      (6)   Damages, soils, defiles or defecates on any public right-of-way;
      (7)   Trespasses on, soils, defiles, defecates on or damages private or
public property, including, but not limited to, the leaving of waste material;
or
      (8)   Is allowed to create any condition which poses a substantial risk
of harm to the public health, safety, welfare or environment. If an animal is
defending itself, its master, or its master’s home, it is not an animal
nuisance.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. A facility or vehicle operated by a government or private
entity for the purpose of providing or promoting animal welfare and the humane
treatment of animals.
   ANIMAL WELFARE ORGANIZATION. Any non-for-profit organization for the
prevention of cruelty or neglect to animals incorporated under state laws.
   ANIMAL WELFARE AND CONTROL COMMITTEE. The Committee formed by the County
Board of Commissioners to review the animal welfare ordinance of the county and
to make recommendations to the Commissioners regarding ways to improve the
ordinance and ways to improve the procedures used by the county to regulate
animal welfare and control.
   ATTACK. Aggressive physical contact initiated by the animal.
   BITE. To seize, tear, wound or cut with teeth, resulting in a break in the
skin. (Refer to most current version of state form 14072).
   BOARD. The Perry County Animal Welfare, Control and Education Board.
   BREEDER. Any person who harbors an animal or animals, except livestock,
requiring a license or permit to be possessed within the county and
(intentionally or accidentally) allows and/or causes the animal(s) to procreate
and/or offers for sale or sells, trades or receives other compensation or gives
away any litter of dogs or cats; except for dogs or cats taken to an animal
control shelter or any 501(c)(3) animal welfare organization and has the female
spayed within ten weeks of the birth of a litter.
   BUSINESS DAY. Any day other than weekends and holidays recognized by the
county.
   CATTERY. A facility operated principally for the purpose of boarding,
housing or grooming of cats.
   COLLAR. A stiff band of leather, plastic, strong fabric or metal placed
around the neck of an animal to identify it or to attach it to a lead or leash.
   COMMISSIONERS. The Perry County Board of Commissioners.
   CONTROLLED ANIMAL. Any animal not defined as a domestic animal in this
chapter with the exception of small, non-poisonous reptiles, non- poisonous
amphibians, harmless invertebrates and small birds. Such controlled animals
shall also include any animal for which the possession or ownership is
controlled or regulated by federal or state law, or municipal ordinance or
regulations concerning licensing or the issuance of permits. Such controlled
animals shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   All poisonous animals by genetic disposition including insects,
spiders, reptiles, amphibians, invertebrates and rear-fang snakes;
      (2)   All primates (order primates);
      (3)   All non-domestic carnivores (order carnivore);
      (4)   Crocodilians;
      (5)   Large constrictor snakes specifically: reticulated pythons (python
reticulates), amethystine pythons (morelia amethistina), green anacondas
(eunectes murinus), Indian pythons (python molurus) and African rock pythons
(python sebae);
      (6)   Endangered species or any species considered to be protected by
federal or state law or international trade agreements;
      (7)   Fur bearing animals raised to provide products for the fur trade;
      (8)   Game cocks and other fighting birds;
      (9)   Piranha fish;
      (10)   Sharks over one pound;
   CRIME PREVENTION ANIMAL. An animal trained and used primarily for the
protection of persons or property or both.
   CUSTODIAN. Any person who owns or keeps, harbors, feeds or has the charge or
control of an animal.
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL. Any animal which presents a substantial threat of bodily
harm to any person or pet in its vicinity or if it was to escape its primary
enclosure or escape from the control of its owner or custodian. Such
determination is to be made from past acts of aggressive behavior justifying
the determination that it is a dangerous animal. A dog’s breed shall not be
considered in determining whether or not it is dangerous. This definition
excludes K-9 corps dogs in use by the military or government law enforcement
agencies.
   DESIGNEE. A person selected, appointed or nominated for a particular purpose
of duty.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Dog;
      (2)   Cat;
      (3)   Cattle (Bovine);
      (4)   Horse;
      (5)   Sheep;
      (6)   Goat;
      (7)   Rabbit;
      (8)   Mouse;
      (9)   Rat;
      (10)   Donkey;
      (11)   Guinea pig;
      (12)   Hamster;
      (13)   Gerbil;
      (14)   Pigeon, (homing or racing);
      (15)   Chicken, turkey, goose, duck;
      (16)   Llama;
      (17)   Pig;
      (18)   Bison;
      (19)   Chinchilla;
      (20)   Mink; or
      (21)   Ferret.
   EXCESSIVE. More than is normal or necessary.
   EXOTIC ANIMAL. Any animal whose normal native habitat is not indigenous to
the continental United States, excluding Alaska and Hawaii, except fish and fur
bearing animals commercially bred for the furrier trade and birds protected
under federal laws and regulations.
   EXPOSED TO RABIES. Any human or non-human warm blooded mammal that has been
bitten or comes in contact with any other animal known or reasonably suspected
to have been infected with rabies.
   FACILITY. An establishment set up to fulfill a particular function or
provide a particular service for animals.
   FIGHT. A conflict between two or more animals that is intentionally
organized for such purpose.
   HARBORING. The actions of any person that permit any animal habitually to
remain or to lodge or to be fed within his/her home, store, enclosure, yard,
place of business or any premises on which such person resides or controls. An
animal shall be presumed harbored if it is fed or sheltered for three or more
consecutive days.
   HELICOPTERING. A corrective and physically abusive training method. It is
characterized by the dog being hoisted by leash and neck collar off his or her
feet and swinging the dog above ground in a 360 degree circle often resulting
in a loss of oxygen to the animals brain.
   INADEQUATELY VENTILATED. Insufficient circulation of air to provide a
healthy environment.
   KEEPER. Any person, other than the owner, who has actual or constructive
possession of an animal for the purpose of managing, controlling or caring for
such animal. A person shall be construed as a keeper of an animal even if she
or he does not have the owner’s permission.
   KENNEL. A facility operated principally for the purpose of boarding,
housing, grooming, breeding or training of dogs.
   LARGE ANIMAL. A cow, horse, pony, donkey, mule, goat, sheep, swine or llama.
   LEASH. A cord, chain, rope, strap or other such physical restraint.
   LICENSE or PERMIT. A written instrument evidencing approval by a
governmental entity to possess an animal or permission to undertake a regulated
task. LICENSE is generally used when referring to the right to possess an
animal, and PERMIT is generally used when referring to the right to undertake a
task or activity or operate a business.
   MICROCHIP. A computer chip, implanted underneath the skin of an animal (in
the universal position between the scapulas which contains information relating
to that animal.)
   MICROCHIP READER. An electronic device that detects any implanted microchip.
   MUZZLE. A device constructed of a strong, soft material or metal, designed
to fasten over the mouth of an animal, without interfering with its vision or
respiration or causing injury to the animal, to prevent the animal from biting
any person or other animal.
   NEIGHBORHOOD. The subject property and any property within two blocks
thereof in any direction.
   NOT-FOR-PROFIT. A corporation, business, association or entity established
as a not-for-profit entity under state law or recognized as not-for-profit by
the Internal Revenue Service or the Indiana Department of Revenue.
   OVERCROWDED. Beyond what is usual or comfortable.
   OWNER. Any person age 18 years or older, partnership, or corporation, or
other legal entity recognized by the state, owning, or harboring one or more
animals.
   PET. Any animal owned or harbored for pleasure and companionship.
   PET SHOP or GROOMING SHOP. A business operated separately or in connection
with another business enterprise, engage in the care, bathing, clipping or
plucking or possession of animals for display and sale of pets.
   K-9 DOG. A professionally trained dog used by public safety officers for law
enforcement or investigative purposes and activities.
   PRIMARY ENCLOSURE.
      (1)   A structure which is suitable to prevent the entry of young
children (under 12 years of age) and to prevent the animal from escaping;
      (2)   A structure with secure sides and a secure top or just secure sides
which are of sufficient height to prevent an animal from escaping over the
sides;
      (3)   A structure whose sides are so constructed at the bottom as to
prevent the animal’s escape by digging under the sides; or
      (4)   A structure, which provides appropriate protection from the
elements for the animal.
   PURCHASER. A person who purchases any domestic animal without intent to
resell.
   RABIES VACCINATION. The injection by a licensed veterinarian of a dog, cat
or other animal with a rabies vaccine licensed by the USDA and approved by the
State Board of Health according to the compendium for rabies published yearly.
   RESTRAINT. Under control by being adequately secured, without means of
escape, in a pen, fenced enclosure, corral, cage, house, vehicle or other
secure enclosure.
   SAFETY. Freedom from danger or injury.
   SERIOUS BODILY INJURY. Bodily injury which creates a substantial risk of
death or causes serious permanent disfigurement, unconsciousness, extreme pain
or permanent or protracted loss or impairment of the function of a bodily
member or organ.
   SERVICE ANIMAL. Any animal that is trained to assist a disabled person.
   SHELTER. A facility used to provide humane care and shelter for stray or
owner relinquished animals.
   STABLE. A commercial enterprise to house horses for other owners or
custodians.
   STRAY. Any animal that is not within the real property limits of its owner
and is not under restraint or is unattended.
   UNCLEAN. Dirty, soiled, filthy, unwashed or muddied.
   VETERINARIAN. Any person licensed and accredited to practice veterinary
medicine in the state.
   VETERINARIAN HOSPITAL. Any established maintained and operated by a licensed
veterinarian for the purpose of hospitalization of animals or the diagnosis and
treatment of diseases and injuries of animals.
   WELFARE. Well-being, happiness and health.
   WILD ANIMAL. Any animal non domesticated or exotic animal, with the
exception of small, non-poisonous aquatic or amphibious animals and small cage
birds, which are normally found in the wild state.
   WITHOUT REASONABLE PROVOCATION.  The exhibition of aggressive behavior
without immediate direction to do so by its master, contrary to the direction
of its master, while not defending its master, while not defending its master’s
home on the master’s premises, or while not acting as a properly permitted
crime prevention animal under §
90.017(B).
(Ord. O-C-11-7, passed 12-28-2011)
§ 90.002 FUNDING OF EMERGENCY VETERINARIAN SERVICES.
   Five percent of all license and permit fees shall be placed in a separate
fund to pay for the costs of medical care and stabilization of injured or sick
animals under the care of the Board. If owners are located and found to be
liable for the cost of such services for their animal(s), they shall be
responsible for reimbursement of the cost of these services.
(Ord. O-C-11-7, passed 12-28-2011)
PROHIBITED ACTS
§ 90.035 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   No person shall do any of the following prohibited acts:
   (A)   Be a custodian/owner of a prohibited animal as identified in division
(C) below.
   (B)   Be a custodian/owner of, or permit, an animal nuisance.
   (C)   Be a custodian/owner of a dangerous animal; however, the exemptions
provided in this chapter shall also be applicable to this provision.
   (D)   Be a custodian of a domestic animal that is running at large or not
under restraint unless under the reasonable control of some person or when
engaged in lawful hunting accompanied by the owner or custodian.
   (E)   Confine an animal in an area which is unclean, overcrowded, or
inadequately ventilated, which poses a substantial threat to any person or
animal.
   (F)   Deprive an animal from the opportunity for adequate exercise or access
to fresh or ventilated air.
   (G)   Be a custodian/owner of an animal that has not been properly licensed
pursuant to this chapter.
   (H)   Be a custodian/owner of any animal that has not been vaccinated with a
rabies vaccine approved by the State Board of Health if the animal is capable
of carrying or transmitting rabies. (See I.C. 15-2.1-6-13 for local regulation
authority).
   (I)   Abandon an animal.
   (J)   Be the custodian/owner of an animal and fail to provide the animal
with food that is nutritional for the species in adequate amounts as to
maintain good health.
   (K)   Expose any known poisonous substance, whether or not mixed with food,
so that such poisonous substance shall be liable to be eaten by a pet.
   (L)   Leave an animal unattended in a vehicle when conditions in that
vehicle would constitute a health hazard to the animal.
   (M)   Fail to confine in a secure building or enclosure a female domestic
animal in heat so as to prevent conception except during instances of planned
breeding.
   (N)   Unsupervised tethering of an animal except as permitted by Indiana
code.
   (O)   (1)   No person shall fail to maintain in a sanitary manner the
premises occupied by an animal, whether the animal is kept in a structure,
fence, pen, or fastened, hitched or leashed.
      (2)   Custodians/owner of an animal shall regularly, and as often as
necessary, maintain all animal areas or areas of animal contact to prevent
unsanitary conditions on the property.
   (P)   (1)   No animal may be induced or encouraged to perform through the
use of chemical, mechanical, electrical, or manual devices in a manner which
will cause or is likely to cause physical injury or suffering to the animal.
This provision shall not prevent the use of a collar with an electrical charge
when used temporarily for training purposes or the use of professionally
manufactured invisible fencing.
      (2)   No person employed to train an animal shall use Alpha Rollovers,
Helicoptering, hanging by the collar, kicking or any other abusive methods.
   (Q)   No puppy or kitten that is under the age of six weeks may be offered
for sale, trade or for other compensation or for free giveaway. Except,
however, a puppy or kitten or litters may be taken to an animal control
shelter. This division shall not apply to the county animal shelter, any 501(c)
(3) animal shelter agency, or any 501(c)(3) organization promoting education,
agriculture or scouting activities or governmental organizations.
   (R)   No person shall fail to obey the provisions of this chapter or any
restrictions, regulations or orders issued by the Board pursuant to the terms
of this chapter.
   (S)   No person shall release piranha into any stream, river or lake.
(Ord. O-C11-7, passed 12-28-2011) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.036 LOST OR STRAY ANIMALS.
   (A)   Persons finding a stray animal shall notify the Animal Control Officer
or shelter within 48 hours of finding the animal. The County Animal Control
Officer shall inspect or scan the animal to determine ownership. The Animal
Control Officer shall return the animal to its rightful owner subject to a fee
structure set by the Board.
   (B)   Any lost or stray animal that has been found shall be held for a
minimum of three days, before a disposition is made, unless the animal needs to
be euthanized for humanitarian purposes upon the decision of a veterinarian (if
available) or the Board’s designee due to the animal’s mental or physical
condition to prevent suffering.
   (C)   Persons finding an animal are obligated to comply with all rules and
regulations of this ordinance pertaining to humane care and treatment of
animals while said animal is in their custody awaiting return of the animal to
its actual owner.
(Ord. O-C11-7, passed 12-28-2011; Ord. O-C-16-4, passed 8-1-2016) Penalty, see
§
90.999
§ 90.037 CONTROLLED ANIMALS.
   Maintenance of all controlled animals, as defined in §
90.001 is prohibited except by special application to the Board and its
approval thereof. No wild or exotic animal shall be kept within the county
without the necessary state and/or federal permits.
(Ord. O-C11-7, passed 12-28-2011) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.038 VACCINATION REQUIRED.
   No owner or custodian of any dog, cat or ferret shall keep, maintain or
harbor the animal within the county, unless the dog, cat or ferret has been
vaccinated by a licensed veterinarian with anti-rabic vaccine of a type
approved by the State Board of Health. The anti-rabic vaccination of a dog, cat
or ferret shall be repeated every one to three years as applicable to the
vaccine. In no case shall more than three years elapse between each
vaccination. All dogs, cats and ferrets shall be vaccinated for rabies as
required by state statute. A licensed veterinarian shall provide such
vaccinations.
(Ord. O-C11-7, passed 12-28-2011) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.039 REPORTING OF ANIMAL BITES.
   (A)   The person responsible for any animal that has bitten a person or
another animal must report the incident to the Health Department. Upon
receiving the report of a bite, the Animal Control Officer shall quarantine the
animal for ten days with the place of confinement to be in the discretion of
the Board based upon whether the animal is vaccinated and whether the owner has
the proper facilities to prevent the animal from escaping or coming into
contact with other persons or animals. During the quarantine period, the animal
is to be securely confined and kept from contact with any other animal or non-
custodian. During the quarantine period, the owner must provide a current
rabies vaccination certificate for the animal that is being quarantined. If
proof of vaccination cannot be supplied, a veterinarian shall vaccinate the
animal before release at the owner’s expense. State law and the Department of
Health rules and regulations shall be followed for reporting animal bites.
   (B)   No person other than an Animal Control Officer, health officer, law
enforcement official or veterinarian shall kill or cause to be killed any
animal suspected of being rabid except in cases of immediate self-protection.
If the animal is killed, the person causing the death will retain the body and
immediately notify Animal Care and Control.
(Ord. O-C11-7, passed 12-28-2011) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.040 DISPOSAL, RELEASE OR DESTRUCTION OF ANIMALS THAT HAVE BITTEN.
   (A)   No person owning, possessing, keeping or harboring any animal within
the county shall move, conceal, sell, give away or otherwise dispose of any
animal, when the person has knowledge of the animal’s having bitten or injured
a person or animal.
   (B)   No animal quarantined under suspicion of rabies shall be removed from
animal care and control or elsewhere or destroyed until written certification
of the Health Officer, or his or her duly authorized deputy. The time period
for quarantine and conditions of the quarantine shall be conducted under the
rules and regulation and orders of the State Board of Health.
   (C)   No person other than a duly authorized agent of the Board may destroy
any domestic animal that has bitten a person; provided, however, this provision
shall not apply to the following:
      (1)   A licensed veterinarian;
      (2)   Those persons acting in immediate self-protection; or
      (3)   Law enforcement officers or Firefighters acting to prevent undue
suffering.
(Ord. O-C11-7, passed 12-28-2011) Penalty, see §
90.999
COUNTY ANIMAL WELFARE, CONTROL AND EDUCATION BOARD
§ 90.055 BOARD ESTABLISHED.
   The County Animal Welfare, Control and Education Board is hereby
established. The Board shall act under the supervision and control of the
County Board of Commissioners, the Board shall consist of five members chosen
as follows:
   (A)   Two of the members shall be appointed by the County Board of
Commissioners as follows: one member from a county animal welfare organization
and one member from a county Ag-Animal organization. Each organization may
recommend a board member or member of the public for the Commissioners’
consideration.
   (B)   One of the members shall be appointed by the County Council as
follows: one member from a county animal sporting organization. Each
organization may recommend a board member or member of the public for the
Councils’ consideration.
   (C)   One member shall be appointed by the Tell City City Council as an at
large member who is a county resident chosen by a majority of the City Council.
   (D)   One member shall be appointed by the Cannelton City Council as an at
large member who is a county resident chosen by a majority of the City Council.
(Ord. O-C11-7, passed 12-28-2011)
§ 90.056 COMPENSATION OF BOARD MEMBERS.
   Members of the Board shall serve without compensation unless otherwise
provided by the Commissioners.
(Ord. O-C11-7, passed 12-28-2011)
§ 90.057 BOARD MEMBER TERMS.
   (A)   The initial term of a member of the Board appointed by the County
Commissioners shall be two years beginning on the date of appointment.
   (B)   The initial term of a member of the Board appointed by the County
Council shall be three years beginning on the date of appointment.
   (C)   The initial term of a member of the Board appointed by the Tell City
City Council shall be four years beginning on the date of appointment.
   (D)   The initial term of a member of the Board appointed by the Cannelton
City Council shall be four years beginning on the date of appointment.
   (E)   After the initial term all members of the Board shall serve a four-
year term.
   (F)   No Board member shall serve more than three consecutive terms.
(Ord. O-C11-7, passed 12-28-2011)
§ 90.058 APPOINTMENT OF SUCCESSOR BOARD MEMBERS.
   At least 30 days before the expiration of the term of office of a member of
the Board, the organization that made the appointment shall appoint a
successor. A member shall serve until a replacement is appointed.
(Ord. O-C11-7, passed 12-28-2011)
§ 90.059 BOARD MEMBER VACANCIES.
   In the event of a vacancy of a member of the Board, the organization that
made the appointment shall immediately appoint a successor to complete the
unexpired term.
(Ord. O-C11-7, passed 12-28-2011)
§ 90.060 ELECTING CHAIRPERSON AND VICE CHAIRPERSON.
   (A)   The Board shall elect a chairperson, vice chairperson and secretary
from the Board’s membership each year at the Board’s April meeting. The
chairperson, vice chairperson and secretary shall each serve a term of one
year.
   (B)   The Board:
      (1)   Shall hold monthly meetings at the location chosen by the Board;
      (2)   May hold special meetings upon the call of the chairperson or a
majority of the members of the Board; and
      (3)   Three members of the Board constitute a quorum to transact
business.
(Ord. O-C11-7, passed 12-28-2011)
§ 90.061 POWERS AND DUTIES OF BOARD.
   In addition to the powers and duties given the Board in this chapter and by
law, the Board has the powers and duties reasonable and necessary to do the
following:
   (A)   The Board has general supervision of the enforcement of this chapter
and shall have all powers necessary to fulfill the Board’s duties under this
chapter.
   (B)   Recommend to the Commissioners:
      (1)   The appointment or replacement of the Animal Control Officer.
      (2)   The terms and conditions of any contract(s) for the shelter of
animals.
      (3)   The budget for animal control and education.
      (4)   The amendment of this chapter.
   (C)   Conduct ordinance violation hearings and collect the fees and fines
authorized by this chapter. The Board may appoint one or more of its members to
act as the hearing officer(s) to hear said violations.
   (D)   Employ an attorney or attorneys to prosecute ordinance violations. The
employment of such attorney(s) is subject to approval of the Commissioners and
County Attorney. The Attorney may be compensated on a fee basis, contingent fee
basis or other compensation approved by the Commissioners.
(Ord. O-C11-7, passed 12-28-2011)
§ 90.062 USE OF RESOURCES.
   The Board may accept, use, and expend funds or other resources from sources
other than the state if:
   (A)   The resources are awarded for the pursuit of a specific objective that
the Board is authorized to accomplish under this chapter;
   (B)   The resources are expended for the pursuit of the objective for which
the resources are awarded;
   (C)   Activities connected with or occasioned by the expenditure of the
resources do not interfere with or impair the performance of the Board’s duties
and responsibilities and do not conflict with the exercise of the Board’s
powers and duties under this subchapter;
   (D)   The monetary resources are kept in a separate account in the county’s
treasury; and
   (E)   Reports of the Board’s receipt and use of the resources are prepared
periodically.
(Ord. O-C11-7, passed 12-28-2011)
§ 90.063 IMPLEMENTING STATE AND FEDERAL LAW.
   The Board shall adopt rules pursuant to state and federal law that are
reasonable and necessary to discharge the duties imposed on the Board by law
and to implement this chapter.
(Ord. O-C11-7, passed 12-28-2011)
§ 90.064 APPROVAL OF PERMITS AND LICENSES.
   The Board shall approve or disapprove all applications for permits and
licenses, if such are required, for animals based on the Board’s determination
as to whether the applicant has complied with this chapter and demonstrates a
reasonable probability of continued compliance. The Board is empowered to
revoke licenses and permits as provided in this chapter. Restrictions,
regulations and orders necessary to carry out the intent of this chapter or any
restrictions, rules or regulations adopted pursuant to this chapter, may be
issued by the Board.
(Ord. O-C11-7, passed 12-28-2011; Ord. O-C-12-2, passed 3-21-2012)
§ 90.065 COUNTY APPOINTED ANIMAL SHELTER.
   Rules and regulations pertaining to the operation of the county appointed
animal shelter must be approved by the Commissioners.
(Ord. O-C11-7, passed 12-28-2011)
§ 90.066 IMPLEMENTING RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR ANIMAL CONFINES.
   The Board may from time to time implement rules and regulations pertaining
to what constitutes unclean, overcrowded and inadequately ventilated confines
of an animal; however, these rules and regulations may only be used to
determine whether a permit should be issued or revoked and for no other
purpose. Any restrictions, rules or regulations that may be adopted by the
Board pursuant to this chapter must be reviewed and approved by the
Commissioners.
(Ord. O-C11-7, passed 12-28-2011)
§ 90.067 ISSUANCE, DENIAL OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Subject to the provisions of this chapter and state law, the Board has
authority to issue licenses for ferrets, dogs and cats; however, a decision to
disapprove any license or revoke any license may be appealed to the
Commissioners which shall have final authority over such issuance, denial or
revocation of any animal license.
(Ord. O-C11-7, passed 12-28-2011)
§ 90.068 CONDITIONS ON LICENSES/PERMITS.
   If the Board finds that the nature of a particular animal or the area in
which it is kept may in any way endanger the public health, safety or welfare,
it may impose conditions on a license or permit and breach of those conditions
shall be cause for revocation of the license and a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. O-C11-7, passed 12-28-2011)
§ 90.069 INSPECTIONS.
   The Board may act on behalf of the Commissioners to inspect a shelter at any
time during business hours. Any findings are to be brought to the attention of
Commissioners.
(Ord. O-C11-7, passed 12-28-2011)
ANIMAL VIOLATIONS CLERK
§ 90.085 ANIMAL VIOLATIONS CLERK.
   An Animal Violations Clerk shall be appointed by the County Clerk’s office
from the existing employees of that office and the Clerk may appoint any of the
Clerk’s assistants to assist in the collection of animal related fees and
fines. The Clerk shall provide space for the Animal Violations Clerk. The
Animal Violations Clerk shall be open during the same hours as the office of
the County Clerk.
(Ord. O-C11-7, passed 12-28-2011)
§ 90.086 COMPLAINTS.
   The Board and the Animal Control Officer shall receive animal complaints
from citizens, and on the execution of an affidavit by any citizen complaining
of an alleged violation of this chapter, or upon the issuance of a citation by
the Animal Control Officer or law enforcement officer alleging a violation of
this chapter, the Animal Control Officer or law enforcement officer shall cause
a complaint to be filed with the Board or in the Circuit Court alleging
violation of this chapter. No complaint shall be filed in Court unless the
attorney for the county, or his or her designee as provided in this chapter,
determines there is sufficient evidence to support a finding by a court that a
violation occurred. This provision shall not prevent the Animal Control Officer
(s) or law enforcement officer(s) from issuing verbal or written warnings of
violations where such warnings shall be deemed sufficient to prevent further
violations.
(Ord. O-C11-7, passed 12-28-2011)
§ 90.087 ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES.
   A person charged with a violation for which a fine may be imposed under this
chapter may do the following.
   (A)   Prior to the filing of an action in the Circuit Court alleging an
ordinance violation, the alleged violator may appear before the Animal
Violations Clerk and pay a fine as provided in this chapter.
   (B)   Prior to the filing of an action in Court alleging an ordinance
violation the alleged violator may appear before the Board, or its hearing
officer(s), to present their defense to the alleged violation. The Board
hearing officer(s) may conduct an administrative hearing based upon the
testimony and evidence presented by the Animal Control Officer and the alleged
violator. In the event the Board finds that the violator is guilty of the
alleged ordinance violation, the violator may be ordered to pay the fine and
costs associated therewith. The violator may stay the payment of the fine and
costs by appealing the decision to the Circuit Court on a form provided by the
Court and paying the appropriate filing fee required by Court.
   (C)   Payment of the fine and costs under this provision constitutes a plea
of guilty to the alleged violation of this chapter and constitutes a waiver of
appearance before the Board or the Court. The Animal Violations Clerk shall
issue receipts to violators for civil penalties paid to the Clerk.
(Ord. O-C11-7, passed 12-28-2011)
ANIMAL CARE AND CONTROL; SHELTER
§ 90.105 IMPOUNDMENT OF ANIMALS.
   The Animal Control Officer or a law enforcement officer or any other person
having authority to impound animals who has probable cause to believe there has
been a violation of this chapter or state law may take custody of the animal
involved.
(Ord. O-C11-7, passed 12-28-2011)
§ 90.106 OWNER’S RIGHTS.
   The custodian/owner of an animal that has been impounded under this section
may prevent disposition of the animal by an animal shelter that is caring for
the animal by posting, not later than ten days after the animal has been
impounded, a bond with the Circuit Court in an amount sufficient to provide for
the animal’s care and keeping for at least 30 days, beginning from the date the
animal was impounded. The owner may renew a bond by posting a new bond, in an
amount sufficient to provide for the animal’s care and keeping for at least an
additional 30 days, not later than ten days after the expiration of the period
for which a previous bond was posted. If a bond expires and is not renewed, the
animal shelter may determine disposition of the animal, subject to court order.
If the owner of an animal impounded under this section is found guilty of an
offense under this chapter or other state law, the owner shall reimburse the
animal shelter for the expense of the animal’s care and keeping. If the owner
has paid a bond under this section, the Court may nevertheless authorize the
animal shelter to euthanize an animal if a veterinarian determines that an
animal is suffering extreme pain.
(Ord. O-C11-7, passed 12-28-2011)
§ 90.107 COURT HEARING.
   If the owner requests, the Circuit Court shall hold a hearing to determine
whether probable cause exists to believe that a violation of this chapter or
other state law has occurred. If the Court determines that probable cause does
not exist, the Court shall order the animal returned to its owner, and the
return of any bond posted by its owner.
(Ord. O-C11-7, passed 12-28-2011)
§ 90.108 STRAY ANIMALS.
   The Animal Control Officer shall cause the apprehension and impoundment of
an animal which is not on the property of the owner so long as the animal is on
public property, public right-of-way or on private property without the consent
of the owner of the private property. Since the apprehension of the animal is
reasonably necessary for the protection of the public health, safety and
welfare, the capture of the animals is a valid exercise of the county’s law
enforcement power. Therefore, the Animal Control Officer or his or her designee
may use any means reasonably calculated to capture the animal in a manner which
presents the least danger to other persons and property. The Animal Control
Officer may enter on private property without the consent of the owner or
person in control of the property only under the following circumstances:
   (A)   With a court order or warrant authorizing entry onto the property for
the purposes stated in the order or warrant; or
   (B)   Where exigent circumstances dictate immediate apprehension in order to
prevent harm or danger to a person or animal, including but not limited to,
where an animal has bitten a person or animal.
(Ord. O-C11-7, passed 12-28-2011)
§ 90.109 DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   If any dangerous animal is not under restraint and cannot be captured safely
and impounded, it may be slain by the Animal Control Officer or a law
enforcement officer. Impounded dangerous animals will not be sold or allowed to
be redeemed except upon approval of the Board.
(Ord. O-C11-7, passed 12-28-2011)
§ 90.110 NOTICE TO OWNER.
   The Animal Control Officer shall record a description of impounded animals
on forms approved by the Board. If an animal is licensed, the licensee shall be
notified and the identity of the animal shall be recorded and kept available
for public inspection.
(Ord. O-C11-7, passed 12-28-2011)
§ 90.111 TEN-DAY HOLD.
   Animal care and control shall maintain all impounded animals for a minimum
of ten days, unless as otherwise provided for injured or diseased animals, or
until claimed by the owner. Untagged and unmicro-chipped animals shall be
maintained for no less than ten days, unless as otherwise provided for injured
or diseased animals, so long as space allows at the shelter. If the animal is
not redeemed within the appropriate time period, the Animal Control Officer may
cause the animal to be destroyed in a humane manner as established by NACA
(National Animal Control Association) or place ownership of the animal with an
animal shelter.
(Ord. O-C11-7, passed 12-28-2011)
§ 90.112 FEES FOR RECLAIMING OR REDEEMING ANIMALS.
   An animal found running at large in violation of a quarantine or in
violation of this chapter may be impounded in an area or quarters provided by
the Board. During the period of impoundment, the owner may obtain possession of
the animal by doing all of the following:
   (A)   Paying the expenses of the animal’s board and all tax or license fees
that are due and unpaid on the animal.
   (B)   Having the animal vaccinated and to pay for the vaccination or
furnishing evidence that the animal was vaccinated during the previous 12
months.
   (C)   Paying the impounding fee fixed by the Board.
   (D)   An animal not so reclaimed shall be disposed of in a manner prescribed
by the Board or the County Health Officer.
(Ord. O-C11-7, passed 12-28-2011)
§ 90.113 MICRO-CHIPPING ENCOURAGED.
   All dogs or cats adopted out by the Board are encouraged to be micro-chipped
before release.
(Ord. O-C11-7, passed 12-28-2011)
REGULATION OF DANGEROUS ANIMALS
§ 90.125 ACTIONS ALLOWED BY AUTHORIZED PERSONS PRIOR TO HEARING:
   (A)   If any animal shall attack a person or a pet peaceably conducting
himself or herself in any place where he or she may lawfully be, any person,
for the purpose preventing imminent injury or further injury, may use such
force as is required to stop the attack.
   (B)   A law enforcement officer or Animal Control Officer acting pursuant to
his statutory duties may, where the threat of serious injury to a person or pet
is imminent and unjustified, use such force as is required to prevent such
injury.
(Ord. O-C11-7, passed 12-28-2011)
§ 90.126 WHEN ANIMAL MAY NOT BE DECLARED DANGEROUS.
   An animal may not be declared dangerous if:
   (A)   The animal was protecting or defending a person within the imminent
vicinity of the animal from an attack or assault;
   (B)   The time the recipient of the attack was committing a crime or offense
upon the property of the owner/custodian of the animal;
   (C)   The recipient of the attack was teasing, tormenting, abusing or
assaulting the animal, or in the past had teased, tormented, abused or
assaulted the animal;
   (D)   The animal was attacked or menaced by another animal, or the animal
attacked was on the property of its owner/custodian;
   (E)   The animal was responding to pain or injury, or protecting itself, its
kennels or its offspring;
   (F)   The person or domestic animal was disturbing the animal’s natural
functions such as sleeping or eating; or
   (G)   Neither growling nor barking, nor both, shall alone constitute grounds
upon which to find an animal to be dangerous.
(Ord. O-C11-7, passed 12-28-2011)
§ 90.127 COMPLAINT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person may make a complaint of an alleged dangerous animal as that
term is defined in this chapter to the Animal Control Officer or law
enforcement officer. The officer(s) shall immediately inform the complainant of
his or her right to commence a proceeding provided for in division (B),
immediately below, and, if there is reason to believe the animal is a dangerous
animal, the officer shall forthwith commence such proceeding himself or
herself.
   (B)   Any person may make a complaint under oath or affirmation of an
alleged dangerous animal as that term is defined herein to the Board, Animal
Control Officer or law enforcement officer. Thereupon, the Board, subject to
judicial review, shall immediately determine if there is probable cause to
believe the animal is a dangerous animal and, if so, shall issue an order to
the Animal Control Officer or other qualified law enforcement officer directing
such officer to immediately seize such animal and hold same pending a Board
determination as herein provided. If the custodian of the animal refuses to
surrender the animal to the officer, the officer shall seek a court order
authorizing the seizure of the animal. If the animal is found to be at large,
no such court order shall be necessary. The Board shall, within seven business
days of a request for a hearing, and upon written notice of not less than three
days to the owner of the animal, hold a hearing on the complaint.
(Ord. O-C11-7, passed 12-28-2011)
§ 90.128 DESTRUCTION OF THE DANGEROUS ANIMAL.
   The Board may order an animal destroyed if none of the precautions in §
90.129 are deemed sufficient to prevent the risk of injury to any person.
(Ord. O-C11-7, passed 12-28-2011)
§ 90.129 PRECAUTIONS FOR DANGEROUS ANIMALS REQUIRED.
   Where an animal is determined, pursuant to a preponderance of the evidence
at a duly constituted hearing, to be dangerous, the Board, subject to judicial
review, shall require the owner of the animal to register such animal with the
Board, and to provide prompt notification to the Board of any changes in the
ownership of the animal; names, addresses and telephone numbers of new owners;
any change in the health status of the animal; any further instances of attack;
any claims made or lawsuits brought as a result of further instances of attack;
or the death of the animal. In addition, the Board, subject to judicial review,
may require any or all of the following, but divisions (E) and (F) of this
section, or any one of them, may only be imposed where there has been serious
injury to a person.
   (A)   Indoors, when not alone, the animal be under the control of a person
18 years or older.
   (B)   Outdoors and unattended, the animal be kept within a locked fenced
area from which it cannot escape.
   (C)   When outdoors the animal must be attended and kept within a fenced
area from which it cannot escape.
   (D)   When outdoors the animal must be attended and kept on a leash no
longer than six feet and under the control of a person 18 years of age or
older.
   (E)   When outdoors, the animal must be attended and muzzled. The muzzle
shall not cause injury to the dog or interfere with its vision or respiration
but shall prevent it from biting any person or animal. The muzzle must be made
of non-metallic material so as to prevent the muzzle from freezing to the
animal.
   (F)   Outdoors and unattended, the animal must be confined to an escape-
proof kennel of the following description:
      (1)   Such kennel shall allow the animal to stand normally and without
restriction, and shall protect the animal from the elements.
      (2)   Fencing materials shall not have openings with a diameter of more
than two inches, and in the case of wooden fences, the gaps shall not be more
than two inches.
      (3)   Any gates within such kennel or structure shall be lockable and of
such design as to prevent the entry of children or the escape of the animal,
and when the animal is confined to such kennel and unattended such locks shall
be kept locked.
      (4)   The kennel may be required to have double exterior walls to prevent
the insertion of fingers, hands, or other objects.
   (G)   Placement of a sign or signs of a description and in places directed
by the Board, advising the public of the presence and tendencies of the animal.
   (H)   Attendance by the animal and its owner/custodian at training sessions
conducted by a certified applied animal behaviorist, board certified veterinary
behaviorist or other recognized expert in the field and completion of training
or any other treatment as deemed appropriate by such expert. The owners of the
animal shall be responsible for all costs associated with the evaluation and
training ordered under this section.
   (I)   Neutering or spaying of the animal at the owner’s expense, unless a
duly authorized veterinarian renders an opinion otherwise.
   (J)   That the animal be permanently identified by tattooing or by injecting
an identification microchip, using standard veterinary procedures and
practices, identification number and the identification of the person
performing the procedure to be registered with the Board as indicated above.
   (K)   The procurement of liability insurance in an amount to be determined
by the Board, but in no case in an amount of less than $500,000, covering the
medical and/or veterinary costs resulting from future actions of the animal.
This condition may not be imposed if it is shown that no such insurance is
available for a reasonable premium.
   (L)   If any of the above conditions ordered by the Board are not complied
with, the owner shall be subject to a fine of not more than $2,500.
   (M)   If a further incident of attack occurs under such circumstances that
the dog, after a hearing as described above, is determined to be a dangerous
dog, the Board, subject to judicial review, may impose or re-impose any
applicable directives listed above; additionally, humane destruction of the dog
may be ordered, but only where the further incident involves serious injury to
a person.
   (N)   Order the animal to be examined by a veterinarian to rule out an
underlying treatable medical cause which may be causing the animal to be
aggressive. The examination shall be at the owner’s expense.
   (O)   In the event a dangerous animal escapes, the custodian/owner shall
immediately inform either law enforcement or the animal control officer or both
of the escape together with any pertinent information regarding the animal and
the circumstances involved with the escape.
(Ord. O-C11-7, passed 12-28-2011) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.130 PROCEDURE BEFORE BOARD.
   (A)   The Animal Control Officer is hereby authorized to declare an animal
to be a dangerous animal. Notice of such declaration shall be served personally
upon the owner, or his or her authorized agent, or served by mailing the
notice, by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, upon the
owner or his or her authorized agent. If mailed, the notice shall be deemed
effective three business days from depositing the notice in the United States
mail. The notice shall indicate that the animal is declared to be a dangerous
animal and that if written appeal of the Animal Control Officer’s decision is
not filed within ten days with the Board through the County Clerk’s office, the
animal shall be destroyed. If ownership of the animal cannot be determined, the
animal may be destroyed after detaining the animal for five business days
without notice or further action by the Board.
   (B)   Upon notice of the declaration of the animal to be a dangerous animal,
the animal, if not already held in quarantine by the Department of Health,
shall be surrendered to the Animal Control Officer pending a decision by the
Board on the disposition of the animal or imposition of conditions referred to
above. If not voluntarily surrendered to the Animal Control Officer, a warrant
or other court order shall be obtained for the Animal Control Officer or other
law enforcement officer to obtain immediate possession of the animal. No
consent or court approval shall be required to obtain possession of the animal
if the animal is not under restraint and is not on the property of the owner or
his or her authorized agent.
   (C)   The timely filing of an appeal of a decision of the Animal Control
Officer to the Board shall stay the decision of the Animal Control Officer to
destroy the animal until a hearing can be held by the Board and a decision
rendered thereon. If a hearing is requested, notice of the date, time, place,
and purpose of the hearing shall be given to the owner or his or her authorized
agent. The Board, or its hearing officer(s), shall review the evidence and
render a decision that reverses in whole or in part the decision of the Animal
Control Officer or affirms a decision of the Animal Control Officer that the
animal is dangerous. Upon a finding that the animal is dangerous, the Board may
impose one or more of the conditions stated above in division (E) above or have
the animal destroyed. A decision of the Board, if appealed, shall be appealed
pursuant to I.C. 34-4-17.5.
   (D)   If the decision of the Board or the final decision of the courts upon
appeal is that the animal is dangerous, the owner shall be responsible for
payment of the following fees:
      (1)   A custodial fee of: $20 administrative fee plus $10 per day until
the time of the Board’s decision and thereafter $10 per day, or for any part of
a day, for shelter and food for the animal, and plus medical expenses and other
costs incurred by the Board for the apprehension and maintenance of the animal,
and for treatment of the animal while detained. These charges shall accrue
until consent is given for destruction of the animal or until the animal is
destroyed.
      (2)   If the decision of the Board or any final decision of the courts
upon appeal is that the animal is not dangerous and should be released to the
owner, then those charges, as provided herein, shall not be charged to the
owner.
      (3)   An animal that is not under restraint and cannot be safely captured
and impounded may be slain.
(Ord. O-C11-7, passed 12-28-2011) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.131 HARBORING A DANGEROUS ANIMAL.
   No person shall own, keep or harbor a dangerous animal within the county;
except for dangerous animals in compliance with the orders of the Board as
provided above. This section shall not apply to animals under the control of a
law enforcement or military agency, zoo or a properly permitted circus
demonstrating that the animals are in secure enclosures and monitored by
trained individuals.
(Ord. O-C11-7, passed 12-28-2011) Penalty, see §
90.999
VIOLATIONS
§ 90.145 PROCEDURE FOR THE HANDLING OF COMPLAINTS OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be required of any person complaining to the Board, Animal
Control Officer or law enforcement agency, regarding domestic animals, to sign
a complaint form to be provided by the Board describing the animal, the
violation and the owner of the animal if known by the complainant.
   (B)   One such complaint shall be sufficient cause for the Animal Control
Officer or other law enforcement officer to issue a warning to the owner or to
impound the animal under procedures outlined in this chapter in accordance with
the law.
(Ord. O-C11-7, passed 12-28-2011)
§ 90.146 WAIVER OF FINES.
   The Board shall have the authority to waive all fines and citations if the
owner agrees to have their animal spayed/neutered and micro-chipped before the
animal is returned to the owner at the owner’s expense.
(Ord. O-C11-7, passed 12-28-2011)
§ 90.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall
be subject to a fine, court order to comply and revocation of licenses or
permits issued, following notice and hearing. Violations of the provisions of
this chapter shall be cause for denial of the issuance of a license or permit
if in the opinion of the Board such prior acts indicate the applicant’s
inability to comply in the future.
   (B)   Fine schedule. The following fines are hereby imposed for violation of
the provisions indicated in addition to any other remedy provided by law:
      (1)   First violation: no less than $25 or more than $100 plus cost of
collection, including but not limited to, reasonable attorney fees.
      (2)   Second violation within any 12-month period: no less than $50 or
more than $500 plus cost of collection, including but not limited to,
reasonable attorney fees.
      (3)   Third or more violations within any 12- month period: No less than
$75 or more than $750 plus cost of collection, including but not limited to,
reasonable attorney fees.
   (C)   Standardized penalties. The Board shall establish standardized
penalties and fees for violations of this chapter to the greatest extent
possible.
   (D)   Discretion of Board. The Board or the hearing officer(s) assigned to
hear animal control violations under this ordinance shall have the option to
offer a Diversion Agreement to first offenders. The Diversion Agreement shall
be in writing for a determinate period of time not to exceed one year in
duration. The Agreement must also include the conditions that the offender spay
or neuter the animal(s) subject to the Board action; and the offender attend an
animal care and abuse counseling program approved by the Board.
(Ord. O-C-11-7, passed 12-28-2011)
CHAPTER 91: COUNTY HIGHWAYS AND BRIDGES
Section
   
91.01   County highways; minimum specifications
   
91.02   County bridges
§ 91.01 COUNTY HIGHWAYS; MINIMUM SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   No petition or application for the county to incorporate a road
running through a residential area into the county highway system shall be
granted unless the road is in grade, sewers are in place, the road has a two-
inch asphalt base, 20 feet wide and a one-inch surface coat, and the applicant
can convey a 60-foot right-of-way.
   (B)   No petition or application for the county to incorporate a road
running through a commercial area into the county highway system shall be
granted unless the road is in grade, sewers are in place, the road has a five-
inch asphalt base, 22 feet wide and a one-inch surface coat, and the applicant
can convey a 60-foot right-of-way.
(Res. R-C-91-8, passed 8-5-1991)
§ 91.02 COUNTY BRIDGES.
   (A)   All county-owned bridges which are replaced from and after the date of
this section shall have a minimum deck width of 20 feet or wider with the
actual width being determined by the Highway Superintendent depending upon the
condition of the road and considering factors such as safety, road width,
geological features and the county’s financial ability to construct the bridge.
   (B)   This section shall be effective upon passage, February 3, 2003.
(Res. R-C-03-1, passed 2-3-2003)
CHAPTER 92: COUNTY HOSPITAL
Section
   
92.01   County hospital established
   
92.02   Physician recruitment
§ 92.01 COUNTY HOSPITAL ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   It is ordered that a county hospital be established in and for the
county pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 144 of the Acts of 1917 being I.C.
16-22-2-1 et seq., and the Acts amendatory and supplemental thereto, and that
the building of buildings required for the hospital shall be constructed and
placed in operation as soon as may be done.
   (B)   The amount of tax to be levied each year upon the assessed property of
the county for the maintenance of the hospital shall not exceed two mills on
the dollar for a period of 20 years, unless otherwise directed by subsequent
order of this Board. The tax levy for the maintenance of the hospital shall be
exclusive of and in addition to the tax levy required for the payment of the
principal and interest of any bonds that may be issued by the county on account
of the hospital.
   (C)   There is hereby appointed four members of the Board of Trustees for
the hospital, to act as such in accordance with the provisions of the governing
statutes.
   (D)   The Auditor shall notify those persons of their appointment to the
Board. The Trustees shall meet within ten days after this date and qualify by
taking the oath of civil officers filing surety bonds in the amount of $1,000
each, conditioned upon the faithful performance of their respective duties, and
organize as a Board of Hospital Trustees by the election of one of their number
as Chairperson, one as Secretary and by the election of other officers as they
deem necessary. At the organization meeting, the members of the Board of
Hospital Trustees shall determine by lot their respective terms of office, as
required by status, and certify to this Board the terms of office so determined
upon. As soon as may be done after the organization of the Board, the Board
shall select and recommend to the Board of Commissioners a suitable site or
sites for the location of the hospital, and shall cause to be prepared and
approved, plans, specifications and estimates for the hospital building and
shall certify to the Board of Commissioners the amount of funds required to be
raised by the county for the acquisition of a site and for the construction and
equipment of the hospital.
(Order passed 4-7-1947)
§ 92.02 PHYSICIAN RECRUITMENT.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees of the Perry County Memorial Hospital is hereby
authorized pursuant to I.C. 36-1-3-1 to enter into contracts or agreements with
physicians who agree to practice at the County Memorial Hospital and provide
medical care for the citizens of the county.
   (B)   The contract or agreements may contain financial incentives for the
physicians and the Board of Trustees of the County Memorial Hospital is hereby
authorized to enter into those contracts and agreements upon terms and
conditions agreeable to the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 1982-C-2, passed 8-2-1982)
CHAPTER 93: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
93.01   Policy statement
   
93.02   Definitions
   
93.03   Unlawful practice
   
93.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
93.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
93.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
93.07   Interference, coercion or intimidation
   
93.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
93.09   Exemptions
   
93.10   Administrative enforcement
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the county to provide, within constitutional
limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for
under the Federal Civil Rights Act of 1968 being 42 U.S.C. §§ 1404a et seq., as
amended, the Federal Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 being 42
U.S.C. §§ 5301 et seq., as amended, and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(Ord. O-C-93-1, passed 5-17-1993)
§ 93.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that the person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-2)
   COMMISSION. The State Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-9-
1-4 et seq.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-3)
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-4)
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
93.04,
93.05,
93.06,
93.07 or
93.08 or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure or part of a building or structure that is
occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-8)
   DISABILITY.
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of the person’s major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having an impairment;
         (c)   Being regarded as having an impairment;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the Federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq.; and
         (e)   Any other impairment defined under I.C. 22-9-5-6.
      (2)   The term DISABILITY shall not include current illegal use of or
addiction to a controlled substance as defined in 21 U.S.C. § 802; nor does the
term DISABILITY include an individual solely because that individual is a
transvestite
(I.C. 22-9-5-6)
   FAMILIAL STATUS. Discrimination on the basis of familial status means
discrimination because the person is (1) pregnant; (2) domiciled with an
individual under the age of 18 years of age in regard to whom the person is (a)
the parent or legal custodian or (b) has the written permission of the parent
or legal custodian for domicile with that person; or (3) in the process of
obtaining legal custody of an individual younger than 18 years of age.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual, with the status of FAMILY being
further defined in the definition for familial status above.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-9)
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees,
trustees in cases under U.S.C. Title 11, receivers and fiduciaries.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)
   TO RENT. To lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the right to occupy the premises not owned by the occupant.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-13)
(Ord. O-C-93-1, passed 5-17-1993)
§ 93.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below, §
93.09 and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or
rental of housing set forth I.C. 22-9.5-5-1 and in §
93.04 shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) below and I.C. 22-
9.5-3;
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) below, nothing in §
93.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three single-family houses at
any one time; provided that in the sale of a single-family house by a private
individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or who was not
the most recent resident of the house prior to the sale, the exemption shall
apply only to one sale within any 24- month period. The private individual
owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or reserved on his or her
behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the proceeds from the sale
or rental of more than three single-family houses at any one time. The sale or
rental of any single-family house shall be excepted from application of this
section only if the house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesperson, or any person in
the business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of
any broker, agent or salesperson or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
93.04(C), but nothing in this division shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstracters, title companies and other professional assistance
as necessary to perfect or transfer this title.
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of the living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) above, a person shall be deemed to be
in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
agent, other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in
providing sales or rental facilities or services in two or more transactions
involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended
for occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. O-C-93-1, passed 5-17-1993) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
93.03 and except as exempted by §§
93.03(B) and 93.09, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, familial
status or national origin;
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
familial status or national origin;
   (C)   To make, print or publish, or cause to be made, printed or published
any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, sex, disability, familial status or national origin, or
an intention to make any preference, limitation or discrimination;
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status or national origin that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale, or rental when the dwelling is in fact so
available;
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
sex, disability, familial status or national origin; and
   (F)   (1)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a disability
of:
         (a)   That buyer or renter;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (2)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with the dwelling, because of a disability of:
         (a)   That person;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (3)   For purposes of this division, DISCRIMINATION includes:
         (a)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the disabled person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by the
person if the modifications may be necessary to afford the person full
enjoyment of the premises except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may, where it is reasonable to do so, condition permission for a modification
on the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modification, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
         (b)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices or services, when those accommodations may be necessary to afford the
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
         (c)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13, 1988, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in a
manner that:
            1.   The public use and common use portions of the dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by disabled persons;
            2.   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within the dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
disabled persons in wheelchairs; and
               a.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
               b.   Light, switches, electrical outlets, thermostats and other
environmental controls in accessible locations;
               c.   Reinforcements in bathroom walls to allow later
installation of grab bars; and
               d.   Usable kitchens and bathrooms so that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
      (4)   Compliance with the appropriate requirements of the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq., and of the American
National Standard for buildings and facilities providing accessibility and
usability for physically disabled people (commonly cited as ANSI A117.1)
suffices to satisfy the requirements of division (F)(3)(c)3. above.
      (5)   Nothing in this section requires that a dwelling made available to
an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health or
safety of other individuals of whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. O-C-93-1, passed 5-17-1993) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, disability, familial status or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED
TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, disability or familial
status.
(Ord. O-C-93-1, passed 5-17-1993) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers’
organization or other service, organization or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her
in the terms or conditions of access, membership or participation, on account
of race, color, religion, sex, disability, familial status or national origin.
(Ord. O-C-93-1, passed 5-17-1993) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
93.03,
93.04,
93.05 or
93.06.
(Ord. O-C-93-1, passed 5-17-1993) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever shall be penalized, whether or not acting under color of law, by
force or threat of force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or
attempts to injure, intimidate or interfere with any of the following:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status or national origin and because he or she is or has
been selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings;
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
that person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, disability, familial status or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A)
above; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
   (C)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to
discourage that citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, color, religion, sex, disability, familial status or national origin, in
any of the activities, services, organizations or facilities described in
division (A) above, or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly
opposing any denial of the opportunity to participate.
   (D)   Equal access to housing in HUD Programs. Pursuant to 24 C.F.R. Part
5.403 and 24 C.F.R. Part 574.3, the definition of FAMILY is revised to include
families regardless of the actual or perceived sexual orientation, gender
identity or marital status of its members.
(Ord. O-C-93-1, passed 5-17-1993; Ord. O-C-14-8, passed 11-3-2014) Penalty, see
§
93.99
§ 93.09 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to those persons,
unless membership in that religion is restricted on account of race, color or
national origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not
in fact open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or
purposes provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a
commercial purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of those lodgings to
its members or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   (1)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply
with respect to housing for older persons.
      (2)   As used in this section, HOUSING FOR OLDER PERSONS means housing:
         (a)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary
of the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the State Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly persons (as defined in the state or federal program);
         (b)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, persons 62 years of age or
older; or
         (c)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55
years of age or older per unit.
(Ord. O-C-93-1, passed 5-17-1993)
§ 93.10 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commission as set forth in
division (B) below shall be vested in the Administrative Assistant to the Board
of Commissioners of the county.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the Board of
Commissioners of the county, because of a lack of financial and other resources
necessary to fully administer enforcement proceedings and possible civil
actions under this chapter, herein elects to refer all formal complaints of
violation of the articles of this chapter by complainants to the State Civil
Rights Commission (“Commission”) for administrative enforcement actions
pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6 and the Chief Elected Officer, acting through the
Administrative Assistant of the Board of Commissioners of the county, shall
refer all complaints to the Commission as provided for under division (A) above
to the Commission for purposes of investigation, resolution and appropriate
relief as provided for under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the county shall administer
their departments, programs and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter
and shall cooperate with the Chief Executive Officer and the Commission to
further those purposes.
   (D)   The Administrative Assistant to the Board of Commissioners of the
county, or the Chief Executive Officer’s designee, shall provide information on
remedies available to any aggrieved person or complainant requesting that
information.
(Ord. O-C-93-1, passed 5-17-1993)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to investigation, resolution and
appropriate relief provided by the State Civil Rights Commission.
See §
93.10.
   (B)   Anyone who violates §
93.08 shall be fined not more than $1,000, or imprisoned not more than one
year, or both; and if bodily injury results shall be fined not more than
$2,500, or imprisoned for not more than ten years, or both; and if death
results shall be subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for life.
(Ord. O-C-93-1, passed 5-17-1993)
CHAPTER 94: NUISANCES
Section
Weeds, Grass and Other Vegetation
   
94.01   Title and summary
   
94.02   Prohibitions
   
94.03   Non-compliance a violation
   
94.04   Enforcement; lien
   
94.05   Owner of record
   
94.06   Penalty
Placing Injurious Material  upon Highway
   
94.15   Placing injurious material upon highway prohibited
Cross-reference:
   See also Weed Control Board, §
32.03
WEEDS, GRASS AND OTHER VEGETATION
§ 94.01 TITLE AND SUMMARY.
   (A)   This subchapter and all ordinances supplemental or amendatory hereto
shall be known as the Perry County Weed Control Ordinance.
   (B)   This section provides for the regulation of unsightly growth of weeds,
grass or other vegetation within the unincorporated areas of Perry County.
(Ord. O-C-18-3, passed 3-5-2018)
§ 94.02 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No owner of real property shall permit or allow the growth of grass,
weeds or other vegetation in a manner that shall result in the property being
unsanitary, a blight on the community or offensive to the senses of users of a
public way abutting the same; allow or permit the growth of grass, weeds or
vegetation to a height in excess of ten inches, from April 1 to September 30 of
a calendar year upon residential property, without the cutting or dimming the
same; or, fail to comply with these requirements after a written order of any
county or health authorities to remedy such conditions.
   (B)   The term RESIDENTIAL shall include all real property used for
residential purposes; all real property zoned for residential use and all
property containing a residential structure (including single-family, duplexes
or multi-family structures) and shall include all vacant lots or parcels in a
residential zoning district or which are intended for use as a residential lot
or parcel. The term RESIDENTIAL shall also include those portions of a golf
course of golf course property which adjoin residential property, as defined
above, but shall not include those portions of a golf course or golf course
property which are intended to remain as wooded areas or hazard areas
associated with the golf course. This subchapter shall not apply to land used
for agricultural purposes or residential areas that are intended to remain as
wooded or natural areas.
(Ord. O-C-18-3, passed 3-5-2018)
§ 94.03 NON-COMPLIANCE A VIOLATION.
   It shall be a violation of this subchapter for any owner of real property to
fail to comply with the provisions of this chapter. Each instance of failure to
comply shall constitute a new violation.
(Ord. O-C-18-3, passed 3-5-2018)
§ 94.04 ENFORCEMENT; LIEN.
   (A)   In the event an owner fails to comply with this section, the county
may enter upon the property and take appropriate action to bring the properly
into compliance with this subchapter, including cutting or mowing the grass,
weeds or vegetation.
   (B)   Prior to entering the property of an owner, the county shall first
provide the owner with a reasonable opportunity to bring the property into
compliance by providing the owner and all persons holding a substantial
property interest in the real property notice of the violation and opportunity
to cure the violation within 15 days.
   (C)   All expenses incurred by the county to compel compliance shall
constitute a lien upon the real property of the owner. Prior to the filing of a
lien, the county must provide the owner with notice of the costs incurred by
the county and asserted against the owner. If the costs billed to the owner
remain unpaid 30 days after the date of issuance of the bill, then the bill is
delinquent and a lien may be filed against the property and recorded at the
office of the County Recorder.
   (D)   The amount of the lien shall be forwarded to the County Treasurer and
Auditor and that amount shall be placed upon the tax duplicate for that
property and collected in the same manner as delinquent taxes are collected and
shall be disbursed to the County General Fund.
   (E)   Interest shall accrue on all delinquent bills at the same rate as the
rate of interest for delinquent taxes.
   (F)   (1)   In the event the county enters upon the real estate of the owner
and takes action to bring the property into compliance, thereafter, for the
duration of the current growing season to end on September 30 of each year, if
an additional complaint is received by the county, the county may enter upon
the real estate and bring the property into compliance without additional
notice to the owner if the grass, weeds or vegetation again reach a height in
excess of ten inches.
      (2)   All expenses incurred by the county to compel compliance for any
second or subsequent action by the county shall constitute a lien upon the real
property of the owner.
      (3)   Prior to the tiling of a lien, the county must provide the owner
with notice of the costs incurred by the county and asserted against the owner.
      (4)   If the costs billed to the owner remain unpaid 30 days after the
issuance of the bill, then the bill is delinquent and a lien may be filed
against the property and recorded at the Office of the County Recorder.
      (5)   The amount of the lien shall be forwarded to the County Treasurer
and Auditor and the amount shall be placed upon the tax duplicate for that
property and collected in the same manner as delinquent taxes are collected and
shall be disbursed to the county General Fund. Interest shall accrue on all
delinquent bills at the same rate as the rate of interest for delinquent taxes.
(Ord. O-C-18-3, passed 3-5-2018)
§ 94.05 OWNER OF RECORD.
   (A)   The owner of a property shall be the same as the person who appears as
the owner of record for the property as disclosed in the records of the County
Auditor.
   (B)   The address for the owner shall be that address disclosed for the
owner of record as disclosed in the records of the County Auditor.
(Ord. O-C-18-3, passed 3-5-2018)
§ 94.06 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this section for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person or persons who violate the terms of §§
94.01 through
94.06 shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $500 for each violation. Each
day a person or persons is in violation of §§
94.01 through
94.06 shall constitute a separate violation.
(Ord. O-C-18-3, passed 3-5-2018)
PLACING INJURIOUS MATERIAL  UPON HIGHWAY
§ 94.15 PLACING INJURIOUS MATERIAL UPON HIGHWAY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall place or knowingly drop or throw upon any part of a
highway, lane, road, street, or alley any tacks, bottles, wire, glass, nails,
grass clippings or other yard waste and vegetation, snow, or any other articles
or destructive or injurious material which may damage or injure any person,
vehicle, or animal traveling along or upon such highway, except such substances
that may be placed upon the roadway by proper authority for the repair or
construction thereof.
   (B)   Any person who places or knowingly drops or throws or permits to be
dropped or thrown upon any part of a highway, lane, road, street, or alley, any
tacks, bottles, wire, glass, nails, grass clippings or other yard waste and
vegetation, snow, or any other articles or destructive or injurious material
which may damage or injure any person, vehicle, or animal traveling along or
upon such highway, shall immediately remove the same.
   (C)   Any person authorized to remove a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a
highway, lane, road, street, or alley shall remove any glass or other injurious
substance dropped upon the highway, lane, road, street, or alley from such
vehicle.
   (D)   No person shall place any obstruction in or upon a highway, lane,
road, street, or alley without proper authority.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided, any person violating provision of this
chapter shall be deemed guilty of an offense and fined not less than $50 for a
first offense, not less than $100 for a second offense and not less than $200
for all subsequent offenses, with the fine to go into the County's General
Fund, but no fine for any individual offense shall exceed $2,500 plus costs and
attorney's fees where a judgment has been entered.
(Ord. O-C-20-5, passed 9-8-2020)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   HEALTH CARE FACILITIES
      
111.   FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS
CHAPTER 110: HEALTH CARE FACILITIES
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Authority
   
110.03   Effective date
Certificate of Need
   
110.15   Established
   
110.16   County permits and planning certificates
   
110.17   Exceptions
   
110.18   Review process
   
110.19   Application guidelines
 
   
110.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMBULATORY OUTPATIENT SURGICAL CENTER. A public or private institution,
place, building or agency, licensed under I.C. 16-21-2 and defined in I.C. 16-
18-2-14 that is established, equipped and operated primarily for the purpose of
performing surgical procedures and providing related services to the general
public.
   CAMPUS.
      (1)   In the physical area immediately adjacent to the main buildings; or
      (2)   Within 250 yards of the main buildings.
   CERTIFICATE OF NEED (CON). A certificate issued by the county, after
approval by the County Commissioners, authorizing the construction or operation
of a new health care facility in the county.
   DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING FACILITY. A facility, physical location, motor vehicle or
vehicle where diagnostic imaging services are provided to an individual for the
purpose of providing health care. These diagnostic imaging services include,
but are not limited to, general x-ray services, CT scans, MRI scans,
ultrasound, fluoroscopy, mammography and any other generally recognized imaging
methods commonly utilized on an outpatient basis.
   DIALYSIS CENTER. A facility offering chronic maintenance dialysis to end-
stage renal disease patients on an outpatient basis.
   ENDOSCOPY FACILITY. A facility with or without licensure offering the
testing, diagnosis or treatment of a health disorder in conjunction with the
use of endoscopic or laparoscopic equipment.
   FREESTANDING CANCER CENTER. A facility with or without licensure that is
constructed and opened to provide primarily, if not exclusively, oncology
services, radiation therapy and/or related oncology or radiation treatments.
   FREESTANDING HEALTH CARE FACILITY. When used in connection with the
providers of health services, an organized offering of health services that is:
      (1)   Organized as a physically separate enterprise not structurally
integrated or otherwise physically part of another health care facility or a
health practitioner’s office;
      (2)   Organized as a distinct unit within another health care facility or
a new health care facility; or
      (3)   Organized as a distinct unit within a health practitioner’s office.
   HEALTH CARE FACILITY. A facility with or without licensure that is
constructed and/or operated to provide health care services including, but not
limited to, a hospital, specialty hospital, ambulatory outpatient surgical
center, diagnostic imaging facility, dialysis center, freestanding cancer
center, endoscopy facility, laboratory, mobile health service, radiation
therapy center or other freestanding health care facility as those terms are
defined herein.
   HEALTH PRACTITIONER. Any individual licensed, certified or registered by the
state to provide health services.
   HEALTH PRACTITIONER’S OFFICE. A professional office constituting the primary
location, excluding a health care facility or new health care facility, for a
health practitioner’s performance of the range of diagnostic or treatment
services ordinarily performed in an office setting by these practitioners in
the state. For purposes of this chapter, a health care facility or a new health
care facility shall not be deemed to be a HEALTH PRACTITIONER’S OFFICE.
   HOSPITAL. An institution, place, building or agency licensed under I.C. 16-
21-2 that holds itself out to the general public that it is operated for
hospital purposes and that provides care, accommodations, facilities and
equipment, in connection with services of a physician, to individuals who may
need medical or surgical services.
   LABORATORY. A facility for the biological, microbiological, serological,
chemical, immunohematological, hematological, biophysical, crytological,
pathological or other examination of materials derived from the human body for
the purpose of providing information for the diagnosis, prevention or treatment
of any disease or impairment of, or the assessment of the health of, human
beings. These examinations also include procedures to determine, measure or
otherwise describe the presence or absence of various substances or organisms
in the body. Facilities only collecting or preparing specimens (or both) or
only serving as a mailing service and not performing testing are not considered
LABORATORIES.
   MOBILE HEALTH SERVICE. Equipment used to provide health services that can be
transported from one delivery site to another.
   MODERNIZATION.
      (1)   The upgrading, remodeling or renovating of part or all of the
physical structure, physical plant, fixtures and health equipment of a health
care facility.
      (2)   The term does not:
         (a)   Apply to a new health care site; or
         (b)   Include converting a health care facility into a different kind
of health care facility.
   NEW HEALTH CARE FACILITY. A facility with or without licensure that is
constructed and/or operated to provide health care services, including but not
limited to, a hospital, specialty hospital, ambulatory outpatient surgical
center, diagnostic imaging facility, dialysis center, freestanding cancer
center, endoscopy facility, laboratory, mobile health service, radiation
therapy center or other freestanding health care facility as those terms are
defined herein.
   PERSON. As defined in I.C. 23-1-20-18, means an individual and entity (as
that term is defined in I.C. 23-1-20-10).
   RADIATION THERAPY CENTER. A facility offering the use of ionizing radiation
or radiopharmaceuticals for therapy, including external beam radiation therapy
and radioactive materials for therapeutic administration.
   RELOCATION or RELOCATED. With respect to a health care facility, the
transfer of all or part of the health care facility’s health equipment from one
location to another location. The term includes any clinical or business
operations associated with the health equipment that are transferred with the
health equipment from one location to another location.
   SPECIALTY HOSPITAL. A hospital that is primarily or exclusively engaged in
the care and treatment of one of the following categories:
      (1)   Patients with a cardiac condition;
      (2)   Patients with an orthopedic condition;
      (3)   Patients receiving a surgical procedure; or
      (4)   Other specialized category of services.
   UNDER DEVELOPMENT. A construction project in which the physical erection,
installation, alteration, repair or remodeling of the building or structure has
commenced.
(Ord. O-C-06-1, passed - -)
§ 110.02 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Home rule. The State Home Rule Act, I.C. 36-1-3 et seq., gives the
Commissioners all powers needed for the effective operation of government as to
local affairs. The Act gives the Commissioners all powers granted to them by
statute and all other powers necessary or desirable in the conduct of its
affairs, even though not granted by statute. Further, I.C. 36-l-3-6(a) provides
that if there is a constitutional or statutory provision requiring a specific
manner for exercising a power, a unit wanting to exercise the power must do so
in that manner, and that in the absence of a constitutional or statutory
provision requiring a specific manner for exercising a power, a unit wanting to
exercise the power must either:
      (1)   Comply with a statutory provision permitting a specific manner for
exercising the power; or
      (2)   Adopt an ordinance prescribing a specific manner for exercising the
power.
   (B)   Police powers. Indiana counties possess broad police powers to protect
the public health, safety, welfare and economic well being of county residents.
(I.C. 36-8-2-4) (Ord. O-C-06-1, passed - -)
§ 110.03 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect and be in force from and after the
publication thereof once each week for two consecutive weeks in compliance with
I.C. 36-2-4-8.
(Ord. O-C-06-1, passed - -)
CERTIFICATE OF NEED
§ 110.15 ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   A certificate of need program is hereby established.
   (B)   Under this program, no person may:
      (1)   Construct; or
      (2)   Seek to construct or operate a new health care facility in the
county without a certificate of need.
(Ord. O-C-06-1, passed - -)
§ 110.16 COUNTY PERMITS AND PLANNING CERTIFICATES.
   No certificate of occupancy, improvement location permit or other approval
may be issued by the county prior to an applicant securing and producing a
valid certificate of need.
(Ord. O-C-06-1, passed - -)
§ 110.17 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Practice of medicine/health practitioner’s office. The CON program
shall not attempt to regulate the practice of medicine. The CON program does
not apply to a health practitioner’s office, nor does it apply to a group of
health practitioners practicing medicine within the county, unless those
practitioners are establishing a new health care facility.
   (B)   Existing health care facilities. The CON program shall not apply to
any health care facility operating in the county prior to the enactment of this
program, nor shall the program apply to the establishment of new health care
facilities or services upon the campus of those facilities. Additionally, the
CON program shall not apply to the replacement or modernization of any health
care facility operating in the county prior to the enactment of this program.
   (C)   Facilities under development. The CON program shall not apply to any
health care facility in the county that is under development prior to the
enactment of this program, nor shall the program apply to the establishment of
new health care facilities or services upon the campus of those facilities.
   (D)   Force majure. The CON program shall not apply to replacement or repair
of a health care facility or service due to, but not limited to, acts of God,
government restrictions, wars, insurrections and/or any other cause beyond the
reasonable control of the party whose facility or service is affected.
   (E)   County Public Health Department. The CON program shall not apply to
any facility or service operated by the local health department, as defined by
I.C. 16-18-2-211.
   (F)   Establishment of health care facility by unit of government. The CON
program shall not apply to any health care facility or service established by a
unit of government, as that term is defined in I.C. 36-1-2-23, located within
the county.
   (G)   Health care facilities defined in I.C. 16-18-2-167 and licensed under
I.C. 16-28. The CON program shall not apply to a new or expanded health care
facility licensed under I.C. 16-28 and defined in I.C. 16-18-2-167.
   (H)   Health care facilities licensed under I.C. 12-25. The CON program
shall not apply to a new or expanded private mental health institution licensed
under I.C. 12-25.
(Ord. O-C-06-1, passed - -)
§ 110.18 REVIEW PROCESS.
   The Commissioners shall establish a certificate of need review process to
oversee the implementation of the certificate of need program for the county.
The review process, including CON applications, shall be established within 120
days of the effective date of this chapter.
   (A)   Hiring consultant. The Commissioners shall hire a consultant to
establish a certificate of need review process. The consultant shall review any
and all applications for certificate of need received by the Commissioners.
After thorough review, the consultant shall make a recommendation to the
Commissioners about the approval or denial of an application for certificate of
need. The consultant shall be required to use the guidelines established in the
county certificate of need program application review guidelines (Attachment
A), a copy of which is located in the office of the County Auditor.
   (B)   Report to the Commissioners. The consultant shall be required to
produce a report to the Commissioners no later than December 31 of each year.
This report shall encompass the consultant’s review and findings on the
following issues:
      (1)   The number and type of new health care facilities applying for a
CON during the previous year, as well as the cumulative number of applications
received to date;
      (2)   The number of CON issued and to whom; and
      (3)   A recommendation regarding the continuance of the CON program after
analysis and review of the following factors:
         (a)   Whether the location of a new health care facility or facilities
in the county will adversely impinge upon the ability of existing health care
facilities to remain financially viable and maintain or improve the quality and
quantity of their services to citizens of the county;
         (b)   Whether a new health care facility or facilities in the county
will improve the quality of health care services to all citizens in the county,
including low income persons, minorities, the disabled and the elderly;
         (c)   The challenges facing existing health care facilities in
providing quality health care to the citizens of the county; and
         (d)   Other matters as the consultant shall deem necessary and
appropriate to formulate a report and recommendations to the Commissioners.
   (C)   Approval of consultant’s recommendations. Upon the consultant’s
recommendation to the Commissioners regarding the approval or denial of an
application for certificate of need, the Commissioners shall approve or deny
the recommendation.
(Ord. O-C-06-1, passed - -)
§ 110.19 APPLICATION GUIDELINES.
   The consultant shall develop a certificate of need manual that includes
application guidelines to process and review each application for a new health
care facility. In addition to the standards and guidelines included in this
section, the application guidelines included in the certificate of need manual
shall include, at a minimum, the procedures listed in the Perry County
Certificate of Need Application Review Guidelines.
   (A)   Standards for review. To the extent available, the following factors
shall be considered when determining the approval or disapproval of an
application for a new health care facility:
      (1)   The impact of the new health care facility on the county residents’
ability to access new and high quality health care services;
      (2)   The current availability of alternative, less costly or more
effective means to satisfy the goals of the new health care facility;
      (3)   The immediate and long-term financial feasibility of the new health
care facility;
      (4)   The impact of the new health care facility on health care costs and
charges for other health care facilities in the county;
      (5)   The fiscal impact on other health care facilities in the county;
      (6)   The availability of resources for the new health care facility,
including management and personnel;
      (7)   The new health care facility’s economic impact in the county,
including the creation of new jobs;
      (8)   The capacity of the health care facilities currently located in the
county to improve the quality of health care services and to respond to
customer preferences;
      (9)   The effect of competition on the efficient use of health care
resources and providing quality health care; and
      (10)   The contribution of the new health care facility in serving the
county’s medically underserved population, including low income persons,
minorities, the disabled and the elderly.
   (B)   Administrative fee. Per I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(5), the Commissioners may
establish reasonable fees to defray the administrative costs associated with
the certificate of need program. These costs shall include, but not be limited
to:
      (1)   A reasonable fee to be paid by certificate of need applicants to
provide for the costs of processing and reviewing applications for certificate
of need; and
      (2)   A reasonable fee to be annually assessed of existing health care
facilities if additional financial support for the program or the program’s
enforcement is warranted.
   (C)   Open door. The Commissioners believe that the public has a right to
participate in the review of all pending applications. The Commissioners, with
the assistance of the consultant, shall establish procedures that allow the
public and interested parties, including parties that may be adversely
affected, to testify at a public hearing in support of or opposition to a
pending application. The public hearing shall take place prior to the
consultant’s recommendation to approve or deny the application.
   (D)   Access to public records. The Commissioners believe that the public
has a right to access public records. Therefore, the CON application process
shall comply with the requirements of I.C. 5-14-3 et seq. regarding the same.
(Ord. O-C-06-1, passed - -)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Enforcement of chapter. Except as otherwise expressly set forth
herein, enforcement of this chapter as against a person violating the terms and
provisions of same shall be in accordance with the provisions of I.C. 34-28-
5 et seq. An action to enforce this chapter shall be brought in the name of the
county in the County Circuit Court or in the County Superior Court, and upon
proof by a preponderance of the evidence of a violation hereof, judgment shall
be entered against the defendant in a sum of not more than $2,500 for each
violation per I.C. 36-l-3-8(a)(10)(B). A separate violation of this chapter
shall be deemed to occur for each day that a person shall be in violation of
the terms and provisions hereof.
   (B)   Relief sought. In addition to the remedy set forth in division (A)
above, an action may be brought for mandatory or injunctive relief as against
any person violating the terms and provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Additional relief. To the extent permitted by law and this chapter, an
action under division (A) above, may be joined with an action under division
(B) above and to any judgment in favor of the county, there shall be added the
costs of the action, reasonable attorney fees and expenses incurred in the
enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. O-C-06-1, passed - -)
CHAPTER 111: FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
111.01   License requirements, procedures for issuance, fees and exemptions
   
111.02   Minimum requirements
   
111.03   Sale, examination and condemnation of unwholesome, adulterated or
misbranded food
   
111.04   Food establishment inspection, corrections of violations and
revocation of license
   
111.05   Temporary suspension of license
   
111.06   Inspection of temporary/mobile food establishment
   
111.07   Submission and approval of plans for construction or alteration of a
food establishment or mobile food establishment and pre-operation inspection
   
111.08   Enforcement
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 LICENSE REQUIREMENTS, PROCEDURES FOR ISSUANCE, FEES AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a person to operate a food establishment, bed
and breakfast establishment, mobile food establishment, temporary food
establishment or push cart in the county who does not possess a valid license
from the Health Department.
   (B)   The license may be provided by the County Health Department if a
completed application is presented.
   (C)   Only persons who comply with the applicable requirements of 410 I.A.C.
7-24, Food Service Sanitation; 410 I.A.C. 7-15.5, Bed and Breakfast
Establishments, 410 I.A.C. 7-24, Retail Food Store Sanitation Requirements; and
410 I.A.C. 7-24, Sanitation of Vending Foods and Beverages, shall be entitled
to retain a license.
   (D)    The license for a food establishment shall be for a term of one year,
beginning January 1 and expiring December 31 of the calendar year and shall be
renewed annually. The fee for the license, which shall be $50, shall be due and
payable between January 1 and January 31 of the current calendar year. Failure
to pay the fee for the renewal of a license between January 1 through January
31 of the current calendar year shall result in a $10 late fee. The delinquent
fee shall be in addition to the annual fee.
   (E)   The fee for a new food establishment shall be prorated as follows:
      (1)   A person obtaining a license prior to July 1 shall pay the full
amount of the regular annual fee; and
      (2)   A person obtaining a license on or after July 1 shall pay half the
regular annual license fee.
   (F)   A separate license shall be required for each food establishment, bed
and breakfast establishment, mobile food establishment or push cart operated or
to be operated by any person.
   (G)   No new license shall be issued and no license shall be renewed until
all outstanding fines and fees are paid in full.
   (H)   Any license issued by the Health Department shall contain the name of
the person to whom the license is granted, and any other pertinent data as may
be required by the Health Department. The license shall be posted in a
conspicuous place in the food establishment.
   (I)   (1)   A license is not transferable to another location or to another
person. In the event of a change of ownership by conveyance, sales contract,
lease or other means, the current license shall become void and a new license
shall be required. A license shall not be issued to a food establishment under
new ownership until it is in full compliance with all applicable state and
local laws.
      (2)   In the event the Health Department is not notified of a change of
ownership of a food establishment, a license for the next year shall not be
issued until:
         (a)   The food establishment is in full compliance with all applicable
state and local laws; and
         (b)   All outstanding fines and fees are paid for in full.
   (J)   No license shall be required and no fee for services shall be paid for
a food establishment operated by religious, educational or charitable
organizations. However, these establishments shall comply with the other
provisions of this chapter and are subject to inspection and approval by the
Health Officer or other authorized representative.
   (K)   (1)   An organization that is exempt from the state gross income tax
under I.C. 6-3-2-2.8 and that offers food for sale to the final consumer at an
event held for the benefit of the organization is exempt from complying with
the requirements of the chapter that may be imposed upon the sale of food at
that event if:
         (a)   Members of the organization prepare the food that will be sold;
and
         (b)   Events conducted by the organization under this section take
place for no more than 30 days in any calendar year.
      (2)   This section does not prohibit an exempt organization from waiving
the exemption and applying for a license under this chapter.
(Ord. O-C-02-4, passed 10-7-2002; Ord. O-C-14-7, passed 10-21-2014) Penalty,
see §
111.99
§ 111.02 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All food establishments, bed and breakfast establishments and vending
machines shall comply with the minimum requirements of 410 I.A.C. 410 I.A.C. 7-
15.5 and 410 I.A.C. 7-24, two copies of which are on file in the office of the
Auditor of the county for public inspection.
   (B)   All food establishments and bed and breakfast establishments may be
required to attend a food service training as required by the County Health
Department. Notice of any required food service training shall be given by the
County Health Department at least 14 days in advance by delivering a written
notice by first class mail.
(Ord. O-C-02-4, passed 10-7-2002)
§ 111.03 SALE, EXAMINATION AND CONDEMNATION OF UNWHOLESOME, ADULTERATED OR
MISBRANDED FOOD.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell through a food
establishment, mobile food establishment, temporary food establishment, bed and
breakfast establishment or vending machine, any food which is unwholesome,
adulterated or misbranded as provided in the State Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act,
I.C. 16-42-1-1 et seq.
   (B)   Samples of food may be taken and examined by the Health Inspector as
often as may be necessary to determine freedom from contamination, adulteration
or misbranding. The Health Inspector may impound and forbid the sale of any
food which is unwholesome, adulterated or misbranded, or which he or she has
probable cause to believe is unfit for human consumption, unwholesome,
adulterated or misbranded; provided that in the case of misbranding which can
be corrected by proper labeling, the food may be released to the operator for
correct labeling under the supervision of the Health Inspector. The Health
Inspector may also cause to be removed or destroyed any dairy products, meat,
meat product, seafood, poultry, poultry product, confectionery, bakery product,
vegetable, fruit or other perishable articles which in the Health Inspector’s
opinion are unsound, or contain any filthy, decomposed or putrid substance, or
that may be poisonous or deleterious to health or otherwise unsafe.
(Ord. O-C-02-4, passed 10-7-2002) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 FOOD ESTABLISHMENT INSPECTION, CORRECTIONS OF VIOLATIONS AND
REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The Health Inspector may inspect each food establishment whatever
frequency the Health Inspector determines appropriate, under the provisions of
this ordinance and the Indiana Code and applicable regulations.
   (B)   The person operating the food establishment or mobile food
establishment shall, upon the request of the Health Inspector, permit the
Health Inspector access to all parts of the food establishment or mobile food
establishment and shall permit the Health Department to collect evidence and
exhibits, and to copy any or all records relative to the enforcement of this
chapter.
   (C)   If during the inspection of any food establishment the Health
Inspector discovers the violation of any of the requirements of this chapter or
the Indiana Code, a written inspection report listing the violations shall be
issued to the proprietor or, in his or her absence to the person in charge, and
fixing a time within which the proprietor of the food establishment shall abate
and remedy the violations. A copy of the written inspection report shall be
filed with the records of the Health Department. In addition, the Health
Inspector may order the temporary suspension of any license in accordance with
the terms of §
111.05.
   (D)   If, upon a return inspection, the Health Inspector finds that the food
establishment, person or employee is in violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter which were in violation on the previous inspection, and concerning
which a written inspection report was issued, the Health Inspector may elect
one of the following remedies:
      (1)   Issue an immediate temporary suspension of his, her or their
license pursuant to the terms of §
111.05;
      (2)   Issue a written citation and assess a fine for each continuing
violation. Each day of operation in violation of the provisions of this chapter
shall constitute a distinct or separate offense. Upon correction of the
repeated violation the County Health Department must be notified so the fine
does not continue to accrue;
      (3)   Issue a written order to the owner of the food operation to appear
at a certain time, no later than ten days from the date of inspection, and at a
place in the county fixed in the order to show cause why the license issued
under the provision of §
111.01 should not be revoked; and
      (4)   Furnish evidence of the violation(s) to the County Prosecutor, for
prosecution of violations of the provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   If at the administrative hearing, the owner or person in charge should
fail to show cause as to why his or her license should not be suspended or
revoked, the Health Department shall suspend or revoke the license of the food
establishment of the action to the owner or person in charge. The Health
Department shall maintain a permanent record of its proceedings which shall be
filed in the office of the Health Department.
(Ord. O-C-02-4, passed 10-7-2002) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.05 TEMPORARY SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   (1)   Any license issued under this chapter may be temporarily
suspended by the Health Department without notice or hearing after an initial
or subsequent inspection for period not to exceed 30 days for any of the
following reasons:
         (a)   An imminent health hazard, in which the food establishment shall
immediately cease food service operations. Operations shall not be resumed
until authorized by the Health Department;
         (b)   Insanitary or other conditions which in the Health Inspector’s
opinion endanger the public’s health;
         (c)   Interference with the Health Inspector in performance of duties;
and/or
         (d)   Undue harassment of Health Department Inspector in the
performance of duties.
      (2)   Upon written application from the owner or from the person in
charge, served upon the Health Department within 30 days after the suspension,
the Health Officer will conduct a hearing upon the matter after giving at least
five days written notice of the time, place and purpose thereof to the
suspended owner; provided, further, that any suspension order shall be issued
by the Health Department in writing and served upon the owner by leaving a copy
at his or her usual place of business or by delivery of registered or certified
mail.
   (B)   Any person whose license has been suspended may at any time make
application to the Health Department for the reinstatement of his or her
license.
(Ord. O-C-02-4, passed 10-7-2002)
§ 111.06 INSPECTION OF TEMPORARY/MOBILE FOOD ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   At least once in each 24-hour period, the Health Department may
inspect each temporary food establishment, or at whatever frequency determined
appropriate, under the provision of this chapter.
   (B)   If during the inspection of any temporary food establishment, the
Health Department discovers the violation of any of the requirements of this
chapter, the Health Inspector may order the immediate correction of the
violation(s).
   (C)   Upon failure of any person maintaining or operating a temporary food
establishment to comply with any order of the Health Department, the Health
Department may summarily forbid the further sale or serving of food therein and
require the food establishment be removed from the premises at that time.
Failure by the person operating the food establishment to comply may result in
referral to a law enforcement officer.
(Ord. O-C-02-4, passed 10-7-2002) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.07 SUBMISSION AND APPROVAL OF PLANS FOR CONSTRUCTION OR ALTERATION OF A
FOOD ESTABLISHMENT OR MOBILE FOOD ESTABLISHMENT AND PRE-OPERATION INSPECTION.
   (A)   Whenever a food establishment or mobile food establishment is
constructed or extensively remodeled, or whenever an existing structure is
converted for use as a food establishment or mobile food establishment,
properly prepared plans and specifications for the construction, remodeling or
conversion shall be submitted to the Health Department before construction,
remodeling or conversion is begun. The plans and specifications shall indicate
the proposed layout, arrangement, mechanical plans and construction material of
work areas, and the type and model of proposed fixed equipment and facilities.
The Health Department shall approve the plans and specifications if they meet
the requirements of this chapter. No food establishment or mobile food
establishment shall be constructed, extensively remodeled or converted except
in accordance with plans and specifications approved by the Health Department.
   (B)   When plans and specifications required by this section are to be
submitted to the Health Department, the Health Department shall inspect the
food establishment or mobile food establishment prior to the start of
operations to determine compliance with the approved plans and specifications
and with the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. O-C-02-4, passed 10-7-2002)
§ 111.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   This chapter shall be enforced by the Health Department, with the assistance
of the County Attorney, or his or her appointed deputies, and, in appropriate
cases, the County Prosecuting Attorney.
(Ord. O-C-02-4, passed 10-7-2002)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Return inspections. If, upon a return inspection, the Health Inspector
finds that the food establishment, person or employee is in violation of any of
the provisions of this chapter which were in violation on the previous
inspection, he or she shall issue a written citation and assess a fine in the
amount of $50 for each continuing violation. Each day of operation in violation
of the provisions of this chapter shall constitute a distinct or separate
offense.
   (B)   Class B misdemeanor. In addition to any civil penalty that may be
otherwise imposed by this chapter or, under state law, any person who violates
any provisions of the chapter shall be deemed guilty of a Class B misdemeanor.
A person who commits a Class B misdemeanor may be fined not more than $1,000.
(Ord. O-C-02-4, passed 10-7-2002)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
      
131.   WEAPONS
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
Section
Synthetic Cannabinoids
   
130.01   Sale prohibited
   
130.02   Burning prohibited
Sex Offenders
   
130.15   Registration fee
   
130.16   Address change fee
   
130.17   Collection of fees
   
130.18   Transfer of fees
   
130.19   County Sex and Violent Offender Administration Fund
 
   
130.99   Penalty
SYNTHETIC CANNABINOIDS
§ 130.01 SALE PROHIBITED.
   Products containing synthetic cannabinoids (“products”), such as K2/Spice or
similar products which contain one or more of the following chemical compounds
shall not be sold, marketed, offered for sale, used, possessed or purchased
within the county:
   (A)   (6aR, 10aR)-9-(hydroxymethyl)-6,6- dimethyl-3-(2methyloctan-2-yl)-
6a,7,10,10a- tetrahydrobenzo[c]cnromen-l-ol, also known as HU-210;
   (B)   l-Pentyl-3-(l-napththoyl)indole, also known as JWH-018;
   (C)   l-Butyl-3-(l-naphthoyI)indole, also known as JWH-073; or
   (D)   Any other equivalent compound or derivative.
(Ord. O-C-10-5, passed 10-4-2010) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 BURNING PROHIBITED.
   Products containing synthetic cannabinoids (“products”) may not be burned,
incinerated or ignited in any public place or on any property owned, leased or
controlled by the county.
(Ord. O-C-10-5, passed 10-4-2010) Penalty, see §
130.99
SEX OFFENDERS
§ 130.15 REGISTRATION FEE.
   The County Sheriff shall collect from each sex offender or violent offender,
as defined by state law, an annual sex or violent offender registration fee of
$50 each year.
(Ord. O-C-07-4, passed 8-6-2007)
§ 130.16 ADDRESS CHANGE FEE.
   The County Sheriff shall collect from each sex offender or violent offender,
as defined by state law, a sex or violent offender address change fee of $5 per
address change which shall be collected each time a sex offender or violent
offender changes addresses.
(Ord. O-C-07-4, passed 8-6-2007)
§ 130.17 COLLECTION OF FEES.
   (A)   The annual sex or violent offender registration fee may be collected
only one time per year from each sex offender or violent offender located
within the county.
   (B)   The sex or violent offender address change fee may be collected each
time a sex or violent offender registers an address change with the County
Sheriff.
(Ord. O-C-07-4, passed 8-6-2007)
§ 130.18 TRANSFER OF FEES.
   The County Sheriff shall transfer all fees collected under this subchapter
to the County Auditor.
(Ord. O-C-07-4, passed 8-6-2007)
§ 130.19 COUNTY SEX AND VIOLENT OFFENDER ADMINISTRATION FUND.
   (A)   There shall be established by the County Auditor a County Sex and
Violent Offender Administration Fund. The County Auditor shall deposit 90% of
any fees collected under this subchapter into the County Sex and Violent
Offender Administration Fund. The County Auditor shall further transfer 10% of
any fees collected under this subchapter to the Treasurer of the state for
deposit into the State Sex and Violent Offender Administration Fund, pursuant
to state law.
   (B)   The County Council may appropriate money from the County Sex and
Violent Offender Administration Fund to an agency or organization involved in
the administration of the sex and violent offender registry to defray the
expense of administering or insuring compliance with the laws concerning the
State Sex and Violent Offender Registry.
(Ord. O-C-07-4, passed 8-6-2007)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Persons or entities violating the provisions of §§
130.01 and
130.02 shall be subject to the penalty imposed for a Class B infraction, as set
forth in I.C. 34-28-5-4. Accordingly, §§
130.01 and
130.02 shall be enforced by the provisions of I.C. 34-28-5. Any person or
entity found in violation of §§
130.01 and
130.02 shall be responsible for payment of reasonable costs and attorney fees
associated with the enforcement of §§
130.01 and
130.02.
(Ord. O-C-10-5, passed 10-4-2010)
CHAPTER 131: WEAPONS
Section
Possession of Weapons in County Courthouse
   
131.01   Definitions
   
131.02   Restrictions
   
131.03   Exceptions
   
131.04   Effective date
 
   
131.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Court security; security guidelines, see §
34.35
POSSESSION OF WEAPONS IN COUNTY COURTHOUSE
§ 131.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   WEAPON. Includes, but is not limited to, any of the following:
      (1)   DEADLY WEAPON as defined by state law;
      (2)   FIREARM as defined by I.C. 35-47-1-5;
      (3)   ELECTRIC STUN WEAPON as defined by I.C. 35-47-8-1;
      (4)   STUN GUN as defined by I.C. 35-47-8-2;
      (5)   TASER as defined by I.C. 35-47-8-3;
      (6)   Knife;
      (7)   Explosive, referring to any agent or substance tending or serving
to explode. Explosive shall include, but not be limited to, gunpowder and
dynamite;
      (8)   Club; and
      (9)   Any other object that in the manner in which it is used, or could
ordinarily be used, or is intended to be used, is readily capable of causing
SERIOUS BODILY INJURY as defined by state law.
(Ord. O-C-01-5, passed 11-5-2001)
§ 131.02 RESTRICTIONS.
   Except as provided in §
131.03, a person shall not possess on or about his or her person a weapon
within the county courthouse.
(Ord. O-C-01-5, passed 11-5-2001) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The following persons are exempt from this subchapter:
      (1)   Law enforcement officers under state law;
      (2)   State Department of Correction officers;
      (3)   Judicial officers; and
      (4)   Probation officers who are in the courthouse for official business
and duly authorized to carry deadly weapons.
   (B)   Chemical spray devices carried by employees of the county for personal
protection shall not be considered weapons.
   (C)   The persons described as exempt from this subchapter shall not be
exempt if they or any member of their family is a party to any proceeding
taking place in court.
(Ord. O-C-01-5, passed 11-5-2001)
§ 131.04 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall take effect upon passage, after publication as
required by law.
(Ord. O-C-01-5, passed 11-5-2001)
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating §
131.02 shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $2,500. Any person violating §
131.02 shall also be subject to having the firearm or weapon confiscated by the
proper law enforcement officials.
(Ord. O-C-01-5, passed 11-5-2001)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
      
151.   STORM DRAINAGE
      
152.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
153.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
Section
Statutory Authorization, Findings of Fact,
Purpose and Objectives
   
150.001   Statutory authorization
   
150.002   Findings of fact
   
150.003   Statement of purpose
   
150.004   Objectives
   
150.005   Effective date
General Provisions
   
150.020   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
150.021   Basis for establishing regulatory flood data
   
150.022   Establishment of floodplain development permit
   
150.023   Compliance
   
150.024   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
150.025   Discrepancy between mapped floodplain and actual ground elevations
   
150.026   Interpretation
   
150.027   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
150.028   Definitions
Administration
   
150.040   Designation of Administrator
   
150.041   Permit procedures
   
150.042   Duties and responsibilities of Floodplain Administrator
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
150.055   General standards
   
150.056   Specific standards
   
150.057   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
150.058   Critical facilities
   
150.059   Standards for identified floodways
   
150.060   Standards for identified fringe
   
150.061   Standards for SFHAs without established base flood elevations and/or
floodways and fringes
   
150.062   Standards for floodprone areas
Variance Procedures
   
150.075   Designation of Variance and Appeals Board
   
150.076   Duties of Variance and Appeals Board
   
150.077   Variance procedures
   
150.078   Conditions for variances
   
150.079   Variance notification
   
150.080   Historic structures
   
150.081   Special conditions
 
   
150.999   Penalty
STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS
OF FACT, PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES
§ 150.001 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The State Legislature has in I.C. 37-7-4 granted the power to local
government units to control land use within their jurisdictions. Therefore, the
Board of Commissioners of the county does hereby adopt the following floodplain
management regulations.
(Ord. O-C-05-2, passed 9-15-2005; Am. Ord. O-C-15-4, passed 7-6-2015)
§ 150.002 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the county are subject to periodic
inundation that results in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities, and by the
occupancy in flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to
other lands that are inadequately elevated, floodproofed or otherwise
unprotected from flood damages.
(Ord. O-C-05-2, passed 9-15-2005; Am. Ord. O-C-15-4, passed 7-6-2015)
§ 150.003 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare, and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas, by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety and
property due to water or erosion hazards, which result in damaging increases in
erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities that
serve those uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers that are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development that may
increase erosion or flood damage;
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers that will
unnaturally divert floodwaters, or that may increase flood hazards to other
lands; and
   (F)   Make federal flood insurance available for structures and their
contents in the county by fulfilling the requirements of the National Flood
Insurance Program.
(Ord. O-C-05-2, passed 9-15-2005; Am. Ord. O-C-15-4, passed 7-6-2015)
§ 150.004 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are:
   (A)   To protect human life and health;
   (B)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities, such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges,
located in floodplains; and
   (F)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of floodprone areas in a manner as to minimize flood blight areas.
(Ord. O-C-05-2, passed 9-15-2005; Am. Ord. O-C-15-4, passed 7-6-2015)
§ 150.005 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be in full force and effect on August 17, 2015.
(Ord. O-C-05-2, passed 9-15-2005; Am. Ord. O-C-15-4, passed 7-6-2015)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.020 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all SFHAs and known floodprone areas within the
jurisdiction of the county.
(Ord. O-C-05-2, passed 9-15-2005; Am. Ord. O-C-15-4, passed 7-6-2015)
§ 150.021 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING REGULATORY FLOOD DATA.
   (A)   This chapter’s protection standard is the regulatory flood. The best
available regulatory flood data is listed below.
   (B)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway and fringe limits for the
studied SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the county shall be as delineated on
the 1% annual chance flood profiles in the Flood Insurance Study of Perry
County, Indiana, and Incorporated Areas and the corresponding Flood Insurance
Rate Map dated August 17, 2015, as well as any future updates, amendments or
revisions prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency with the most
recent date.
   (C)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway and fringe limits for each of
the SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the county, delineated as an A Zone on the
Perry County, Indiana, and Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance Rate Map dated
August 17, 2015, as well as any future updates, amendments or revisions
prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency with the most recent date,
shall be according to the best data available as provided by the State
Department of Natural Resources; provided the upstream drainage area from the
subject site is greater than one square mile. Whenever a party disagrees with
the best available data, the party needs to replace existing data with better
data that meets current engineering standards. To be considered, this data must
be submitted to the State Department of Natural Resources for review and
subsequently approved.
   (D)   In the absence of a published FEMA map, or absence of identification
on a FEMA map, the regulatory flood elevation, floodway and fringe limits of
any watercourse in the community’s known floodprone areas shall be according to
the best data available as provided by the State Department of Natural
Resources; provided the upstream drainage area from the subject site is greater
than one square mile.
   (E)   Upon issuance of a letter of final determination (LFD), any more
restrictive data in the new (not yet effective) mapping/study shall be utilized
for permitting and construction (development) purposes, replacing all
previously effective, less restrictive flood hazard data provided by FEMA.
(Ord. O-C-05-2, passed 9-15-2005; Am. Ord. O-C-15-4, passed 7-6-2015) Penalty,
see §
150.999
§ 150.022 ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities in areas of special flood hazard.
(Ord. O-C-05-2, passed 9-15-2005; Am. Ord. O-C-15-4, passed 7-6-2015)
§ 150.023 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure shall hereafter be located, extended, converted or structurally
altered within the SFHA without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations. No land or stream within the SFHA shall
hereafter be altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and
other applicable regulations.
(Ord. O-C-05-2, passed 9-15-2005; Am. Ord. O-C-15-4, passed 7-6-2015)
§ 150.024 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(Ord. O-C-05-2, passed 9-15-2005; Am. Ord. O-C-15-4, passed 7-6-2015)
§ 150.025 DISCREPANCY BETWEEN MAPPED FLOODPLAIN AND ACTUAL GROUND ELEVATIONS.
   (A)   In cases where there is a discrepancy between the mapped floodplain
(SFHA) on the FIRM and the actual ground elevations, the elevation provided on
the profiles shall govern.
   (B)   If the elevation of the site in question is below the base flood
elevation, that site shall be included in the SFHA and regulated accordingly.
   (C)   If the elevation (natural grade) of the site in question is above the
base flood elevation and not located in the floodway, that site shall be
considered outside the SFHA and the floodplain regulations will not be applied.
The property owner should be advised to apply for a LOMA.
(Ord. O-C-05-2, passed 9-15-2005; Am. Ord. O-C-15-4, passed 7-6-2015)
§ 150.026 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. O-C-05-2, passed 9-15-2005; Am. Ord. O-C-15-4, passed 7-6-2015)
§ 150.027 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods can and
will occur on rare occasions. Therefore, this chapter does not create any
liability on the part of the county, the State Department of Natural Resources
or the state for any flood damage that results from reliance on this chapter or
any administrative decision made lawfully thereunder.
(Ord. O-C-05-2, passed 9-15-2005; Am. Ord. O-C-15-4, passed 7-6-2015)
§ 150.028 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter
shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage
and to give this chapter its most reasonable application.
   A ZONE. Portions of the SFHA in which the principal source of flooding is
runoff from rainfall, snowmelt or a combination of both. In A ZONES,
floodwaters may move slowly or rapidly, but waves are usually not a significant
threat to buildings. These areas are labeled as Zone A, Zone AE, Zones A1-A30,
Zone AO, Zone AH, Zone AR and Zone A99 on a FIRM. The definitions are presented
below.
      (1)   ZONE A. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood
event. Because detailed hydraulic analyses have not been performed, no base
flood elevation or depths are shown.
      (2)   ZONE AE AND ZONES A1-A30. Areas subject to inundation by the 1%
annual chance flood event, determined by detailed methods. Base flood
elevations are shown within these zones. (Zone AE is on new and revised maps in
place of Zones A1-A30.)
      (3)   ZONE AH. Areas subject to inundation by 1% annual chance shallow
flooding (usually areas of ponding), where average depths are one to three
feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed hydraulic analyses are shown
within this zone.
      (4)   ZONE AO. Areas subject to inundation by 1% annual chance shallow
flooding (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain), where average depths are
between one and three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed
hydraulic analyses are shown within this zone.
      (5)   ZONE AR. Areas that result from the decertification of a previously
accredited flood protection system that is determined to be in the process of
being restored to provide base flood protection.
      (6)   ZONE A99. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood
event, but which will ultimately be protected upon completion of an under-
construction federal flood protection system. These are areas of special flood
hazard where enough progress has been made on the construction of a protection
system, such as dikes, dams and levees, to consider it complete for insurance
rating purposes. ZONE A99 may only be used when the flood protection system has
reached specified statutory progress toward completion. No base flood
elevations or depths are shown.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure with a floor area
of 400 square feet or less, which is located on the same parcel of property as
the principal structure, and the use of which is incidental to the use of the
principal structure. ACCESSORY STRUCTURES should constitute a minimal initial
investment, may not be used for human habitation, and shall be designed to have
minimal flood damage potential. Examples of accessory structures are detached
garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns and hay sheds.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a structure in which the addition is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition, which is
connected by a firewall or is separated by independent, perimeter load-bearing
walls, is new construction.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on the community’s
flood insurance rate map (FIRM), with base flood depths from one to three feet,
where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be evident. This
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation of the 1% annual chance flood.
   BASEMENT. The portion of a structure having its floor sub-grade (below
ground level) on all sides.
   BOUNDARY RIVER.  The part of the Ohio River that forms the boundary between
Kentucky and Indiana.
   BOUNDARY RIVER FLOODWAY. The floodway of a boundary river.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   COMMUNITY. A political entity that has the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the area under its jurisdiction.
   COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS). A program developed by the Federal Insurance
Administration to provide incentives for those communities in the regular
program that have gone beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements to
develop extra measures to provide protection from flooding.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. A facility for which even a slight chance of flooding
might be too great. CRITICAL FACILITIES include, but are not limited to,
schools, nursing homes, hospitals, police, fire and emergency response
installations, installations that produce, use or store hazardous materials or
hazardous waste.
   D ZONE. Unstudied areas where flood hazards are undetermined, but flooding
is possible. Flood insurance is available in participating communities, but is
not required by regulation in this zone.
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to:
         (a)   Construction, reconstruction or placement of a structure or any
addition to a structure;
         (b)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home, or installing a recreational vehicle on a site for more than
180 days;
         (c)   Installing utilities, erection of walls and fences, construction
of roads or similar projects;
         (d)   Construction of flood control structures, such as levees, dikes,
dams, channel improvements and the like;
         (e)   Mining, dredging, filling, grading, excavation or drilling
operations;
         (f)   Construction and/or reconstruction of bridges or culverts;
         (g)   Storage of materials; or
         (h)   Any other activity that might change the direction, height or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include activities, such as the maintenance of
existing structures and facilities, such as painting and re-roofing;
resurfacing roads; or gardening, plowing and similar agricultural practices
that do not involve filling, grading, excavation or the construction of
permanent structures.
   ELEVATED STRUCTURE. A non-basement structure built to have the lowest floor
elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter
walls, filled stem wall foundations (also called chain walls), pilings or
columns (posts and piers).
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A certified statement that verifies a structure’s
elevation information.
   EMERGENCY PROGRAM. The first phase under which a community participates in
the NFIP. It is intended to provide a first layer amount of insurance at
subsidized rates on all insurable structures in that community before the
effective date of the initial FIRM.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.  A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). An official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) or the Federal Insurance Administration
(FIA) has delineated the areas of flood hazards and the regulatory floodway.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
FEMA has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the risk premium
zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official hydraulic and hydrologic report
provided by FEMA. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the FIRM, FBFM
(where applicable), and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE (FPG). The elevation of the regulatory flood plus two
feet at any given location in the SFHA. See FREEBOARD.
   FLOODPLAIN. The channel proper and the areas adjoining any wetland, lake or
watercourse that have been or hereafter may be covered by the regulatory flood.
The FLOODPLAIN includes both the floodway and the fringe districts.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including but not limited
to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances and other applications of police power that control development in
floodprone areas. This term describes federal, state or local regulations in
any combination thereof, which provide standards for preventing and reducing
flood loss and damage. FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS are also referred to
as floodplain regulations, floodplain ordinance, flood damage prevention
ordinance and floodplain management requirements.
   FLOODPRONE AREA. Any land area acknowledged by a community as being
susceptible to inundation by water from any source. See FLOOD.
   FLOODPROOFING (DRY FLOODPROOFING). A method of protecting a structure that
ensures that the structure, together with attendant utilities and sanitary
facilities, is watertight to the floodproofed design elevation, with walls that
are substantially impermeable to the passage of water. All structural
components of these walls are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy, and anticipated debris-impact
forces.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form used to certify compliance for
nonresidential structures as an alternative to elevating structures to or above
the FPG. This certification must be by a registered professional engineer or
architect.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the
floodplain adjoining the channel that are reasonably required to efficiently
carry and discharge the peak flood flow of the regulatory flood of any river or
stream.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood.
   FRINGE. Those portions of the floodplain lying outside the floodway.
   HARDSHIP (AS RELATED TO VARIANCES OF THIS CHAPTER).  The exceptional
HARDSHIP that would result from a failure to grant the requested variance. The
Board of Zoning Appeals requires that the variance is exceptional, unusual and
peculiar to the property involved. Mere economic or financial HARDSHIP alone is
not exceptional. Inconvenience, aesthetic considerations, physical handicaps,
personal preferences or the disapproval of one’s neighbors likewise cannot, as
a rule, qualify as an exceptional HARDSHIP. All of these problems can be
resolved through other means without granting a variance, even if the
alternative is more expensive, or requires the property owner to build
elsewhere or put the parcel to a different use than originally intended.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to the start of construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure individually listed on the National
Register of Historic Places or the State Register of Historic Sites and
Structures.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC). The cost to repair a substantially
damaged structure that exceeds the minimal repair cost, and that is required to
bring a substantially damaged structure into compliance with the local flood
damage prevention ordinance. Acceptable mitigation measures are elevation,
relocation, demolition or any combination thereof. All renewal and new business
flood insurance policies with effective dates on or after June 1, 1997, will
include ICC coverage.
   LETTER OF FINAL DETERMINATION (LFD). A letter issued by FEMA during the
mapping update process, which establishes final elevations and provides the new
flood map and flood study to the community. The LFD initiates the six-month
adoption period. The community must adopt or amend its floodplain management
regulations during this six-month period, unless the community has previously
incorporated an automatic adoption clause.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). A general term used to refer to the several
types of revisions and amendments to FEMA maps that can be accomplished by
letter. They include letter of map amendment (LOMA), letter of map revision
(LOMR), and letter of map revision based on fill (LOMR-F). The definitions are
presented below.
      (1)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). An amendment to the currently
effective FEMA map that establishes that a property is not located in a SFHA. A
LOMA is only issued by FEMA.
      (2)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). An official revision to the
currently effective FEMA map. It is issued by FEMA and changes flood zones,
delineations and elevations.
      (3)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F).  An official
revision by letter to an effective NFIP map. A LOMR-F provides FEMA’s
determination concerning whether a structure or parcel
has been elevated on fill above the BFE and excluded from the SFHA.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The lowest elevation, after completion of
construction, of the ground, sidewalk, patio, deck support or basement entryway
immediately next to the structure.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest elevation described among the following:
      (1)   The top of the lowest level of the structure;
      (2)   The top of the basement floor;
      (3)   The top of the garage floor, if the garage is the lowest level of
the structure;
      (4)   The top of the first floor of a structure elevated on pilings or
pillars; or
      (5)   The top of the floor level of any enclosure, other than a basement,
below an elevated structure, where the walls of the enclosure provide any
resistance to the flow of floodwaters, unless:
         (a)   The walls are designed to automatically equalize the hydrostatic
flood forces on the walls by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters, by
providing a minimum of two openings (in addition to doorways and windows) in a
minimum of two exterior walls; if a structure has more than one enclosed area,
each shall have openings on exterior walls;
         (b)   The total net area of all openings shall be at least one square
inch for every one square foot of enclosed area; the bottom of all such
openings shall be no higher than one foot above the exterior grade or the
interior grade immediately beneath each opening, whichever is higher; and
         (c)   The enclosed space shall be usable solely for the parking of
vehicles and building access.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, built
on a permanent chassis and designed for use with or without a permanent
foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term MANUFACTURED HOME
does not include a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, excluding the land (as agreed to between a
willing buyer and seller), as established by what the local real estate market
will bear. MARKET VALUE can be established by independent certified appraisal,
replacement cost depreciated by age of building (actual cash value), or
adjusted assessed values.
   MITIGATION. Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk to
people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of MITIGATION
is two-fold:
      (1)   To protect people and structures; and
      (2)   To minimize the cost of disaster response and recovery.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). The federal program that makes
flood insurance available to owners of property in participating communities
nationwide through the cooperative efforts of the federal government and the
private insurance industry.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD) OF 1929. As corrected in 1929, a
vertical control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within
the floodplain.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the START OF CONSTRUCTION
commenced after the effective date of the community’s first floodplain
ordinance.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   NON-BOUNDARY RIVER FLOODWAY. The floodway of any river or stream other than
a boundary river.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM OF 1988 (NAVD 88). As adopted in 1993, a
vertical control datum used as a reference for establishing varying elevations
within the floodplain.
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, wharf,
embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, canalization,
bridge, conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation or other material in, along, across or projecting into
any watercourse that may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water; or due to its location, its propensity to snare
or collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being
carried downstream.
   ONE-PERCENT ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD. The flood that has a 1% chance of being
equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any flood zone that begins with the
letter A is subject to the 1% annual chance flood. See REGULATORY FLOOD.
   PHYSICAL MAP REVISION (PMR). An official republication of a community’s FEMA
map to effect changes to base (1% annual chance) floodelevations, floodplain
boundary delineations, regulatory floodways and planimetric features. These
changes typically occur as a result of structural works or improvements,
annexations resulting in additional flood hazard areas, or correction to base
flood elevations or SFHAs.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE. Anything that is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community, neighborhood or any considerable number of
persons, or that unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle that is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less, when measured at its largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
quarters for recreational camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REGULAR PROGRAM. The phase of the community’s participation in the NFIP
where more comprehensive floodplain management requirements are imposed, and
higher amounts of insurance are available, based upon risk zones and elevations
determined in a FIS.
   REGULATORY FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year, as calculated by a method and procedure that is acceptable
to and approved by the State Department of Natural Resources and the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The regulatory flood elevation at any location is
as defined in §
150.021. The REGULATORY FLOOD is also known by the terms BASE FLOOD, 1% ANNUAL
CHANCE FLOOD and 100-YEAR FLOOD.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event, on the average, equaled or exceeded 25% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SECTION 1316. The section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as
amended, that states that no new flood insurance coverage shall be provided for
any property that the Administrator finds has been declared by a duly
constituted state or local zoning authority or other authorized public body to
be in violation of state or local laws, regulations or ordinances that intended
to discourage or otherwise restrict land development or occupancy in floodprone
areas.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS (SFHAs). Those land within the jurisdiction of
the county subject to inundation by the regulatory flood. The SFHAs of the
county are generally identified as such on the Perry County, Indiana, and
Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance Rate Map dated August 17, 2015, as well as
any future updates, amendments or revisions prepared by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency with the most recent date. (These areas are shown on a FIRM
as Zones A, AE, A1-A30, AH, AR, A99 or AO.)
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION,
repair, reconstruction or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date.
The ACTUAL START means the first placement or permanent construction of a
structure on a site, such as the pouring of a slab or footings, the
installation of piles, the construction of columns or any work beyond the stage
of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
PERMANENT CONSTRUCTION does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers,
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For
substantial improvement, the ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building, whether or not
that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A STRUCTURE that is principally above ground and is enclosed by
walls and a roof. The term includes a gas or liquid storage tank, a
manufactured home or a prefabricated building. The term also includes
recreational vehicles to be installed on a site for more than 180 days.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the START OF CONSTRUCTION of the
improvement. This term includes structures that have incurred REPETITIVE LOSS
or SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term
does not include improvements of structures to correct existing violations of
state or local health, sanitary or safety code requirements, or any alteration
of a HISTORIC STRUCTURE, provided that the alteration will not preclude the
structure’s continued designation as a HISTORIC STRUCTURE.
   SUSPENSION. The removal of a participating community from the NFIP because
the community has not enacted and/or enforced the proper floodplain management
regulations required for participation in the NFIP.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter, which
permits construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this chapter, where
specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter. A structure or other development without the
elevation, other certification or other evidence of compliance required in this
chapter is presumed to be in violation until the time as that documentation is
provided.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
   X ZONE. The area where the flood hazard is less than that in the SFHA.
Shaded X ZONES shown on recent FIRMs (B zones on older FlRMs) designate areas
subject to inundation by the flood with a 0.2% chance of being equaled or
exceeded (the 500-year flood). Unshaded X ZONES (C zones on older FIRMs)
designate areas where the annual exceedance probability of flooding is less
than 0.2%.
   ZONE. A geographical area shown on a FIRM that reflects the severity or type
of flooding in the area.
   ZONE A. See definition for A ZONE.
   ZONE B, C AND X. Areas identified in the community as areas of moderate or
minimal hazard from the principal source of flood in the area. However,
buildings in these zones could be flooded by severe, concentrated rainfall
coupled with inadequate local drainage systems. Flood insurance is available in
participating communities, but is not required by regulation in these zones.
(Zone X is used on new and revised maps in place of Zones B and C.)
(Ord. O-C-05-2, passed 9-15-2005; Am. Ord. O-C-15-4, passed 7-6-2015)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 150.040 DESIGNATION OF ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Board of Commissioners of the county hereby appoints the County Plan
Commission Zoning Administrator to administer and implement the provisions of
this chapter, and is herein referred to as the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. O-C-05-2, passed 9-15-2005; Am. Ord. O-C-15-4, passed 7-6-2015)
§ 150.041 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   Application for a floodplain development permit shall be made to the
Floodplain Administrator, on forms furnished by the Floodplain Administrator,
prior to any development activities. The application may include, but not be
limited to, the following: plans in duplicate, drawn to scale, showing the
nature, location, dimensions and elevations of the area in question; existing
or proposed structures, earthen fill, storage of materials or equipment,
drainage facilities, and the location of the foregoing. Specifically, the
following information is required:
   (A)   Application stage.
      (1)   A description of the proposed development.
      (2)   Location of the proposed development sufficient to accurately
locate property and structure(s) in relation to existing roads and streams.
      (3)   A legal description of the property site.
      (4)   A site development plan showing existing and proposed development
locations, and existing and proposed land grades.
      (5)   Elevation of the top of the lowest floor (including basement) of
all proposed buildings. Elevation should be in NAVD 88 or NGVD).
      (6)   Elevation (in NAVD 88 or NGVD) to which any nonresidential
structure will be floodproofed.
      (7)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development. A hydrologic and hydraulic
engineering study is required and any watercourse changes submitted to DNR for
approval and then to FEMA as a letter of map revision. (See §
150.042(B)(6) for additional information.)
   (B)   Construction stage.
      (1)   Upon establishment of the lowest floor of an elevated structure or
structure constructed on fill, it shall be the duty of the applicant to submit
to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the NAVD 88 or NGVD
elevation of the lowest floor, as built. The certification shall be prepared by
or under the direct supervision of a registered land surveyor or professional
engineer, and certified by the same. The Floodplain Administrator shall review
the lowest floor elevation survey data submitted. The applicant shall correct
deficiencies detected by the review before any further work is allowed to
proceed. Failure to submit the survey or failure to make the corrections
required hereby shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the project. Any
work undertaken prior to submission of the elevation certification shall be at
the applicant’s risk.
      (2)   Upon establishment of the floodproofed elevation of a floodproofed
structure, it shall be the duty of the applicant to submit to the Floodplain
Administrator a floodproofing certificate. Certification shall be prepared by
or under the direct supervision of a registered professional engineer and
certified by same. (The Floodplain Administrator shall review the floodproofing
certification submitted.) The applicant shall correct any deficiencies detected
by the review before any further work is allowed to proceed. Failure to submit
the floodproofing certification or failure to make the corrections required
shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the project.
      (3)   Finished construction. Upon completion of construction, an
elevation certification that depicts the as-built lowest floor elevation is
required to be submitted to the Floodplain Administrator. If the project
includes a floodproofing measure, floodproofing certification is required to be
submitted by the applicant to the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. O-C-05-2, passed 9-15-2005; Am. Ord. O-C-15-4, passed 7-6-2015)
§ 150.042 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator and/or designated staff is hereby
authorized and directed to enforce the provisions of this chapter. The
Administrator is further authorized to render interpretations of this chapter
that are consistent with its spirit and purpose.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Review all floodplain development permits to assure that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
      (2)   Inspect and inventory damaged structures in the SFHA and complete
substantial damage determinations;
      (3)   Ensure that construction authorization has been granted by the
State Department of Natural Resources for all development projects subject to
§§
150.059 and
150.061(A), and maintain a record of the authorization (a copy of either the
actual permit or the floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment);
      (4)   Ensure that all necessary federal or state permits have been
received prior to issuance of the local floodplain development permit. Copies
of the permits and authorizations are to be maintained on file with the
floodplain development permit;
      (5)   Maintain and track permit records involving additions and
improvements to residences located in the floodway;
      (6)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Floodplain Coordinator
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit copies of
those notifications to FEMA;
      (7)   Maintain for public inspection and furnish upon request local
permit documents, damaged structure inventories, substantial damage
determinations, regulatory flood data, SFHA maps, letters of map change (LOMC),
copies of DNR permits, letters of authorization, floodplain analysis and
regulatory assessments (letters of recommendation), federal permit documents
and as-built elevation and floodproofing data for all buildings constructed
subject to this chapter;
      (8)   Utilize and enforce all letters of map change (LOMC) or physical
map revisions (PMR) issued by FEMA for the currently effective SFHA maps of the
community;
      (9)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of the watercourse so that its flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished;
      (10)   Review certified plans and specifications for compliance;
      (11)   Verify and record the actual elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new or substantially improved structures, in
accordance with §
150.041;
      (12)   Verify and record the actual elevation to which any new or
substantially improved structures have been floodproofed, in accordance with §
150.041;
      (13)   Stop-work orders.
         (a)   Upon notice from the Administrator, work on any building,
structure or premises that is being done contrary to the provisions of this
chapter shall immediately cease.
         (b)   The notice shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner
of the property, or to his or her agent, or to the person doing the work, and
shall state the conditions under which work may be resumed.
      (14)   Revocation of permits.
         (a)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit or approval,
issued under the provisions of the chapter, in cases where there has been any
false statement or misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application
or plans on which the permit or approval was based.
         (b)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit upon
determination by the Floodplain Administrator that the construction, erection,
alteration, repair, moving, demolition, installation or replacement of the
structure for which the permit was issued is in violation of, or not in
conformity with, the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. O-C-05-2, passed 9-15-2005; Am. Ord. O-C-15-4, passed 7-6-2015) Penalty,
see §
150.999
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 150.055 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all SFHAs and known floodprone areas, the following provisions are
required.
   (A)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or
lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use
of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting
wind forces.
   (C)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage below the FPG.
   (D)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed by
methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, utility meters and other service facilities shall be at or above the
FPG, or designed so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within
the components below the FPG. Water and sewer pipes, electrical and telephone
lines, submersible pumps, and other waterproofed service facilities may be
located below the FPG..
   (F)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   (G)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   (H)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (I)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a structure
that is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall meet the
requirements of new construction as contained in this chapter.
(Ord. O-C-05-2, passed 9-15-2005; Am. Ord. O-C-15-4, passed 7-6-2015)
§ 150.056 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all SFHAs, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   Building protection requirement. In addition to the requirements of §
150.055, all structures to be located in the SFHA shall be protected from flood
damage below the FPG. This building protection requirement applies to the
following situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of any new structure having a floor area
greater than 400 square feet;
      (2)   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure, where the
cost of the addition or improvement equals or exceeds 50% of the value of the
existing structure (excluding the value of the land);
      (3)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a damaged structure, where the
costs of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure (excluding the value of the
land) before damage occurred;
      (4)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than 180 days;
      (5)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. This chapter does not apply to returning the existing
manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it was removed
to avoid flood damage;
      (6)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a repetitive loss structure; and
      (7)   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure with a
previous addition or improvement constructed since the community’s first
floodplain ordinance.
   (B)   Residential structures. New construction or substantial improvement of
any residential structure (or manufactured home) shall have the lowest floor,
including basement, at or above the FPG (two feet above the base flood
elevation). Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a
structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movement of
floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of division (D)
below.
   (C)   Nonresidential structures. New construction or substantial improvement
of any commercial, industrial or nonresidential structure (or manufactured
home) shall either have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or
above the FPG (two feet above the base flood elevation) or be floodproofed to
at or above the FPG. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate
a structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movement of
floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of division (D)
below. Structures located in all A Zones may be floodproofed in lieu of being
elevated, if done in accordance with the following.
      (1)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the structure has been designed so that, below the FPG, the structure and
attendant utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the
effects of the regulatory flood. The structure design shall take into account
flood velocities, duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic pressures and impacts
from debris or ice. This certification shall be provided to the official as set
forth in §
150.042(B)(12).
      (2)   Floodproofing measures shall be operable without human intervention
and without an outside source of electricity.
   (D)   Elevated structures.
      (1)   New construction or substantial improvements of elevated structures
shall have the lowest floor at or above the FPG.
      (2)   Elevated structures with fully enclosed areas formed by foundation
and other exterior walls below the flood protection grade shall be designed to
preclude finished living space, and to allow for the entry and exit of
floodwaters to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior
wails. Designs must meet the following minimum criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings located in a minimum of two
exterior walls (having a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area);
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no more than one foot above
the exterior grade or the interior grade immediately beneath each opening,
whichever is higher;
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions;
         (d)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to
allow for parking for vehicles (garage door), limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door), or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator);
         (e)   The interior portion of the enclosed area shall not be
partitioned or finished into separate rooms; and
         (f)   The interior grade of the enclosed area shall be at an elevation
at or higher than the exterior grade.
   (E)   Structures constructed on fill. A residential or nonresidential
structure may be constructed on a permanent land fill in accordance with the
following.
      (1)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot deep
before compacting to 95% of the maximum density obtainable with the Standard or
Modified Proctor Test method. The results of the test showing compliance shall
be retained in the permit file.
      (2)   The fill should extend at least ten feet beyond the foundation of
the structure before sloping below the BFE.
      (3)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap or bulkheading. If vegetative cover is
used, the slopes shall be no steeper than three horizontal to one vertical.
      (4)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties.
      (5)   The top of the lowest floor, including basement, shall be at or
above the FPG.
   (F)   Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles to be installed or substantially
improved on a site for more than 180 days must meet one of the following
requirements.
      (1)   These requirements apply to all manufactured homes to be placed on
a site outside a manufactured home park or subdivision; in a new manufactured
home park or subdivision; in an expansion to an existing manufactured home park
or subdivision; or in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on
which a manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as a result of a
flood.
         (a)   The manufactured home shall be elevated on a permanent
foundation such that the lowest floor shall be at or above the FPG and securely
anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation,
collapse and lateral movement.
         (b)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior
walls below the FPG shall be designed to preclude finished living space, and to
allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required for elevated structures
in division (D) above.
         (c)   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame
or foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings.
      (2)   These requirements apply to all manufactured homes to be placed on
a site in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision that has not been
substantially damaged by a flood.
         (a)   The manufactured home shall be elevated so that the lowest floor
of the manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or other
foundation elevations that are no less than 36 inches in height above grade,
and shall be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to
resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
         (b)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior
walls below the FPG shall be designed to preclude finished living space, and to
allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required for elevated structures
in division (D) above.
         (c)   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame
or foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings.
      (2)   Recreational vehicles placed on a site shall either:
         (a)   Be on site for less than 180 days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and READY FOR HIGHWAY USE (defined as being on
its wheels or jacking system, being attached to the site only by quick.
disconnect-type utilities and security devices, and having no permanently
attached additions); or
         (c)   Meet the requirements for manufactured homes as stated earlier
in this section.
   (G)   Accessory structures. Relief to the elevation or dry floodproofing
standards may be granted for accessory structures. These structures must meet
the following standards:
      (1)   Shall not be used for human habitation.
      (2)   Shall be constructed of flood-resistant materials.
      (3)   Shall be constructed and placed on the lot to offer the minimum
resistance to the flow of floodwaters.
      (4)   Shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation.
      (5)   Service facilities, such as electrical and heating equipment, shall
be elevated or floodproofed to or above the FPG.
      (6)   Shall be designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required
for elevated structures in division (D above.
   (H)   Aboveground gas or liquid storage tanks. All aboveground gas or liquid
storage tanks shall be anchored to prevent flotation or lateral movement.
(Ord. O-C-05-2, passed 9-15-2005; Am. Ord. O-C-15-4, passed 7-6-2015)
§ 150.057 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities,
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (D)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development (including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions), which is greater than the lesser of 50 lots or five acres.
   (E)   All subdivision proposals shall minimize development in the SFHA and/
or limit density of development permitted in the SFHA.
   (F)   All subdivision proposals shall ensure safe access into and out of the
SFHA for pedestrians and vehicles (especially emergency responders).
(Ord. O-C-05-2, passed 9-15-2005; Am. Ord. O-C-15-4, passed 7-6-2015)
§ 150.058 CRITICAL FACILITIES.
   Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent possible,
located outside the limits of the SFHA. Construction of new critical facilities
shall be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site is
available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the
lowest floor elevated to or above the FPG at the site. Floodproofing and
sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic substances will not be
displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access routes elevated to or above
the FPG shall be provided to all critical facilities to the extent possible.
(Ord. O-C-05-2, passed 9-15-2005; Am. Ord. O-C-15-4, passed 7-6-2015)f
§ 150.059 STANDARDS FOR IDENTIFIED FLOODWAYS.
   (A)   Located within SFHAs, established in §
150.021, are areas designated as floodways. The floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters, which carry debris and
potential projectiles, and has erosion potential. If the site is in an
identified floodway, the Floodplain Administrator shall require the applicant
to forward the application, along with all pertinent plans and specifications,
to the State Department of Natural Resources, and apply for a permit for
construction in a floodway. Under the provisions of I.C. 14-28-1, a permit for
construction in a floodway from the State Department of Natural Resources is
required prior to the issuance of a local building permit for any excavation,
deposit, construction or obstruction activity located in the floodway. This
includes land preparation activities, such as filling, grading, clearing,
paving and the like, undertaken before the actual start of construction of the
structure. However, it does exclude non-substantial additions or improvements
to existing (lawful) residences in a non-boundary river floodway. (I.C. 14-28-
1-26 allows construction of a non-substantial addition or improvement to a
residence in a non-boundary river floodway without obtaining a permit for
construction in a floodway from the State Department of Natural Resources.
Please note that if fill is needed to elevate an addition above the existing
grade, prior approval for the fill is required from the State Department of
Natural Resources.)
   (B)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until a
permit (when applicable) has been issued by the State Department of Natural
Resources, granting approval for construction in a floodway. Once a permit for
construction in a floodway has been issued by the State Department of Natural
Resources, the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local floodplain
development permit, provided the provisions contained in §§
150.055 through
150.062 have been met. The floodplain development permit cannot be less
restrictive than the permit for construction in a floodway issued by the State
Department of Natural Resources. However, a community’s more restrictive
regulations (if any) shall take precedence.
   (C)   No development shall be allowed that, acting alone or in combination
with existing or future development, will adversely affect the efficiency or
unduly restrict the capacity of the floodway. This ADVERSE AFFECT is defined as
an increase in the elevation of the regulatory flood of at least 0.15 of one
foot, as determined by comparing the regulatory flood elevation under the
project condition to that under the natural or pre-floodway condition as proven
with hydraulic analyses.
   (D)   For all projects involving channel modifications or fill (including
levees), the county shall submit the data and request that the Federal
Emergency Management Agency revise the regulatory flood data per mapping
standard regulations found at 44 C.F.R. § 65.12.
(Ord. O-C-05-2, passed 9-15-2005; Am. Ord. O-C-15-4, passed 7-6-2015)
§ 150.060 STANDARDS FOR IDENTIFIED FRINGE.
   If the site is located in an identified fringe, then the Floodplain
Administrator may issue the local floodplain development permit, provided the
provisions contained in §§
150.055 through
150.062 have been met. The key provision is that the top of the lowest floor of
any new or substantially improved structure shall be at or above the FPG.
(Ord. O-C-05-2, passed 9-15-2005; Am. Ord. O-C-15-4, passed 7-6-2015)
§ 150.061 STANDARDS FOR SFHAS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS AND/OR
FLOODWAYS AND FRINGES.
   (A)   Drainage area upstream of the site is greater than one square mile.
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined, and the drainage area
upstream of the site is greater than one square mile, the Floodplain
Administrator shall require the applicant to forward the application, along
with all pertinent plans and specifications, to the State Department of Natural
Resources for review and comment.
      (2)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
either a permit for construction in the floodway (including letters of
authorization) or a floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment, citing the 1%
annual chance flood elevation and the recommended flood protection grade, has
been received from the State Department of Natural Resources.
      (3)   Once the Floodplain Administrator has received the proper permit
for construction in the floodway (including letters of authorization) or
floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment approving the proposed development, a
floodplain development permit may be issued, provided the conditions of the
floodplain development permit are not less restrictive than the conditions
received from the State Department of Natural Resources, and the provisions
contained in §§
150.055 through
150.062 have been met.
   (B)   Drainage area upstream of the site is less than one square mile.
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined, and the drainage area
upstream of the site is less than one square mile, the Floodplain Administrator
shall require the applicant to provide an engineering analysis, showing the
limits of the floodplain and 1% annual chance flood elevation for the site.
      (2)   Upon receipt, the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local
floodplain development permit, provided the provisions contained in §§
150.055 through
150.062 have been met.
   (C)   The total cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined
with all other existing and anticipated development, shall not increase the
regulatory flood more than 0.14 of one foot, and shall not increase flood
damages or potential flood damages.
(Ord. O-C-05-2, passed 9-15-2005; Am. Ord. O-C-15-4, passed 7-6-2015)
§ 150.062 STANDARDS FOR FLOODPRONE AREAS.
   All development in known floodprone areas not identified on FEMA maps, or
where no FEMA-published map is available, shall meet applicable standards as
required per §§
150.055 through
150.061.
(Ord. O-C-15-4, passed 7-6-2015)
VARIANCE PROCEDURES
§ 150.075 DESIGNATION OF VARIANCE AND APPEALS BOARD.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall hear and decide appeals and requests for
variances from the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. O-C-05-2, passed 9-15-2005; Am. Ord. O-C-15-4, passed 7-6-2015)
§ 150.076 DUTIES OF VARIANCE AND APPEALS BOARD.
   The Board shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged an error in any
requirement, decision or determination is made by the Floodplain Administrator
in the enforcement or administration of this chapter. Any person aggrieved by
the decision of the Board may appeal the decision to the County Circuit Court.
(Ord. O-C-05-2, passed 9-15-2005; Am. Ord. O-C-15-4, passed 7-6-2015)
§ 150.077 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   In passing upon applications, the Board shall consider all technical
evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other sections of
this chapter, and:
   (A)   The danger of life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
   (B)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of that damage on the individual owner;
   (C)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
   (D)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
   (E)   The availability for the proposed use of alternative locations that
are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
   (F)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
   (G)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
   (H)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
   (I)   The expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and transport
of sediment of the floodwaters at the site; and
   (J)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
(Ord. O-C-05-2, passed 9-15-2005; Am. Ord. O-C-15-4, passed 7-6-2015)
§ 150.078 CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES.
   (A)   Variances shall only be issued when there is:
      (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
      (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship;
      (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense; will not create nuisances; will not cause fraud or
victimization of the public, or conflict with existing laws or ordinances.
   (B)   No variance may be granted for a residential use within a floodway
subject to §
150.059 or §
150.061(A) of this chapter.
   (C)   Any variance granted in a floodway subject to §
150.059 or §
150.061(A) will require a permit from the State Department of Natural
Resources.
   (D)   Variances to the provisions for flood hazard reduction of §
150.056 may be granted only when a new structure is to be located on a lot of
one-half acre or less in size, contiguous to and surrounded by lots with
existing structures constructed below the flood protection grade.
   (E)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (F)   Variances may be granted for the reconstruction or restoration of any
structure individually listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Register of Historic Sites and Structures.
   (G)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice, specifying the difference between the flood protection grade and the
elevation to which the lowest floor is to be built, and stating that the cost
of the flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting
from the reduced lowest floor elevation. See §
150.079.
   (H)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency or
the State Department of Natural Resources upon request. See §
150.079.
(Ord. O-C-05-2, passed 9-15-2005; Am. Ord. O-C-15-4, passed 7-6-2015)
§ 150.079 VARIANCE NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any applicant granted a variance, which allows the lowest floor of a
structure to be built below the flood protection grade, shall be given written
notice, over the signature of a community official, that:
      (1)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the flood
protection grade will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance, up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
      (2)   Such construction below the flood protection grade increases risks
to life and property. A copy of the notice shall be recorded by the Floodplain
Administrator in the Office of the County Recorder, and shall be recorded in a
manner so that it appears in the chain of title of the affected parcel of land.
   (B)   The Floodplain Administrator will maintain a record of all variance
actions, including justification for their issuance.
(Ord. O-C-05-2, passed 9-15-2005; Am. Ord. O-C-15-4, passed 7-6-2015)
§ 150.080 HISTORIC STRUCTURES.
   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures, upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation
will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as an historic
structure, and that the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the
historic character and design of the structure.
(Ord. O-C-05-2, passed 9-15-2005; Am. Ord. O-C-15-4, passed 7-6-2015)
§ 150.081 SPECIAL CONDITIONS.
   Upon the consideration of the factors listed in §§
150.075 through
150.081, and the purposes of this chapter, the Board of Zoning Appeals may
attach such conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to
further the purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. O-C-05-2, passed 9-15-2005; Am. Ord. O-C-15-4, passed 7-6-2015)
§ 150.999 PENALTY.
   Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit in the SFHA, or failure to
comply with the requirements of a floodplain development permit or conditions
of a variance, shall be deemed to be a violation of this chapter. All
violations shall be considered a common nuisance and be treated as such in
accordance with the provisions of the zoning regulations for the county. All
violations shall be punishable by a fine not exceeding $500.
   (A)   A separate offense shall be deemed to occur for each day the violation
continues to exist.
   (B)   The County Plan Commission shall inform the owner that any such
violation is considered a willful act to increase flood damages, and therefore,
may cause coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
   (C)   Nothing herein shall prevent the county from taking other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. O-C-05-2, passed 9-15-2005; Am. Ord. O-C-15-4, passed 7-6-2015)
CHAPTER 151: STORM DRAINAGE
Section
   
151.01   Residential storm drain culverts and enclosures
   
151.02   County policy on roadside culverts
§ 151.01 RESIDENTIAL STORM DRAIN CULVERTS AND ENCLOSURES.
   (A)   This section shall regulate the installation of culverts and the
enclosing of storm drains along all county highways.
   (B)   No person shall enclose any storm drain or ditch on the county road
right-of-way or install any culvert, pipe, tile or tube therein, unless a
permit has been issued therefor by the County Highway Department. Applications
for the permits shall be made on forms provided by the Highway Department.
   (C)   Any landowner who wishes to install a residential driveway culvert or
field entrance on the county road right-of-way shall, prior to installation,
apply for a permit from the County Highway Department. Any permit which is
issued shall specify the minimum diameter of pipe required.
   (D)   Any landowner who wishes to enclose a roadside ditch or storm drain on
the county road right-of-way for any purpose other than a residential driveway
or field entrance shall, prior to installation, apply for a permit from the
County Highway Department. The landowner shall provide the Highway Department
with a detailed drawing of the proposed work specifying the length of ditch to
be enclosed, location of inlets and any other relevant information. Any permit
which is issued shall specify the minimum diameter of pipe and the grades of
the surface and fill which shall be required.
   (E)   The installation of the culvert or pipe shall be performed according
to the specifications set forth in the permit.
   (F)   The costs of the culvert or pipe and all fill and labor shall be at
the expense of the landowner, except the county may provide labor and equipment
for installation of driveway culverts or field entrances. All maintenance and
cleaning of obstructions shall be the responsibility of the landowner. If the
storm drain or culvert becomes inadequate, or if it is improperly installed in
violation of the permit, the Highway Department may remove any storm drain or
culvert in the county road right-of-way if the drain remains obstructed.
   (G)   The minimum diameter of a pipe or culvert allowed in county right-of-
way shall be 12 inches. The minimum length of a pipe or culvert for a
residential driveway or field entrance shall be 20 feet. However, if the County
Highway Department is going to install the pipe or culvert, it must be at least
24 feet in length and be made of metal.
   (H)   By resolution of equal date herewith, the Board of Commissioners have
adopted a policy on roadside culverts. In the event of any conflict between
this section and this policy, the provisions of this section shall govern.
   (I)   The County Board of Commissioners shall have the right to change or
amend the permit approval procedure and to delegate that responsibility to a
particular employee by resolution. The Commissioners hereby delegate the County
Highway Superintendent as the employee to develop the permit forms and to
approve and deny the permits described herein.
(Ord. O-C-02-5, passed 12-2-2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.02 COUNTY POLICY ON ROADSIDE CULVERTS.
   In order to clarify the county’s obligations regarding the installation and
maintenance of roadside culverts within the county’s right-of-way, the County
Commissioners hereby establish the following as the policy on all culverts.
   (A)   The filling of any county roadside ditch for the benefit of the
landowner, which may require the installation of a storm drain culvert, shall
be governed by County Ordinance O-C-02-5 (as codified in §
151.01) requiring the landowner to secure a permit from the County Highway
Department, approved by the County Highway Engineer, and the purchase of the
culvert by the landowner. This section pertains to the new installation of
driveways, field entrances and the filling of ditches for the aesthetic
purposes of the landowner.
   (B)   While the county may install residential driveway and field entrance
pipes or culverts, installation of pipes or culverts for any purpose other than
a residential driveway or field entrance shall be the landowner’s
responsibility.
   (C)   The maintenance of existing roadside culverts under driveways, field
entrances and enclosed drains installed by the landowner to cover the otherwise
open ditch adjoining their property is the responsibility of the landowner as
provided in §
151.01. If the culvert or enclosed drain becomes obstructed, deteriorated or
otherwise insufficient, the county will remove the drain after proper and
adequate notification to the landowner, as provided in §
151.01.
   (D)   Improvements to roadside ditches for the benefit of the county shall
be defined as any ditching performed by the county in preparation for the
paving of roads and streets within the county and for the correction of
drainage problems along the county road system. The correction of drainage
problems caused by the nonexistence or inadequacy of one or more individual’s
culvert or enclosed drain within the county right-of-way may require the
landowner to purchase a properly sized culvert if access to their property is
to be maintained.
   (E)   This policy supersedes and replaces any and all other policies on
roadside culverts in effect prior to the effective date of this policy. This
policy is to take effect upon adoption.
(Policy passed 12-2-2002)
CHAPTER 152: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Short title
   
152.002   Purpose
   
152.003   Definition
   
152.004   Compliance
   
152.005   Hardship
   
152.006   Conflict
   
152.007   Jurisdictional area
   
152.008   Chapter supplemental to Indiana Code
Lot Sizes
   
152.020   Size of lots
Requirement for Low Density Subdivisions
   
152.035   Defined
   
152.036   Public ways
   
152.037   Utility services
Requirements for High Density Subdivisions
   
152.050   Defined
   
152.051   Requirements
Procedure
   
152.065   Low density subdivision
   
152.066   High density subdivision
Fees
   
152.080   Fees
 
   
152.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Subdivision Control
Ordinance of the county.
(Ord. O-C-97-9, passed 12-22-1997)
§ 152.002 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is adopted in accordance with the County Comprehensive Plan for
the following purposes:
   (A)   To assist the orderly and efficient development of the county;
   (B)   To promote the health, safety and general welfare of the residents of
the county; and
   (C)   To secure equitable handling of all subdivision plans by providing
procedures and standards.
(Ord. O-C-97-9, passed 12-22-1997)
§ 152.003 DEFINITION.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SUBDIVISION. A planned division of a tract of land into several smaller
tracts, pursuant to a plan or scheme for marketing the smaller tracts. A
SUBDIVISION does not include unrelated sell offs of small tracts from a larger
tract where there is no scheme or plan to create a SUBDIVISION as herein
defined.
(Ord. O-C-97-9, passed 12-22-1997)
§ 152.004 COMPLIANCE.
   No lot in a subdivision shall be sold, no permit to erect, alter or repair
any building upon land in a subdivision shall be issued, and no building shall
be created in a subdivision, unless and until a subdivision plan has been
approved as herein provided. In addition to complying with the requirements of
this chapter, all lots in all subdivisions shall also comply with all
provisions of the county zoning regulations then in effect, which are not
inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. O-C-97-9, passed 12-22-1997) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.005 HARDSHIP.
   Where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of this chapter
would result in unnecessary hardship, the Plan Commission may take reasonable
exception thereto as will not be contrary to the public interest, and may
permit the sale of a lot, issuance of a permit and erection of a building,
subject to conditions necessary to assure adequate streets and other public
improvements.
(Ord. O-C-97-9, passed 12-22-1997)
§ 152.006 CONFLICT.
   Whenever there is a difference between minimum standards or dimensions
specified herein and those contained in other regulations, resolutions or
ordinances of the county or state, the highest standards shall govern.
(Ord. O-C-97-9, passed 12-22-1997)
§ 152.007 JURISDICTIONAL AREA.
   This chapter shall apply to all unincorporated land within the county,
except those areas in which a city or town has established jurisdiction over
all or any part of the unincorporated land outside of the corporate limits of
the city or town.
(Ord. O-C-97-9, passed 12-22-1997)
§ 152.008 CHAPTER SUPPLEMENTAL TO INDIANA CODE.
   It is intended that this chapter shall be supplemental to all provisions in
the Indiana Code for subdivision development, including those found at I.C. 36-
7-4-701 et seq. For any matters contained in the aforesaid statutes which are
not required by this chapter, the applicant for a subdivision shall be required
to comply with the aforesaid statutory provisions. In matters for which there
is a conflict between the provisions of this chapter and the Indiana Code, the
provisions of the Indiana Code shall prevail.
(Ord. O-C-97-9, passed 12-22-1997)
LOT SIZES
§ 152.020 SIZE OF LOTS.
   Lots in a subdivision shall have the same minimum width, depth and area as
presently required by the county zoning regulations, as codified in Chapter
153, for residential lots in the zoning district in which the proposed
subdivision is located.
(Ord. O-C-97-9, passed 12-22-1997)
REQUIREMENT FOR LOW DENSITY SUBDIVISIONS
§ 152.035 DEFINED.
   The following requirements are for subdivisions having a lot density no
greater than five lots per ten acres, prorated to the actual number of acres in
a subdivision, with no more than 20% of the lots located therein being less
than two acres in size.
(Ord. O-C-97-9, passed 12-22-1997)
§ 152.036 PUBLIC WAYS.
   All public ways located within the subdivision which are not dedicated and
accepted as a county highway, shall have a private maintenance agreement
providing for the maintenance of the roadway by the users thereof. The private
roadway maintenance agreement shall be recorded so that it is a covenant
running with the land in the subdivision.
(Ord. O-C-97-9, passed 12-22-1997)
§ 152.037 UTILITY SERVICES.
   The Plan Commission shall not require the provision of utility services
within a subdivision, however, the subdivision shall contain suitable utility
easements which are recorded in the office of the County Recorder, to provide
for the extension of utility services to any lot owner desiring those
utilities.
(Ord. O-C-97-9, passed 12-22-1997)
REQUIREMENTS FOR HIGH DENSITY SUBDIVISIONS
§ 152.050 DEFINED.
   The following requirements are for subdivisions having a lot density equal
to more than five lots per ten acres, prorated to the actual number of acres in
the subdivision, or having more than 20% of the lots therein less than two
acres in size.
(Ord. O-C-97-9, passed 12-22-1997)
§ 152.051 REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The area of land to be developed as a subdivision shall not be less
than five acres.
   (B)   Properties adjacent to the subdivision shall not be adversely
affected.
   (C)   The use of the land shall not differ substantially from the uses
permitted in the district in which the subdivision is located, except that
limited business facilities, intended to serve only the subdivision and fully
integrated into the design of the project, may be considered and multiple-
family dwellings may be considered in single-family residential districts if
they are so designed and sited that they do not detract from the character of
the neighborhood in which they occur.
   (D)   The subdivision shall be consistent with the purpose of this chapter.
   (E)   Proposals for the subdivision shall be reviewed, and recommendations
made, by the Plan Commission, to determine if the proposed subdivision is
consistent with the County Comprehensive Plan and in the best interests of the
county.
   (F)   The subdivision shall have adequate provisions for roadways, public
utilities, drainage and any other matters which, in the opinion of the Plan
Commission, are necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter and an orderly
development of the subdivision.
(Ord. O-C-97-9, passed 12-22-1997)
PROCEDURE
§ 152.065 LOW DENSITY SUBDIVISION.
   An applicant for a low density subdivision shall submit those documents as
the Zoning Administrator requires and upon examination, the Zoning
Administrator may approve the subdivision or may refer the matter to the Plan
Commission for action.
(Ord. O-C-97-9, passed 12-22-1997)
§ 152.066 HIGH DENSITY SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   (1)   Any person desiring to establish a high density subdivision
shall prepare an initial application therefor, in a form to be determined by
the County Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   Following the submission of the application to the Zoning
Administrator, the Plan Commission shall set a preliminary meeting to discuss
the proposed subdivision with the applicant.
      (3)   At this meeting the applicant shall be prepared to discuss the
details of the proposed subdivision, including such items as the proposed use,
existing features of the area, any existing covenants, land characteristics,
the availability of utilities, the size of the development, public areas
proposed therein, any protective covenants and proposed street improvements.
   (B)   (1)   Following the advisory meeting, the Plan Commission shall notify
the applicant of what additional information the Plan Commission requires
before formally acting on approval of the application.
      (2)   After the applicant submits to the Plan Commission the additional
information required by the Plan Commission following the above preliminary
meeting, the Plan Commission shall set the same for a formal hearing and at the
hearing shall hear testimony and comments from the applicant and other
interested parties and shall then act upon whether the application shall be
approved.
      (3)   The notice for the formal meeting to approve the subdivision shall
either be that required by statute, or that required for a proposed zoning
variance pursuant to the county zoning regulations, whichever method provides
the greater notice.
   (C)   The approval of the Plan Commission may include certain future
requirements imposed upon the applicant, and may also include the posting of
the improvement bonds as the Plan Commission shall determine appropriate,
together with terms and conditions of the bond.
(Ord. O-C-97-9, passed 12-22-1997)
FEES
§ 152.080 FEES.
   The fee for a low density subdivision shall be $200 and the fee for a high
density subdivision shall be $400, both of which shall be due and payable upon
the applicant’s first submitting a request for approval of a subdivision to the
Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. O-C-97-9, passed 12-22-1997)
§ 152.999 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined not less than $10 and not more
than $300. Each day the violation continues shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. O-C-97-9, passed 12-22-1997)
CHAPTER 153: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Title
   
153.002   Effective date
   
153.003   Authority
   
153.004   Compliance
   
153.005   Jurisdiction area
   
153.006   Application
   
153.007   Subdivision of land
   
153.008   Sewage disposal
   
153.009   Flood hazard areas
   
153.010   Master Plan
   
153.011   Definitions
District Regulations
   
153.025   Zone maps
   
153.026   Zoning districts
   
153.027   District boundaries
   
153.028   Conservation District
   
153.029   Agricultural District
   
153.030   Scenic District
   
153.031   Residential Districts
   
153.032   Business Districts
   
153.033   Industrial District
   
153.034   Scenic Corridor Overlay District
   
153.035   Permitted uses
   
153.036   Special exceptions
   
153.037   Lot and yard requirements
   
153.038   Height regulations
   
153.039   Scenic Corridor Overlay District regulations
General Regulations
   
153.050   Nonconforming uses
   
153.051   Accessory uses
   
153.052   Temporary uses
   
153.053   Planned unit residential business and industrial projects
   
153.054   Off-street parking
   
153.055   Off-street loading
   
153.056   Mobile homes
   
153.057   Signs
   
153.058   Home occupations
   
153.059   Landscaping
   
153.060   Campground
   
153.061   Massage therapy
   
153.062   Media store with sexually oriented media
   
153.063   Sexually oriented businesses; additional location requirements
   
153.064   Sexually oriented cabarets; design standards
   
153.065   Sexually oriented motion picture theaters and showing of videos
Administration and Enforcement
   
153.080   Zoning administration
   
153.081   Improvement location permits
   
153.082   Method of appeal
   
153.083   Fees
Board of Zoning Appeals
   
153.095   General
   
153.096   Appeals
   
153.097   Variances
   
153.098   Special exceptions
   
153.099   Performance standards
   
153.100   Nonconforming uses
   
153.101   Conditions and commitments related to a decision by the Board of
Zoning Appeals
Amendments
   
153.115   General
   
153.116   Petitions
   
153.117   Referral
   
153.118   Notice
   
153.119   Action
 
   
153.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 TITLE.
   The official title of this chapter is the Zoning Ordinance of Perry County,
Indiana.
(Ord. O-C-97-10, passed 12-22-1997)
§ 153.002 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect January 1, 1998.
(Ord. O-C-97-10, passed 12-22-1997)
§ 153.003 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is adopted pursuant to Chapter 174 of the Acts of the General
Assembly of Indiana, 1947, and all acts supplemental and amendatory thereto.
(Ord. O-C-97-10, passed 12-22-1997)
§ 153.004 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure shall be located, erected, constructed, reconstructed, moved,
converted or enlarged; nor shall any structure or land be used or be designed
to be used, except in full compliance with all the provisions of this chapter
and after the lawful issuances of the permits required by this chapter.
(Ord. O-C-97-10, passed 12-22-1997) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.005 JURISDICTION AREA.
   (A)   This chapter shall apply to all unincorporated land within the county,
except that in accord with state law, the Board of County Commissioners may, by
ordinance, authorize a city or town to establish jurisdiction over all or any
part of the unincorporated land within two miles from the corporate limits of
the city or town. If a city or town is authorized to exercise jurisdiction, the
exact jurisdictional area shall be indicated on the appropriate county zone map
on file in the office of the County Plan Commission in the county courthouse.
   (B)   The jurisdiction area of the county is hereby amended to eliminate
therefrom the following areas which have been included in the jurisdictional
area of the Tell City’s zoning regulations:
      Starting at the southwest corner of fractional Section 5, Township 6
Range 3 West in the Ohio River; thence east along the south boundary line of
fractional Section 5 and the south boundary line of Section 4, Township 6
South, Range 3 West to a point where the line intersects with County Road 55,
now named Sycamore Road; thence northeasterly with Sycamore Road to its
intersection with State Road 237, thence northerly with State Road 237 to the
south boundary line of Section 33, Township 6 South, Range 3 West, also being
County Road 62, now named Boundary Way Road; thence east along the south line
of Section 33 and Section 34, Township 6 South, Range 3 West to the southeast
corner of Section 34; thence north along the east section lines of the
aforementioned Section 34 and Section 27, Township 6 South, Range 3 West and
Section 22, Township 6 South, Range 3 West to the northeast corner of Section
22; thence west along the north section lines of Section 22 and Section 21,
Township 6 South, Range 3 West, to where it intersects County Road 72, also
known as Troy Ridge Road; thence westerly with Troy Ridge Road to where it
intersects with the west section line of Section 18, Township 6 South, Range 3
West; thence south along the west section line of Section 18 to the Ohio River;
thence with the river southeasterly to the place of beginning.
(Ord. O-C-97-10, passed 12-22-1997; Ord. O-C-97-11, passed 12-22-1997)
§ 153.006 APPLICATION.
   It is not intended by this chapter to interfere with, abrogate or amend any
existing easements, covenants or other agreements between parties, nor is it
intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate, annul or in any way interfere
with any existing provisions of laws or ordinances, or any rules, regulations
or permits previously adopted or issued pursuant to law relating to the use of
buildings or premises; provided, however, that where this chapter imposes a
greater restriction upon the use of buildings or premises than is imposed or
required by the existing provisions of law or by the rules, regulations,
agreements, covenants or permits, the provisions of this chapter shall control;
but where private covenants, permits, agreements, rules or regulations impose a
greater restriction than is imposed by this chapter, the greater restrictions
shall control.
(Ord. O-C-97-10, passed 12-22-1997)
§ 153.007 SUBDIVISION OF LAND.
   The subdivision of land may occur in any zoning district described in this
chapter. All subdivision of land in areas under the jurisdiction of this
chapter shall be in accordance with the provisions of the subdivision control
regulations then in effect for the county.
(Ord. O-C-97-10, passed 12-22-1997)
§ 153.008 SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   No building permit shall be issued for the construction of any building or
residence where the property is not served by a public sewage system, until the
applicant demonstrates, to the satisfaction of the Zoning Administrator,
compliance with County Ordinance 1979-2, as codified in Chapter 51 of this code
of ordinances, which regulates the installation, construction, maintenance and
operation of private sewage disposal systems.
(Ord. O-C-97-10, passed 12-22-1997)
§ 153.009 FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   No building permit shall be issued for the construction of any building or
residence where the property is effected by the State Model Ordinance for Flood
Hazard Areas, adopted as Ordinance O-C-05-2 by the Board of County
Commissioners of the county, which is an ordinance adopted by the Commissioners
on September 15, 2005, as codified in Chapter 150 of this code of ordinances.
This is an ordinance to guide development in flood hazard areas in the county
in order to reduce the potential for loss of life and property, reduce the
potential for health and safety hazards and to reduce the potential for
extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief.
(Ord. O-C-97-10, passed 12-22-1997)
§ 153.010 MASTER PLAN.
   The County Commissioners have approved and adopted a resolution of the
County Planning and Zoning Board which contains a Master Plan for the county.
(1984 Code, § 17-2)
§ 153.011 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words
used in the present tense shall include the future; the singular number shall
include the plural, and the plural the singular; and the word SHALL is
mandatory and not permissive.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal
use and located in the same lot as the principal use.
   AGRICULTURE. Any use of land or structures for farming, dairying, pasturage,
agriculture, horticulture, floriculture, arboriculture or animal or poultry
husbandry. Accessory uses permitted in conjunction with an agricultural use may
include barns, stables, com cribs, silos and any other use or structure that is
clearly a part of an agricultural operation.
   AREA. The AREA of a lot or site shall be calculated from dimensions derived
by horizontal projection of the site.
   BASEMENT. A story having more than 50% of its clear height below finished
grade.
   BILLBOARD. A billboard or other sign with a commercial message related to
goods, services or other commercial transactions not offered on the premises on
which the sign is located.
   CABARET OR THEATER, SEXUALLY ORIENTED. A building or portion of a building
which provides or allows the provision of sexually oriented entertainment to
its customers or which holds itself out to the public as an establishment where
sexually oriented entertainment is available. Signs, advertisements or an
establishment name including verbal or pictorial allusions to sexual
stimulation or gratification or by references to adult entertainment,
strippers, showgirls, exotic dancers, gentleman’s club, XXX or similar terms,
shall be considered evidence that an establishment holds itself out to the
public as an establishment where sexually oriented entertainment is available.
   CAMPGROUND. Any area or tract of land used or designed for occupancy by
tents, motor homes, travel trailers, truck campers, campers or any similar
device, or any dwelling not suitable for year-round human occupancy. A
CAMPGROUND shall consist of two or more units.
   CLINIC. Any establishment where human patients are examined and treated by
doctors or dentists but not hospitalized overnight.
   CLUB (PRIVATE). An establishment operated for social, recreational or
educational purposes, but open only to members and not the general public. This
includes, but is not limited to, resorts, fishing clubs, gun clubs, athletic
clubs, sportsmen clubs or entities of a like nature.
   COMMERCIAL MESSAGE. A sign, wording, logo or other representation that,
directly or indirectly, names, advertises or calls attention to a business,
product, service or other commercial activity.
   COUNTY. Perry County, Indiana.
   COVERAGE. The percentage of the lot area covered by principal and accessory
use structures.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any structure or part of a structure designed or used as the
living quarters for one family having a minimum gross public floor area of 800
square feet. The Zoning Administrator may issue a permit for a structure used
as living quarters for one family having a minimum gross public floor area of
480 square feet including porches or decks covered by a roof, if it is
demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Zoning Administrator that the dwelling
will be used only for seasonal and recreational purposes. A mobile home shall
have a minimum gross public floor area of 500 square feet.
   ENTERTAINMENT, SEXUALLY ORIENTED. Any of the following activities, when
performed by a sexually oriented entertainer at a sexually oriented business
that is required to be licensed: dancing, singing, talking, modeling (including
lingerie or photographic), gymnastics, acting, other forms of performing or
individual conversations with customers for which some type of remuneration is
received.
   ERECTED. Includes the placement, building, construction, reconstruction or
other action involved in creating a new sign at a particular location or in
replacing a sign. It does not include a mere changing of the face of an
existing sign where there is no change in the surface area or height of the
sign.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES. The erection, construction, alteration or maintenance by
public utilities or municipal or other governmental agencies of underground or
overhead gas, electrical, steam or water transmission or distribution systems,
including poles, wires, mains, drains, sewers, pipes, conduit cables, fire
alarm boxes, police call boxes, traffic signals, hydrants, street signs and
other similar equipment and accessories in connection therewith, reasonably
necessary for the furnishing of adequate service by public utilities or
municipal or other governmental agencies or for the public health or safety or
general welfare, but not including buildings.
   ESTABLISHMENT. A premises used as a place of business and the business that
operates there, regardless of how it is denominated. An ESTABLISHMENT may be
operated by any person or group of persons and may be a sole proprietorship, a
partnership, a limited liability corporation, a corporation, or some
combination thereof. The intent of this definition is to include any place of
business operating in the county.
   FAMILY. One or more persons occupying a premises and living as a single
housekeeping unit, as distinguished from a group occupying a boarding house or
lodging house, club, fraternity or hotel.
   FLOOR AREA, GROSS PUBLIC. The total area of the building accessible or
visible to the public, including showrooms, motion picture theaters, motion
picture arcades, service areas, behind-counter areas, storage areas visible
from other areas, restrooms (whether or not labeled public), areas used for
cabaret or similar shows (including stage areas), plus aisles, hallways and
entryways serving those areas.
   FREQUENTLY. Two or more times per month.
   HEAVY AND SPECIAL INDUSTRIAL. Heavy and special industrial uses are ones
which require both buildings and open areas for manufacturing, fabricating,
processing, extraction, heavy repairing, dismantling, storage or disposal of
equipment, raw materials, manufactured products or wastes.
   HOME OCCUPATION. An occupation carried on in a dwelling which is clearly
incidental and secondary to the use of the building for dwelling purposes, and
which does not change the character thereof.
   LEGIBLE. As related to regulations of signs, means that a message can be
comprehended by a person with eyesight adequate to obtain a current state
driver’s license standing in the public way or other location from which
LEGIBILITY is to be determined. Where these facts are material, it shall be
presumed that the observation takes place in daylight hours, and that the
person making the observation is standing and is between five feet two inches
and six feet tall.
   LIGHT INDUSTRIAL. A light industrial use is one which ordinarily uses only
light machinery, is conducted entirely within enclosed substantially
constructed buildings, does not use the open area around the buildings for
storage of raw materials or manufactured products or for any other industrial
purpose, other than loading and unloading operations.
   LOT. A parcel of land occupied or capable of being occupied by one or more
structures.
   LOT, MINIMUM AREA OF. The horizontally projected area of a lot computed
exclusive of any thoroughfares.
   LOT OF RECORD. Any lot which individually or as part of a subdivision, has
been recorded in the office of Recorder of Deeds of the county.
   LOT, WIDTH OF. The mean width measured at right angles to its depth.
   MASSAGE. Touching, stroking, kneading, stretching, friction, percussion and
vibration, and includes holding, positioning, causing movement of the soft
tissues and applying manual touch and pressure to the body (excluding an
osseous tissue manipulation or adjustment).
   MASSAGE PARLOR. Any business offering massages that is operated by a person
who is not a state licensed massage therapist or that provides massages by
persons who are not massage therapists certified by the American Massage
Therapy Association or the Bodywork and Massage Associated Professionals.
   MASSAGE THERAPIST. A person certified as a massage therapist by the American
Massage Therapy Association or the Bodywork and Massage Associated
Professionals.
   MASSAGE THERAPY. The profession in which a certified massage therapist
applies massage techniques with the intent of positively affecting the health
and well being of the client.
   MEDIA. Anything printed or written, or any picture, drawing, photograph,
motion picture, film, videotape or videotape production or pictorial
representation, or any electrical or electronic reproduction of anything that
is or may be used as a means of communication. MEDIA includes, but shall not
necessarily be limited to, books, newspapers, magazines, movies, videos, sound
recordings, CD-ROMS, DVDs, other magnetic media and undeveloped pictures.
   MEDIA, SEXUALLY ORIENTED. Magazines, books, videotapes, movies, slides, CDs,
DVDs or other devices used to record computer images or other media which are
distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting,
describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
   MEDIA STORE WITH SEXUALLY ORIENTED MEDIA. A retail book, video or other
media store that has sexually explicit media that constitutes more than 5% but
not more than 30% of its inventory or that occupies more than 5% but not more
than 30% of its gross public floor area.
   MEDIA STORE, SEXUALLY ORIENTED. An establishment that rents and/or sells
sexually oriented media, and that meets any of the following three tests:
      (1)   More than 30% of the gross public floor area is devoted to sexually
oriented media;
      (2)   More than 30% of the stock in trade consists of sexually oriented
media; or
      (3)   It advertises or holds itself out in any forum as a XXX, adult or
sex business or otherwise as a sexually oriented business, other than sexually
oriented media outlet, sexually oriented motion picture theater or sexually
oriented cabaret.
   MOBILE HOME. Any mobile vehicle used or designed to be used for living
purposes; whether the wheels are attached or not.
   MOTION PICTURE THEATER, SEXUALLY ORIENTED. A commercial establishment where,
for any form of consideration, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides
or similar photographic reproductions are frequently shown that are
characterized by the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas or that are marketed as or offered as adult, XXX or
sexually oriented. Frequently shown films, motion pictures, videocassettes,
slides or other similar photographic reproductions as characterized herein do
not include sexually oriented speech and expressions that take place inside the
context of some larger form of expression.
   MOTOR VEHICLE SALVAGE YARD. A place where inoperable motor vehicles, or
parts thereof, are accumulated and are or may be salvaged for reuse or re-sale,
or sold for parts or scrap metal.
   NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES. A structure designed, converted or adapted for a
use prior to the adoption of provisions prohibiting that use in that location.
   NONCONFORMING USE. Any use or arrangement of land or structures legally
existing at the time of enactment of this chapter or any of its amendments,
which does not conform to the provisions of this chapter.
   NUDITY or STATE OF NUDITY The showing of the human male or female genitals,
pubic area, vulva, anus, anal cleft or cleavage with less than a fully opaque
covering, the showing of the female breast with less than a fully opaque
covering of any part of the areola or nipple, or the showing of the covered
male genitals in a discernibly turgid state. See also SEMI-NUDE.
   PERSON An individual, firm, partnership, joint-venture, association,
independent contractor, corporation (domestic or foreign), limited liability
company, trust, estate, assignee, receiver or any other group or combination
acting as a unit.
   PLANNED UNIT RESIDENTIAL PROJECT. Any scheme or plan whereby a single tract
or parcel of land, or any part thereof, is divided, either simultaneously or in
a series of separate transactions having a common scheme or plan, into two or
more lots, tracts or parcels of land for the purpose, whether immediate or
future, of the transfer of ownership for residential purposes, or for the
construction of any structure thereon which may be used for human habitation,
whether for year around use or recreational use. No lot in a planned unit
residential project may be sold until the property meets all requirements which
may be imposed by the Board of Zoning Appeals pursuant to §
153.053.
   PREMISES. The physical location at which a business operates; as used in
this chapter, the term shall include all parts of that physical location, both
interior and exterior, which are under the control of the subject business,
through ownership, lease or other arrangement.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land taken or dedicated for use as a public way. In
addition to the roadway, it normally incorporates the curbs, lawn strips,
sidewalks, lighting and drainage facilities, and may include special features
(required by the topography or treatment) such as grade separation, landscaped
areas, viaducts and bridges.
   SADOMASOCHISTIC PRACTICES. Flagellation or torture by or upon a person
clothed or naked, or the condition of being fettered, bound or otherwise
physically restrained on the part of one so clothed or naked.
   SALVAGE YARD (OTHER THAN MOTOR VEHICLE). A place where discarded property
(but excluding motor vehicles or any part thereof) is accumulated and is or may
be salvaged for reuse or re-sale or sold for scrap.
   SEMI-NUDE or IN A SEMI-NUDE CONDITION. The showing of the female breast
below a horizontal line across the top of the areola at its highest point. This
definition shall include the entire lower portion of the human female breast,
but shall not include any portion of the cleavage of the human female breast,
exhibited by a dress, blouse, skirt, leotard, bathing suit or other apparel;
provided the areola is not exposed in whole or in part.
   SEX SHOP. An establishment offering goods for sale or rent and that meets
any of the following tests:
      (1)   It offers for sale items from any two of the following categories:
         (a)   Sexually oriented media;
         (b)   Lingerie;
         (c)   Leather goods marketed or presented in a context to suggest
their use for sadomasochistic practices; and/or
         (d)   The combination of those items constitute more than 10% of its
stock in trade or occupies more than 10% of its floor area.
      (2)   More than 5% of its stock in trade consists of sexually oriented
toys or novelties; or
      (3)   More than 5% of its gross public floor area is devoted to the
display of sexually oriented toys or novelties.
   SEXUALLY-EXPLICIT MATERIAL. Any pictorial or three-dimensional material
depicting human masturbation, deviate sexual intercourse, sexual intercourse,
direct physical stimulation of unclothed genitals, sadomasochistic abuse or
emphasizing the depiction of post-pubertal human genitals; provided, however,
that works of art or material of anthropological significance shall not be
deemed to fall within the foregoing definition.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS.
      (1)   An inclusive term used to describe collectively the following
businesses:
         (a)   Sexually oriented cabaret or theater;
         (b)   Sexually oriented entertainment;
         (c)   Sexually oriented motion picture theater;
         (d)   Sexually oriented motion picture arcade;
         (e)   Sexually oriented encounter center;
         (f)   Sexually oriented media store;
         (g)   Sexually oriented escort bureau;
         (h)   Bathhouse;
         (i)   Massage parlor;
         (j)   Sex shop;
         (k)   Sexually oriented modeling studio; or
         (l)   Any other business establishment whose primary purpose is to
offer sexually oriented entertainment or materials.
      (2)   This collective term does not describe a specific land use and
shall not be considered a single use category for purposes of the county or any
applicable municipal zoning code or other applicable ordinances.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED TOYS OR NOVELTIES. Instruments, devices or paraphernalia
either designed as representations of human genital organs or female breasts or
designed or marketed primarily for use to stimulate human genital organs.
   SIGN. Any words, lettering, parts of letters, figures, numerals, phrases,
sentences, emblems, devices, designs, trade names or marks or combinations
thereof, by which anything is made known, such as the designation of an
individual, a firm, an association, a profession, a business, a commodity or
product which are visible from any public way and used as an outdoor display,
including any base or supporting structure.
   SIGN, CHANGEABLE COPY ELECTRONIC. A sign or portion of a sign designed so
that the message or copy could be changed frequently and which contains a
display of letters, characters, figures or illustrations that can be rearranged
altered or manipulated without altering the face or surface of the sign by
electrical, electromechanical, electronic or computerized process. This
definition includes signs using LED or other video technology.
   SIGN, CHANGEABLE COPY MANUAL. A sign such as a bulletin board, public
announcement device or message center where letters, figures, numbers or
combinations thereof which are not permanently affixed to the structure,
framing or background and where the message is manually replaced or altered
periodically.
   SIGN, DETACHED. A sign which is supported by one or more poles, pylons,
columns, platforms, uprights or braces in the ground and is not attached to a
building or structure. Also known as a ground sign, pole sign or monument sign.
   SIGN, DIMENSIONS.
      (1)   Height. The vertical distance from the finished grade at the base
of the supporting structure to the top of the sign, or its frame or supporting
structure, whichever is higher.
      (2)   Surface area. The entire area within a regular geometric form or
combinations of regular geometric forms comprising all of the display area of
the sign and including all of the elements of the matter displayed. Structural
frames and members not bearing advertising matter shall not be included in
computation of surface area.
   SIGN, NONCONFORMING. A sign in existence on the date of adoption of this
chapter and that is not in conformance with the requirements of this chapter.
   SIGN, OFF-PREMISES. See BILLBOARD.
   SIGN, PERMANENT. A sign permanently affixed to a building or the ground.
   SIGN, PORTABLE. Any sign not permanently attached to the ground or other
permanent structure or a sign designed to be transported, including, but not
limited to:
      (1)   Signs designed to be transported by means of wheels;
      (2)   Signs made as A-frames or T-frames;
      (3)   Menu and sandwich board signs;
      (4)   Balloons used as signs;
      (5)   Umbrellas used for commercial messages; and
      (6)   Signs attached to or painted on vehicles parked and visible from
the public right-of-way, unless the vehicle is used in the normal day-to-day
operations of the business.
   SIGN, TEMPORARY. Any sign that is used only for a short, specifically
limited time and that is not permanently mounted.
   SIGN, WALL. Any sign painted on or attached to and erected parallel to the
face of, or erected and confined within the limits of, the outside wall of any
building and supported by the wall or building and which displays only one
advertising surface.
   SIGN, WINDOW. Any sign placed inside or upon a window facing the outside and
which is legible from the exterior.
   SOLID MUNICIPAL WASTE TRANSFER STATION. A place for the loading, unloading
and transfer from one mode of transportation to another mode of transportation,
trash and other wastes of a type generated by households and small businesses,
including those collected by any municipality or any contractor performing a
service similar to municipal waste collection. Further provided that the
facility shall meet all requirements imposed by local state and federal
regulatory agencies.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Parts of the human body, including:
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region or the areola or nipple of the female breast;
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discemibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered; and
      (3)   Areas of the human anatomy included in the definitions of nudity or
state of nudity.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse
or sodomy. These activities include, but are not limited to the following:
bestiality, erotic or sexual stimulation with objects or mechanical devices,
acts of human analingus, cunnilingus, fellatio, flagellation, masturbation,
sadism, sadomasochism, sexual intercourse, sodomy or any excretory functions as
part of or in connection with any of the activities set forth above with any
person on the premises. This definition shall include apparent sexual
stimulation of another person’s genitals whether clothed or unclothed.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires a
fixed location on the ground, including buildings, billboards, carports,
porches and other building features but not including sidewalks, drives, fences
and patios.
   SUPPLY YARDS. A commercial establishment storing or offering for the sale
building supplies, steel supplies, coal, heavy equipment, feed and grain, and
similar goods. SUPPLY YARDS do not include the wrecking, salvaging, dismantling
or storage of automobiles and similar vehicles.
(Ord. O-C-97-10, passed 12-22-1997; Ord. O-C-07-6, passed 10-9-2007)
DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 153.025 ZONE MAPS.
   A zone map of each township in the county is hereby adopted as a part of
this chapter. The zone maps shall be kept on file available for examination at
the office of the County Plan Commission in the zoning office.
(Ord. O-C-97-10, passed 12-22-1997; Ord. O-C-97-11, passed 12-22-1997; Ord. O-
C-05, passed 12-5-2005)
§ 153.026 ZONING DISTRICTS.
   The jurisdictional area of the County Plan Commission is divided into the
districts stated on the zone maps. The districts are:
C-1 Conservation
A-1 Agricultural
R-1 Residential
R-2 Residential
B-1 Business
B-2 Business
I-1 Industrial
I-2 Industrial
I-3 Industrial
Scenic
Scenic Corridor Overlay District
 
(Ord. O-C-97-10, passed 12-22-1997; Ord. O-C-07-8, passed 10-22-2007)
§ 153.027 DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   District boundaries shown within the lines of roads, streams and
transportation right-of-way shall be deemed to follow the centerlines. The
vacation of streets shall not affect the location of district boundaries. When
the Zoning Administrator cannot definitely determine the location of a district
boundary by centerlines, by the scale or dimensions stated on the zone map or
by the fact that it clearly coincides with a property line, he or she shall
refuse action, and the Board of Zoning Appeals, upon appeal, shall interpret
the location of the district boundary with reference to the scale of the zone
map and the purposes set forth in all relevant provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. O-C-97-10, passed 12-22-1997)
§ 153.028 CONSERVATION DISTRICT.
   The district designated for Conservation, C-1, is limited to agricultural,
recreational and certain other open land uses. The purpose of this district is
to prevent intensive development of land that is unsuitable for development
because of topography, soil conditions or periodic flooding.
(Ord. O-C-97-10, passed 12-22-1997)
§ 153.029 AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   The district designated for agricultural use, A-1, is intended to
preserve and protect agricultural land from undesirable urban growth while
permitting limited residential development on large-size lots which provide
adequate space for private water and sewerage facilities.
   (B)   Planned residential subdivisions with smaller size lots may be
approved by the Board of Zoning Appeals if the development provides for common
utilities systems and meets the requirements of §
153.053.
(Ord. O-C-97-10, passed 12-22-1997)
§ 153.030 SCENIC DISTRICT.
   The district designated as Scenic are those areas otherwise designated as
Agricultural A-1 and Conservation C-1 which lie within 250 feet on either side
of State Highway 66 between the intersection of State Highways 66 and 166 in
Section 7, Township 7 South, Range 2 West, and the intersection of Highway 66
with the north line of Section 1, Township 4 South, Range 1 West. The Scenic
District is designed to provide sufficient spacing between residences and other
permitted uses, to preserve the scenic qualities in the designated areas.
(Ord. O-C-97-10, passed 12-22-1997)
§ 153.031 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   Districts designated for residential use, R-1 and R-2, are limited to
dwellings and public or semi-public uses which are normally associated with
residential neighborhoods. The only new uses permitted in the residential
districts are those which would not detract from the residential character of
the neighborhood. The purpose of these districts is to create an attractive,
stable and orderly residential environment. However, the families per dwelling
and the lot and yard requirements are different in the two districts to provide
for the various housing needs and desires of the citizens of the county.
(Ord. O-C-97-10, passed 12-22-1997)
§ 153.032 BUSINESS DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Generally. The districts designated for business, B-1 and B-2, are
limited to business.
   (B)   Performance standards for uses in Business District. All uses within
the B-1 and B-2 Business Districts shall conform with the following performance
standards.
      (1)   Smoke. No smoke is emitted of a density greater than No. 1
according to the Ringlemann’s Scale, except that smoke of a density not in
excess of No. 2 of Ringlemann’s Scale shall be permitted for a period not in
excess of six minutes in any hour.
      (2)   Fly ash. No particles from any flue or smokestack shall exceed 0.2
grains per cubic foot of flue gas at a stack temperature of 500°F.
      (3)   Dust. No dust of any kind produced by the business operations shall
be permitted to escape beyond the confines of the building in which it is
produced.
      (4)   Odor. No noxious odor of any kind shall be permitted to extend
beyond the lot lines.
      (5)   Gasses and fumes. No gasses or fumes, toxic to persons or injurious
to property shall be permitted to escape beyond the building in which they
occur.
      (6)   Glare. No glare shall be seen from any street or any residential
area.
      (7)   Vibration. No intense earth shaking vibration shall be created or
maintained by any business beyond the boundary line of the tract on which it is
located.
      (8)   Noise and sound. A maximum of 70 decibels at the property line is
permitted. Noise is required to be muffled so as not to become objectionable
due to intermittence, beat frequency or shrillness. Sound may equal but not
exceed street traffic noise in the vicinity during a normal day shift work
period.
(Ord. O-C-97-10, passed 12-22-1997)
§ 153.033 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   The districts designated for industry, I-1, I-2 and I-3, provide suitable
space for existing industries and their expansion as well as for future
industrial development and for specific intensive commercial uses. Performance
standards, parking specifications and yard regulations are set forth in this
chapter in order to ensure development that is generally compatible with
adjacent uses and that includes specific design and operational elements to
limit the negative impacts on adjacent and other nearby uses.
(Ord. O-C-97-10, passed 12-22-1997; Ord. O-C-07-6, passed 10-9-2007)
§ 153.034 SCENIC CORRIDOR OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   The Scenic Corridor Overlay District shall apply to all properties
within 1,000 feet of either side of the centerline of the following roads and
highways:
      (1)   State Road 145 for a distance of one mile north and one mile south
of its junction with Interstate 64; and
      (2)   State Road 37 for a distance of one mile north and one mile south
of its junction with Interstate 64.
   (B)   Development within the designated scenic corridor shall comply with
the provisions of this chapter in addition to the district within which the
property is located as noted on the zoning maps. If there is a conflict between
the regulations of the Scenic Corridor Overlay District and the regulations of
another district which applies to the property, the regulations of the Scenic
Corridor Overlay District shall apply.
   (C)   All new development within the Scenic Corridor Overlay District shall
comply with the provisions of this chapter, except that the following shall be
exempt from compliance with this chapter:
      (1)   Existing farm or agricultural-related structures;
      (2)   Future farm or agricultural-related structures;
      (3)   Existing single-family dwellings and manufactured homes on an
existing lot of record;
      (4)   Future single-family dwellings of the type permitted by this
chapter; and
      (5)   With respect to completed development existing on the effective
date of this chapter, except for development described in divisions (C)(1)
through (C)(4) above, any new or additional improvements to the real estate
shall be subject to compliance with these regulations. Additionally, if the
square footage of an expansion or addition to existing development is equal to
or greater than 30% of the square footage of the existing development, then the
wall of the existing development where the improvement is attached as well as
the expansion or addition shall be subject to compliance with these
regulations.
(Ord. O-C-07-8, passed 10-22-2007)
§ 153.035 PERMITTED USES.
   The permitted uses for each district are shown on Table A. The uses that are
listed for the various districts shall be according to the common meaning of
the term or according to definitions given in §
153.011. Uses not specifically listed or defined to be included in the
categories under §§
153.025 through
153.039 shall not be permitted.
(Ord. O-C-97-10, passed 12-22-1997; Ord. O-C-01-4, passed 7-2-2001; Ord. O-C-
07-6, passed 10-9-2007)
§ 153.036 SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS.
   The special exceptions for each district that may be permitted by the Board
of Zoning Appeals are shown on Table A. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall
follow the provisions of §
153.098 and the notice provisions of §
153.118 of this chapter when considering any application for a special
exception.
Table A - Zoning Districts; Permitted Uses; Special Exceptions
A-1 AGRICULTURE DISTRICT
   Permitted Uses
Table A - Zoning Districts; Permitted Uses; Special Exceptions
A-1 AGRICULTURE DISTRICT
   Permitted Uses
      Accessory uses
      Agriculture
      Basement homes
      Churches
      Essential services
      Home occupations
      Mobile homes
      Noncommercial recreation use
      Nursery and greenhouses
      Public and parochial schools
      Public parks and playgrounds
      Single-family dwellings
   Special Exceptions
      Airports
      Campgrounds
      Cemeteries
      Commercial recreation use
      Fire stations
      Golf courses
      Hospital and clinics
      Mineral excavation
      Mobile home parks
      Municipal buildings and libraries
      Nursery school
      Parking lots
      Planned unit residential project
      Private clubs
      Public utility buildings
      Rest homes
      Swimming pools
      Water and sewage treatment plants
B-1 BUSINESS DISTRICT
   Permitted Uses
      Accessory uses
      Automobile sales, services and repair
      Cleaners and laundries
      Eating and drinking establishments
      Essential services
      Farm implement sales, service and repair
      Fire stations and municipal buildings
      Hotels and motels
      Massage therapy service, subject to the criteria set forth in § 153.061
      Media store
      Media store with sexually oriented media, subject to the criteria set forth in
§ 153.062
      Mobile homes sales
      Nursery and greenhouses
      Offices
      Offices and banks
      Parking lots
      Personal and professional services
      Public parks
      Public utility buildings
      Retail business
      Supply yards
      Theaters
   Special Exceptions
      Churches
      Commercial recreation
      Commercial schools
      Dairies
      Funeral homes
      Hospitals and clinics
      Light industrial, as defined in § 153.011
      Planned unit business project
      Printing shop
      Schools, public and parochial
      Warehouses
      Wholesale businesses
B-2 BUSINESS DISTRICT
   Permitted Uses
      Accessory uses
      Eating and drinking establishments
      Essential services
      Fire stations and municipal buildings
      Home occupation
      Media store
      Media store with sexually oriented media, subject to the criteria set forth in
§ 153.062
      Nursery and green houses
      Offices
      Offices and banks
      Parking lots
      Personal and professional services
      Public parks
      Public utility buildings
      Retail business
   Special Exceptions
      Churches
      Commercial recreation
      Funeral homes
      Hospitals and clinics
      Multiple-family dwellings
      Planned unit business project
      Schools, public and parochial
      Single-family dwellings
C-1 CONSERVATION DISTRICT
   Permitted Uses
      Accessory uses
      Agriculture
      Basement homes
      Essential services
      Mobile homes
      Public parks and playgrounds
      Recreational uses
      Single-family dwellings
   Special Exceptions
      Campgrounds
      Cemeteries
      Churches
      Golf courses
      Home occupations
      Mineral excavation
      Private clubs
      Riding stables
      Swimming pools
      Water and sewage treatment plants
I-1 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
   Permitted Uses
      Accessory uses
      Essential services
      Fire stations and municipal buildings
      Light industrial, as defined in § 153.011
      Offices
      Parking lots
      Research and testing labs
      Sex shop, subject to the separation requirements of § 153.063
      Sexually oriented cabaret, subject to the separation requirements of §
153.063 and to the criteria set forth in §
153.064
      Sexually oriented media store, subject to the separation requirements of §
153.063
      Sexually oriented motion picture theater or establishment showing sexually
oriented videos on premises, subject to the separation requirements of §
153.063 and to the criteria set forth in §
153.065
      Warehouses
      Water and sewage treatment plants
      Wholesale businesses
   Special Exceptions
      Agriculture
      Mineral extraction
      Planned unit industrial projects
      Recycling plant for wastes of a type described in §
153.011
      Restaurants
      Supply yards
I-2 HEAVY INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
   Permitted Uses
      Accessory uses
      Essential services
      Essential services and accessory uses
      Fire stations and municipal buildings
      Fire stations and municipal buildings
      Heavy industrial, as defined in §
153.011
      Light industrial, as defined in §
153.011
      Offices
      Parking lots
      Planned unit industrial projects
      Recycling plant
      Research and testing labs
      Salvage yard (other than motor vehicle)
      Supply yards
      Truck and railroad terminals
      Warehouses
      Water and sewage treatment plants
      Water and sewage treatment plants
      Wholesale businesses
   Special Exceptions
      Agricultural
      Mineral extraction
      Motor vehicle salvage yard
      Municipal waste (solid) transfer station
I-3 SPECIAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
   Permitted Uses
      Energy generation power plant
      Essential services and accessory uses
      Explosives blending facility
   Special Exceptions
      Chemical production facility
      Hazardous waste and noxious waste facility
R-1 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
   Permitted Uses
      Accessory uses
      Essential services buildings
      Mobile homes
      Public and parochial schools
      Public parks and playgrounds
      Single-family dwellings
   Special Exceptions
      Agriculture
      Basement homes
      Cemeteries
      Churches
      Fire stations
      Home occupations
      Mobile home parks
      Municipal buildings and libraries
      Nursery schools
      Parking lots
      Planned unit residential project
      Public utility buildings
R-2 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
   Permitted Uses
      Accessory uses
      Essential services
      Mobile homes
      Public and parochial schools
      Public parks and playgrounds
      Single-family dwellings
      Two-family dwellings
   Special Exceptions
      Basement homes
      Churches
      Fire stations
      Funeral homes
      Home occupations
      Mobile home parks
      Multiple-family dwellings
      Municipal buildings and libraries
      Nursery schools
      Parking lots
      Planned unit residential project
      Private clubs
      Public utility buildings
      Rest homes
 
(Ord. O-C-97-10, passed 12-22-1997; Ord. O-C-01-4, passed 7-2-2001; Ord. O-C-
07-6, passed 10-9-2007)
§ 153.037 LOT AND YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The minimum lot area, minimum width of lot, minimum depth of front
yard, minimum width of each side yard and minimum depth of rear yard for each
district shall be as shown on the following table:
Table B - Lot and Yard Requirements
         Min. Lot Area Min. Lot      Min. Lot Min. Depth Min. Width Min. Depth
District (Sq. Ft. or   Area/         Width    Front Yard Side Yard  Rear Yard
         Acres)        Family (Sq.   (Ft.)    (Ft.)      (Ft.)*     (Ft.)
                       Ft. or Acres)
A-1 AGRICULTURE
Table B - Lot and Yard Requirements
             Min. Lot    Min. Lot
             Area        Area/       Min. Lot Min. Depth Min. Width Min. Depth
District     (Sq. Ft. or Family (Sq. Width    Front Yard Side Yard  Rear Yard
             Acres)      Ft. or      (Ft.)    (Ft.)      (Ft.)*     (Ft.)
                         Acres)
A-1 AGRICULTURE
Single-
family       1 acre      1 acre      150      35         10         30
dwellings
Other uses   5 acres     -           500      50         30         30
B-1 and B-2 BUSINESS
All uses     1 acre      -           150      35         10         30
C-1 CONSERVATION
Single-
family       1 acre      1 acre      150      35         10         30
dwellings
Other uses   5 acres     -           500      50         30         30
I-1, I-2, I-3 INDUSTRIAL
All uses     1 acre      150         35       10         30         15
R-1 RESIDENTIAL
All uses not
served by
central      1 acre      1 acre      150      35         10         30
sewerage
systems
All uses
served by    7,500 sq.   7,500 sq.
central      ft.         ft.         75       35         10         30
sewerage
systems
R-2 RESIDENTIAL
All uses
(except
multiple-
family
dwellings)   1 acre      1 acre      150      35         10         30
not served
by central
sewerage
systems
All uses
(except
multiple-
family       7,000 sq.   7,000 sq.
dwellings)   ft.         ft.         60       20         10         30
served by
central
sewerage
systems
Multiple-
family
dwellings
(must be     7,000 plus1,500 sq. ft. 90       20         15         30
served by
central
sewerage
systems)
Scenic                   3 acres     500      100        30         100
* Principal structures
 
   (B)   Lots which abut on more than one street shall provide the required
front yards along every street.
   (C)   No portion of a principal structure, whether open or enclosed,
including garages, porches, carports, balconies, roofs or platforms above
normal grade level, shall project into any minimum front, side or rear yard.
Accessory structures may be located within five feet of the side and rear
property lines.
   (D)   Any lot of record existing at the effective date of this chapter may
be used for the erection of a structure conforming to the use regulations of
the district in which it is located, even though its area and width are less
than the minimum requirements of this chapter; however, its width and area must
conform to the requirements of the zoning ordinance replaced by Ordinance O-C-
97-10.
   (E)   In any residential district (R-1 or R-2) where at least 25% of the
lots in a block are occupied by existing residential structures, the minimum
depth of the front yards of the existing residential structures shall be the
minimum depth required by this chapter.
(Ord. O-C-97-10, passed 12-22-1997)
§ 153.038 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No principal structure shall exceed 35 feet in height above average ground
level and no accessory building shall exceed 16 feet in height above average
ground level unless approved by the Board of Zoning Appeals. The Board may
authorize a variance to this height regulation in any district if:
   (A)   All front and side yard depths are increased one foot for each
additional foot of height; or
   (B)   The structure is any of the following and does not constitute a hazard
to an established airport: television and radio towers, church spires,
belfries, monuments, tanks, water and fire towers, stage towers and scenery
lofts, cooling towers, ornamental towers and spires, chimneys, silos, elevator
bulkheads, smoke stacks, conveyors and flagpoles.
(Ord. O-C-97-10, passed 12-22-1997)
§ 153.039 SCENIC CORRIDOR OVERLAY DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Development within the Scenic Corridor Overlay District.
      (1)   Any new development, occupation or use of any land within the
Scenic Corridor Overlay District shall not be approved until the applicant has
submitted to the Zoning Administrator an existing conditions map and a site
plan for the proposed development. The existing conditions map shall show the
existing conditions of the land, including, but not limited to, contours,
existing landscaping and vegetation, water bodies and other existing conditions
on the land. The site plan shall include, identify and locate, on a scale of
not less than one inch to 100 feet, the following:
         (a)   The total area in the development;
         (b)   The existing zoning of the property in question and/or all
adjacent properties;
         (c)   All public and private right-of-way and easement lines located
on or adjacent to the property which are proposed to be continued, created,
relocated or abandoned;
         (d)   Existing topography with a maximum of ten-foot contour intervals
with slopes in excess of 18% identified;
         (e)   The proposed finished grade of the development shown by contours
not larger than five feet;
         (f)   The location of all existing and proposed buildings in the
described parcels, the uses to be contained therein and the total number of
buildings including dimensions, heights, gross floor area and number of
stories, as well as the type of construction materials to be utilized on the
exterior, including roof, of the buildings;
         (g)   The location and dimensions of all curb cuts, driving lanes,
off-street parking and loading areas including the number of spaces, angles of
stalls, grades, surfacing materials, drainage plans and illumination of
facilities;
         (h)   All sidewalks and other open areas;
         (i)   Location of all walls, fences and buffer yards;
         (j)   Location, size, height and orientation of all signs (all signs
must comply with §
153.057);
         (k)   Location of all existing and proposed utilities including
electric, gas, telephone, cable and storm drains;
         (l)   Existing and proposed water and sanitary sewer lines including
pipe sizes, types and grades and also any septic system locations;
         (m)   Scheduling and phasing of the project;
         (n)   The landscape plan; and
         (o)   Any other information as required by the Plan Commission to
determine conformance with this division.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator may, in the sole discretion of the Zoning
Administrator, refer all site plans to a Technical Advisory Committee for
review and consideration. The Technical Advisory Committee shall be composed of
all or a part of the Board of Directors of the County Development Corporation
as determined by the County Development Corporation. The Technical Advisory
Committee shall review the site plan for compliance with this division and the
zoning regulations and shall make a recommendation regarding approval of the
site plan to the Plan Commission.
   (B)   Rules and regulations. The land within the Scenic Corridor Overlay
District shall be subject to the rules and regulations of the zoning
regulations pertaining to the district within which it is located as shown on
the zoning map. Additionally, all land within the Scenic Corridor Overlay
District shall be subject to the following regulations and restrictions.
      (1)   Buildings or structures constructed within this District shall be
constructed of material preferably consisting of brick, wood, cast in place
concrete, pre-cast concrete, metal, glass or ceramic tile. The exterior
building elevations visible from a public access roadway or road frontage must
be constructed with at least one-half of the elevation to be windows, masonry
(excluding concrete block), split- face concrete block, log or wood siding,
clapboard appearance siding or wainscot effect.
      (2)   Any accessory buildings and enclosures, whether attached to or
detached from the main building, shall be of similar compatible design and
materials as the main building. No more than 30% of the lot area shall be
utilized for business usage buildings. No more than 50% of the lot area shall
be utilized for industrial usage buildings.
      (3)   All development subject to this section shall provide a minimum of
one tree for each 35 linear feet of road frontage along the Scenic Corridor.
Additionally, an area no less than ten feet wide located along and running the
length of any property line contiguous and adjacent to a public access roadway
or road frontage must be landscaped. Other areas which have been disturbed by
land development activities and are not paved or under structures must be
seeded with turf mix minimizing weed growth, wind and water erosion. Large,
uninterrupted areas of bare soil are prohibited. These areas must be landscaped
in accordance with an approved landscape plan. Native plant materials are
particularly encouraged although the use of ornamental plant materials is
allowed. All grass, plantings and other landscaping shall be in growing
condition and maintained at all times.
      (4)   There shall be no overnight outside storage on the lots unless the
storage is screened from adjacent properties, parking areas, public streets and
pedestrian ways. Likewise, all trash, garbage or refuse storage and disposal
facilities shall be made of approved containers screened from view on all
sides.
      (5)   There shall be no utility meters or lines located on or connected
to any building elevation which is visible from public rights-of-way or
thoroughfares.
      (6)   Walls within or along the roadway shall not be allowed except for
low lying decorative stone walls for enhancement of the Scenic Corridor or
walls that are needed for slope stabilization or animal control. No chain link
fences shall be allowed within the district.
      (7)   All driveways, entryways and surface parking areas shall be paved
in asphalt or concrete in business usage areas. All driveways and entryways
shall be paved in asphalt or concrete in industrial usage areas.
      (8)   Use of stone riprap on banks or slopes shall not be permitted. The
maximum finished slope of any disturbed area shall not be in excess of a ratio
of
three to one.
      (9)   All outdoor lighting fixtures, including without limitation,
ground, pole and building-mounted fixtures and canopy lighting shall be of a
design and type containing shields, reflectors, fracture panels or recessed
light sources so that the cutoff angle is 90 degrees or less. For purposes
herein, the cutoff angle is that angle formed by a line drawn from the
direction of light rays at the light source and a line perpendicular to the
ground from the light source above which no light is permitted.
      (10)   The sale of vehicles, boats, recreational vehicles, all terrain
vehicles, trucks or other motorized equipment within the district is
prohibited.
(Ord. O-C-07-8, passed 10-22-2007)
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 153.050 NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   A nonconforming use may be continued but may not be extended, expanded
or changed unless to a conforming use, except as permitted by the Board of
Zoning Appeals in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Any nonconforming structure damaged by fire, flood, explosion or other
casualty may be reconstructed and used as before if the reconstruction is
performed within 12 months of the casualty, and if the restored structure has
no greater coverage and contains no greater cubic content than before the
casualty.
   (C)   In the event that any nonconforming use, conducted in a structure or
otherwise, ceases, for whatever reason, for a period of one year, or is
abandoned for any period, the nonconforming use shall not be resumed.
   (D)   No nonconforming billboard or sign shall be modified to change the
technology by adding tri-vision or changeable copy technology to a sign or
board that, on October 9, 2007, had a flat face, changed by replacement of
panels, posters or coverings on the sign.
(Ord. O-C-97-10, passed 12-22-1997; Ord. O-C-07-7, passed 10-9-2007)
§ 153.051 ACCESSORY USES.
   (A)   Accessory uses and structures such as private garages, tool sheds,
barns and landscaping are permitted in all districts in conjunction with a
primary use or structure provided the accessory use does not change the
character of the district in which it is located.
   (B)   A private swimming pool may be permitted as an accessory use if it is
surrounded by a wall or fence at least five feet high so as to prevent
uncontrolled access by children.
   (C)   A mobile home may be permitted as an accessory use in the A-1 District
if it is in conjunction with an existing permanent dwelling unit situated on at
least one acre of land and if the mobile home is occupied by a relative or
employee of the family resident in the permanent dwelling unit.
(Ord. O-C-97-10, passed 12-22-1997)
§ 153.052 TEMPORARY USES.
   Temporary uses and structures used in conjunction with construction work,
seasonal sales or emergencies may be permitted by the Board of Zoning Appeals
if the proposed site is acceptable and neighboring uses are not adversely
affected. They shall be removed promptly when their function has been
fulfilled. Permits for temporary structures may be issued for a period not to
exceed six months.
(Ord. O-C-97-10, passed 12-22-1997)
§ 153.053 PLANNED UNIT RESIDENTIAL BUSINESS AND INDUSTRIAL PROJECTS.
   (A)   The district regulations of this chapter may be modified by the Board
of Zoning Appeals in the case of a plan utilizing an unusual concept of
development which meets the requirements of this section. The planned unit
projects provision is intended to encourage original and imaginative
development and subdivision design which preserves the natural amenities of the
site and provides for the general welfare of the county. After the unit plan is
approved, all development, construction and use shall be in accordance with
that plan unless a new planned unit project plan is submitted to and approved
by the Board of Zoning Appeals as required by this chapter. Any development
contrary to the approved unit plan shall constitute a violation of this
chapter.
   (B)   The area of land to be developed shall not be less than five acres.
   (C)   Properties adjacent to the unit plan shall not be adversely affected.
   (D)   In planned unit residential projects, the minimum lot and yard
requirements may be reduced, however, the average density of dwelling units in
the total plan shall not be higher than that permitted in the district in which
the plan is located.
   (E)   In the planned unit business and industrial projects, the minimum lot
and yard requirements may be reduced, however, the total land area of the unit
plan shall equal the accumulative lot area requirements of each use or
structure contained within the unit plan.
   (F)   The unit plan shall permanently reserve land suitable for the common
use of the public or the owners in a particular development. This may be
accomplished by dedication, covenant or easement. This land may be for future
public facilities, for recreational or scenic open space, or for a landscaped
buffer zone as approved by the Plan Commission. Provisions for permanent
control and maintenance of this land shall be outlined in a form acceptable to
the Plan Commission, Board and Plan Commission Attorney.
   (G)   The use of the land shall not differ substantially from the uses
permitted in the district in which the plan is located, except that limited
business facilities, intended to serve only the planned unit residential
project area and fully integrated into the design of the project, may be
considered and multiple-family dwellings may be considered in single-family
residential districts if they are so designed and sited that they do not
detract from the character of the neighborhood in which they occur.
   (H)   The unit plan shall be consistent with the purpose of this chapter.
   (I)   The unit plan shall be reviewed, and recommendations made, by the Plan
Commission, to determine if the proposed project is consistent with the County
Comprehensive Plan and in the best interests of the county.
   (J)   The unit plan shall make adequate provisions for roadways, public
utilities, drainage and any other matters which, in the opinion of the Board of
Zoning Appeals, are necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter and an
orderly development of the site.
(Ord. O-C-97-10, passed 12-22-1997) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.054 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   (A)   Off-street parking spaces shall be provided in accordance with the
specifications in this section in all districts.
   (B)   Parking spaces may be located on a lot other than that containing the
principal use with the approval of the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   (C)   Any off-street parking lot for more than five vehicles shall be graded
for proper drainage and surfaced so as to provide a durable and dustless
surface.
   (D)   Any lighting used to illuminate any off-street parking lot shall be so
arranged so as to reflect the light away from adjoining premises in any R
District.
Table C - Off-Street Parking
Use Parking Spaces Required
Table C - Off-Street Parking
Use                                     Parking Spaces Required
Bowling alleys                          5 for each alley
Church and school                       1 per 6 seats in principal assembly
                                        room
Hospitals and rest homes                1 per 3 beds and 1 for each 2 employees
                                        on the maximum working shift
Hotels and motels                       1 for each living or sleeping unit
Industrial                              1 for each 2 employees on the maximum
                                        working shift
Private club or lodge                   1 per 4 seats
Professional offices; wholesale houses; 1 for every 250 sq. ft. of floor space
and medical clinics
Recreational or assembly places; e.g.,  1 for every 100 sq. ft. of floor space
dance halls; night clubs; funeral homes
Residential                             2 per dwelling unit
Retail businesses; eating and drinking
places; and personal service            1 for every 100 sq. ft. of floor space
establishments
 
(Ord. O-C-97-10, passed 12-22-1997)
§ 153.055 OFF-STREET LOADING.
   Every building which requires the receipt or distribution by vehicles of
material or merchandise shall provide off-street loading berths of a size and
arrangement appropriate for the types of vehicles utilizing this space. In no
case will loading or unloading be permitted within public rights-of-way.
(Ord. O-C-97-10, passed 12-22-1997)
§ 153.056 MOBILE HOMES.
   (A)   Mobile homes, whether the wheels are attached or not, shall be
permitted on single lots or in mobile home parks. When located on single lots,
the district, area, yard and other requirements shall be the same as for
conventional single-family dwellings. When located in mobile home parks, the
parks shall be designed to meet the requirements set forth in the Mobile Home
Parks Act of 1955, as amended; the State Board of Health Regulations, as
amended; and the requirements of this section.
   (B)   The minimum area of a mobile home park shall be five acres.
   (C)   Each mobile home site within the mobile home park shall have a minimum
area of 3,600 square feet.
   (D)   Each mobile home site shall have a minimum width of 40 feet.
   (E)   Not less than 10% of the gross area of the mobile home park shall be
improved for recreational activities for the residents of the park.
   (F)   The mobile home park shall be appropriately landscaped and screened
from adjacent properties.
   (G)   The mobile home park shall meet all applicable requirements of §
153.053.
   (H)   Coin-operated laundries, laundry and dry-cleaning pick-up stations and
other commercial convenience establishments may be permitted in mobile home
parks provided:
      (1)   They are subordinate to the residential character of the park;
      (2)   They are located, designed and intended to serve only the needs of
persons living in the park;
      (3)   The establishments and the parking areas related to their use shall
not occupy more than 10% of the total area of the park; and
      (4)   The establishments shall present no visible evidence of their
commercial nature to areas outside the park.
   (I)   Each mobile home site shall be provided with a stand consisting of
either solid concrete slab or two concrete ribbons of a thickness and size
adequate to support the maximum anticipated loads during all seasons. When
concrete ribbons are used, the area between the ribbons shall be filled with a
layer of crushed rock.
(Ord. O-C-97-10, passed 12-22-1997)
§ 153.057 SIGNS.
   No sign, billboard or exterior graphic display shall be permitted in any
zoning district except in accordance with the provisions of this section.
   (A)   Purposes. The purpose of this section is to achieve balance among the
following differing, and at times, competing goals:
      (1)   To encourage the effective use of signs as a means of communication
for businesses, organizations and individuals in the county;
      (2)   To provide a means of way-finding in the county, thus reducing
traffic congestion;
      (3)   To provide for adequate business identification, advertising and
communication;
      (4)   To prohibit signs of an excessive size and number that they obscure
one another to the detriment of the economic and social well-being of the
county;
      (5)   To protect the safety and welfare of the public by minimizing
hazards to pedestrian and vehicular traffic;
      (6)   To preserve property values by preventing unsightly and chaotic
development which has a blighting influence on the county;
      (7)   To differentiate among those signs that, because of their location,
may distract drivers on public streets and those that may provide information
to them while they remain in their cars but out of active traffic;
      (8)   To minimize the possible adverse effects of signs on nearby public
and private property; and
      (9)   To implement the goals and objectives of the gateways and
appearance study, conducted in 2007 with assistance from Ball State
University’s College of Architecture and Planning.
   (B)   Applicability. This section shall apply to all signs that are legible
from any public right-of-way or from any lot other than the lot or premises on
which the sign is located.
   (C)   General rules. The following rules, standards and principles shall
apply to all signs located in the county.
      (1)   Any permitted sign shall be subject to the size and height
limitations imposed by this section for the use district in which the sign is
located, except as otherwise provided in this section.
      (2)   No sign or sign structure shall be placed upon any street or
highway right-of-way except as otherwise provided in this section.
      (3)   No portion of a sign shall obscure visibility between a height of
three feet and ten feet within an area defined by a triangle extending from a
street intersection by a distance of 25 feet from the corner along the curb
line of each street, with the third side of the triangle formed by connecting
the other two legs of the triangle.
      (4)   No sign shall be erected or maintained at any location where by
reason of its position, working, illumination, shape, symbol, color, form or
character it may obstruct, impair, obscure, interfere with the view of, or may
be confused with any authorized traffic sign, signal or device or interfere
with, confuse or disrupt traffic safety or flow.
      (5)   No sign shall be erected, relocated or maintained so as to prevent
free ingress or egress from any door, window or fire escape.
   (D)   Signs allowed without a sign permit. The following signs shall be
exempt from the sign permit requirements of this section but shall be subject
to all other standards of this section:
      (1)   Signs installed by employees or officials of the county that do not
fall under one of the broader exemptions of this section;
      (2)   Detached signs smaller than two square feet in area and less than
four feet in height, and containing no commercial message;
      (3)   Wall signs smaller than two square feet in area and containing no
commercial message;
      (4)   Window signs permitted by this section, where the signs are not
illuminated or otherwise electrified;
      (5)   Permanent signs smaller than seven square feet and permitted in
residential or agricultural districts;
      (6)   Any sign not legible from a public right-of-way or property other
than the lot or premises on which the sign is located;
      (7)   Routine maintenance of any sign, not involving structural changes
to the sign;
      (8)   Changes of message, either manually or electronically, on an
electronic message sign or changeable copy sign, subject to limitations of this
section on the frequency of message changes; and
      (9)   Changes of sign panels or letters that do not involve structural
changes to the sign.
   (E)   Signs that are partially exempt from this section. The following signs
may be erected or constructed without a sign permit, but may be subject to
additional regulations under this section. Where a sign is erected pursuant to
a state statute or a court order, the sign may exceed the size standards of
this section or otherwise deviate from the standards set forth in this section
to the extent that the statute or court order expressly required the larger
size or other deviation. In all other respects, these signs shall conform to
the standards of this section:
      (1)   Signs conforming to the Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices
and bearing no commercial message;
      (2)   Signs installed by employees or officials of a state or federal
agency in the course of their governmental duties and bearing no commercial
message;
      (3)   Signs required by a state or federal statute;
      (4)   Signs required by an order of a court of competent jurisdiction;
      (5)   Signs installed by public utilities in their rights-of-way or on
their facilities and bearing no commercial message other than that message as
necessary to identify the use; and
      (6)   Signs installed by a transit company with a franchise or other
right to operate in the county, where those signs are installed along its
routes and relate to schedules or other information about the transit route.
   (F)   Prohibited signs. The following signs are prohibited in all districts:
      (1)   Any sign erected or painted upon a fence, tree, standpipe, rock or
other natural feature;
      (2)   Any sign attached to or painted on a fire escape or utility pole,
except the manufacturer’s or installer’s ID plate which shall not be legible
from a distance of more than three feet;
      (3)   Any sign which uses a word such as “Stop” or “Danger” prominently
displayed and/or which is a copy or imitation of official traffic control signs
except where those words are a part of an attraction title for a theater or
other similar event or purpose;
      (4)   Signs which contain flashing or intermittent illuminations, except
as required for traffic control. Changing the copy on a bulletin board,
changeable copy or electronic message type sign in conformance with the
provisions of division (I)(6) below shall not be considered a violation of this
section;
      (5)   Portable signs; and
      (6)   Signs that produce sound or noise; cause interference with radio,
telephone, television or other communication transmissions; produce or reflect
motion pictures; emit visible smoke, vapor, particles or odor; are animated or
produce any rotation, motion or movement. A sign on which the message is
changed electronically not more than one time per minute shall not be
considered to be an animated sign or a sign with movement.
   (G)   Signs in Residential and Conservation Districts.
      (1)   Each occupied lot in a Residential or Conservation District shall
be allowed a total of four detached signs at any time, including not more than
one permanent detached sign, and not more than three temporary detached signs.
Each sign shall not exceed six square feet in area and six feet in height.
These signs may not be illuminated. The permanent detached sign shall not
contain a commercial message, and no more than two temporary signs on a lot in
a residential district at any one time may contain a commercial message. The
only commercial messages permitted on those signs are messages related to
commercial activity lawfully conducted on the premises, including the lawful,
occasional sale of personal property (such as through a garage sale or yard
sale) or the sale, rental or lease of the premises.
      (2)   Signs related to the sale of personal property shall be removed
within 24 hours after the end of the sale. Signs related to the sale, lease or
rental of the premises shall be removed no later than the date on which the
deed, lease or other document representing the transaction is completed. Any
such sign may contain any message other than a commercial message. If a message
relates to an election or special event, the sign shall be removed within seven
days following the conclusion of the election or other event.
      (3)   Additional detached signs, permanent or temporary, of not more than
two square feet in area and four feet in height are permitted, provided that
the signs contain no commercial message and are not illuminated.
   (H)   Signs on institutional uses. Any school, house of worship or other
institutional use permitted in a Business or Industrial District shall be
allowed to have the signage allowed for a business or industry in that district
or the signage allowed by this section. Any institutional use permitted in a
Residential or Agricultural Zoning District shall be allowed to have the
signage allowed by this section. The signage allowed for institutional uses is:
      (1)   One detached sign, not to exceed 24- square feet in area. This may
include changeable copy signs, not to exceed 30% of the sign area. These signs
may be illuminated and may not be located closer than ten feet from the
pavement edge or edge of a street.
      (2)   Each use shall also be allowed one wall sign for each public
entrance to the institutional use. These wall signs shall not exceed four-
square feet in area each and shall not be illuminated.
   (I)   Signs in Business Districts. Business signs shall be permitted as an
accessory use to any lawful business, industry or other use located on the same
premises, subject to the following standards.
      (1)   Signs may contain any message that is not a commercial message.
      (2)   Except for signs expressly allowed under division (I)(9) below,
signs shall not contain any commercial message related to any product or
service not offered or produced on the premises.
      (3)   Signs shall not have an aggregate surface area greater than five-
square feet for each foot of building frontage of the principal structure on
the premises.
      (4)   Signs shall not project over public rights-of-way.
      (5)   Signs may be illuminated internally or with direct, white light,
cast downward on the sign.
      (6)   No detached sign shall exceed 16 feet in height) except as follows:
         (a)   Signs permitted under division (I)(9) below shall be subject to
the height standards set forth there; and
         (b)   Any other detached sign otherwise conforming with this section
and located on the premises of a business where at least one of the driveways
or other roadway entrances to the establishment is within 750 feet of an
entrance or exit ramp to an interstate highway (measured along the edge of the
highway right-of-way, without regard to the width of the road), may be erected
to a height that is not greater than the lower of:
            1.   Fifteen feet above the elevation of the centerline of the
nearest lane pair on the interstate; or
            2.   Fifty feet in height from the ground.
      (7)   There shall be no more than one detached sign per premises, except
that those signs allowed under this section without a permit shall not be
counted in determining the number of detached signs. For purposes of this
division, a PREMISES shall be considered the entire lot or parcel under one
schedule of the County Tax Assessor as of September 1, 2007, or any lot created
after that date through a lawful subdivision or a lawful exemption from the
subdivision regulations of the county.
      (8)   Up to 25% of the copy area of any permitted sign larger than 50-
square feet may consist of changeable copy area. Copy in this area may be
changed manually or electronically, provided that any electronically changeable
copy sign shall be programmed so that it does not change more than one time
every minute and so that each change of message or image is a complete change
with no rolling, scrolling or other moving effects.
      (9)   Billboards shall be allowed, subject to the following standards and
conditions:
         (a)   Billboards shall be allowed only on sites in the B-l, I-1, I-
2 or I-3 Zoning Districts;
         (b)   A billboard may be erected only on land located within 660 feet
of the right-of-way of an interstate highway;
         (c)   No billboard shall be erected within 1,500 feet of any existing
billboard or of the site of a billboard for which a permit has been issued; to
ensure compliance with this section, any billboard application shall be
accompanied by a drawing showing the precise locations of and distances to each
billboard located within 2,500 feet of the proposed site, which drawing shall
be signed and stamped by a licensed surveyor or professional engineer; the
separation distance between billboards shall be measured in a straight line
along the right-of-way line of the interstate highway, without regard to the
distance of the billboard from the highway or to the width of the road;
         (d)   A site that is eligible for a billboard under this section shall
be subject to the numerical limit on detached signs set forth in division (I)
(7) above; fully aware of the redundancy, it is the intent of the Board of
County Commissioners that only a sign allowed under division (I)(6) above or
one allowed under this division (I)(9), but not both, shall be allowed on any
one premises at any one time;
         (e)   A billboard shall not exceed 300 square feet in size;
         (f)   The height of a billboard shall not exceed the lower of:
            1.   Fifteen feet above the elevation of the centerline of the
nearest lane pair on the interstate highway; or
            2.   Fifty feet from the ground;
   (J)   Signs in Agricultural District. In the A-1 District, signs shall be
permitted if they meet the following requirements.
      (1)   Each operating farm or forest may have a total of five detached
signs at any time, of which two may be permanent signs and the rest temporary.
One sign shall not exceed 75-square feet in area, nor 16 feet in height from
the ground. The additional (up to four) detached signs shall not exceed six-
square feet in area and six feet in height. Only one sign may be illuminated.
No more than three signs on a farm or forest in an Agricultural District at any
one time may contain a commercial message. The only commercial messages
permitted on these signs are messages related to commercial activity lawfully
conducted on the premises, including the sale of farm products, the lawful,
occasional sale of personal property (such as through a garage sale or yard
sale) or the sale, rental or lease of the premises.
      (2)   No sign shall be located closer than 100 feet to a road
intersection except for directional signs which are less than six-square feet
in area.
      (3)   No sign shall be located in a location which would interfere with
highway horizontal sight distances.
      (4)   No sign larger than seven-square feet shall be located closer than
500 feet to any property zoned and used for a residential purpose, school,
house of worship or playground.
      (5)   Signs in this District may bear any message that is not a
commercial message, or a commercial message related to any activity lawfully
conducted on the property, including, but not limited to, the sale of
agricultural products, the lease or rental of the property, or the occasional
sale of personal property.
   (K)   Owner’s consent required. No sign shall be placed on private or public
property without written consent of the owner of or agent for the property.
   (L)   Substitution of messages. Any sign allowed under this section or a
predecessor ordinance, by sign permit, by conditional use permit or by
variance, may contain, in lieu of any other message or copy, any lawful
noncommercial message that does not direct attention to a business operated for
profit, or to a product, commodity or service for sale or lease, or to any
other commercial interest or activity, so long as the sign complies with the
size, height, area and other requirements of this section.
(Ord. O-C-97-10, passed 12-22-1997; Ord. O-C-07-7, passed 10-9-2007)
§ 153.058 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   (A)   A home occupation may be permitted as a special exception if it
complies with the requirements of this section.
   (B)   The home occupation shall be carried on by a member of the family
residing in the dwelling unit with not more than one employee who is not part
of the family.
   (C)   The home occupation shall be carried on wholly within the principal or
accessory structures.
   (D)   Exterior displays or signs other than those permitted under §
153.057, exterior storage or materials, and exterior indication of the home
occupation or variation from the residential character of the principal
structure shall not be permitted.
   (E)   Objectionable noise, vibration, smoke, dust, electrical disturbance,
odors, heat or glare shall not be produced.
   (F)   The home occupation shall not create any traffic or parking problems.
(Ord. O-C-97-10, passed 12-22-1997)
§ 153.059 LANDSCAPING.
   Landscaping is to be completed on the entire premises and shall provide as a
minimum requirement for safe surface water disposal, ground cover of grass,
plants or artificial materials on the portion of the premises not occupied by
any building, driveway or parking area, or any portion of the premises not left
in its natural wooded state and not disturbed during construction, and shall be
left free of junk, debris, dangerous, objectionable or noxious matter. The
minimum requirements for landscaping, either grass or ground cover, shall be
completed and growing within one year after completion of the improvements.
(Ord. O-C-97-10, passed 12-22-1997)
§ 153.060 CAMPGROUND.
   A campground may be permitted as a special exception in any Conservation or
Agricultural District, if it meets the requirements of this section. The Board
of Zoning Appeals shall establish minimum area, maximum number of camp sites
per acre, buffer zones between camping areas and property lines, sewage and
trash disposal requirements, provisions for roadways and other criteria as the
Board of Zoning Appeals believes is necessary or desirable. All campgrounds
must receive approval from the State Department of Natural Resources and the
State Board of Health, prior to being allowed as a special exception.
(Ord. O-C-97-10, passed 12-22-1997)
§ 153.061 MASSAGE THERAPY.
   A massage therapy studio or other establishment operated or staffed by one
or more massage therapist(s) certified by either the American Massage Therapy
Association or the Bodywork and Massage Associated Professionals. The county
shall not issue a permit, license certificate or other authorization for the
establishment of a massage parlor or similar establishment unless the applicant
for the permit or license has been certified by one of the national
organizations named above or the applicant provides the name(s) and/or
licensing information of one or more persons who are so licensed and who will
provide massage therapy at the establishment. Any massage parlor shall maintain
posted on its premises copies of the certifications of the massage therapists
who provide services at the establishment. There shall be a rebuttable
presumption that any massage parlor or similar establishment operated by a
person who is not a certified massage therapist and that does not have posted
on its premises one or more certifications of massage therapists who provide
services there is operating in violation of this section and subject to
enforcement action and penalty under this chapter.
(Ord. O-C-07-6, passed 10-9-2007) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.062 MEDIA STORE WITH SEXUALLY ORIENTED MEDIA.
   (A)   A retail establishment which devotes more than 5% of its gross public
floor area or 5% of the number of items in inventory to sexually-explicit
material, but which devotes less than 30% of its gross public floor area and
less than 30% of the number of items in inventory to sexually-explicit material
shall be treated for zoning purposes as a book or media shop and not as a
sexually oriented media shop, provided that it meets the following conditions:
      (1)   All sexually-explicit media shall be maintained in a room that is
separated from other material by an opaque wall that extends to the ceiling or
eight feet above the floor, whichever is less;
      (2)   Access to the room containing the sexually-explicit media shall be
through an opaque, solid door;
      (3)   The room containing sexually-explicit media shall be posted with a
notice indicating that only persons 18 years of age or older are allowed in the
room; and
      (4)   Access to the room shall be physically limited to adults through
control of access by an employee of the store, through use of an access release
located at least 66 inches off the floor, or through constant monitoring of the
room by an employee on duty through electronic means or through a window or
mirror providing visibility into the room from the manager’s or cashier’s work
station.
   (B)   A business conforming with this standard shall not be considered a
sexually oriented business.
(Ord. O-C-07-6, passed 10-9-2007)
§ 153.063 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; ADDITIONAL LOCATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The purpose of this section is three-fold:
      (1)   To ensure that sexually oriented businesses are located so that
they are separated from residential neighborhoods, where children and others
are likely to be walking and should not be forced to encounter such a business
in their daily activities;
      (2)   To ensure that sexually oriented businesses are sufficiently
separated from libraries, parks, schools and houses of worship that persons
visiting those places and institutions will not be forced to encounter such a
business in close proximity to these places and institutions; and
      (3)   To ensure that sexually oriented businesses are sufficiently
separated from one another that the county does not inadvertently create a
“combat zone” or other area that is perceived to be dominated by those
businesses or that causes the concentration of the secondary effects of those
businesses in one area.
   (B)   Separation requirements.
      (1)   Sexually oriented businesses, as defined in §
153.011 shall be allowed only in the zoning districts in which a specific
sexually oriented business is listed as a permitted use under Table A in §
153.036.
      (2)   A sexually oriented business shall be located with a minimum
separation distance between itself and other specific uses as set forth in the
table below.
Table D - Sexually Oriented Businesses; Minimum Separation Distance
Other Use Minimum Separation Distance (Ft.)
Table D - Sexually Oriented Businesses; Minimum Separation Distance
Other Use                                 Minimum Separation Distance (Ft.)
House of worship                          500
Other sexually oriented business          1,000
Public library                            750
Public park, boys and girls club, YMCA or 750
YWCA
Residentially zoned land                  500
School                                    750
 
   (C)   Measurement. Measurements for purposes of this section shall be made
from the nearest property line of the use which is not a sexually oriented
business to the nearest property line of the sexually oriented business. If the
sexually oriented business is located in a multi-tenant building, then the
distance shall be measured from the nearest property line of the use which is
not a sexually oriented business to the nearest line of the leasehold or other
space actually controlled or occupied by the sexually oriented business.
   (D)   Limitations.
      (1)   School. The separation requirement from a school will apply only if
one or more of the following applies:
         (a)   The school is a public school;
         (b)   The school has been in operation at the same location for one
year or more; or
         (3)   The lot or parcel at which the school is now operating is owned
by the organization operating the school.
      (2)   House of worship. The separation requirement from a house of
worship will apply only if one or more of the following applies:
         (a)   The house of worship has been in operation at the same location
for one year or more; or
         (b)   The lot or parcel at which the house of worship is now operating
is owned by the organization operating the house of worship.
      (3)   Residentially zoned land. For purposes of this section only,
RESIDENTIALLY ZONED LAND shall mean land carrying a county zoning district
designation beginning with an R.
(Ord. O-C-07-6, passed 10-9-2007)
§ 153.064 SEXUALLY ORIENTED CABARETS; DESIGN STANDARDS.
   Any building used for the operation of a sexually oriented cabaret in the
county shall meet the following design standards at all times that the cabaret
is operated in the building.
   (A)   Stage required. The building shall include one or more stages, on
which all performances shall take place. Each stage shall be in a room open to
all customers of the establishment and containing at least 600 square feet of
gross public floor area. The stage shall be raised at least 30 inches above the
level of the floor on which customers stand or are seated.
   (B)   Performance area.
      (1)   All performances and all interactions between performers and
customers shall occur in a room open to all customers of the establishment and
containing at least 600 square feet of gross public floor area.
      (2)   No curtains, screens, shades or other devices shall be used to
obscure any part of the room.
   (C)   Lighting. The lighting level in the area occupied by customers shall
be at least five footcandles at a height of three feet off the floor.
(Ord. O-C-07-6, passed 10-9-2007)
§ 153.065 SEXUALLY ORIENTED MOTION PICTURE THEATERS AND SHOWING OF VIDEOS.
   Any building used for the operation of a sexually oriented motion picture
theater or to show sexually oriented videos on the premises for a fee in the
county shall meet the following design standards at all times that the theater
is operated in that building.
   (A)   Presentation area. All screenings and presentations of motion
pictures, videos or other media shall occur in a room open to all customers of
the establishment and containing at least 600-square feet of gross public floor
area. No curtains, screens, shades or other devices shall be used to obscure
any part of the room.
   (B)   Lighting. The lighting level in the area occupied by customers shall
be at least two footcandles at floor level.
   (C)   Seating. Seating shall consist of individual, theater-style chairs,
with solid arms separating the chairs. No couches, benches, individual chairs,
beds, loose cushions or mattresses or other forms of seating may be provided.
Separate spaces for wheelchairs shall be provided in accordance with the
applicable provisions of the Southern Building Code and the Americans with
Disabilities Act being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq.
(Ord. O-C-07-6, passed 10-9-2007)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 153.080 ZONING ADMINISTRATION.
   The Zoning Administrator, who shall be appointed by the Plan Commission,
shall:
   (A)   Administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter;
   (B)   Issue improvement location permits; and
   (C)   Maintain a permanent file of all improvement location permits and
applications as public records.
(Ord. O-C-97-10, passed 12-22-1997)
§ 153.081 IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMITS.
   (A)   Requirement. An improvement location permit shall be obtained before
any person may:
      (1)   Occupy or use any vacant land;
      (2)   Occupy or use any structure hereafter constructed, reconstructed,
moved or enlarged;
      (3)   Change the use of a structure or land to a different use; or
      (4)   Change a nonconforming use.
   (B)   Application for an improvement location permit. An application for an
improvement location permit shall be accompanied by a plot plan showing clearly
and completely the locations, dimensions and nature of any structure involved
and any other information as the Zoning Administrator may require for
administration of this chapter.
   (C)   Scenic Corridor Overlay District; improvement location permit. All
applications for an improvement location permit relating to or concerning land
within the Scenic Corridor Overlay District shall be considered for approval by
the Plan Commission. Additionally, the Plan Commission must consider for
approval the site plan for any improvement location permit to be issued within
the Scenic Corridor Overlay District, after review of the site plan and
consideration of any recommendation by the Technical Advisory Committee.
   (D)   No public utility shall connect utility services to an improvement
requiring an improvement location permit, unless the landowner has obtained an
improvement location permit.
(Ord. O-C-97-10, passed 12-22-1997; Ord. O-C-07-8, passed 10-22-2007; Ord. O-C-
20-1, passed - -2020)
§ 153.082 METHOD OF APPEAL.
   Any person aggrieved or affected by a provision of this chapter or by any
decision of the Zoning Administrator may appeal to the Board of Zoning Appeals
within a reasonable time, as provided by the rules of the Board, by filing a
notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. Every decision of the Board of
Zoning Appeals shall be subject to review by the County Circuit or Superior
Court.
(Ord. O-C-97-10, passed 12-22-1997)
§ 153.083 FEES.
   The following fees shall be charged and collected by the Zoning
Administrator:
 
Table E - Fees
Action                                                 Fee
Application for improvement location permit for any    $50
improvement having a value of $500 or more
Application to Board of Zoning Appeals for variance or $200
special exception
Application which is affected by the county flood      Supplemental fee of $350
hazard regulations
 
(Ord. O-C-97-10, passed 12-22-1997; Ord. O-C-06-9, passed 10-2-2006)
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS
§ 153.095 GENERAL.
   In accordance with state law, the Board of County Commissioners shall
appoint and organize a Board of Zoning Appeals, which Board may adopt rules to
govern its procedure. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall hold meetings, keep
minutes and, pursuant to notice, shall conduct hearings, compel the attendance
of witnesses, take testimony and render decisions in writing, all required by
law. Any person filing an appeal or proceeding with the Board shall assume any
cost of public notice that is required.
(Ord. O-C-97-10, passed 12-22-1997)
§ 153.096 APPEALS.
   The Board shall have the power to hear and decide appeals from any order,
requirement, decision, grant or refusal made by the Zoning Administrator in the
administration of this chapter.
(Ord. O-C-97-10, passed 12-22-1997)
§ 153.097 VARIANCES.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals, upon appeal, shall have the power to authorize
variances from the requirements of this chapter, and to attach conditions to
the variances as it deems necessary to assure compliance with the purpose of
this chapter. A variance may be permitted if all the following requirements are
met:
   (A)   Literal enforcement of the chapter would result in an unnecessary
hardship with respect to the property;
   (B)   Unnecessary hardship results because of unique characteristics of the
property; and
   (C)   The variance observes the spirit of this chapter, produces substantial
justice and is not contrary to the public interest.
(Ord. O-C-97-10, passed 12-22-1997)
§ 153.098 SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall have the power to authorize special
exceptions if the following requirements are met.
   (A)   The special exception shall be listed as such in Table A (§
153.036) for the district requested.
   (B)   The special exception shall not involve any element or cause any
condition that may be dangerous, injurious or noxious to any other property or
persons, and shall comply with the performance standards of §
153.099.
   (C)   The special exception shall be sited, oriented and landscaped to
produce a harmonious relationship of buildings and grounds to adjacent
buildings and properties.
   (D)   The special exception shall produce a total visual impression and
environment which is consistent with the environment of the neighborhood.
   (E)   The special exception shall organize vehicular access and parking to
minimize traffic congestion in the neighborhood.
   (F)   The special exception shall preserve the purpose of this chapter.
(Ord. O-C-97-10, passed 12-22-1997)
§ 153.099 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   All special exceptions shall comply with the requirements of this section.
In order to determine whether a proposed use will conform to the requirements
of this chapter, the Board of Zoning Appeals may also obtain a qualified
consultant to testify, whose cost for services shall be borne by the applicant.
   (A)   Fire protection. Fire prevention and fighting equipment acceptable to
the National Insurance Association shall be readily available when any activity
involving the handling or storage of flammable or explosive materials is
carried on.
   (B)   Electrical disturbance. No activity shall cause electrical disturbance
adversely affecting radio or other equipment in the vicinity.
   (C)   Noise. Noise which is determined to be objectionable because of
volume, frequency or beat shall be muffled or otherwise controlled, except fire
sirens and related apparatus used solely for public purposes shall be exempt
from this requirement.
   (D)   Vibrations. Vibrations detectable without instruments on neighboring
property in any district shall be prohibited.
   (E)   Odors. No malodorous gas or matter shall be permitted which is
discernible on any adjoining lot or property.
   (F)   Air pollution. No pollution of air by flyash, dust, smoke, vapors or
other substance shall be permitted which is harmful to health, animals,
vegetation or property.
   (G)   Glare. Lighting devices which produce objectionable direct or
reflected glare on adjoining properties or thoroughfares shall not be
permitted.
   (H)   Erosion and sediment. All developments shall provide for adequate
control of sediment and erosion by wind or water, both on-site and off-site, to
prevent damage to property and provide for the safety and health of the
community. The Commission may receive recommendations from County Soil and
Water Conservation District as requested.
   (I)   Water pollution. Water pollution shall be subject to the standards
established by the State Stream Pollution Control Board.
   (J)   Water management. All developments shall provide for management of
surface and sub-surface water to adequately provide for safe removal, both on-
site and off-site. The Commission may receive recommendations from County Soil
and Water Conservation District as requested.
(Ord. O-C-97-10, passed 12-22-1997)
§ 153.100 NONCONFORMING USES.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall have the power to authorize changes of
lawful nonconforming uses as follows.
   (A)   A nonconforming use which occupies a portion of a structure or
premises may be extended within the structure or premises as they existed when
the prohibitory provision took effect, but not in violation of the area and
yard requirements of the district in which the structures or premises are
located. No change of a nonconforming use shall entail structural alterations
or any additions other than those required by law for the purpose of safety and
health.
   (B)   The Board may impose those conditions as it deems necessary for the
protection of adjacent property and the public interest.
(Ord. O-C-97-10, passed 12-22-1997)
§ 153.101 CONDITIONS AND COMMITMENTS RELATED TO A DECISION BY THE BOARD OF
ZONING APPEALS.
   (A)   Conditions imposed by Board of Zoning Appeals; affidavit of
compliance.
      (1)   Whenever the decision of the Board of Zoning Appeals is conditioned
upon petitioner’s compliance with a requirement imposed by the Board concerning
construction or site development (e.g., installation of landscaping, fencing,
paving or any comparable requirement) the petitioner shall be required to
notify the Board of Zoning Appeals of the timely fulfillment of the requirement
by filing with the Zoning Administrator an affidavit of compliance in a form
approved by the Zoning Administrator. If the time for fulfillment of the
condition is stated in the Board’s decision, the affidavit shall be filed
within 30 days after the time allowed in the Board’s decision. If the time for
fulfillment for the condition is not stated in the Board’s decision, the
affidavit shall be filed within 30 days after the commencement of the use or
completion of construction authorized by the Board’s decision, whichever is
earlier.
      (2)   Failure to comply with any conditions imposed by the Board of
Zoning Appeals shall constitute a violation enforceable pursuant to the
procedures and provisions in §
153.999.
   (B)   Commitments; recording.
      (1)   If deemed advisable, the Board of Zoning Appeals may require the
petitioner to make written commitments concerning the use or development of the
subject property.
      (2)   The commitments shall be reduced to writing in recordable form and
signed by the owners of the real estate. The commitments shall authorize their
recording by the Zoning Administrator upon the grant of the variance,
conditional use or contingent use petition by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
      (3)   The commitments may be modified or terminated by a decision of the
Board of Zoning Appeals made at public hearing after proper notice has been
given. Any modification or termination of the commitments approved by the Board
shall not be in full force and effect until reduced to writing by the present
owner(s) of the real estate, endorsed by the Board and recorded in the Office
of the Recorder of the county.
(Ord. O-C-97-10, passed 12-22-1997) Penalty, see §
153.999
AMENDMENTS
§ 153.115 GENERAL.
   The Board of County Commissioners may introduce and consider amendments to
this chapter and to the zone maps, as proposed by the County Commissioners, by
the Plan Commission or by the owners of 50% or more than the area involved in
the petition.
(Ord. O-C-97-10, passed 12-22-1997)
§ 153.116 PETITIONS.
   Petitions for amendment shall be filed with the County Auditor. The
petitioner shall pay a filing fee therefor in the sum of $200, and the
petitioner, upon the filing, shall, whether or not the proposed amendment is
enacted, pay all costs and expenses connected with the petition including the
drafting, advertising and recording of the ordinance.
(Ord. O-C-97-10, passed 12-22-1997)
§ 153.117 REFERRAL.
   Any proposed amendment not originating from the Plan Commission shall be
referred to the Plan Commission for consideration and report before any final
action is taken by the County Commissioners. The Plan Commission shall hold a
public hearing as prescribed by law, and report its findings and
recommendations in writing to the County Commissioners within reasonable time
after the public hearing as the County Commissioners may specify in the
referring action.
(Ord. O-C-97-10, passed 12-22-1997)
§ 153.118 NOTICE.
   Prior to the adoption of any amendment or special exception, notice of the
proposed amendment or special exception shall be given by the Plan Commission
by publication of notice in one newspaper of general publication published in
this county at least ten days prior to the date set for hearing, and by mailing
a copy of the notice to each abutting or adjoining land owner by registered
mail return receipt requested at least ten days prior to the date set for
hearing. A publisher’s affidavit and the mail receipts shall serve as proof of
notice in accordance with this section.
(Ord. O-C-97-10, passed 12-22-1997)
§ 153.119 ACTION.
   After receiving the Plan Commission’s report, the County Commissioners may
proceed to take action on the proposed amendment. In the event the report of
the Plan Commission is adverse to the proposed amendment, the amendment
ordinance shall not be passed except by a unanimous affirmative vote of the
County Commissioners. Failure of the County Commissioners to pass the proposed
amendment ordinance by an affirmative vote within 90 days after its rejection
by the Plan Commission shall constitute rejection of the proposed amendments
and it shall not be reconsidered by the Plan Commission or County Commissioners
until the expiration of one year after the date of its original rejection by
the Plan Commission.
(Ord. O-C-97-10, passed 12-22-1997)
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   It shall be unlawful to locate, erect, construct, reconstruct, enlarge,
change, maintain or use any structure or land in violation of any regulation in
or any provisions of this chapter or of any regulation enacted hereunder by the
Board of Zoning Appeals. The Board or the Plan Commission may institute a suit
for mandatory injunction directing the removal of a structure erected in
violation of this chapter. Any structure or use that violates this chapter
shall be deemed to be a common nuisance and the owner of the structure or land
shall be liable for maintaining a common nuisance. Any person who violates any
provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be fined not less than $10 and not more than $300. Each day
the violation continues shall constitute a separate offense. Further, the
person shall be liable for the recovery of the reasonable cost of litigation,
including attorney fees and court costs, in any action taken to enforce the
provisions of the county’s zoning regulations.
(Ord. O-C-97-10, passed 12-22-1997; Ord. O-C-04-5, passed 5-19-2004)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   BONDS
      
II.   CONTRACTS
      
III.   EASEMENTS
      
IV.   ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT; ECONOMIC REVITALIZATION AREAS
      
V.   FRANCHISES
      
VI.   INTERLOCAL AGREEMENTS
      
VII.   LEASES
      
VIII.   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
      
IX.   STREET CLOSURES
      
X.   STREET NAME CHANGES
      
XI.   VACATIONS
      
XII.   ZONING
TABLE I: BONDS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.     Date Passed Description
Res. 78-1    10-26-1978  Economic development bond; J.H. Rudolph.
-            10-25-1979  Economic development bond; Jerry W. Fischer.
Res. R-80-3  7-24-1980   Economic development bond; Ralph J. Kleeman.
Res. CC-84-8 9-4-1984    Economic development bond; Consolidated Recycling.
                         Authorizing the issuance and sale of bonds for the
O-CC-00-1    7-27-2000   purpose of providing funds to be used for the cost of
                         construction of a multipurpose building.
                         Authorizing the issuance of taxable economic
O-C-04-6     7-22-2004   development variable rate revenue bonds (Webb Wheel
                         Products, Inc. project).
                         Authorizing the issuance and sale of bonds for the
O-C-07-10    12-17-2007  purpose of providing funds to be used for the cost of
                         construction of certain railroad improvements.
                         Amending and restating Ord. O-C-07-10, authorizing the
O-C-08-4     1-23-2008   issuance and sale of bonds for the purpose of
                         providing funds to be used for the cost of
                         construction of certain railroad improvements.
O-CC-14-1    11-20-2014  Authorizing issuance of taxable economic development
                         revenue bonds, Series 20 (Waupaca Project).
                         Authorizing execution of financing documents and
O-CC-16-2    11-22-2016  approving and authorizing other actions in respect
                         thereto.
                         Authorizing execution of financing documents and
O-CC-16-3    12-7-2016   approving and authorizing other actions in respect
                         thereto.
                        
 
TABLE II: CONTRACTS
 
Ord. No.      Date Passed Description
Res. 1-1975   2-3-1975    Contract for emergency ambulance services with Perry
                          County Emergency Ambulance Service, Inc.
                          Agreement between the Board of Trustees of the County
Res. C-83-4   5-2-1983    Memorial Hospital and the Board of Commissioners in
                          respect to the operation of ambulance services.
                          Contract with Perry County Development Corporation to
Res. R-C-91-9 8-5-1991    assist government in planning and implementing
                          economic development projects.
                          Authorizing the procurement of a Grant Administrator
Res. R-C-08-7 11-3-2008   for the IHCDA Homeowner Repair and Improvement
                          Program.
 
TABLE III: EASEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
83-8     12-5-1983   Extension of easements for Perry-Spencer Rural Telephone
                     Cooperative for ten years.
 
TABLE IV: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT; ECONOMIC REVITALIZATION AREAS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.       Date Passed Description
Res.           6-11-1985   Declaring certain areas as economic revitalization
                           areas.
CC-85-11       6-27-1985   Confirming resolution declaring certain areas as
                           economic revitalization areas.
85-CC-19       8-22-1985   Confirming resolution declaring certain areas as
                           economic revitalization areas.
Res. R-CC-91-2 11-26-1991  Designating real property of Can-Clay Corporation as
                           an economic revitalization area.
                           Declaratory resolution of the Perry County
Res. 1-1992    1-7-1992    Redevelopment Commission; County Economic
                           Development Area #1.
Res. 2-1992    2-18-1992   Confirming resolution of the County Redevelopment
                           Commission, Res. 1-1992.
                           Approving a declaratory resolution and economic
Order O-C-1    2-3-1992    development plan of the Redevelopment Commission;
                           County Economic Development Area #1.
Res. CC-92-2   8-27-1992   Designating real property of Daniel and Steven
                           Litgring as an economic revitalization area.
Res. CC-94-1   7-11-1994   Confirming resolution declaring certain areas as
                           economic revitalization areas.
                           Approving a declaratory resolution and economic
                           development plan of the County Redevelopment
Res. R-C-94-4  12-5-1994   Commission and approving the order of the County
                           Plan Commission; Westside Economic Development Area
                           #2.
                           Board of Commissioners resolution regarding the
Res. R-C-95-1  1-3-1995    establishment of County Economic Development Area
                           #2.
                           Approving a declaratory resolution and economic
                           development plan of the County Redevelopment
Res. R-C-95-19 12-4-1995   Commission and approving the order of the County
                           Plan Commission; County Economic Development Area
                           #3.
Res. R-C-96-2  2-5-1996    Regarding the establishment of County Economic
                           Development Area #3.
                           Redesignating a portion of the county as an economic
Res. R-CC-00-1 10-26-2000  revitalization area and approving an abatement for
                           ATTC Manufacturing, Inc.
                           Confirming the redesignation of a portion of the
Res. R-CC-00-2 11-21-2000  county as an economic revitalization area and
                           approving an abatement for ATTC Manufacturing, Inc.
                           Approving a declaratory resolution and economic
                           development plan of the County Redevelopment
O-C-04-3       4-21-2004   Commission and approving the order of the County
                           Plan Commission; County Economic Development Area
                           #4.
Res. R-C-04-1  7-22-2004   Regarding the establishment of County Allocation
                           Area #4.
                           Declaring certain areas as economic revitalization
Res. R-CC-05-2 1-27-2005   area; real estate that lies north and west of new
                           State Road 37.
                           Confirming resolution declaring certain areas as
Res. R-CC-05-3 2-24-2005   economic revitalization area; real estate that lies
                           north and west of new State Road 37.
                           Designating a portion of the county as economic
Res. R-CC-06-1 1-26-2006   revitalization area and approving abatement for
                           Automated Machine Products, Inc.
                           Confirming the designation of a portion of the
Res. R-CC-06-2 2-23-2006   county as economic revitalization area and approving
                           abatement for Automated Machine Products, Inc.
                           Designating a portion of the county as economic
Res. R-CC-06-4 7-27-2006   revitalization area and approving abatement for
                           Stewart Warner, South Wind Corporation, Inc.
                           Confirming the designation of a portion of the
Res. R-CC-06-5 8-24-2006   county as economic revitalization area and approving
                           abatement for Stewart Warner, South Wind
                           Corporation, Inc.
                           Designating a portion of the county as an economic
Res. R-CC-11-1 5-19-2011   revitalization area and approving abatement for
                           Consolidated Recycling Co., Inc.
                           Confirming the designation of a portion of the
Res. R-CC-11-2 6-23-2011   county as an economic revitalization area and
                           approving abatement for Consolidated Recycling Co.,
                           Inc.
 
TABLE V: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        - -         Ohio Valley Gas Corporation agreement to replace and
                     repair trenches along Tell Street Road.
-        - -         Franchise for Troy Township Water Association, Inc.
                     AND-TRO, Inc. granted license and permit to use county
                     property where necessary for the laying of water lines for
Res.     8-1-1966    the construction of a rural water system in Troy and
                     Anderson Townships for a period of 20 years; 8-1-1966 to
                     7-31-1986.
                     Agreement with U.S. Soil Conservation to work together on
-        10-7-1968   water problems, drainage and seeding of banks, water ways
                     and the like.
-        6-2-1969    Agreement for the Bell Telephone Company to use county
                     right-of-way for telephone cable.
                     Indiana Statewide Rural Eclectic Cooperative, Inc.
-        10-4-1971   approval for a franchise permit and a right to use county
                     highways.
Res.     8-5-1974    License and permit to North Perry Water, Inc. to use
                     county right-of-way.
                     Board of Commissioners granting a license and authorizing
85-C-1   6-3-1985    the execution of a contract for a CATV license with Joe
                     McCorkle, Inc. for 15 years.
                     Board of Commissioners granting to Perry- Spencer Rural
                     Telephone Cooperative, Inc., D/B/A PSC, the right,
O-C-06-5 4-19-2006   privilege, authority, license and franchise to construct
                     and operate a cable television and closed circuit
                     electronic system for a term of 25 years.
 
TABLE VI: INTERLOCAL AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No.       Date Passed Description
                           Board of Commissioners adopting the District Overall
Res. R-C-91-13 10-7-1991   Economic Development Program for Crawford, Dubois,
                           Orange, Perry and Spencer Counties.
                           Board of Commissioners adopting the District Overall
Res. R-C-92-6  9-1-1992    Economic Development Program for Crawford, Dubois,
                           Orange, Perry and Spencer Counties.
                           Board of Commissioners approving the membership of
Res. R-C-93-4  8-2-1993    Pike County in the Indiana 15 Regional Planning
                           Commission and Economic Development District.
                           County Commissioners adopting the County Multi-
                           Hazard Mitigation Plan and submitting on the behalf
Res. R-C-06-4  7-19-2006   of participating municipalities the Plan to the
                           Indiana Department of Homeland Security and the
                           Federal Emergency Management Agency for final review
                           and approval.
 
TABLE VII: LEASES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.     Date Passed Description
                         Lease with Perry County Industrial Development
-            3-11-1960   Corporation for real estate known as the County Poor
                         Farm for 99 years from 3-11-1960 to 3-10-2059.
-            5-2-1977    Amendment of lease with Perry County Industrial
                         Development Corporation.
-            3-5-1979    Sublease approved between Perry County Industrial
                         Development Corporation and Joe Mullen.
-            7-5-1983    Vehicle lease with County Coroner.
Res. C-83-10 11-7-1983   Approved sublease between Perry County Industrial
                         Development Corporation and Lincoln Hills Logs, Inc.
                         Approval of a lease between the County Redevelopment
O-CC-2-1992  6-1-1992    Commission and the County Redevelopment Authority for
                         a new county courthouse.
                         Approval of a lease between the County Redevelopment
O-CC-95-1    2-23-1995   Commission and the County Redevelopment Authority for
                         certain road, water, electric and sewer improvements.
                         Approval of a lease between the County Redevelopment
O-CC-96-1    8-9-1996    Commission and the County Redevelopment Authority for
                         the acquisition and improvement of certain real
                         estate.
                         Approval of a lease between the County Redevelopment
O-CC-97-1    1-23-1997   Commission and the County Redevelopment Authority for
                         railroad infrastructure and equipment.
                         Approval of a lease between the County Redevelopment
O-CC-98-1    5-28-1998   Commission and the County Redevelopment Authority for
                         the acquisition of certain real property components of
                         a portion of a building.
                         Approval of a lease between the County Redevelopment
O-CC-01-1    4-26-2001   Commission and the County Redevelopment Authority for
                         the acquisition of certain real property components of
                         a portion of a building.
                         Approval of a lease between the Perry County
O-CC-12-3    5-24-2012   Redevelopment Authority and the Perry County
                         Redevelopment Commission.
                         Amending Ordinance O-CC-12-3 regarding a lease between
                         the Perry County Redevelopment Authority and the Perry
O-CC-19-2    6-27-2019   County Redevelopment Commission and pledging
                         additional EDIT revenues to Jail Facility Bonds of the
                         Perry County Redevelopment Authority.
                        
 
TABLE VIII: REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
Res.  6-27-  Entering into real estate options for land to be used in the construction
R-C-  1991   of a new courthouse.
91-7
Res.  10-7-  Board of Commissioners exercising an option to purchase real estate and
R-C-  1991   buildings constructed by the County Hospital Association.
91-11
Res.  2-24-  Entering into real estate options for land to be used in the construction
R-C-  1992   of a new courthouse.
92-1
O-CC- 3-26-
1-    1992   Authorizing the sale of real estate.
1992
Res.  6-16-  Exercising options on property for the purpose of having sufficient land
R-C-  1992   available for the construction of a new county courthouse.
92-5
O-CC- 12-10- Authorizing the sale of real estate formerly used as County Poor Farm.
92-4  1992
CC-   1-28-  Authorizing the sale of real estate formerly used as County Poor Farm.
93-1  1993
Res.  8-1-   Authorizing the County Attorney to acquire parcels from landowners
R-C-  1994   designated by eminent domain for the reconstruction and improvement of
94-2         Bristow-St. Meinrad Road.
Res.  9-19-  Authorizing the County Attorney to acquire parcels from landowners
R-C-  1994   designated by eminent domain for the reconstruction and improvement of
94-3         Bristow-St. Meinrad Road.
Res.
R-C-  1-23-  Conveying the former courthouse in Cannelton to the Historic Cannelton,
1995- 1995   Inc. by quitclaim deed for the consideration of $1.
2
Res.  3-15-  Making on offer to purchase real estate from Charles D. and Dorothy H.
R-C-  1995   Taylor for an industrial park.
95-5
Res.  3-15-  Making on offer to purchase real estate from D. Mark and Debra L. Gerlach
R-C-  1995   and Michael and Tina M. Gerlach for an industrial park.
95-6
Res.  4-3-   Transfer of real property to the Board of Trustees of the County Memorial
R-C-  1995   Hospital in connection with the out-patient services project.
95-8
Res.  4-13-  Making an offer to purchase real estate from David E. Kempf, James Henry
R-C-  1995   Kempf and Phillip A. Kempf for an industrial park.
95-10
Res.  5-15-  Making on offer to purchase real estate from David E. Kempf, James Henry
R-C-  1995   Kempf and Phillip A. Kempf for an industrial park.
95-11
Res.  6-5-   Accepting Elvis L. Zehr’s offer for taking right- of-way for Bristow-St.
R-C-  1995   Meinrad Road.
95-12
Res.  8-24-  Withdrawing eminent domain action that was necessary for the development
R-C-  1995   of an industrial park.
95-15
Res.         Accepting a settlement offer from Robert J. and Doris Foster in Cause
R-C-  6-3-   19C01-9502-CP-0025, which cause is an action in eminent domain to acquire
96-9  1996   right-of-way needed for reconstruction of Bristow-St. Meinrad Road and
             paying the Fosters damages.
Res.  8-30-  Seeking the conveyance to the county by the Indiana Department of
R-C-  1999   Transportation of surplus real estate for use of county facilities.
99-8
Res.  11-1-  Conveying real estate to the City of Cannelton in return for its appraised
R-C-  1999   value for the city’s use for opening new water wells.
99-11
Res.  11-1-  Conveying real estate to the Unites States by warranty deed in exchange
R-C-  1999   for a conveyance to the county by the United States by quitclaim deed.
99-12
Res.  6-3-   Declaring land to be surplus property to the county and recommending sale
R-C-  2002   to abutting landowner.
02-4
 
TABLE IX: STREET CLOSURES
 
Ord. No.      Date Passed Description
Res. R-C-02-6 10-7-2002   Closing Tone Road in Tobin Township.
 
TABLE X: STREET NAME CHANGES
 
Ord. No.      Date Passed Description
                          The portion of Dexter Magnet Road (County Highway 27)
                          beginning at its intersection of Parks Road (County
Res. R-C-00-3 - -         Highway 36) and continuing to the Crawford County
                          line be redesignated as County Highway 27A and re-
                          named from the Dexter Magnet Road to the Buzzard
                          Roost Road.
 
TABLE XI: VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.       Date Passed Description
                           Vacating a portion of Sixteenth Street and Dekalb
89-C-4         5-1-1989    Street in Troy Township known as Tell City
                           Disannexed.
O-C-94-5       10-17-1994  Vacating a portion of County Road 238 in Tobin
                           Township.
Res. R-C-96-6  6-3-1996    Vacating a portion of Twenty-Seventh Street in Troy
                           Township known as Tell City Disannexed.
Res. R-C-96-14 11-4-1996   Vacating a portion of Twentieth Street in Troy
                           Township known as Tell City Disannexed.
                           Vacating a portion of Twenty-Seventh Street and
O-C-97-4       7-7-1997    Franklin Street in Troy Township known as Tell City
                           Disannexed.
Res. R-C-97-8  10-6-1997   Vacating a portion of County Road 35A known as South
                           Blue Ridge Road.
Res. R-C-98-11 10-5-1998   Vacating a portion of Twenty-Third Street in Troy
                           Township known as Tell City Disannexed.
Res. R-C-99-1  3-1-1999    Vacating a portion of Turkey Run County Highway.
O-C-99-2       4-15-1999   Vacating a portion of Payne and Twenty-Fifth Street
                           in the City of Tell City.
Res. R-C-99-5  8-2-1999    Vacating a portion of Dekalb Street in Troy Township
                           known as Tell City Disannexed.
Res. R-C-99-6  8-30-1999   Vacating a portion of Twenty-First Street in Troy
                           Township known as Tell City Disannexed.
                           Vacating a portion of Steuben Street, Twenty- Fourth
Res. R-C-99-7  8-30-1999   Street and Twenty-Fifth Street in Troy Township
                           known as Tell City Disannexed.
Res. R-C-99-10 11-1-1999   Vacating portions of two unnamed roads in Union
                           Township.
O-C-99-10      12-5-1999   Vacating portions of a street in the Town of Rome.
O-C-00-1       1-3-2000    Vacating portions of the Earl Ahl Road, also known
                           as the Tobinsport Road.
O-C-00-5       10-2-2000   Vacating County Road 63, also known as Valley Tin
                           Road.
                           Vacating portions of Nineteenth Street and Dekalb
O-C-01-2       5-7-2001    Street in Troy Township known as Tell City
                           Disannexed.
Res. R-C-02-3  6-3-2002    Vacating Shamrock Road.
O-C-03-10      11-3-2003   Vacating a portion of an unnamed street in the
                           unincorporated Town of Derby.
                           Vacating a part of Sparkle Road extending from its
Res. R-C-06-5  7-19-2006   intersection with Old Indiana State Road 237 to its
                           intersection with real estate owned by the state
                           adjacent to New Indiana State Road 237.
O-C-07-9       11-5-2007   Vacating certain platted but unimproved public
                           rights-of-way.
                           Vacating portions of Thirty-Sixth Street and Rubens
O-C-09-7       12-7-2009   Street in Troy Township known as Tell City
                           Disannexed.
Res. R-C-10-2  8-18-2010   Vacating a portion of Upper Street in the Town of
                           Rome.
Res. R-C-10-3  11-17-2010  Vacating a portion of Market Street in the Town of
                           Rome.
O-C-12-3       4-2-2012    Vacating Utah Road.
O-C-12-11      10-17-2012  Vacating certain platted but unimproved public
                           rights-of-way located in Tell City Disannexed.
O-C-14-4       6-2-2014    Vacating a portion of Steward Road.
O-C-14-6       10-6-2014   Vacating a portion of River Road.
O-C-15-6       11-24-2015  Vacating a portion of Stream Road in Troy Township.
O-C-16-1       6-6-2016    Vacating a portion of County Road 113, Albany Road.
O-C-16-2       7-5-2016    Vacating a portion of 19th Street.
O-C-17-3       3-6-2017    Vacating portions of Indiana Street and German
                           Street in the Village of Leopold.
O-C-20-2       2-3-2020    Vacating a portion of County Road 65, Squirrel Road.
                          
 
TABLE XII: ZONING
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
                      Rezoning a part of Section 11, and also a part of Section
C-92-2    4-6-1992    12, Township 6 South, Range 3 West, containing 16.89
                      acres more or less, from R-1 to B-1
                      Rezoning all of the northeast quarter of the northeast
                      quarter of Section 35, Township 3 South, Range 3 West
                      excepting that part of the quarter-quarter section which
                      lies east of Indiana State Highway 145 and estimated to
                      contain eight acres more or less, and excepting that part
                      of the quarter-quarter section in the northwest corner;
O-C-93-3  11-1-1993   and that part of certain real estate located in the
                      southeast quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 26,
                      Township 3 South, Range 3 West, a total of 40.8 acres
                      more or less now owned by Patrick A. Tempel and Shirley
                      Tempel, husband and wife, an undivided one-half interest,
                      and Daniel G. Tempel and Jackie Tempel, husband and wife,
                      an undivided one-half interest from I-1 to B-1.
                      Rezoning real estate located in Section 2, Township 6
                      South, Range 3 West from the zoning classification of I-
O-C-94-1  3-7-1994    1 to R-1 and all of the following described real estate
                      located in Section 3, Township 6 South, Range 3 West from
                      the zoning classification of I-2 to R-1.
                      Rezoning all that part of the northwest quarter of the
                      southwest quarter in Section 14, Township Six South,
O-C-94-2  9-2-1994    Range Three West which lies north and west of New Indiana
                      State Road 37, containing approximately 29.19 acres more
                      or less, from R-1 to I-1.
                      Rezoning part of the west half of the southwest quarter
O-C-95-3  6-26-1995   of Section 25, Township 3 South, Range 2 West, containing
                      four acres more or less, from B-1 to R-1.
                      Rezoning a part of the north half of fractional Section
O-C-95-12 12-4-1995   18, Township 6 South, Range 3 West of the second
                      principal meridian, containing 86.283 acres more or less,
                      from I-1 to I-2.
O-C-96-2  3-4-1996    Rezoning a portion of the Brinksneader Farm,
                      approximately eight acres, from B-1 to R-1.
                      Rezoning part of the northeast quarter of the northeast
                      quarter of Section 12, Township 6 South, Range 3 West and
O-C-96-4  8-29-1996   part of the northwest quarter of the northwest quarter of
                      Section 7, Township 6 South, Range 2 West, except one
                      acre in the northwest corner, from R-1 to B-1.
                      Rezoning part of the southeast quarter of Section 1,
O-C-96-5  9-16-1996   Township 6 South, Range 3 West, containing 1.8 acres more
                      or less, from B-1 to R-1.
                      Rezoning a part of the southeast quarter of the southeast
                      quarter of Section 26, Township 3 South, Range 2 West and
O-C-96-6  11-4-1996   a part of the northeast quarter of the northeast quarter
                      of Section 35, Township 3 South, Range 2 West from B-1 to
                      I-2.
                      Rezoning the southwest quarter of the northwest quarter
O-C-98-2  4-6-1998    of Section 20, Township 3 South, Range 2 West, in Clark
                      Township from I-2 to A.
                      Rezoning Section 2-6S-3W: beginning on the west line of
                      the section where it intersects County Road 12: thence
                      north along the west section line to the northwest corner
                      of the southwest northwest quarter; thence east to the
O-C-99-3  5-3-1999    northeast corner of the southwest northwest; thence south
                      to southeast corner of the southwest northwest quarter;
                      thence east to State Road 145; thence southwesterly along
                      County Road 12 to the place of beginning, (excepting the
                      39.86 acres of the former Arthur Kunard Estate),
                      containing 62.9 acres, from I-1 to R-1.
                      Rezoning all real estate east side of State Road 145,
                      Section 35, Township 3 South, Range 3 West (excepting
                      eight acres owned by Frank and Joyce Niehaus, located in
                      Section 35, Township 3 South, Range 3 West). Also two
                      acres more or less lying in the northeast corner of the
                      northeast quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 35,
                      Township 3 South, Range 3 West, this being all that part
O-C-99-5  6-7-1999    which lies between State Road 145 and the creek; and the
                      south half of the northwest quarter of Section 36,
                      Township 3 South, Range 3 West; and the north half of the
                      southwest quarter of Section 36, Township 3 South, Range
                      3 West; also, all the real estate south and west of State
                      Road 145, Section 36, Township 3 South, Range 3 West,
                      containing 235 acres more or less, from I-1, I-2 and R-
                      2 to R-1.
                      Rezoning ten acres taken off of the north side of the
O-C-99-6  6-7-1999    southwest quarter of the southwest quarter of Section 14,
                      Township 6 South, Range 3 West from R-1 to I-1.
                      Rezoning a part of the north half of the northeast
O-C-99-7  6-7-1999    quarter of the southwest quarter of Section 14, Township
                      Six South, Range Three West of the second principal
                      meridian, Troy Township from R-1 to I-1.
                      Rezoning part of the southeast quarter of the southeast
                      quarter of Section 32, Township 5 South, Range 1 West,
                      estimated to contain 12.3 acres more or less; part of the
                      southwest quarter of the southwest quarter of Section 33,
                      Township 5 South, Range 1 West, containing 1.9 acres;
                      part of the northwest quarter of the northwest quarter of
                      Section 4, Township 6 South, Range 1 West, estimated to
O-C-00-2  2-7-2000    contain 11.2 acres; Township 5 South, Range 1 West,
                      second principal meridian, Section 32, part of the
                      southeast quarter of the southeast quarter, estimated to
                      contain 5.4 acres; part of the northwest quarter of the
                      northwest quarter of Section 4, Township 6 South, Range 1
                      West, containing 8.7 acres; and part of the southwest
                      quarter of the northwest quarter of Section 4, Township 6
                      South, Range 1 West, containing 4.8 acres from I-1 to A-
                      1.
                      Rezoning the north ten acres more or less of equal width
O-C-00-3  2-7-2000    for the north side or the south half of the northeast
                      quarter of Section 26, Township 3 South, Range 2 West
                      from B-1 to C.
                      Rezoning the southeast quarter of the northeast quarter
O-C-03-8  10-6-2003   of Section 31, Township 3 South, Range 2 West, in Clark
                      Civil Township, from I-1 to A.
O-C-04-4  5-19-2004   Rezoning property from A-1 to I-2.
                      Rezoning a part of the northwest quarter of the southeast
O-C-04-8  12-28-2004  quarter of Section 3, Township 5 South, Range 2 West from
                      R-1 to B-2.
                      Rezoning part of the northwest quarter of the northwest
O-C-04-9  12-28-2004  quarter of Section 25, Township 3 South, Range 2 West,
                      Oil Township, containing 2.50 acres more or less, from B-
                      1 to R-2.
                      Rezoning a part of the northwest quarter of the northwest
                      quarter and part of the southwest quarter of the
O-C-04-10 12-28-2004  northwest quarter of Section 25, Township 3 South, Range
                      2 West, Oil Township, containing 35.39 acres more or
                      less, from B-1 to I-2.
                      Rezoning a part of the southeast quarter of the northeast
                      quarter of Section 15, Township 6 South, Range 3 West,
                      Troy Civil Township, containing 0.877 acres more or less;
O-C-07-3  7-2-2007    and a part of the southeast quarter of the northeast
                      quarter of Section 15, Township 6 South, Range 3 West,
                      Troy Civil Township, containing 5.839 acres more or less
                      from C-1 to I-1.
                      Rezoning Section 1, Township 5 South, Range 2 West, Lot
O-C-09-5  8-19-2009   No. 26 except 30 feet off the east side in the Town of
                      Leopold from R-2 to B-2.
                      Rezoning part of the west half of the southwest quarter
O-C-09-6  11-18-2009  of Section 14, Township 4 South, Range 2 West, containing
                      a gross area of 34.904 acres, subject to rights-of-way
                      and easements from B-1 to A-1.
                      Rezoning part of the southeast quarter of Section 6,
O-C-06-10 10-18-2006  Township 7 South, Range 2 West, of the second principal
                      meridian lying in Troy Township from C-1 to B-1.
                      Rezoning part of the northwest quarter of the southwest
O-C-12-5  6-4-2012    quarter of Section 14, Township 4 South, Range 2 west
                      from B-1 to R-1.
                      Rezoning the northwest quarter of the northeast quarter
                      and the northeast quarter of the northeast quarter in
O-C-12-9  7-18-2012   Section 20, Township 5 South, Range 2 West; and The west
                      half of the northwest quarter of Section 21, Township 5
                      South, Range 2 West from Agriculture and Conservation
                      District to I-2 Heavy Industrial District.
                      Rezoning from I-2 Heavy Industrial District to
                      Agriculture and Conservation District real estate as
                      outlined in Ord. O-C-13-1, described in part as the
                      northwest quarter of the northeast quarter and the
O-C-13-1  1-14-2013   northeast quarter of the northeast quarter, both quarter
                      quarter sections being located in Section 20, Township 5
                      South, Range 2 West, and the west half of the northwest
                      quarter of Section 21, Township 5 South, Range 2 West and
                      also the southeast quarter of the northwest quarter of
                      Section 21, Township 5 South, Range 2 West.
                      Rezoning part of the Southwest Quarter of the Southwest
O-C-15-2  5-19-2015   Quarter of Section 25, Township 3 South, Range 3 West,
                      containing 2.807 acres, more or less, from I-1 Industrial
                      District to B-1 Business District.
                      Rezoning part of the Northwest Quarter of the Northwest
O-C-15-7  12-15-2015  Quarter of Section 32, Township 5 South, Range 2 West,
                      containing 4.33 acres, more or less, from R-1 Residential
                      District to B-1 Business District.
                      Rezoning part of the Southeast Quarter of Section 32,
                      Township 5 South, Range 1 West in Union Township,
                      containing 0.453 acres more or less, from I-1 Light
O-C-16-3  7-19-2016   Industrial District to B-1 Business District; and a part
                      of the Southeast Quarter of Section 32, Township 5 South,
                      Range 1 West in Union Township, containing 1.210 acres
                      more or less, from I-1 Light Industrial District to B-
                      1 Business District.
                     
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to 1984 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Section Code Section
I.C. Section               Code Section
1-1-1-5                    10.04
1-1-1-7                    10.13
1-1-1-8                    10.07
1-1-4-5                    10.06
1-1-6-1                    10.09
3-6-4.2-14                 41.031
3-6-6-5(b)                 35.02
3-6-6-25                   35.02
3-7-33-1 et seq.           35.03
3-11-8                     35.03
5-3-1                      32.06
5-4-1-18                   32.06
5-11-14-1                  41.030
5-14-1.5                   33.032
5-14-1.5-1 et seq.         33.032
5-14-1.5-3                 33.020
5-14-1.5-4(a)              33.019
5-14-1.5-4(b)              33.023,
                           33.024
5-14-1.5-5                 33.018
5-14-1.5-6.1               33.020
5-14-3 et seq.             110.19
                           42.081,
5-14-3-2                   42.083,
                           42.087,
                           42.999
5-14-3-3                   42.006,
                           42.087
5-14-3-3(d)                41.003,
                           41.999
5-14-3-3(e)                42.087
5-14-3-3.6                 42.084
5-14-3-3.6(e)              42.084
5-14-3-4                   42.084
5-14-3-6                   42.082
5-14-3-8(j)                42.082,
                           42.088
5-14-3-8(k)                42.083
5-14-3-8.5                 42.088
5-14-3-8.5(b)              42.088
5-22                       40.01,
                           40.04
5-22-2                     40.01
5-22-5-1 through 5-22-5-5  40.04
5-22-6-1                   40.04
5-22-6-2                   40.04
5-22-7                     40.04
5-22-8                     40.04
5-22-8-1(b)                40.04
5-22-9                     40.04
5-22-9-1                   40.04
5-22-10                    40.04
5-22-15-21                 40.04
6-1.1-20.9-1 et seq.       37.050
6-1.1-35-3                 41.030
6-2.5 et seq.              37.032
6-3.5-5                    37.015
6-3.5-7                    37.095
6-3.6-7-17                 37.085
8-10-5-1 through 8-10-5-20 32.05
8-14-8                     37.015
8-14-9                     37.015
8-14-9-3                   37.015
8-14-9-7(b)                37.015
8-16-3-1 et seq.           36.05
8-17-1-40                  70.04
8-17-5                     31.39
8-17-5-9                   31.39
8-17-5-10                  31.39
8-17-5-13                  32.08
8-22 et seq.               32.01
8-22-3-1 et seq.           32.01
9-13-2-73                  70.04
9-21-1-2(a)                70.04
9-21-1-2(b)                70.04
9-21-1-3(a)(8)             70.04
9-21-1-3(b)                70.04
9-21-1-7                   70.04
9-21-5-6                   70.01
10-13-3-27                 33.076
10-13-3-30                 33.077
10-14-3                    39.20
10-14-3-9                  39.01
10-14-3-12                 39.40,
                           39.42
10-14-3-17                 39.01,
                           39.19
10-14-3-17(c)              39.04,
                           39.15
10-14-3-17(d)              39.17
10-14-3-17(d)(2)(A)        39.20
10-14-3-17(h)              39.26
10-14-3-17(j)(5)           39.46
10-14-3-22                 39.04,
                           39.46
10-14-3-24                 39.46
                           39.01,
10-14-3-29(a)              39.40,
                           39.42
10-14-3-29.5               39.43
10-14-3-31                 39.46,
                           39.53
10-17-2-4                  42.006
11-12-2-2                  32.11
12-25                      110.17
13-11-2-14                 50.52
13-11-2-146                50.52
13-11-2-147                50.52
13-20                      50.08
13-30-2-1                  50.53
14-8-2-185                 71.01
14-16-1 et seq.            71.02
14-28-1                    150.059
14-28-1-26                 150.059
15-2.1-6-13                90.035
16-18-2-14                 110.01
16-18-2-167                110.17
16-18-2-211                110.17
16-20-2-1                  32.07
16-20-2-10                 32.07
16-21-2                    110.01
16-22-2-1 et seq.          92.01
16-28                      110.17
16-42-1-1 et seq.          111.03
18-14-9                    37.015
20-26-2-1.5                33.075
22-9-1-4 et seq.           93.02
22-9-5-6                   93.02
22-9.5-1 et seq            93.01
22-9.5-2-2                 93.02
22-9.5-2-3                 93.02
22-9.5-2-4                 93.02
22-9.5-2-8                 93.02
22-9.5-2-9                 93.02
22-9.5-2-11                93.02
22-9.5-2-13                93.02
22-9.5-3                   93.03
22-9.5-3 et seq.           93.09
22-9.5-4-8                 93.10
22-9.5-5                   93.02
22-9.5-5-1                 93.03
22-9.5-6                   93.02,
                           93.10
23-1-20-10                 110.01
23-1-20-18                 110.01
26-2-7-3                   42.004
27-1-15.6-6(d)             42.006
27-7-3-2                   42.006
27-7-3-6                   42.006
31-16-12-1                 34.16
31-37-1-2                  34.16
33-28-1 et seq.            34.01
33-33-62                   34.01
33-39-1-1                  31.34
33-39-6-1                  41.030
33-40-6                    34.20
33-40-7 et seq.            34.18
33-40-7-5                  34.18
34-4-17.5                  90.130
34-4-32-3                  50.56
34-28-5                    130.99
34-28-5 et seq.            110.99
34-28-5-1                  50.56
34-28-5-4                  130.99
34-47-3                    34.35
35-33-11-3                 33.110
35-47-1-5                  34.35,
                           131.01
35-47-8-1                  34.35,
                           131.01
35-47-8-2                  34.35,
                           131.01
35-47-8-3                  34.35,
                           131.01
36-1-2-23                  110.17
36-1-3 et seq.             110.02
36-1-3-1                   92.02
36-1-3-1 et seq.           31.30,
                           41.001
36-1-3-6(a)                110.02
36-1-3-8(a)(10)(B)         110.99
36-1-3-8(a)(5)             110.19
36-1-3-8(a)(10)            10.99
36-1-4-17                  50.57,
                           50.99
36-2-2                     39.01
36-2-2-1 et seq.           31.01
36-2-2-8                   39.44
36-2-2-11                  31.32
36-2-2-12                  31.32
36-2-3-1 et seq.           31.15
36-2-4-8                   10.19,
                           110.03
36-2-5-2                   36.06
36-2-5-3(a)                39.18
36-2-6-3                   31.65
36-2-7-10(f)               42.006
36-2-7-10.1(d)             42.006
36-2-9-1 et seq.           31.32
36-2-10-1 et seq.          31.38
36-2-12-1 et seq.          31.37
36-2-13-1 et seq.          31.35,
                           31.36
36-2-13-16                 33.110
36-2-14-1 et seq.          31.33
36-2-15-1 et seq.          31.31
36-7-4-701 et seq.         152.008
36-7-11.9                  32.10
36-7-12                    32.10
36-7-14                    32.26
36-7-14.5                  32.28
36-7-25                    32.26
36-8-2-4                   110.02
36-8-3-20                  33.055,
                           33.058
36-8-10-3                  33.003
36-8-10-3(a)               33.001
36-8-10-3(b)               33.002—
                           33.004
                           33.005—
36-8-10-3(c)               33.008,
                           33.021,
                           33.022
36-8-10-4(b)               33.014
36-8-10-10(a)              33.010
36-8-10-10(a)(1)(2)        33.011
36-8-10-10(b)              33.012,
                           33.013
36-8-10-11                 33.031
                           33.015,
36-8-10-11(a)              33.029,
                           33.032,
                           33.033
36-8-10-11(b)              33.034
36-8-10-11(c)              33.035
36-8-10-11(d)              33.015,
                           33.031
36-9-14.5                  36.01
36-9-14.5-2                36.01
36-9-30                    50.56
36-9-30-21                 42.050
37-7-4                     150.001
                           
 
REFERENCES TO 1984 CODE
1984 Code Section 2012 Code Section
1984 Code Section     2012 Code Section
1-1                   10.01
1-2                   10.06
1-3                   10.05
1-4                   10.15
1-5                   10.18
1-6                   10.19
1-7                   10.19
1-8                   10.12
1-9                   10.07
1-10                  10.99
1-11                  10.99
2-1                   31.30
2-2                   31.31
2-3                   31.32
2-4                   31.33
2-5                   31.34
2-6                   31.35
2-7                   31.36
2-8                   31.37
2-9                   31.38
2-10                  34.01
3-1                   31.01
3-2                   31.02
4-1                   31.15
4-2                   31.16
5-1                   32.27
5-2                   35.01
5-3                   32.12
5-4                   36.07
5-5                   41.002
5-7                   37.003
5-32                  32.08
6-1                   32.01
11-1                  32.02
11-2                  32.03
11-60                 32.05
12-1                  32.06
12-3                  32.06
12-5                  32.09
13-12                 38.01
14-1                  32.04
15-1                  33.001
15-2                  33.055—
                      33.060
16-1                  37.015
16-3                  36.01
16-53                 33.075—
                      33.077
17-1                  32.25
17-2                  153.010
27-1                  32.28
Ch. 15, Art I, § 1   33.002
Ch. 15, Art I, § 2   33.003
Ch. 15, Art I, § 3   33.004
Ch. 15, Art I, § 4   33.005
Ch. 15, Art I, § 5   33.006
Ch. 15, Art I, § 6   33.007
Ch. 15, Art II, § 7  33.008
Ch. 15, Art II, § 8  33.009
Ch. 15, Art II, § 9  33.010
Ch. 15, Art II, § 10 33.011
Ch. 15, Art II, § 11 33.012
Ch. 15, Art II, § 12 33.013
Ch. 15, Art II, § 13 33.014
Ch. 15, Art II, § 14 33.015
Ch. 15, Art III, § 1533.016
Ch. 15, Art III, § 1633.017
Ch. 15, Art III, § 1733.018
Ch. 15, Art III, § 1833.019
Ch. 15, Art III, § 1933.020
Ch. 15, Art III, § 2033.021
Ch. 15, Art III, § 2133.022
Ch. 15, Art III, § 2233.023
Ch. 15, Art III, § 2333.024
Ch. 15, Art III, § 2433.025
Ch. 15, Art III, § 2533.026
Ch. 15, Art III, § 2633.027
Ch. 15, Art III, § 2733.028
Ch. 15, Art III, § 2833.029
Ch. 15, Art III, § 2933.030
Ch. 15, Art III, § 3033.031
Ch. 15, Art III, § 3133.032
Ch. 15, Art III, § 3233.033
Ch. 15, Art III, § 3333.034
Ch. 15, Art III, § 3433.035
Ch. 15, Art III, § 3533.036
Ch. 15, Art III, § 3633.037
Ch. 15, Art III, § 3733.038
Ch. 15, Art III, § 3833.039
Ch. 15, Art III, § 3933.040
Ch. 15, Art III, § 4033.041
Ch. 15, Art III, § 4133.042
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No.   Date Passed Code Section
R-C-00-3   - -         TSO Table X
R-C-02-8   - -         41.095
R-C-04-2   - -         35.03
R-C-04-3   - -         35.03
R-C-04-4   - -         35.03
–        8-1-1966    TSO Table V
–        8-5-1974    TSO Table V
1-1975     2-3-1975    TSO Table II
2-1978     3-6-1978    32.27
78-1       10-26-1978  TSO Table I
R-80-3     7-24-1980   TSO Table I
C-83-4     5-2-1983    TSO Table II
–        7-5-1983    TSO Table VII
C-83-10    11-7-1983   TSO Table VII
CC-84-8    9-4-1984    TSO Table I
–        6-11-1985   TSO Table IV
–        4-7-1986    35.01
86-2       4-7-1986    35.01
R-CC-2-90  2-19-1990   37.065
R-CC-3-90  2-19-1990   37.080
CC-1-90    3-22-1990   32.01
–        4-2-1990    41.080
R-CC-90-6  5-15-1990   37.050
R-C-91-1   1-2-1991    32.05
R-C-91-7   6-27-1991   TSO Table VIII
R-C-91-8   8-5-1991    91.01
R-C-91-9   8-5-1991    TSO Table II
R-C-91-11  10-7-1991   TSO Table VIII
R-C-91-12  10-7-1991   41.065
R-C-91-13  10-7-1991   TSO Table VI
R-CC-91-2  11-26-1991  TSO Table IV
1-1992     1-7-1992    TSO Table IV
2-1992     2-18-1992   TSO Table IV
R-C-92-1   2-24-1992   TSO Table VIII
R-C-92-5   6-16-1992   TSO Table VIII
CC-92-2    8-27-1992   TSO Table IV
R-C-92-6   9-1-1992    TSO Table VI
CC-93-2A   1-28-1993   41.007
CC-93-2    3-20-1993   37.080
CC-93-3    3-25-1993   37.065
R-C-93-4   8-2-1993    TSO Table VI
CC-94-1    7-11-1994   TSO Table IV
R-C-94-2   8-1-1994    TSO Table VIII
R-C-94-3   9-19-1994   TSO Table VIII
R-C-94-4   12-5-1994   TSO Table IV
R-C-95-1   1-3-1995    TSO Table IV
R-C-1995-2 1-23-1995   TSO Table VIII
R-C-95-5   3-15-1995   TSO Table VIII
R-C-95-6   3-15-1995   TSO Table VIII
R-CC-95-1  3-23-1995   37.002
R-C-95-8   4-3-1995    TSO Table VIII
R-C-95-10  4-13-1995   TSO Table VIII
R-C-95-11  5-15-1995   TSO Table VIII
R-C-95-12  6-5-1995    TSO Table VIII
R-C-95-14  7-3-1995    32.09
R-C-95-15  8-24-1995   TSO Table VIII
R-C-95-18  11-27-1995  37.095
R-C-95-19  12-4-1995   TSO Table IV
R-C-95-24  12-11-1995  41.066—
                       41.069
R-C-96-1   1-22-1996   41.004
R-C-96-2   2-5-1996    TSO Table IV
R-C-96-3   2-5-1996    41.080
R-C-96-5   4-1-1996    37.095
R-C-96-6   6-3-1996    TSO Table XI
R-C-96-9   6-3-1996    TSO Table VIII
R-C-96-14  11-4-1996   TSO Table XI
R-C-97-8   10-6-1997   TSO Table XI
R-C-98-4   5-11-1998   32.08
R-C-98-5   5-11-1998   31.39
R-C-98-6   5-11-1998   41.005
R-C-98-11  10-5-1998   TSO Table XI
R-C-99-1   3-1-1999    TSO Table XI
R-C-99-5   8-2-1999    TSO Table XI
R-C-99-6   8-30-1999   TSO Table XI
R-C-99-7   8-30-1999   TSO Table XI
R-C-99-8   8-30-1999   TSO Table VIII
R-C-99-10  11-1-1999   TSO Table XI
R-C-99-11  11-1-1999   TSO Table VIII
R-C-99-12  11-1-1999   TSO Table VIII
R-C-99-13  12-6-1999   41.006
R-CC-00-1  10-26-2000  TSO Table IV
R-CC-00-2  11-21-2000  TSO Table IV
R-C-02-1   3-4-2002    41.004
R-C-02-3   6-3-2002    TSO Table XI
R-C-02-4   6-3-2002    TSO Table VIII
R-C-02-6   10-7-2002   TSO Table IX
R-C-02-7   12-2-2002   41.095
R-C-03-1   2-3-2003    91.02
R-C-03-3   5-5-2003    41.095
R-C-03-4   10-6-2003   41.007
R-C-04-1   7-22-2004   TSO Table IV
R-C-05-2   1-17-2005   32.05
R-CC-05-2  1-27-2005   TSO Table IV
R-CC-05-3  2-24-2005   TSO Table IV
R-CC-06-1  1-26-2006   TSO Table IV
R-CC-06-2  2-23-2006   TSO Table IV
R-C-06-4   7-19-2006   TSO Table VI
R-C-06-5   7-19-2006   TSO Table XI
R-CC-06-4  7-27-2006   TSO Table IV
R-CC-06-5  8-24-2006   TSO Table IV
R-C-07-1   2-21-2007   42.001
R-C-07-7   11-19-2007  32.11
R-C-08-7   11-3-2008   TSO Table II
R-C-09-5   12-7-2009   31.50—
                       31.53
R-C-10-2   8-18-2010   TSO Table XI
R-C-10-3   11-17-2010  TSO Table XI
R-CC-11-1  5-19-2011   TSO Table IV
R-CC-11-2  6-23-2011   TSO Table IV
                      
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.                Date Passed Code Section
–                     - -         TSO Table V
–                     - -         TSO Table V
                                    110.01—
                                    110.03,
O-C-06-1                - -         110.15—
                                    110.19,
                                    110.99
O-C-11-4                - -         41.080
–                     3-11-1960   TSO Table VII
–                     6-15-1961   32.01
–                     2-5-1962    32.02
–                     8-2-1965    32.25
–                     10-7-1968   TSO Table V
–                     6-2-1969    TSO Table V
–                     10-4-1971   TSO Table V
11-1973                 12-17-1973  31.16
–                     5-2-1977    TSO Table VII
                                    50.01—
1979-1                  1-5-1979    50.08,
                                    50.99
–                     3-5-1979    TSO Table VII
                                    51.01,
                                    51.15—
                                    51.23,
1979-2                  6-4-1979    51.35,
                                    51.36,
                                    51.50,
                                    51.65,
                                    51.99
–                     10-25-1979  TSO Table I
CC-81-11                6-22-1981   37.015
81-23                   11-2-1981   32.04
1982-H-2                2-1-1982    51.35
82-CC-8                 4-22-1982   33.001—
                                    33.042
1982-C-1                5-3-1982    32.03
1982-C-2                8-2-1982    92.02
82-CC-17                9-7-1982    33.042
1983-C-2                4-4-1983    42.035
1983-CC-12              6-23-1983   42.050
1982-H-1                7-5-1983    42.021
C-4-1983                7-5-1983    41.002
1983-C-5                7-5-1983    32.06
1983-CC-13              7-28-1983   37.015
C-83-6                  9-6-1983    33.055—
                                    33.060
C-83-7                  10-3-1983   70.01
C-83-8                  10-3-1983   Ch. 72, Sch. IV
83-8                    12-5-1983   TSO Table III
C-84-2                  7-2-1984    Ch. 72, Sch. IV
C-84-5                  8-6-1984    36.01
CC-84-17                9-4-1984    37.003
C-84-5                  12-17-1984  10.12
85-C-1                  6-3-1985    TSO Table V
CC-85-11                6-27-1985   TSO Table IV
85-CC-19                8-22-1985   TSO Table IV
C-86-1                  2-3-1986    Ch. 72, Sch. IV
C-86-2                  4-7-1986    35.01
C-83-3                  4-7-1986    35.01
C-86-4                  5-5-1986    Ch. 72, Sch. IV
C-86-5                  5-5-1986    Ch. 72, Sch. II
C-86-6                  5-5-1986    70.02
CC-87-4                 2-26-1987   41.001
C-1-1987                7-6-1987    38.01
C-1-88                  3-7-1988    42.005
                                    39.01—
                                    39.04,
                                    39.15—
C-88-4                  2-4-2013    39.27,
                                    39.40—
                                    39.53,
                                    39.65
C-88-5                  9-1-1988    41.008
89-C-1                  1-3-1989    31.02
89-C-3                  2-6-1989    41.021
89-C-4                  5-1-1989    TSO Table XI
89-CC-21                8-24-1989   32.06
89-C-7                  11-6-1989   Ch. 72, Sch. IV
–                     7-2-1990    50.20—
                                    50.23
C-90                    7-2-1990    36.01
–                     12-5-1990   37.095
C-91-1                  4-15-1991   37.095
C-91-2                  9-16-1991   32.07
699                     10-21-1991  TSO Table XI
C-92-1                  3-12-1992   Ch. 72, Sch. I
O-CC-1-1992             3-26-1992   TSO Table VIII
                                    50.01—
C-92-3                  4-4-1992    50.07,
                                    50.99
C-92-2                  4-6-1992    TSO Table XII
O-CC-2-1992             6-1-1992    TSO Table VII
O-CC-92-4               12-10-1992  TSO Table VIII
O-C-6-92                12-28-1992  37.095
CC-93-1                 1-28-1993   TSO Table VIII
                                    93.01—
O-C-93-1                5-17-1993   93.10,
                                    93.99
O-C-93-3                11-1-1993   TSO Table XII
O-C-94-1                3-7-1994    TSO Table XII
–                     5-6-1994    37.095
O-C-94-3                8-1-1994    30.01
O-C-94-2                9-2-1994    TSO Table XII
O-C-94-5                10-17-1994  TSO Table XI
                                    50.35—
O-C-94-6                12-27-1994  50.38,
                                    50.99
O-C-95-1                2-6-1995    50.38
O-C-95-2                2-6-1995    33.090—
                                    33.094
O-CC-95-1               2-23-1995   TSO Table VII
O-CC-95-2               5-25-1995   37.030—
                                    37.034
O-C-95-3                6-26-1995   TSO Table XII
O-C-95-6                7-3-1995    42.003
O-C-95-7                7-24-1995   36.05
O-C-95-8                7-24-1995   36.01
O-CC-95-3               7-27-1995   37.035
O-C-95-9                9-18-1995   42.003
O-C-95-10               10-16-1995  35.02
O-C-95-12               12-4-1995   TSO Table XII
O-C-96-1                3-4-1996    38.01
O-C-96-2                3-4-1996    TSO Table XII
O-CC-96-1               8-9-1996    TSO Table VII
O-C-96-4                8-29-1996   TSO Table XII
O-C-96-5                9-16-1996   TSO Table XII
O-C-96-6                11-4-1996   TSO Table XII
O-CC-97-1               1-23-1997   TSO Table VII
                                    50.50—
O-C-97-1                3-3-1997    50.57,
                                    50.99
O-C-97-2                4-7-1997    37.095
O-C-97-3                4-7-1997    42.005
O-C-97-4                7-7-1997    TSO Table XI
O-C-97-5                7-7-1997    35.02
O-C-97-8                11-3-1997   40.15—
                                    40.21
                                    152.001—
                                    152.008,
                                    152.020,
                                    152.035—
                                    152.037,
O-C-97-9                12-22-1997  152.050,
                                    152.051,
                                    152.065,
                                    152.066,
                                    152.080,
                                    152.999
                                    153.001—
                                    153.011,
                                    153.025—
                                    153.038,
                                    153.050—
                                    153.060,
O-C-97-10               12-22-1997  153.080—
                                    153.083,
                                    153.095—
                                    153.101,
                                    153.115—
                                    153.119,
                                    153.999
O-C-97-11               12-22-1997  153.005,
                                    153.025
O-C-98-2                4-6-1998    TSO Table XII
O-CC-98-1               5-28-1998   TSO Table VII
O-C-98-3                7-6-1998    Ch. 72, Sch. I,
                                    Ch. 72, Sch. IV
O-C-98-4                7-6-1998    41.080
O-C-98-5                7-6-1998    40.01—
                                    40.04
O-C-98-6                8-3-1998    40.03
O-C-98-7                9-11-1998   33.110
O-C-98-8                12-7-1998   37.001
O-CC-99-1               1-11-1999   41.080
O-C-99-1                3-1-1999    42.004
O-C-99-2                4-15-1999   TSO Table XI
O-C-99-3                5-3-1999    TSO Table XII
O-C-99-5                6-7-1999    TSO Table XII
O-C-99-6                6-7-1999    TSO Table XII
O-C-99-7                6-7-1999    TSO Table XII
O-C-99-8                6-7-1999    37.095
O-C-99-9                8-16-1999   36.02
O-CC-99-2               10-28-1999  42.001
O-C-99-10               12-5-1999   TSO Table XI
O-C-00-1                1-3-2000    TSO Table XI
O-C-00-2                2-7-2000    TSO Table XII
O-C-00-3                2-7-2000    TSO Table XII
O-C-00-4                5-1-2000    37.095
O-CC-00-1               7-27-2000   TSO Table I
O-C-00-5                10-2-2000   TSO Table XI
O-C-00-7                12-4-2000   41.045—
                                    41.051
O-C-01-1                2-5-2001    34.15—
                                    34.21
O-CC-01-1               4-26-2001   TSO Table VII
O-C-01-2                5-7-2001    TSO Table XI
O-C-01-4                7-2-2001    153.035,
                                    153.036
                                    131.01—
O-C-01-5                11-5-2001   131.04,
                                    131.99
O-C-01-6                12-3-2001   31.65
O-C-02-2                1-2-2002    37.095
O-C-02-3                5-3-2002    37.095
                                    111.01—
O-C-02-4                10-7-2002   111.08,
                                    111.99
O-C-02-5                12-2-2002   151.01
O-C-03-2                2-3-2003    37.095
O-C-03-3                3-3-2003    42.002
O-C-03-4                5-5-2003    42.067
O-C-03-5                5-5-2003    33.075—
                                    33.077
O-C-03-6                7-7-2003    33.078
O-C-03-7                9-3-2003    33.090
O-C-03-8                10-6-2003   TSO Table XII
O-C-03-9                11-3-2003   33.090—
                                    33.094
O-C-03-10               11-3-2003   TSO Table XI
O-CC-04-1               2-26-2004   41.021
O-C-04-1                3-1-2004    37.095
O-CC-04-2               4-2-2004    32.10
O-C-04-2                4-5-2004    Ch. 72, Sch. IV
O-C-04-3                4-21-2004   TSO Table IV
O-C-04-4                5-19-2004   TSO Table XII
O-C-04-5                5-19-2004   153.999
O-CC-04-3               5-20-2004   36.07
O-C-04-6                7-22-2004   TSO Table I
O-C-04-7                7-22-2004   36.02
O-CC-04-4               12-16-2004  36.05
O-C-04-8                12-28-2004  TSO Table XII
O-C-04-9                12-28-2004  TSO Table XII
O-C-04-10               12-28-2004  TSO Table XII
O-C-05-1                4-4-2005    37.095
                                    150.001—
                                    150.005,
                                    150.020—
                                    150.028,
                                    150.040—
O-C-05-2                9-15-2005   150.042,
                                    150.055—
                                    150.061,
                                    150.075—
                                    150.081,
                                    150.999
O-C-05-3                10-17-2005  36.06
O-CC-05-1               10-27-2005  41.021
O-C-05-5                12-5-2005   153.025
O-C-05-6                12-5-2005   42.065
O-C-06-3                2-6-2006    37.095
O-C-06-2                2-15-2006   42.065
O-C-06-4                3-6-2006    42.004
O-C-06-5                4-19-2006   TSO Table V
O-CC-06-1               5-30-2006   37.080
O-C-06-6                7-19-2006   36.05
O-C-06-9                10-2-2006   153.083
O-C-06-10               10-18-2006  TSO Table XII
O-C-06-11               12-4-2006   41.095
O-CC-06-4               12-14-2006  42.001
O-CC-06-5               12-14-2006  41.095
O-C-06-12/O-CC-06-2     12-20-2006  41.020—
                                    41.034
O-CC-07-1               3-22-2007   42.066
O-C-07-1                5-7-2007    37.095
                                    42.080—
2007-O-C-07-2/O-CC-07-2 6-20-2007   42.090,
                                    42.999
O-C-07-3                7-2-2007    TSO Table XII
O-C-07-4                8-6-2007    130.15—
                                    130.19
O-C-07-5                8-6-2007    36.06
                                    153.011,
                                    153.033,
O-C-07-6                10-9-2007   153.035,
                                    153.036,
                                    153.061—
                                    153.065
O-C-07-7                10-9-2007   153.050,
                                    153.057
                                    153.026,
O-C-07-8                10-22-2007  153.034,
                                    153.039,
                                    153.081
O-C-07-9                11-5-2007   TSO Table XI
O-C-07-10               12-17-2007  TSO Table I
O-C-08-1                1-7-2008    90.999
O-C-08-2                1-7-2008    33.090
O-C-08-3                1-23-2008   33.091
O-C-08-4                1-23-2008   TSO Table I
O-CC-08-1               3-27-2008   36.04
O-C-08-6                4-7-2008    41.095
O-C-08-7                4-21-2008   37.095
O-CC-08-2               4-24-2008   41.095
O-C-08-8                6-2-2008    41.003,
                                    41.999
O-CC-08-3               6-26-2008   36.03
O-CC-08-4               6-26-2008   41.021
O-C-08-9                7-7-2008    36.01
O-C-08-10               9-3-2008    42.020
                                    71.01—
O-C-08-11               12-1-2008   71.03,
                                    71.99
O-C-09-1                1-2-2009    71.03
O-C-09-2                3-18-2009   37.095
O-C-09-3                4-6-2009    37.095
O-C-09-4                7-15-2009   42.065
O-C-09-5                8-19-2009   TSO Table XII
O-CC-09-1               10-22-2009  41.021
O-C-09-6                11-18-2009  TSO Table XII
O-C-09-7                12-7-2009   TSO Table XI
O-C-10-1                4-5-2010    37.095
O-C-10-2                4-5-2010    71.03
O-C-10-3                7-7-2010    41.080
O-C-10-4                7-7-2010    41.110
                                    130.01,
O-C-10-5                10-4-2010   130.02,
                                    130.99
O-C-10-6                11-1-2010   41.080
O-CC-10-1               11-1-2010   41.080
O-C-11-1                3-7-2011    70.03,
                                    Ch. 72, Sch. III
O-C-11-2                4-20-2011   37.095
O-C-11-3                5-2-2011    37.095
O-CC-11-1               5-19-2011   41.021
O-C-11-2                - -         41.110
O-CC-11-3               - -         41.080
O-C-11-5                - -         41.080
O-C-11-6                - -         41.110
                                    90.001,
                                    90.002,
                                    90.035—
                                    90.040,
                                    90.055—
                                    90.069,
                                    90.085—
O-C-11-7                12-28-2011  90.087,
                                    90.105—
                                    90.113,
                                    90.125—
                                    90.131,
                                    90.145,
                                    90.146,
                                    90.999
O-C-12-1                1-18-2012   37.095
O-CC-12-1               4-26-2012   37.085
O-C-12-2                3-21-2012   90.064
O-CC-12-2               4-26-2012   36.08
O-C-12-3                4-2-2012    TSO Table XI
O-CC-12-3               5-24-2012   TSO Table VII
O-C-12-4                4-2-2012    33.110
O-C-12-5                6-4-2012    TSO Table XII
O-C-12-6                6-4-2012    41.080
O-C-12-8                7-2-2012    42.068
O-C-12-9                7-18-2012   TSO Table XII
O-C-12-10               9-5-2012    37.001
O-C-12-11               10-17-2012  TSO Table XI
O-C-13-1                1-14-2013   TSO Table XII
O-CC-13-1               4-25-2013   41.080
O-C-13-2                3-4-2013    37.095
O-CC-13-2               5-30-2013   41.080
O-C-13-3                6-3-2013    41.080
O-C-13-5                12-16-2013  31.16
O-C-13-6                12-20-2013  42.020
O-C-14-1                1-6-2014    37.095
O-C-14-2                4-8-2014    37.095
O-C-14-3                5-5-2014    Ch. 73, Sch. I
O-C-14-4                6-2-2014    TSO Table XI
O-C-14-6                10-6-2014   TSO Table XI
O-C-14-7                10-21-2014  51.35,
                                    111.01
O-C-14-8                11-3-2014   93.08
O-CC-14-1               11-20-2014  TSO Table I
O-CC-14-2               11-20-2014  37.015
O-C-15-1                1-20-2015   37.095
O-C-15-2                5-19-2015   TSO Table XII
O-C-15-3                6-1-2015    36.02
                                    150.001—
                                    150.005,
                                    150.020—
                                    150.028,
                                    150.040—
O-C-15-4                7-6-2015    150.042,
                                    150.055—
                                    150.062,
                                    150.075—
                                    150.081,
                                    150.999
O-CC-15-1               7-23-2015   41.021
O-C-15-6                11-24-2015  TSO Table XI
O-C-15-7                12-15-2015  TSO Table XII
O-CC-16-1               2-25-2016   41.021
O-C-16-1                6-6-2016    TSO Table XI
O-C-16-2                7-5-2016    TSO Table XI
O-C-16-3                7-19-2016   TSO Table XII
O-C-16-4                8-1-2016    90.036
O-C-16-6                11-7-2016   40.30—
                                    40.33
O-C-16-7                11-15-2016  37.095
O-C-16-8                11-5-2016   37.095
O-CC-16-2               11-22-2016  TSO Table I
O-CC-16-3               12-7-2016   TSO Table I
O-CC-17-1               1-26-2017   42.066
O-C-17-1                2-6-2017    37.095
O-C-17-2                3-6-2017    41.009
O-C-17-3                3-6-2017    TSO Table XI
O-C-17-4                4-18-2017   42.002
O-C-17-5                6-5-2017    36.09
O-C-17-6                9-19-2017   42.006
O-C-17-8                11-21-2017  37.095
O-C-17-9                11-21-2017  37.095
O-C-18-1                1-19-2018   42.006
O-C-18-2                2-5-2018    37.095
O-C-18-3                3-5-2018    94.01 -
                                    94.06
O-C-18-4                4-17-2018   Ch. 72, Sch. I
O-C-18-5                5-7-2018    37.095
O-C-18-7                12-5-2018   41.080
O-C-18-8                12-18-2018  41.080
O-CC-18-1               12-20-2018  41.080
O-C-19-1                1-2-2019    42.002
O-C-19-2                6-18-2019   42.002
O-CC-19-2               6-27-2019   TSO Table VII
O-C-19-3                7-1-2019    70.04
O-C-19-4                10-7-2019   Ch. 72, Sch. I
O-C-19-6                12-30-2019  40.17
O-C-20-1                - -2020     153.081
O-C-20-2                2-3-2020    TSO Table XI
O-C-20-3                3-10-2020   37.095
O-C-20-5                9-8-2020    94.15
O-C-20-6                9-15-2020   42.006
O-C-20-7                12-7-2020   36.10
O-C-20-8                12-15-2020  41.006
                                   
 
