PIERCETON, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ord. 2024-1-1, passed 1-8-2024
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component codes, titles,
chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Pierceton Town
Code,” for which designation “code of ordinances,” “codified ordinances,” or
“code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning, application
or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate meaning in
law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town Council.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council.
      COUNTY. Kosciusko County, Indiana.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      TOWN. The Town of Pierceton, Indiana.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing or other modes of
representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section or amendment stating that the provisions of a
chapter, subchapter or section are severable as provided in division (B) above
does not affect the operation of division (B) with respect to that chapter,
subchapter or section.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or following the
effective date, the rights, powers, duties or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture or liability incurred under
the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture or
liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
      § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the city published in a previous year and subsequently amended,
the previous code section number shall be indicated in the history by “(Prior
Code, §      ).”
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
   (C)   All penalty provisions within this code are hereby amended to provide
that the town shall be entitled to recover for each violation of any ordinance
the reasonable attorneys’ fees incurred by the town in enforcing such
ordinance, which attorneys’ fees shall be in addition to any other penalties
provided herein, and that each ordinance is further amended to provide that the
maximum penalty, together with attorneys’ fees assessed, for each violation of
an ordinance, shall not exceed $2,500 in amount.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-1)
   (D)   All provisions of all the ordinances of the town which provide
penalties of incarceration, or make the violation of the ordinance a
misdemeanor or other criminal status are hereby amended to eliminate any
incarceration penalties or misdemeanor or other criminal status penalties for
the violation of any such ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-2)
   (E)   Any person who violates any provision of this code for which a penalty
is not otherwise provided, shall pay to the town the sum of $25 to the Town
Clerk-Treasurer for each such violation, and in addition thereto shall pay the
reasonable attorneys’ fees incurred by the town in enforcing the ordinance
provision being violated and for collecting the fine provided herein if the
fine is not paid within five days of the notice to the violating party of the
violation and fine, provided, however the total fine and attorneys’ fee for
each violation shall not exceed $2,500.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-3)
(Ord. 12-83-1, passed - -; Ord. 85-1-2, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   TOWN COUNCIL
      
31.   TOWN OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
      
32.   FEES, TAXES
      
33.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
34.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 30: TOWN COUNCIL
Section
   
30.01   Definitions
   
30.02   Meetings; date
   
30.03   Town membership
   
30.04   IACT membership; appropriations
   
30.05   Districts; elections
§ 30.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   POLICE. The Town Marshal or any of his or her deputies.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-2)
   TOWN. The Town of Pierceton, Indiana.
   TOWN COUNCIL or COUNCIL. The governing body of the town.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-1)
§ 30.02 MEETINGS; DATE.
   (A)   The Town Council has set aside the second Monday of every month at 6:
30 p.m. to hold the Town Council meetings. These meetings will be held in the
town’s community building in the community room.
   (B)   Any and all additional meetings to conduct town business or any
meeting changes will be so advertised as required by the state’s open door
policy, I.C. 5-14-1.5.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-1) (Ord. 12-3-83, passed - -)
§ 30.03 TOWN MEMBERSHIP.
   The town will hold membership in the selected organizations as so listed:
   (A)   The town’s Chamber of Commerce;
   (B)   The state’s Association of Cities and Towns; and
   (C)   The Municipal League of Clerk-Treasurers for the year 1984 and years
thereafter.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-2)
§ 30.04 IACT MEMBERSHIP; APPROPRIATIONS.
   (A)   The Town Council is authorized to budget and appropriate funds from
the General Fund and from other funds to provide membership for the town and
elected and appointed officials and members of the municipality’s boards,
council, departments or agencies in local, regional, state and national
associations of a civic, educational or governmental nature, which have as
their purpose the betterment and improvement of municipal operations.
   (B)   The Town Council is further authorized to budget and appropriate funds
to pay the expenses of duly authorized representatives to attend the meetings
and functions of organizations to which the municipality belongs.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-3)
§ 30.05 DISTRICTS; ELECTIONS.
   (A)   Legislative districts abolished. The three legislative districts of
the town, a town of less than 3,500 in population, are now hereby abolished, as
permitted and provided for by I.C. 36-5-2-4.1.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-1)
   (B)   Council members elected at large. The three Council members of the
Town Council, the same being legislative body of the town, shall be elected at
large.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-2)
(Ord. 94-11-1, passed - -)
CHAPTER 31: TOWN OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Drug-free workplace policy
Employee Regulations
   
31.15   Pay rates
   
31.16   Hours of work
   
31.17   Rest and meal periods
   
31.18   Overtime/compensatory time/flex-time
   
31.19   Overtime/compensatory time for Police Department
   
31.20   On call or called in employees
   
31.21   Emergency closings
   
31.22   Mobile device usage
   
31.23   Uniforms
   
31.24   Licensing; certification; membership dues
   
31.25   Vacation benefits
   
31.26   Sick leave
   
31.27   Holidays
   
31.28   Time off to vote
   
31.29   Bereavement leave
   
31.30   Jury duty
   
31.31   Witness duty
   
31.32   Military leave
   
31.33   Insurance
   
31.34   Indiana Public Retirement System (INPRS)
   
31.35   Business travel expenses
   
31.36   Credit card usage
Editor’s Note:
   The employee handbook can be found in the town office.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE POLICY.
   (A)   Statement of purpose. The purpose of this section is to meet the
requirements of applicable laws and regulations to ensure that the workplace is
free of illegal drugs.
   (B)   Overview. The town makes a commitment to provide employees a drug-
free, healthful and safe workplace, to ensure that employees, equipment and
operating practices comply with health and safety standards, and to maintain
public confidence in the town and its employees.
   (C)   Policy.
      (1)   The town requires all employees to report for work in an
appropriate mental and physical condition that allows them to perform their
duties in a safe and efficient manner. Employees will not be permitted to work
under the influence of alcohol or with prohibited drugs in their systems
thereby affecting job performance.
      (2)   Violation of any provision of this section will be considered just
cause for disciplinary action up to and including discharge, even for a first
offense. In addition, refusal to adhere to any part of the policy may be
considered an act of insubordination and also may lead to disciplinary action
up to and including discharge.
      (3)   This section and related procedures may be modified by the town at
any time in order to comply with any applicable federal, state or local laws or
to better serve the needs of the town.
   (D)   Prohibited drugs.
      (1)   Prohibited drugs are defined as illegal substances, including
controlled substances as defined in the Controlled Substance Act, being 21
U.S.C. § 8120 and 21 C.F.R. §§ 1308.11 through 1308.15, and prescription-
controlled substances which have not been prescribed by a licensed physician or
dentist for specific treatment purposes for the employee. Abuse of prescription
or over-the-counter drugs or CBD oils will also be treated as a substance abuse
problem under this section.
      (2)   This section prohibits the unlawful manufacture, distribution,
dispensation, possession, use, sale, purchase or transfer of narcotics, drugs
or other controlled substances while conducting business on behalf of the town,
while on the job or while on town premises (including vehicles used for town
business).These include, but are not limited to, marijuana, cocaine, crack,
PCP, heroin, LSD, amphetamines, hallucinogens and barbiturates. Any illegal
substances found on such premises will be turned over to the state police and
may lead to criminal prosecution.
   (E)   Alcohol. The use of alcohol on the job or on town premises is
prohibited, unless such use is non-abusive and is part of an authorized
official event held off town premises. The use of alcohol in vehicles used for
town business is strictly prohibited. Alcohol possession applies to all open or
unsealed alcoholic beverage containers. Such containers are not allowed on the
job or on town premises, unless their possession is part of an authorized
official event. Possession of such containers in vehicles used for town
business is never authorized.
   (F)   Reporting violations.
      (1)   Employees must, as a condition of employment, abide by the terms of
this section and report any conviction to the town under a criminal drug
statute for violations occurring on or off town premises when conducting town
business. Report of a conviction must be made to the town within five business
days after the conviction. The town will then notify the appropriate
contracting officer within ten days after receiving notice from either the
employee or from another source. (These requirements are mandated by the Drug-
Free Workplace Act of 1988.)
      (2)   An employee who is involved with off the job illegal drug activity
may be considered in violation of this section. In determining whether
disciplinary action will be imposed for this activity, the town will consider
the circumstance of each incident, including, but not limited to, any adverse
effect the employee’s actions may have on its customers, other employees, the
public or the town’s reputation and image.
      (3)   Any questions regarding the reporting of violations should be
directed to the Village Clerk-Treasurer.
   (G)   Employee rehabilitation.
      (1)   Health maintenance is primarily a personal responsibility, and it
is the individual’s responsibility to correct unsatisfactory job performance or
behavioral problems caused by alcohol or drug abuse.
      (2)   Participation in a rehabilitation program will not be considered a
barrier to employment nor a cause for disciplinary action. Employees will not
be disciplined merely because of participation in a rehabilitation program or
excused from the disciplinary consequences of conduct which is in violation of
this section or any other town policies or job requirements.
      (3)   Any employee identified through a town investigation as having a
substance abuse problem also may not avoid disciplinary action by requesting to
participate in an approved rehabilitation program.
      (4)   Circumstances in each case will be evaluated to determine the
course of action to be taken (i.e., whether the employee will be offered the
opportunity to participate in a rehabilitation program and/or will be subject
to discipline.)
   (H)   Testing.
      (1)   The town will not ask employees to submit to random alcohol or drug
tests.
      (2)   Alcohol or drug tests may be required for employees in the
following circumstances:
         (a)   Post-offer testing of all applicants;
         (b)   Reasonable suspicion of current employees, including, but not
limited to, when unsatisfactory job performance or other employee behavior is
reasonably indicative of substance abuse;
         (c)   Post-accident of current employees;
         (d)   Return-to-duty for current employees, including, but not limited
to, after participation in a drug or alcohol rehabilitation program for a
reasonable period of time as determined by the town; and
         (e)   When required by law.
      (3)   The specific policies and procedures for drug and alcohol testing
are contained within the employee handbook, which policies and procedures are
incorporated herein and adopted as a part hereof.
(Ord. 2024-1-1, passed 1-8-2024)
EMPLOYEE REGULATIONS
§ 31.15 PAY RATES.
   (A)   The pay rates for town employees shall be set forth from time to time
by Town Council.
   (B)   All full-time, part-time and temporary employees shall be paid
biweekly, unless otherwise designated.
   (C)   Exempt employees are paid to get the job done and their pay does not
vary from week to week. Nonexempt (NE) employees are paid by the hour for all
hours worked during each workweek.
(Ord. 2023-12-2, passed 12-28-2023)
§ 31.16 HOURS OF WORK.
   (A)   The town will establish the standard workday, workweek, and starting
and ending times for each department, taking into account current and
anticipated workloads, public service needs and other factors. Each department
is responsible for communicating these work parameters to their employees. No
established schedule will be construed as a guarantee of work hours or as a
restriction on the town’s right to restructure the workday or workweek.
   (B)   Each department head and the Clerk-Treasurer is responsible for
scheduling their respective departments’ employees. However, the following
schedules will generally prevail:
      (1)   Police Department: two 12-hour shifts from 6:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
and 3:00 p.m. to 3:00 a.m.;
      (2)   Utilities Department: Monday through Friday from 7:00 a.m. to 4:00
p.m.;
      (3)   Street Department: Monday through Friday from 7:00 a.m. to 4:00
p.m.; and
      (4)   Clerk-Treasurer’s office: Monday, Tuesday and Thursday from 8:00
a.m. to 5:00 p.m., Wednesday from 8:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m., Friday from 8:00
a.m. to 4:00 p.m. and closed the third Wednesday of the month.
(Ord. 2023-12-2, passed 12-28-2023)
§ 31.17 REST AND MEAL PERIODS.
   (A)   Each workday, nonexempt employees may be provided with rest and meal
periods, at the discretion of the department head or the Clerk-Treasurer. To
the extent possible, rest and meal periods will be provided in the middle of
work periods. Rest periods are counted and paid as time worked, employees must
not be absent from their workstations beyond the allotted rest period time.
Nonexempt employees will be relieved of all of their duties during a meal
period and are required to clock in and clock-out, as meal periods are not paid
by the town.
   (B)   Refer to the town employee handbook for additional information on
hours of work, work schedules and rest periods.
(Ord. 2023-12-2, passed 12-28-2023)
§ 31.18 OVERTIME/COMPENSATORY TIME/FLEX-TIME.
   (A)   When operating requirements or other needs cannot be met during
regular working hours, nonexempt employees may be given the opportunity for
overtime work assignments. All overtime work over two hours per week must
receive prior authorization from a department head, the Clerk-Treasurer or the
President of the Town Council.
   (B)   Overtime compensation for all nonexempt employees will be paid in
accordance with federal and state wage and hour restrictions for any time
worked over 40 hours in a workweek.
   (C)   Overtime pay is based on actual hours worked. An employee’s time off
while using vacation benefits, holidays, bereavement leave, jury duty or any
other type of paid leave will be considered hours worked for purposes of
performing overtime calculations. An employee’s use of sick leave or
compensatory time will not be considered hours worked for the purposes of
performing overtime calculations.
   (D)   In lieu of paying overtime to eligible nonexempt employees, the town
may recognize the use of compensatory time. Compensatory time will be paid at
one and one-half hours worked over 40 hours in a standard workweek. Nonexempt
employees may accumulate up to 40 hours of compensatory time per calendar year.
Employees must request the use of compensatory time from their department head
or the Clerk-Treasurer. All compensatory time must be used or paid out within
the year that the overtime was earned, except that up to 40 hours of
compensation time may be carried over to the following year.
   (E)   Upon termination of employment, employees will be paid for all earned,
but unused compensatory time in accordance with the standards set forth in the
Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA), at the regular hourly wage rate in effect at
the time of the termination. Compensatory time may not be used to extend an
employee’s date of termination with the town.
   (F)   Each department may utilize nonexempt employees’ time differently
within the framework of the 40-hour workweek. For this reason, a nonexempt
employee’s department head or the Clerk-Treasurer will have the discretion to
permit individual nonexempt employees to arrive or depart earlier or later, to
work through part of a lunch period and otherwise adjust their nonexempt
employees’ schedules to meet demands of the department, while adhering to the
40-hour workweek. All flex-time must be cleared within the same pay period.
   (G)   Refer to the town employee handbook for additional information on
overtime/compensatory time/flex time.
(Ord. 2023-12-2, passed 12-28-2023)
§ 31.19 OVERTIME/COMPENSATORY TIME FOR POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Full-time nonexempt first and second deputy marshals who are engaged
in law enforcement activities will be compensated in accordance with the
section on partial overtime pay exemption of the Fair Labor Standards Act
(FLSA). In conjunction with the use of the section, the town further adopts the
use of a 14-day work period for the purpose of determining compensation for
overtime hours worked. Full-time nonexempt first and deputy marshals will be
paid straight time compensation for up to 80 hours during a work period.
   (B)   Overtime compensation for all nonexempt first and second deputy
marshals will be paid in accordance with federal and state wage and hour
restrictions for any time worked over 80 hours in a 14-day period. Overtime pay
is based on actual overtime worked. An employee’s time off while using vacation
benefits, holidays, bereavement leave, jury duty or any other type of paid
leave will be considered hours worked for the purposes of performing overtime
calculations. An employee’s use of sick leave or compensatory time will not be
considered hours worked for the purposes of performing overtime calculations.
   (C)   In lieu of the payment of overtime, employees of the Police Department
may be provided compensatory time in the amount of time and one-half for all
hours worked over 80 in a 14-day work period. Nonexempt employees may
accumulate up to 40 hours of compensatory time per calendar year. The employee
may request the use of compensatory time from the Town Marshal. All
compensatory time must be used or paid out within the year that the overtime
was earned, except that up to 40 hours of compensation time may be carried over
to the following year.
   (D)   The Town Marshal must keep verifiable records of overtime worked which
will include the date, hours worked, reason for the overtime and a record of
compensatory time earned and used and submit their records to the Town Council
monthly.
   (E)   Upon termination of employment, employees will be paid for all earned,
but unused compensatory time in accordance with the standards set forth in the
Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA), at the regular hourly wage rate in effect at
the time of the termination. Compensatory time may not be used to extend an
employee’s date of termination with the town.
(Ord. 2023-12-2, passed 12-28-2023)
§ 31.20 ON CALL AND CALLED IN EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Employees who are called in to work will be paid for a minimum of two
hours at their straight time rate for being called in no matter how long that
it takes to accomplish the task. All hours worked over the two hours will be
paid at the employee’s straight time rate for all hours worked and all hours
worked will be used in the calculation of overtime, if over 40 hours in a
workweek.
   (B)   Refer to the town employee handbook for additional information on on
call and called in employees.
(Ord. 2023-12-2, passed 12-28-2023)
§ 31.21 EMERGENCY CLOSINGS.
   (A)   When the decision to close is made after the workday has begun,
employees will receive official notification from their department head or the
Clerk-Treasurer. In these situations, time off from scheduled work will be
paid. When the decision to close is made before the workday has begun, time off
from scheduled work will be unpaid, however employees may request to use
vacation benefits, or any other form of available paid time off to be paid for
the missed time.
   (B)   In cases where an emergency closing is not authorized, employees who
fail to report for work will not be paid for the time off. Employees may
request to use available vacation benefits, or any other form of paid time off
to be paid for the missed time.
   (C)   Employees in essential operations may be asked to work on a day when
operations are officially closed. In these circumstances, employees who work
will receive straight time pay.
   (D)   Refer to the town employee handbook for additional information on
emergency closings.
(Ord. 2023-12-2, passed 12-28-2023)
§ 31.22 MOBILE DEVICE USAGE.
   The town provides employees with a town-owned mobile device to use while
completing the essential duties and responsibilities of their jobs.
(Ord. 2023-12-2, passed 12-28-2023)
§ 31.23 UNIFORMS.
   Employees in the Police, Utilities and Street Departments are required to
wear municipal uniforms. Each department head will purchase the uniform items
from a vendor who has an approved account with the town and such items will be
paid in accordance with claims processing from the appropriate budget lines for
each department by the Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
(Ord. 2023-12-2, passed 12-28-2023)
§ 31.24 LICENSING/CERTIFICATION/MEMBERSHIP DUES.
   The town may reimburse employees or directly pay for a specific job-related
license or certification requirement applicable to each job classification.
(Ord. 2023-12-2, passed 12-28-2023)
§ 31.25 VACATION BENEFITS.
   (A)   Employees in the following employment classification(s) are eligible
to earn vacation benefits on their anniversary date and use vacation benefits
as described in this policy: regular full-time employees after 90-days of
continuous employment.
   (B)   The amount of paid vacation benefits an employee receives each year
increases with the length of their continuous employment as shown in the
following schedule:
      (1)   After 90-days of continuous employment: five days/40 hours;
      (2)   On the employee’s one-year anniversary through their sixth year:
ten days/80 hours;
      (3)   On the employee’s seventh year anniversary through their ninth
year: 15 days/120 hours; and
      (4)   On the employee’s tenth year anniversary and beyond: 20 days/160
hours.
   (C)   Vacation benefits may be taken by full day or half-day increments or
in one-hour increments as approved by a department head. Vacation benefits may
not be taken in advance of having earned the time. Vacation benefits are earned
for all continuous years of service in an active pay status. Vacation benefits
are not earned while an employee is in an unpaid status. If less than 1,800
hours of work are completed by the employee during any one year, vacation
benefits earned shall be prorated on completed hours of time worked for the
following year.
   (D)   In the event that available vacation benefits are not used by the end
of the employee's anniversary year, the unused vacation benefits will be
forfeited. Earned, but unused vacation benefits will be paid out upon
termination of employment, or to the estate of the employee upon their death.
An employee’s termination date may not be extended by the use of unused
vacation benefits, or to earn additional vacation benefits.
   (E)   Vacation benefits are paid at the employee’s current pay rate at the
time of the absence and will be included in the calculation of overtime.
   (F)   Refer to the town employee handbook for additional information on
vacation benefits.
(Ord. 2023-12-2, passed 12-28-2023)
§ 31.26 SICK LEAVE.
   (A)   Eligible employee classifications include regular full-time employees
after 90 days of continuous employment.
   (B)   Eligible employees will accrue sick leave at the rate of one-half day
per month worked commencing on the month following the first full month of
employment.
   (C)   Sick leave may be taken in increments of 15 minutes. Sick leave may
not be taken in advance of having earned the time. Sick leave is earned for all
continuous years of service in an active pay status. Sick leave is not earned
while an employee is in an unpaid status.
   (D)   In the event that available sick leave is not used by the end of the
employee’s anniversary year, the employee will be able to carry over a maximum
of 30 days of sick leave from year to year. Earned, but unused sick leave will
not be paid out upon termination of employment, or to the estate of the
employee upon their death. An employee’s termination date may not be extended
by the use of unused sick leave or to earn additional sick leave.
   (E)   Sick leave is paid at the employee’s current pay rate at the time of
the absence and will not be included in the calculation of overtime.
   (F)   Refer to the town employee handbook for additional information on sick
leave.
(Ord. 2023-12-2, passed 12-28-2023)
§ 31.27 HOLIDAYS.
   (A)   The town may grant the following paid holidays to all eligible full-
time employees:
      (1)   New Year’s Day: January 1;
      (2)   Martin Luther King, Jr. Day: third Monday in January;
      (3)   Good Friday: Friday preceding Easter Sunday;
      (4)   Memorial Day: last Monday in May;
      (5)   Independence Day: July 4;
      (6)   Labor Day: first Monday in September;
      (7)   Veteran’s Day: November 11;
      (8)   Thanksgiving Day: fourth Thursday in November;
      (9)   Day after Thanksgiving: fourth Friday in November;
      (10)   Christmas Eve Day: December 24;
      (11)   Christmas Day: December 25; and
      (12)   New Year’s Eve Day: December 31.
   (B)   When either primary or general election days take place in the
Pierceton Community Building, the Clerk Treasurer’s office will be closed on
the election day and those employees will have an unpaid day off.
   (C)   A recognized holiday that falls on a Saturday may be observed on the
preceding Friday. A recognized holiday that falls on a Sunday may be observed
on the following Monday. Nonexempt employees who work a recognized holiday will
be paid straight time pay for all hours worked. If a recognized holiday falls
during an eligible employee’s paid time off, e.g., vacation benefits, sick
leave, bereavement leave, holiday pay will be provided instead of the paid time
off that would otherwise have applied. Employees must be in a paid status the
day immediately preceding and immediately following a recognized holiday to be
paid for the holiday.
   (D)   Holiday pay is paid at the employee’s current pay rate at the time of
the absence and will be included in the calculation of overtime.
   (E)   Refer to the town employee handbook for additional information on
holidays.
(Ord. 2023-12-2, passed 12-28-2023)
§ 31.28 TIME OFF TO VOTE.
   (A)   The town encourages employees to fulfill their civic responsibilities
by participating in elections. Employees who may be required to work on the
official holiday should find time to vote either before or after their working
hours.
   (B)   Refer to the town employee handbook for additional information on time
off to vote.
(Ord. 2023-12-2, passed 12-28-2023)
§ 31.29 BEREAVEMENT LEAVE.
   (A)   Eligible employee classifications include regular full-time employees
after 90 days of continuous employment.
   (B)   Up to three days of paid bereavement leave may be provided to eligible
employees in the event of a death of their spouse, child or stepchild, parent
or stepparent, or sibling. One-day of paid bereavement leave may be provided to
eligible employees in the event of a death of grandparents, grandchildren or
step grandchildren, mother or father in-laws, sister or brother in-laws,
uncles, aunts, nieces, nephews or cousins.
   (C)   Employees may, with their department heads’ approval, use any
available vacation benefits for additional time off as necessary. Unpaid time
off may be granted at the discretion of the department head or the Clerk-
Treasurer.
   (D)   Bereavement leave pay is paid at the employee’s current pay rate at
the time of the bereavement leave and may not exceed the total number of hours
normally worked on the days that the paid bereavement leave is used.
Bereavement leave will be paid at the employee’s current pay rate at the time
of the absence and will be included in the calculation of overtime.
   (E)   Refer to the town employee handbook for additional information on
bereavement leave.
(Ord. 2023-12-2, passed 12-28-2023)
§ 31.30 JURY DUTY.
   (A)   Eligible employee classifications that qualify for paid jury duty are:
      (1)   Regular full-time employees; and
      (2)   Regular part-time employees.
   (B)   Jury duty pay will be calculated based on the employee’s current pay
rate times the number of hours the employee would have otherwise worked on the
day of the absence for a maximum of five days. Employees may use any earned,
but unused vacation benefits to cover the term of the absence, if the time is
greater than five days. However, they are not required to do so. In order to
receive pay for jury duty, employees must present the jury summons to the
Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
   (C)   Refer to the town employee handbook for additional information on jury
duty.
(Ord. 2023-12-2, passed 12-28-2023)
§ 31.31 WITNESS DUTY.
   (A)   If employees have been subpoenaed or otherwise requested to testify as
witnesses by the town, they will receive paid time for the entire period of
witness duty. Any employee who is called to testify in court by the town will
be paid their current rate of pay for the time expended.
   (B)   Employees will be granted time off to appear as a witness when
requested by a party in a court of law when subpoenaed to do so other than by
the town. Employees may use any available vacation benefits to receive
compensation for the period of the absence, however are not required to do so.
   (C)   Refer to the town employee handbook for additional information on
witness duty.
(Ord. 2023-12-2, passed 12-28-2023)
§ 31.32 MILITARY LEAVE.
   (A)   Employees will continue to receive full pay while on leave for 15-day
training assignments and shorter absences. Pay will be equal to the number of
hours that an employee would have worked in the 15-day period. The portion of
any military leave of absence in excess of 15 days will be unpaid. However,
employees may use any available vacation benefits or personal days for the
absence.
   (B)   Continuation of health insurance benefits is available as required by
USERRA based on the length of the leave and subject to the terms, conditions
and limitations of the applicable plans for which the employee is otherwise
eligible. Benefits to include vacation, sick leave, personal days, holidays and
bereavement leave, will be suspended during the leave, after the first 30 days
and will resume upon the employee’s return to active employment.
   (C)   Refer to the town employee handbook for additional information on
military leave.
(Ord. 2023-12-2, passed 12-28-2023)
§ 31.33 INSURANCE.
   (A)   Medical insurance. The town provides a medical insurance plan to their
full-time employees and their dependents on the employee’s initial day of
employment. Employees may add dependent coverage at their own expense.
   (B)   Dental insurance. The town provides dental insurance to their full-
time employees and their dependents on the employee’s initial day of
employment. Employees may add dependent coverage at their own expense.
Employees seeking additional information on dental insurance may contact the
Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
   (C)   Vision benefits. The town provides vision benefits to their full-time
employees and their dependents on the employee’s initial day of employment.
Employees may add dependent coverage at their own expense. Employees seeking
additional information on vision insurance may contact the Clerk-Treasurer’s
office.
   (D)   Health savings account (HSA). The town contributes $1,100 each year
into an employee’s health savings account (HSA) for employees who have elected
employee only coverage and who participate in the town’s high deductible health
plan (HDHP).
   (E)   Group life and AD&D insurance. The town provides $50,000 of group life
and AD&D insurance to regular full-time employees on their initial date of
employment. Employees may add dependent coverage at their own expense.
Employees seeking additional information about group life and AD&D Insurance
may contact the Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
(Ord. 2023-12-2, passed 12-28-2023)
§ 31.34 INDIANA PUBLIC RETIREMENT SYSTEM (INPRS).
   All full-time employees will be covered by the Indiana Public Retirement
System (INPRS). The town will contribute the mandatory 11.2% of an employee’s
gross pay to the account and the employee is required to contribute the
mandatory 3% of their gross pay to their account on a biweekly basis. The funds
will come from the budget lines as follows for each job title. Employees
seeking additional information about INPRS may contact the Clerk-Treasurer’s
office.
(Ord. 2023-12-2, passed 12-28-2023)
§ 31.35 BUSINESS TRAVEL EXPENSES.
   (A)   The town may reimburse employees for reasonable business travel
expenses incurred while on assignments away from the normal work location.
   (B)   Expenses that may generally be reimbursed include the following:
      (1)   Mileage costs for use of personal cars, only when less expensive
transportation is not available and payable at the state mileage rate as set by
the state;
      (2)   Actual costs incurred for parking on any day when an employee is
entitled to claim reimbursement for mileage;
      (3)   Cost of reasonable accommodations in low to mid-priced hotels or
similar lodgings. Single occupancy will be reimbursed at the actual cost;
      (4)   Reasonable cost of meals, no more lavish than would be eaten at the
employee’s own expense. Alcoholic beverages are not reimbursable expenses;
      (5)   Tips not exceeding 20% of the total cost of a meal or 20% of the
ground transportation fare (e.g., taxi, Uber and Lyft);
      (6)   Charges for telephone calls, fax and similar services required for
business purposes; and
      (7)   Personal expenses incurred in traveling to include: personal
telephone calls, laundry, personal entertainment, in-room movies and room
service meals, are not reimbursable.
   (C)   When travel is completed, claim forms for reimbursement must be turned
in to the Clerk-Treasurer’s office with original, itemized receipts within
seven days of the trip or event. Employees must state the origin and
destination of each trip in sufficient detail to account for the mileage
claimed. The Clerk-Treasurer will review and sign all expense reports before
submission for payment.
   (D)   Employee business travel expenses will be deducted from the
appropriate budget lines.
   (E)   Refer to the town employee handbook for additional information on
business travel expenses.
(Ord. 2023-12-2, passed 12-28-2023)
§ 31.36 CREDIT CARD USAGE.
   (A)   Town credit cards may be used by department heads, or their designee,
to purchase items needed for the town. The town is the cardholder for all
credit cards and the users are defined as all employees of the town. The limit
on each card shall be $2,500.
   (B)   Town credit cards may be used for the following purchases not to
exceed $250 per item with the approval of the department head or the Clerk-
Treasurer:
      (1)   Fuel, materials, supplies and equipment;
      (2)   Registrations; and
      (3)   Travel and/or training.
   (C)   Each authorized user must sign an agreement to accept town credit card
form prior to the credit card being issued to the user. Forms will be kept on
file in the Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
   (D)   It is the user’s responsibility to submit the receipts and other
documentation within the time frame stated above. If the information is not
submitted in a timely manner, the department that has not submitted the
information will be responsible for the interest and/or late charges. If a
credit card is lost or stolen it must be reported to the Clerk-Treasurer
immediately after discovery.
   (E)   Upon termination of employment, users shall surrender their town
credit card to the Clerk-Treasurer on or before their last day of work.
   (F)   Refer to the town employee handbook for additional information on the
use of credit cards.
(Ord. 2023-12-2, passed 12-28-2023)
CHAPTER 32: FEES, TAXES
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Law enforcement records fees
Tax Abatement
   
32.15   Arnolt industrial park development area
   
32.16   Matchett development area
   
32.17   Future areas
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 LAW ENFORCEMENT RECORDS FEES.
   (A)   In accordance with I.C. 5-14-3-8, as may be hereinafter amended, the
Town Marshal’s office shall charge the following fees for law enforcement
records and law enforcement recordings:
      (1)   Reports shall be $15 each;
      (2)   Photographs shall be $55 for each incident (and shall include all
photographs of that particular incident); and
      (3)   Law enforcement recordings shall be $150 each.
   (B)   The person or party requesting law enforcement recordings shall
provide a written request to the Town Marshal’s office using a request form
made available by the Town Marshal’s office.
   (C)   An additional budget account is now hereby created, which shall be
known as the town’s Law Enforcement Recording Fees Fund, into which Fund any
fees or revenues collected as a result of copying or providing law enforcement
records and law enforcement recordings shall be held and utilized, without
appropriation, to fund the law enforcement needs of the town, in accordance
with and as authorized by I.C. 5-14-3-8, as may be hereinafter amended, and
which fees shall not revert back to the local General Fund at the end of the
fiscal year.
(Ord. 2018-10-1, passed 10-8-2018)
TAX ABATEMENT
§ 32.15 ARNOLT INDUSTRIAL PARK DEVELOPMENT AREA.
   (A)   Time limitations, economic revitalization areas designated.
      (1)   From the date the resolution codified in this section became
effective until December 31, 1997, all of the real estate shown on the map
attached to the resolution codified in this section, marked Exhibit B and a
part hereof by reference is hereby declared to be an ECONOMIC REVITALIZATION
AREA as defined by I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-1 et seq.
      (2)   Attached to the ordinance codified herein, marked Exhibit C and
made a part hereof by reference, is the legal description for the real estate
shown on Exhibit B, which real estate is located in the town.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-1)
   (B)   Abatement periods. The deductions provided for by I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-
3 and I.C. 6-1.1-12.4-5 shall be allowed within the area designated by this
section as an economic revitalization area, provided, however, that the Town
Council shall, pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 6-1.1-12-3(b), make its
determination as to whether a property owner is entitled to a three-, six- or
ten-year abatement upon the following standards:
      (1)   The nature and size of the proposed improvement, with greater
weight in favor of a longer period of abatement for those issues which are more
environmentally free of noise and air pollution, and those improvements which
result in larger assessed valuations per acre;
      (2)   The amount of employment to be generated by the proposed
improvement, with greater weight in favor of those improvements which employ
more persons per acre upon the improvement;
      (3)   The extent to which the economic revitalization area has already
been developed with greater weight in favor of those owners who are first to
improve the area; and
      (4)   Any other factors which reasonably relate to the desirability of
granting greater tax abatement benefits, keeping in mind that the primary
purposes other than development of the property itself are to increase
employment and employment opportunities within the town, to increase the
assessed valuation of the town, to spur economic growth within the town and to
put the area to such use as will attract future development to the area and to
the town.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-2)
   (C)   Subject to final declaration. This subchapter is approved and adopted
by the Town Council, that notice of the adoption of this subchapter be given
with notice of hearing date therein upon a final declaration resolution,
confirming, modifying and confirming or rescinding this subchapter, that a copy
of the resolution codified in this section be filed with the County Assessor,
all as is required by I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-1 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-3)
   (D)   Final declaration.
      (1)   The land described in Res. 3-1-86 and Res. 2-1-92 of the town, is
an area within the town, which has become undesirable for and impossible of
normal development because of the cessation of growth and the lack of
development, and that said land ought to be and is hereby declared an economic
revitalization area within the town.
      (2)   The land which is the subject of Res. 3-1-86, meets all of the
qualifications necessary to be considered as and to be declared as an economic
revitalization area within the town.
      (3)   The resolution codified in this subchapter was duly adopted by the
Town Council, on March 10, 1986, that a copy of the resolution together with a
map of the area and a description of the area affected by said resolution were
delivered to the office of the County Assessor on March 11, 1986, that public
notice was given as is required by law, that a hearing will be held upon said
resolution on April 14, 1986, that hearing has now been held and that said
resolution, ought to be and is hereby in all respects, confirmed, approved and
ratified by the Town Council.
      (4)   A copy of the resolutions codified in this subchapter shall be
certified by the Clerk-Treasurer of the town and delivered to the County
Auditor.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-4)
(Res. 3-1-86, passed - -; Res. 4-1-86, passed 4-14-1986)
§ 32.16 MATCHETT DEVELOPMENT AREA.
   (A)   Time limitations, economic revitalization areas designated.
      (1)   From the date the resolution codified in this section became
effective until February 10, 2002, all of the real estate shown on the map
attached to the ordinance codified herein, marked Exhibit D and made a part
hereof by reference is hereby declared to be an ECONOMIC REVITALIZATION AREA as
defined by I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-1 et seq.
      (2)   Attached to the ordinance codified herein, marked Exhibit E and
made a part hereof by reference is the legal description for the real estate
shown on Exhibit D, which real estate is located in the town.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-5)
   (B)   Abatement periods. The deductions provided for by I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-
3 and 4.5 shall be allowed within the area designated by the resolution
codified in this subchapter as an economic revitalization area, provided,
however, that the Town Council shall, pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 6-1.1-
12-3(b), make its determination as to whether a property owner is entitled to a
three-, six- or ten-year abatement upon the following standards:
      (1)   The nature and size of the proposed improvement, with greater
weight in favor of a longer period of abatement for those issues which are more
environmentally free of noise and air pollution, and those improvements which
result in larger assessed valuations per acre;
      (2)   The amount of employment to be generated by the proposed
improvement, with greater weight in favor of those improvements which employ
more persons per acre upon the improvement;
      (3)   The extent to which the economic revitalization area has already
been developed with greater weight in favor of those owners who are first to
improve the area; and
      (4)   Any other factors which reasonably relate to the desirability of
granting greater tax abatement benefits, keeping in mind that the primary
purposes other than development of the property itself are to increase
employment and employment opportunities within the town, to increase the
assessed valuation of the town, to spur economic growth within the town and to
put the area to such use as will attract future development to the area and to
the town.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-6)
   (C)   Subject to final declaration. The resolution codified in this
subchapter is approved and adopted by the Town Council, that notice of the
adoption of this subchapter be given with notice of hearing date therein upon a
final declaration resolution, confirming, modifying and confirming or
rescinding the resolution codified in this section, that a copy of said
resolution be filed with the County Assessor, all as is required by I.C. 6-1.1-
12.1-1 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-7)
   (D)   Final declaration.
      (1)   The land described in Res. 2-1-92 of the town is an area within the
town which has become undesirable for and impossible of normal development
because of the cessation of growth and the lack of development, and that said
land ought to be and is hereby declared an economic revitalization area within
the town.
      (2)   The land which is the subject of Res. 2-1-92 meets all of the
qualifications necessary to be considered as and to be declared as an economic
revitalization area within the town.
      (3)   Res. 2-1-92 of the town was duly adopted by the Town Council on
February 10, 1992, that a copy of the resolution together with a map of the
area and a description of the area affected by said resolution were delivered
to the office of the County Assessor, on February 11, 1992, that public notice
was given as is required by law, that a hearing will be held upon said
resolution on March 9, 1992, that hearing has now been held and that Res. 2-1-
92 of the town ought to be and is hereby in all respects, confirmed, approved
and ratified by the Town Council.
      (4)   A copy of the resolution codified in this section and Res. 2-1-92
of the town be certified by the Clerk-Treasurer of the town and delivered to
the County Auditor.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-8)
   (E)   Designated areas qualifying for tax abatement. Those areas heretofore
designated as economic revitalization areas by any pending or final resolution
of the Town Council, shall continue according to such final resolution, or
according to the final resolution entered with respect to any pending
resolution.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-9)
   (F)   Procedural requirements for tax abatement in designated areas.
      (1)   A property owner who desires to obtain the deduction for tax
abatement must file a certified deduction application, on forms prescribed by
the state’s Board of Tax Commissioners, with the County Auditor, all according
to I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-1 et seq., as amended.
      (2)   The deduction for rehabilitation or redevelopment of real property
and new manufacturing equipment shall be pursuant to I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-1 through
6-1.1-12.1-5.7.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-10)
(Ord. 86-5-1, passed - -; Res. 2-1-92, passed - -; Res. 3-1-92, passed 3-9-
1992)
§ 32.17 FUTURE AREAS.
   (A)   Additional tax abatement areas.
      (1)   The Town Council may, at any time, upon its own initiative declare
an area as an economic revitalization area by adopting a resolution therefore
as is provided by I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-2.5, and by following those procedures
provided therein contained in I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-1 et seq.
      (2)   The owner or owners of property which is located within the town
may petition the Town Council for tax abatement consideration by filing a
petition with the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
      (3)   The petition shall be completed in full and shall include the
following information:
         (a)   The name or names and addresses of the property owners and any
other person’s leasing, intending to lease or having an option to buy such
property;
         (b)   The legal description and commonly known address of the real
property for which real property tax abatement is being petitioned, and/or the
legal description and commonly known address of the facility in which the
tangible personal property for which the tangible personal property tax
abatement is being petitioned;
         (c)   A map designating the area in question for consideration,
together with a statement identifying the zoning district in which the area is
located;
         (d)   The assessed value of the real property improvement before
rehabilitation or redevelopment, and/or the assessed value of the tangible
personal property in use at said property before the acquisition of new
manufacturing equipment;
         (e)   Pictures of the area in question taken at least two weeks within
the filing of the petition;
         (f)   A written estimate of the market value of the real property
improvements after the rehabilitation or redevelopment, and/or a written
estimate of the market value of the proposed new manufacturing equipment;
         (g)   A statement describing how the public health and welfare will be
benefitted by this particular rehabilitation, redevelopment or acquisition of
new manufacturing equipment, including a statement describing the proposed use;
         (h)   A statement indicating the level of employment that will be
maintained or the number of new permanent jobs which will be created by this
project;
         (i)   A statement verifying that the new manufacturing equipment in
question has not been installed;
         (j)   A statement verifying that the area in question has become
undesirable for, or impossible of, normal development and occupancy because of
a lack of development, cessation of growth, deterioration of improvements or
character occupancy, age, obsolescence, substandard buildings or other facts
which have impaired values or prevent a normal development of the property or
property use;
         (k)   For tangible personal property tax abatement petitioners, a
statement verifying that the facility or group of facilities are
technologically, economically or energy obsolete, and that the obsolescence may
lead to a decline in employment and tax revenues, and that the tangible
property is to be used in the direct production, manufacture, fabrication,
assembly, processing, refining or finishing of other tangible personal
property; and
         (l)   Any other information which is appropriate and material.
      (4)   The Town Council may refer the petitions to the Area Plan
Commission Director, hereinafter called “Director,” for the purposes of
investigation and preparation of a report determining whether the area
qualifies as an economic revitalization area under I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-1 et seq. or
the Town Council may conduct its own investigation and determination without
referring the matter to the “Director.” If the petition is referred to the
“Director,” then within 30 days of the referral of the petition, the Director
shall submit the report of his or her investigation and findings to the Town
Council.
      (5)   The Town Council, upon completing its consideration of the
petition, may adopt a resolution declaring any part of the areas included in
the petition as a designed economic revitalization area together with such
areas as the Town Council determines should also at that time be so designated.
The resolution may establish such standards, qualifications and limitations as
are permitted by I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-1 et seq. as the Town Council determines is
best for the town.
      (6)   Upon the adoption of a resolution designating an economic
revitalization area, whether upon its own initiative or upon a petition, the
town shall set the matter for further hearing before the Town Council, and the
Clerk-Treasurer shall deliver to the County Assessor two copies of the
resolution and shall publish notice of the adoption of the resolution and of
the hearing, all as is required by I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-1 et seq., as amended, and
which notice shall contain all things as is required by said statute.
      (7)   At the public hearing on the resolution, the Town Council will hear
remonstrances and objections pertaining to the resolution and shall take final
action at that time to adopt, modify or rescind said resolution, considering
those things required by statute, and in addition, considering the public
utility and the benefit of those properties to be considered by such
designation. All things shall be considered, including, but not limited to the
following criteria:
         (a)   For real property tax abatement, whether there is compliance
with the definition of an economic revitalization area;
         (b)   For tangible personal property tax abatement, whether there is
compliance with the statutory criterion;
         (c)   Whether the project will result in maintaining or increasing
permanent jobs within the community;
         (d)   Whether there will be a net expansion of the assessed valuation
of real and personal property within the community;
         (e)   Any other benefits to the community; and
         (f)   The need for the improvement of the area.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-11)
   (B)   Expiration period. The expiration period for real property tax
abatement shall be determined by the Town Council as is provided by I.C. 6-1.1-
12.1-1 et seq., but tangible personal property tax abatement shall be
determined by I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-1 et seq., as amended.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-12)
(Ord. 86-5-1, passed - -)
CHAPTER 33: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
   
33.01   Police reserves
   
33.02   Economic Development Commission
   
33.03   Industrial Development Commission
   
33.04   Department of Redevelopment
§ 33.01 POLICE RESERVES.
   (A)   The number of police reserves for the town shall be five, and persons
to be appointed as police reserves shall be appointed by the Town Council upon
the recommendation of the Town Marshal.
   (B)   The police reserves shall be known and designated as reserve marshals
for the town and shall serve under the direction of the Town Marshal.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-1) (Ord. 161, passed - -)
§ 33.02 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION.
   (A)   Economic Development Commission created. There shall be and is hereby
created for the town a Department of Development which shall be under the
control of a Commission to be known as the town’s Economic Development
Commission.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-1)
   (B)   Membership appointment.
      (1)   The town’s Economic Development Commission shall be composed of a
membership of three Commission members who shall be appointed by the President
of the Town Council as follows: One of the members so appointed shall be
selected by the President of the Town Council; one shall be nominated by the
County Council; and one shall be nominated by the Town Council.
      (2)   The three initial Commissioners shall take office upon their
appointment, and their terms shall run the following number of years from
February 1 following such original appointment: The Commissioner selected by
the President of the Town Council shall serve for three years; the Commissioner
nominated by the Town Council shall serve for two years; and the Commissioner
nominated by the County Council shall serve for one year. Each succeeding
Commissioner shall serve for a term of four years.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-2)
   (C)   Officers. The Commission shall elect one of its members as President,
one as Vice President and one as Secretary, each of which officers shall serve
from the date of his or her election until January 31 next following his or her
election and until his or her successor is elected and qualified.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-3)
   (D)   Powers. The Commission shall have all of the rights, powers,
privileges, duties and obligations conferred upon it by virtue of the
provisions of I.C. 5-28-1-1 et seq., as amended, or as may be hereafter
supplemented. The Commission shall also have such additional rights,
privileges, duties, obligations and responsibilities as lawfully provided by
any other statutes of the state.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-4)
   (E)   Meeting place. The Commission shall hold its meetings at the Town Hall
in the town, or at such other place as the Commission itself shall determine
from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-5)
(Ord. 153, passed - -)
§ 33.03 INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION.
   (A)   Advisory Commission created; members. Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-13-5,
there is hereby created an Advisory Commission on Industrial Development,
members of which Commission shall be appointed by the President of the Town
Council, and which Commission shall be composed of five members, one of whom
shall be a representative of the town government, one of whom shall be a
representative of the local Industrial Development Committee, one shall be a
representative of a local banking institution and one shall be a representative
of a local utility company. A member of the Commission may represent more than
one of the organizations enumerated above.
(Prior Code, § 1-10-2)
   (B)   Powers, duties.
      (1)   The Advisory Commission on Industrial Development created herein
shall have those powers and those obligations as are set out in I.C. 36-7-13-
1 et seq., together with the benefits of any amendments occurring thereto
hereinafter.
      (2)   The Industrial Development Fund created herein, and the town in
connection therewith, shall have all of those rights, obligations and duties as
provided and required by and shall be subject to the provisions of I.C. 36-7-
13-1 as the same may now be amended, and as it may hereinafter be amended.
(Prior Code, § 1-10-3)
(Ord. 85-11-3, passed - -)
§ 33.04 DEPARTMENT OF REDEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Commission established. A Department of Redevelopment is hereby
established, to be known as the Redevelopment Commission.
(Prior Code, § 1-12-1)
   (B)   Powers. The Redevelopment Commission shall operate with all the
powers, obligations and privileges authorized under I.C. 36-7-14-1 et seq. and
36-7-25 et seq. as the same are presently in force and effect, or as they may
be amended.
(Prior Code, § 1-12-2)
   (C)   Obligations. The town hereby accepts all the obligations and
responsibilities set forth according to said statutes.
(Prior Code, § 1-12-3)
   (D)   Annual report. The Redevelopment Commission shall annually report to
the Town Council at the first regularly scheduled meeting of the Council in
January of each year.
(Prior Code, § 1-12-4)
   (E)   Membership. Pursuant to the provisions of said statutes, the
Redevelopment Commission shall consist of five members. Three of the members
shall be appointed by the Town Council President, and two members shall be
appointed by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-12-5)
   (F)   T.I.F. District.
      (1)   By way of Res. 12-1-94 adopted by the Redevelopment Commission on
December 14, 1994, and confirmed by Res. RDC-1-1-95 adopted by the
Redevelopment Commission on February 1, 1995, and approved by the Town Council
on February 13, 1995, the following were, among other things, established:
         (a)   An economic development area;
         (b)   An economic development plan; and
         (c)   Allocation areas.
      (2)   A map of the area is attached to the ordinance codified in this
section, marked Exhibit F. Resolutions, plans and other records of action by
the Redevelopment Commission are in the records of the Commission, are not
being reprinted in this code, but are included by reference.
(Prior Code, § 1-12-6)
(Ord. 94-11-2, passed - -)
CHAPTER 34: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
34.01   Definitions
   
34.02   Declaration; written proclamation
   
34.03   Emergency orders
   
34.04   Enforcement
   
34.05   Duties of citizens
   
34.06   Subject to civil defense
   
34.07   Flood ordinance adopted
   
34.08   Flood map adopted
 
   
34.99   Penalty
§ 34.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CIVIL EMERGENCY. Any disaster, calamity, catastrophe, cataclysm, flood,
snowstorm, act of terrorism or other event or situation, whether caused by
humans or nature which presents:
      (1)   An immediate danger of injury to persons or property within the
town;
      (2)   An immediate interference with providing fire, police and emergency
medical services within the town; or
      (3)   An immediate interference to the ability of the town to keep
streets within the town open or safe for use, to such an extent that
extraordinary measures must be taken to protect the public health, safety and
welfare.
   CURFEW. An order prohibiting any person or persons in general from being
upon or motoring upon any alley, street, highway or public property or vacant
premises within the town, excepting persons officially designated to duty with
reference to a civil emergency.
   EVACUATION. An order requiring persons on property to leave and vacate or to
be removed from a geographical area of the town, and further prohibiting
persons from entering such geographical area of the town during a civil
emergency, excepting persons officially designated to duty with reference to
said civil emergency.
   PRESIDENT. The President of the Town Council.
   QUARANTINE. An order, during a civil emergency, prohibiting persons from
leaving or entering a designated geographical area of the town, excepting
persons officially designated to duty with reference to said civil emergency.
   TOWN.   The Town of Pierceton, Indiana.
   VICE PRESIDENT.   The Vice President of the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-1) (Ord. 85-2-2, passed - -)
§ 34.02 DECLARATION; WRITTEN PROCLAMATION.
   (A)   The President of the Town Council is hereby empowered and authorized
to declare a civil emergency within the town when in his or her judgment a
civil emergency as defined herein exists. The declaration of a civil emergency
shall be in the form of a written proclamation.
   (B)   If the President is absent from town, or otherwise unable to act, the
Vice President is hereby authorized and empowered to act in the stead of the
President, and in the absence or other inability to act by both the President
and the Vice President, then the Town Marshal is hereby authorized and
empowered to act in the stead of the President of the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-2) (Ord. 85-2-2, passed - -)
§ 34.03 EMERGENCY ORDERS.
   (A)   After the proclamation of a civil emergency as provided in this
chapter, the President or person acting in and empowered to act in his or her
stead is hereby empowered and authorized in this chapter, in the interest of
public health, safety or welfare, to make any or all of the following orders:
      (1)   Order a curfew for the whole town or for specific geographical
areas of the town during such hours and for such periods as are set forth in
the order of the curfew;
      (2)   Order an evacuation or quarantine of the whole town or for specific
geographical areas of the town during such hours and for such periods as are
set forth in the order;
      (3)   Order restrictions of parking upon any streets or parts thereof;
      (4)   Order the closing of any streets, alleys, thoroughfares, highways,
sidewalks, bike paths or parts thereof;
      (5)   Order the removal of vehicles or other property from specified
streets or parts thereof;
      (6)   Order the redirection of traffic flow upon streets, alleys,
highways or thoroughfares in the town;
      (7)   Enter any other orders which are reasonably necessary to preserve
or protect the life, health, safety, peace or welfare of persons or property
within the town, including but not limited to the discontinuance of specific
activities or business during the civil emergency; and/or
      (8)   Enter any other orders which are reasonably necessary to aid in the
delivery or furnishing of emergency service to persons or property during a
civil emergency.
   (B)   Any orders entered hereunder may be rescinded, cancelled, terminated
or reinstated at any time during a civil emergency.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-3) (Ord. 85-2-2, passed - -) Penalty, see §
34.99
§ 34.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   Orders entered pursuant to §
34.03 of this code shall be enforceable by the Town Marshal and his or her
deputies and by such other person or persons duly designated by the President
or such other person acting in his or her stead as is provided by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-4) (Ord. 85-2-2, passed - -)
§ 34.05 DUTIES OF CITIZENS.
   All persons within the town shall obey all orders entered pursuant to §
34.03 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-5) (Ord. 85-2-2, passed - -)
§ 34.06 SUBJECT TO CIVIL DEFENSE.
   (A)   In the event that the County Civil Defense Director enters orders
under authority of the county’s civil defense orders, which are in conflict
with the order pursuant to §
34.03 of this code, the orders of the Civil Defense Director shall prevail and
supersede the conflicting order entered under §
34.03 of this code, but parts of any order entered under §
34.03 of this code not in conflict with orders of the Civil Defense Director
shall continue in full force and effect.
   (B)   In the event of an emergency under the authority of the County Civil
Defense Director, the President or such person authorized to act in his or her
stead shall cooperate with the County Civil Defense Director so as to
coordinate the efforts of the town with the efforts of the civil defense.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-6) (Ord. 85-2-2, passed - -)
§ 34.07 FLOOD ORDINANCE ADOPTED.
   The Town Council hereby adopts the Area Plan Commission Flood Control
Ordinance, January 1993 revision, in order to comply with all federal and state
floodplain regulation requirements in order to stay compliant in the national
flood insurance program. As part of the adoption of this ordinance, the town
appoints the Area Plan Commission and the County Board of Zoning Appeals and
its ordinance administrator to review all development in the town to ensure
compliance with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-7) (Ord. 93-12-2, passed - -)
§ 34.08 FLOOD MAP ADOPTED.
   The flood insurance rate map, bearing effective date of February 4, 1987,
compiled by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, and the base flood
elevation maps therewith and upon which said flood insurance rate maps are
based, are adopted by the town, as the maps to which said ordinance shall
apply.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-8) (Ord. 86-12-3, passed - -)
§ 34.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any order entered under §
34.03 of this code shall be fined in an amount of $25 for each violation plus
the reasonable attorneys’ fees incurred by the town, provided however, that the
attorneys’ fees and fine for each violation shall not exceed $2,500.
(Prior Code, § 1-13-1) (Ord. 85-2-2, passed - -)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   SEWERS
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE AND REFUSE
Section
Garbage and Trash
   
50.01   Receptacles required
   
50.02   Garbage toter requirements
   
50.03   Definitions
   
50.04   Disposal of garbage and refuse
   
50.05   Disposal of natural debris and bulky refuse
   
50.06   Deposits on streets
   
50.07   Commercial accumulations
   
50.08   Evidence, presumption
   
50.09   Accumulations a nuisance
   
50.10   Appliance doors removed
   
50.11   Littering; handbills
   
50.12   Garbage to be wrapped
   
50.13   Trash to be placed in receptacles
   
50.14   Placement of receptacles
   
50.15   Furnishing of containers
   
50.16   Removal of garbage
   
50.17   Compost beds permitted
   
50.18   Noxious odors
   
50.19   Human waste
   
50.20   Burning of garbage
Solid Waste Disposal
   
50.35   Collection and disposal of solid waste contracted
   
50.36   Town authority
   
50.37   Rates and charges for garbage pickup
   
50.38   Billing
   
50.39   Sewage Department to operate
   
50.40   Use required
 
   
50.99   Penalty
GARBAGE AND TRASH
§ 50.01 RECEPTACLES REQUIRED.
   It shall be the duty of each occupant and every owner of every building or
premises in the town where trash, garbage and table scraps or other refuse is
created or accumulated to provide and maintain a garbage can or receptacle for
such refuse, and each owner and occupant of the building is hereby required to
maintain such garbage can or receptacle.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-1) (Ord. 81-7-1, passed - -)
§ 50.02 GARBAGE TOTER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Town residences will be provided with one 96-gallon container
(hereinafter referred to as a “toter” or “toters”). The toters are owned by and
are being furnished by the contractor providing the solid waste disposal. Each
resident of each residence shall be responsible to provide reasonable care of
the toter furnished to the residence.
   (B)   Only the toter provided or approved by the contractor providing the
solid waste disposal will be emptied under the provisions of this subchapter.
There shall not be any refuse left or placed alongside the toter.
   (C)   Toters must be placed on the town right-of-way. All containers shall
be placed for collection not earlier than the evening prior to collection and
must be moved back to the residence within 24 hours of disposal.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-2) (Ord. 2015-12-1, passed 12-14-2015)
§ 50.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. When not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the plural number include the
singular number, and words used in the singular number include the plural
number. The word “shall” is always mandatory and not merely directory.
   AUTHORIZED PRIVATE RECEPTACLE. A litter storage or garbage and refuse
collection receptacle as required and authorized by the town.
   CONTAINER. The receptacle required by §
50.02 of this code.
   GARBAGE. The waste resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking and
consumption of food, whether for humans or for animals, and of waste from the
handling, storage and sale of food materials.
   HANDBILL. Any printed or written matter, advertisement and sample, or
device, dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, newspaper, magazine, paper,
booklet or any other printed or otherwise reproduced original or copies of any
matter of literature, not included in the definition of a NEWSPAPER.
   LITTER. Includes GARBAGE, REFUSE and RUBBISH as defined herein and all other
waste material which, if thrown or deposited as herein prohibited, tends to
create a danger to public health, safety and welfare.
   NATURAL DEBRIS. Leaves, trees and tree limbs or large bulk accumulating from
natural processes.
   NEWSPAPER. Any newspaper of general circulation as defined by general law,
any newspaper duly entered with the Post Office Department of the United
States, in accordance with federal statute or regulation, and any newspaper
filed and recorded with any recording officer as provided by general law; and,
in addition thereto, shall mean and include any periodical or current magazine
regularly published with not less than four issues per year and sold to the
public.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   PRIVATE PREMISES. Any dwelling, house, building or other structure, designed
or used either wholly or in part for private residential purposes, whether
inhabited or temporarily or continuously uninhabited or vacant, and shall
include any yard, grounds, walk, driveway, porch, steps, vestibule or mailbox
belonging to or appurtenant to such dwelling, house, building or other
structure.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys or other
public ways, and any and all public parks, squares, spaces, grounds and
buildings.
   REFUSE. All putrescible and non-putrescible solid waste, trash (combustible
or not), including but not limited to paper, cartons, boxes, barrels, wood,
excelsior, furniture, bedding, street cleanings, dead animals, abandoned
automobiles, rubbish, garbage, abandoned appliances, metals, cans, small
quantities of dirt, rock and pieces of concrete, glass, crockery, ashes and the
residue from fires and other mineral waste, but shall not include natural
debris, and shall not include earth and waste from building operations, nor
solid waste resulting from industrial processes and manufacturing operations.
   RUBBISH. Non-putrescible solid wastes consisting of both combustible and
noncombustible wastes, such as paper, wrappings, cigarettes, cardboard, tin
cans, wood, glass, bedding, crockery and similar materials.
   TOWN. The Town of Pierceton, Indiana.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, including devices used exclusively upon
stationary rails or tracks.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-2.01) (Ord. 92-4-4, passed - -)
§ 50.04 DISPOSAL OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE.
   It shall be unlawful to place or permit to remain anywhere in the town any
garbage or refuse, except in a container, except that refuse which is too bulky
to place in a container shall be disposed of as natural debris.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-2.02) (Ord. 92-4-4, passed - -) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.05 DISPOSAL OF NATURAL DEBRIS AND BULKY REFUSE.
   Except as is permitted by §
50.16 of this code, it shall be unlawful to place or permit to remain anywhere
in the town any natural debris or refuse too bulky to place in containers
except on or immediately adjacent to a public street or alley preparatory to
having such material removed.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-2.03) (Ord. 92-4-4, passed - -) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.06 DEPOSITS ON STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful to deposit or permit to fall from any vehicle any
garbage, refuse or natural debris upon any public street, alley, waterway or
body of water in the town, except that this section shall not be construed to
prohibit the placing of garbage, refuse and natural debris in a container, or
to prohibit the placing of natural debris and refuse too bulky to place in a
container, on or immediately adjacent to a public street or alley preparatory
to having such material removed.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-2.04) (Ord. 92-4-4, passed - -) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.07 COMMERCIAL ACCUMULATIONS.
   It shall be lawful in the commercial areas of the town to dispose of refuse
and natural debris, but not garbage, in trash bins, which shall consist of
enclosed metal or wooden structures except that material placed in such trash
bins shall be placed therein in boxes or containers and shall not be loosely
thrown therein. The owner or operator of any business establishment in the town
shall build in an alley, adjacent to or reasonably close to his or her
establishment, an enclosed metal or wooden structure for use as a trash bin,
unless the amount of trash, boxes and containers which such business
establishment accumulates is small enough in quantity and bulk to be contained
within a container.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-2.05) (Ord. 92-4-4, passed - -)
§ 50.08 EVIDENCE, PRESUMPTION.
   The fact that garbage, refuse or natural debris is found on any property or
in any street in the town shall be prima facie evidence that the person
responsible for the deposit thereof is the occupant of such property.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-2.06) (Ord. 92-4-4, passed - -)
§ 50.09 ACCUMULATIONS A NUISANCE.
   Any mass or accumulation of garbage, refuse and natural debris other than
natural debris deposited by the wind and natural forces on any property within
the town is hereby declared to be a nuisance, and the owner or occupant of the
property upon which such nuisance is found shall be ordered by the Town Marshal
to abate the same, not later than a date to be stated in a written notice
ordering such abatement, and in no cases less than five days, and upon failure
of such person to abate said nuisance, the Town Marshal may enter upon said
premises and abate the same, the costs of which shall be assessed to the owner
of said property, and if not paid within 30 days after notification thereof,
the town may impose a lien upon such property for such expense and shall place
the same upon the tax duplicate in the office of the County Treasurer for
collection as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-2.07) (Ord. 92-4-4, passed - -)
§ 50.10 APPLIANCE DOORS REMOVED.
   No person shall leave, abandon or permit to be left or abandoned in any open
accessible place within the town any appliance without first removing the doors
therefrom. This shall not apply to appliances in operation such as vending
machines. The purpose of this section is to protect children and others from
becoming locked within such an appliance.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-2.14) (Ord. 92-4-4, passed - -) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.11 LITTERING; HANDBILLS.
   (A)   Placement of litter in receptacles so as to prevent scattering.
Persons placing litter in public receptacles or in authorized private
receptacles shall do so in such a manner as to prevent it from being carried or
deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk or other public place or
upon private property.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-2.08)
   (B)   Sweeping litter into gutters prohibited. No person shall sweep into or
deposit in any gutter, street or other public place within the town the
accumulation of litter from any building or lot, or from any public or private
sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying property shall keep the
sidewalk in front of their premises free of litter.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-2.09)
   (C)   Merchant’s duty to keep sidewalks free of litter.
      (1)   No person owning or occupying a place of business shall sweep or
deposit in any gutter, street or other public place within the town, the
accumulation of litter from any building or lot, or from any public or private
sidewalk or driveway.
      (2)   Persons owning or occupying places of business within the town
shall keep the sidewalk in front of their business premises free of litter.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-2.10)
   (D)   Truck loads causing litter. No person shall drive or move any truck or
other vehicle within the town unless such vehicle is so constructed or loaded
as to prevent any load, contents or litter from being blown or deposited upon
any street, alley or other public place.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-2.11)
   (E)   Litter in lakes and fountains. No person shall throw or deposit litter
in any fountain, pond, lake or stream within the town.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-2.12)
   (F)   Leaving handbills in public places. No person shall leave any handbill
in or upon any sidewalk, street or other public place within the town.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-2.13)
   (G)   Uninhabited property, distribution prohibited. No person shall throw,
deposit or distribute any handbill in or upon any premises which is uninhabited
or vacant.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-2.15)
   (H)   Owner to maintain premises free of litter. The owner or person in
control of any private property shall at all times maintain the premises free
of litter. Provided, however, that this section shall not prohibit the storage
of litter in authorized private receptacles for collection.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-2.18)
(Ord. 92-4-4, passed - -) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.12 GARBAGE TO BE WRAPPED.
   Table scraps and food waste shall be wrapped before the same is placed in
any garbage can or receptacle.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-3) (Ord. 81-7-1, passed - -)
§ 50.13 TRASH TO BE PLACED IN RECEPTACLES.
   All accumulations of ashes, cans, bottles, metal, wood, paper, glass, table
scraps, food stuffs, bones and similar small trash shall be placed in a garbage
can or other receptacle as provided herein.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-4) (Ord. 81-7-1, passed - -)
§ 50.14 PLACEMENT OF RECEPTACLES.
   Garbage and trash cans or other receptacles shall be placed on the premises
so occupied so as to be easily accessible to garbage and trash-removing trucks.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-5) (Ord. 81-7-1, passed - -)
§ 50.15 FURNISHING OF CONTAINERS.
   Owners of multi-dwelling residences, notwithstanding the foregoing
provisions of this subchapter, shall furnish an enclosed container for said
multi-dwelling residences of sufficient size as to allow sufficient space for
the deposit of garbage and trash by the tenants thereof, and to be of such
durability and with such cover or seal so that trash, garbage, plastic garbage
bags and other of its contents, cannot be removed therefrom by animals or blown
about by the wind, the weather or other natural forces. This section shall not
remove from the occupant of a building the responsibility to provide a
receptacle in the event that the owner of such a premises shall fail to provide
such a receptacle as required herein.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-6) (Ord. 81-7-1, passed - -)
§ 50.16 REMOVAL OF GARBAGE.
   The owners and each occupant of every premises shall cause all contents of
all garbage cans or other receptacles to be emptied and properly deposited at
least one time each week. Except as provided hereinafter in this subchapter, it
shall be unlawful to deposit the contents of any garbage can or other
receptacle upon the premises of the owner or occupant, unless such owner or
occupant has first been authorized in writing by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-7) (Ord. 81-7-1, passed - -) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.17 COMPOST BEDS PERMITTED.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of this subchapter, it shall be lawful, and
not in violation of this subchapter for a person or persons to deposit rinds or
other vegetation or table scraps in the ground for the purposes of preparing a
compost bed, as long as such materials are worked into the ground, decomposed
and are for the purposes of a compost bed. It shall, however, be unlawful for
any person or persons or the owner of any premises to allow noxious odors to
emanate from any such compost bed, and the owners and occupants of real estate
within the town shall not allow noxious odors to emanate from any compost bed.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-8) (Ord. 81-7-1, passed - -) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.18 NOXIOUS ODORS.
   Owners and occupants of real estate within the town shall not permit or
allow noxious odors to emanate from the premises.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-9) (Ord. 81-7-1, passed - -) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.19 HUMAN WASTE.
   Owners and occupants of real estate within the town shall not permit human
waste or other sewage from drains or septic systems or otherwise to be upon the
surface of the premises which such owner owns or such occupant occupies.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-10) (Ord. 81-7-1, passed - -) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.20 BURNING OF GARBAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any occupant or owner of any premises to burn, or
to permit to be burned, any garbage, trash or leaves outside the buildings upon
such premises.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-11) (Ord. 81-7-1, passed - -) Penalty, see §
50.99
Cross-reference:
   Burning, see §§
92.01 through
92.06
SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL
§ 50.35 COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL OF SOLID WASTE CONTRACTED.
   The town has, pursuant to I.C. 36-9-30-1 et seq., contracted for the
collection and disposal of solid waste within the town.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-1) (Ord. 82-2-1, passed 1-25-1982)
§ 50.36 TOWN AUTHORITY.
   The town is authorized by I.C. 36-9-30-1 et seq. to provide for the expenses
of such sanitation, garbage and solid waste disposal services by user charges.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-2) (Ord. 82-2-1, passed 1-25-1982)
§ 50.37 RATES AND CHARGES FOR GARBAGE PICKUP.
   (A)   Rate categories for garbage collection. The town does hereby establish
the following rate categories for provision to its citizens of sanitation,
garbage and solid waste disposal services.
      (1)   Residential rates. Residential rates shall apply to RESIDENTIAL
USERS, which are defined as person(s) who own or occupy a residential unit,
whether a single-family residence unit or a multi-family unit where each
apartment shall be considered a separate residential unit and therefore a
separate residential user, regardless of whether or not each such residential
unit is occupied. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Town Council may hear and
grant variances from the charges established herein if extraordinary
circumstances justify such a variance.
      (2)   Commercial rates. If established, commercial rates shall apply to
COMMERCIAL USERS, which are defined as all users of solid waste disposal
services provided by the town, except those users defined as “residential
users” in division (A)(1) above or “industrial users” in division (A)(3) below.
      (3)   Industrial rates. If established, industrial rates shall apply to
INDUSTRIAL USERS, which are defined as manufacturers or processors of products
or goods. Industrial rates shall be negotiated between the industrial user and
the town and shall be approved by the Town Council by ordinance, on a case-by-
case basis and such rates shall be determined on the basis of volume, density,
weight, character of the solid waste, and/or the charges as contracted between
the town and any private collector. Payment of such rates shall be the
responsibility of either the owner of the real estate or the industrial user,
as negotiated and agreed to by such owner or industrial user and approved by
the Town Council.
   (B)   Rates and charges per user type. The town does hereby establish, for
provisions to its citizens of sanitation, garbage and solid waste disposal
services, the following rates and charges:
      (1)   Residential rates. Residential rates shall be $11 per residential
user per month.
      (2)   Commercial rates. None currently established. Commercial users
shall be responsible to provide for their own garbage collection or solid waste
disposal services at this time.
      (3)   Industrial rates. None currently established. Industrial users
shall be responsible to provide for their own garbage collection or solid waste
disposal services at this time.
   (C)   Effective date. The rates provided herein shall commence with the
March 31 billing cycle which is for garbage collection from February 16, 2022
to March 15, 2022.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-3) (Ord. 82-2-1, passed 1-25-1982; Ord. 88-12-3, passed - -;
Ord. 96-2-2, passed - -; Ord. 2021-12-1, passed 1-10-2022)
§ 50.38 BILLING.
   For the purpose of billing and collecting charges for such services, users
shall be billed on the first day of the month, following the month or portion
of the month for which such services were rendered, and the billing shall be
considered due on the first day of the month on which it is billed. For
purposes of billing and charges, solid waste disposal service for a portion of
a month shall be considered service for the entire month.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-4) (Ord. 82-2-1, passed 1-25-1982)
§ 50.39 SEWAGE DEPARTMENT TO OPERATE.
   The Sewage Department shall operate, maintain and manage the solid waste
disposal system of the town and shall bill, collect and manage the charges and
fees for solid waste service, and shall pay all expenses incurred directly,
indirectly or incidentally in the providing of such services, all according to
law.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-5) (Ord. 82-2-1, passed 1-25-1982)
§ 50.40 USE REQUIRED.
   All residential users as defined in this subchapter shall use the solid
waste disposal service of the town.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-6) (Ord. 82-2-1, passed 1-25-1982)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, persons, firms or corporations who violates any provision
of §§
50.01 through
50.20 of this code by doing any act prohibited, or declared to be unlawful
thereby, or who fails to do any act required thereby, or who fails to do any
act which provision declares such failure to be unlawful, shall be subject to
fine in the amount of $25, plus the reasonable attorneys’ fees incurred by the
town in enforcing §§
50.01 through
50.20 of this code, for each such violation, provided, however that the fine
and attorneys’ fees shall not exceed $2,500 for each violation. Each day that a
violation continues shall constitute a separate violation of §§
50.01 through
50.20 of this code.
(Prior Code, §§ 3-1-13, 3-3-1) (Ord. 92-4-4, passed - -)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
   
51.01   Water Department
   
51.02   Water rates and charges
§ 51.01 WATER DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Organization. The Water Department of the town is under the control of
the Town Council. (Water Departments such as that of the town are under the
control of the “Works Board.” In towns, the Town Council also serve as the
“Works Board,” as provided by state statute.)
(Prior Code, § 11-1-1)
   (B)   Independent. The Water Department is an independent department of the
town. To generalize, the Water Department is treated as a separate business and
except with respect to limited matters, the Water Department cannot take from
or add to the General Fund of the town.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-2)
   (C)   Operation. The Town Council may by resolution or motion, in its
capacity as the Board for the Water Department, adopt rules and policies
governing the operation of the Water Department. There are, however, certain
matters by state statute which require ordinances by the Town Council, and when
such matters arise, the Town Council must follow the requirements of state law.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-3)
   (D)   Removal from jurisdiction of the state’s Utility Regulatory
Commission. The waterworks utility of the town is hereby removed from the
jurisdiction of the state’s Utility Regulatory Commission, with respect to the
approval of rates and charges, and of the issuance of stocks, bonds, notes or
other evidence of indebtedness. (Permitted by I.C. 8-1.5-3-9.1.)
(Prior Code, § 11-1-4)
(Ord. 83-4-2, passed - -; Ord. 90-11-1, passed - -)
§ 51.02 WATER RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Rates and charges.
      (1)   Metered consumption per month. There are hereby established for the
use of and the service rendered by the waterworks system of the town the
following rates and charges, based on the use of water supplied by said
waterworks system:
                    Monthly Rate Per 1,000 Gallons
Metered Consumption Phase I Effective 1- Phase II Effective Phase III Effective
Per Month           1-2022               1-1-2023           1-1-2024
                    Monthly Rate Per 1,000 Gallons
Metered Consumption Phase I Effective 1- Phase II Effective Phase III Effective
Per Month           1-2022               1-1-2023           1-1-2024
First 3,333 gallons $9.31                $9.50              $9.69
Next 6,667 gallons  $7.72                $7.87              $8.03
Next 6,667 gallons  $6.01                $6.13              $6.25
Next 20,000 gallons $4.42                $4.51              $4.60
Next 233,333        $3.31                $3.38              $3.45
gallons
Over 270,000        $2.74                $2.79              $2.85
gallons
 
      (2)   Minimum charge per month. Each user shall pay a minimum monthly
charge in accordance with the following applicable size of meter installed,
which charge shall be applicable if the monthly charge for use is less than
this minimum charge, and which minimum monthly charge takes into consideration
the minimum overhead expense of the town that exists with respect to each user
in maintaining and providing billing, the cost of maintaining a system to have
available the quantity of water that can be used through such a line, including
but not limited to the cost of maintaining lines within the town, and the cost
of billing, collecting and accounting for payments made by the user, which
minimum monthly charges are as follows:
           Minimum Charge Per Month
Meter Size Phase I Effective 1-1- Phase II Effective 1- Phase III Effective 1-
           2022                   1-2023                1-2024
                 Minimum Charge Per Month
Meter Size       Phase I Effective 1- Phase II Effective Phase III Effective
                 1-2022               1-1-2023           1-1-2024
5/8-inch by 3/4- $22.11               $22.56             $23.01
inch
1-inch           $36.91               $37.65             $38.41
1-1/4-inch       $55.29               $56.39             $57.53
1-1/2-inch       $73.66               $75.12             $76.64
2-inch           $110.38              $112.57            $114.83
3-inch           $220.64              $225.08            $229.59
4-inch           $331.12              $337.90            $344.74
6-inch           $503.40              $513.82            $524.31
 
      (3)   Fire protection charges.
                Rate Per Annum
Fire Protection Phase I Effective 1- Phase II Effective 1- Phase III Effective
Charges         1-2022               1-2023                1-1-2024
                              Rate Per Annum
                              Phase I Effective Phase II       Phase III
Fire Protection Charges       1-1-2022          Effective 1-1- Effective 1-1-
                                                2023           2024
Hydrant rental:
   Municipal hydrants, per $846.65           $863.60        $880.85
hydrant
   Private hydrants, per   $1,059.65         $1,080.85      $1,102.45
hydrant
Sprinkler connections:
   4-inch fire line        $508              $518.15        $528.50
   6-inch fire line        $1,146.75         $1,169.70      $1,193.10
   8-inch fire line        $2,040.10         $2,080.90      $2,122.50
   10-inch fire line       $3,186.55         $3,250.30      $3,315.30
 
      (4)   Tap charge. A tap charge shall be collected from each customer
prior to connection to the water system. The charge shall be an amount
sufficient to reimburse the town for the labor, material and overhead necessary
for tapping a main to the property line (including the curb stop) and the cost
of furnishing and installing a suitable water meter, provided, however, that in
no event shall a charge for such connection be less than $1,500, unless all
materials and installation are obtained and made by the customer, with the
consent of the waterworks, in which event the tap charge shall be $500 plus the
cost of the meter. All water meters become and remain the property of the
waterworks once installed, whether purchased by the customer or the town.
      (5)   Temporary users. Water furnished to temporary users, such as
contractors and the like, shall be charged on the basis of the metered rates
hereinbefore set forth as estimated and established by the Waterworks
Superintendent.
      (6)   Collection and deferred payment charge. All bills for water
services not paid within 15 days from the due date thereof, as slated in such
bills, shall be subject to the collection or deferred payment charge of 10% of
the first $3 and 3% on the excess over $3. In the event of legal action to
collect an unpaid water bill, the user shall pay the reasonable attorneys’ fees
incurred by the town.
      (7)   Deposit.
         (a)   Any person or entity applying for water service, prior to such
service being furnished, shall pay to the waterworks system a deposit, which
deposit shall be held by the waterworks without interest obligation to the
user, and which deposit, upon termination of water service to the user, shall
be applied to any amount owed to the waterworks for rates and charges, and the
balance then remaining after such application shall be returned to the user,
and which deposit shall be in the following amount: Three times minimum monthly
charge rounded up to the nearest whole dollar.
         (b)   When a user has for a continuous period of five years paid each
monthly water user charge when due, the user shall be entitled to a refund of
that user’s deposit.
      (8)   Returned check charge. There will be a charge in the amount of $25
assessed to the consumer for each check which is returned to the town for non-
sufficient funds.
      (9)   Reconnection charge. When utility service is discontinued for
nonpayment, such service shall not be reinstated until a $25 reconnection fee
is paid to the town. In addition, the customer will pay all delinquent charges
before the water will be reconnected.
      (10)   Turn on/off fee. There will be a $25 charge assessed to the
consumer for turning utility service on and off.
      (11)   Inspection fee. There will be a $25 charge assessed to the
consumer for inspection of all connections to the municipal water utility
including replacement of existing connections.
      (12)   System development charge. A system development charge shall be
collected from each customer prior to connection to the waterworks system based
on meter size as follows:
Meter Size Meter Ratio Charge
Meter Size           Meter Ratio Charge
5/8-inch by 3/4-inch 1.0         $500
1-inch               2.5         $1,250
1-1/4-inch           4.0         $2,000
1-1/2-inch           5.0         $2,500
2-inch               8.0         $4,000
3-inch               15.0        $7,500
4-inch               25.0        $12,500
6-inch               50.0        $25,000
 
(Prior Code, § 11-1-5)
   (B)   Billing and collecting. For the purpose of billing and collecting the
charges for water use, the meters shall be read monthly, provided, however,
that if for some reason a meter is not read during a particular month, the
Sewage Clerk may estimate the monthly billing based upon the most recent
monthly meter reading. If at any time following the reading of the meter, it
appears that the prior monthly billing was in error, either overstating or
understating consumption, the next monthly billing shall be adjusted
accordingly.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-6)
   (C)   Effective date for rates. The rates provided herein commenced with the
March 31 billing cycle which is for water use from February 16, 2022 to March
15, 2022.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-7)
(Ord. 2021-12-3, passed 1-10-2022)
CHAPTER 52: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Sanitary sewer construction standards
   
52.02   Sewage Department
Sewers and Sewage Disposal
   
52.15   Purpose and policy
   
52.16   Definitions
   
52.17   General discharge prohibitions
   
52.18   Limitations on wastewater strength
   
52.19   Accidental discharges
   
52.20   Administrative fees and permits
   
52.21   Reporting requirements for permitee
   
52.22   Monitoring facilities
   
52.23   Inspection and sampling
   
52.24   Confidential information
   
52.25   Emergency suspension of service and discharge permits
   
52.26   Revocation of permit
   
52.27   Notification of violation; administrative adjustment
   
52.28   Show cause hearing
   
52.29   Judicial proceedings
   
52.30   Enforcement actions; annual publication
   
52.31   Right of appeal
   
52.32   Operating upsets
   
52.33   Records retention
   
52.34   Declaration of an emergency
   
52.35   Federal toxic pollutant list adopted
   
52.36   General limitations on other pollutants
   
52.37   National categorical pretreatment standards adopted
Sewer Rates and Charges
   
52.50   Rates and charges
   
52.51   Connection fees to certain areas
   
52.52   Quality of sewage; rates
   
52.53   Collection of rates and charges
   
52.54   Water quantity determination; rates
   
52.55   Enforcement; prohibit wastes
   
52.56   Special rates
   
52.57   Required connection
 
   
52.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 SANITARY SEWER CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Standards adopted. The detailed specifications and construction
standards for the installation of sanitary sewers attached to the ordinance
codified in this chapter are hereby adopted as specifications and construction
standards for the installation of sanitary sewers in the town.
   (B)   Enforcement; attorneys’ fees. This chapter may be enforced by any
remedy available or in equity. In the event that any person or entity fails to
comply with the specifications and construction standards set forth herein,
such person or entity shall be responsible for all costs incurred by the town’s
sewage works, including but not limited to the reasonable attorneys’ fees
incurred by the town.
(Ord. 99-6-1, passed 7-12-1999)
§ 52.02 SEWAGE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Organization. The Sewage Department of the town is operated and
managed under the control of the Town Council. Under state statutes, i.e., I.C.
36-9-23-1 et seq., municipal sewage works are supervised and controlled by the
Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-1)
   (B)   Not a utility. By state statute, sewage works are not considered as a
utility, however outside the technical legal use of the word, most people
consider the Sewage Department as a form of utility.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-2)
   (C)   Independent. The “sewage works” or Sewage Department is generally
considered as a separate business of the town and is independent of and from
the General Fund of the town. Except for limited circumstances, the Sewage
Department cannot add to or take away from the General Fund of the town.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-3)
   (D)   Policies. By state statute, some matters of the town sewage works must
be determined by ordinance and by specific procedure. For matters not requiring
ordinance, the Town Council may determine policies, rules and regulations by
motion or resolution.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-4)
SEWERS AND SEWAGE DISPOSAL
§ 52.15 PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   This subchapter sets forth uniform requirements for dischargers into
the town, publicly-owned treatment works (POTW), the authority treatment
systems and enables the “authority” to protect public health in conformity with
all applicable local, state and federal laws relating thereto.
   (B)   The objectives of this subchapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the authority
wastewater system which will interfere with the normal operation of the system
or contaminate the resulting municipal sludge;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the authority
wastewater system which do not receive adequate treatment in the POTW, and
which will pass through the system into receiving waters or the atmosphere or
otherwise be incompatible with the system; and
      (3)   To improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewater and
sludge from the system.
This subchapter provides for the regulation of discharges into the authority
wastewater system through the enforcement of administrative regulations. This
subchapter does not provide for the recovery of operation, maintenance or
replacement costs of the POTW or the costs associated with the construction of
collection and treatment systems used by industrial dischargers, in proportion
to their use of the POTW, which are the subject of separate enactments.
(Ord. 2015-6-1, passed 7-13-2015)
§ 52.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, Pub. Law No. 92-500, as
amended by the Clean Water Act of 1977, Pub. Law No. 95-217, being 33 U.S.C. §§
1251 et seq.
   APPLICABLE PRETREATMENT STANDARD. Any pretreatment limit or prohibitive
standard (federal, state and/or local) contained in this subchapter and
considered to be the most restrictive with which non-domestic users will be
required to comply.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Region Five
Administrator or his or her designated representative.
   AUTHORITY. The Town Council.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF INDUSTRIAL USER. May be: A principal executive
officer of at least the level of vice president, if the industrial user is a
corporation; a general partner or proprietor if the industrial user is a
partnership or proprietorship, respectively; or a duly authorized
representative of the individual designated above if such representative is
responsible for the overall operation of the facilities from which the
discharge originates.
   AVERAGE MONTHLY LIMITATION. The highest allowable average of daily
discharges over a calendar month, calculated as the sum of all daily discharges
measured divided by the number of daily discharges measured during that month.
The number of daily discharges measured, by the industrial user, over one week
or over one month (self or compliance monitoring) shall be determined by the
pretreatment office and listed in the user permit.
   AVERAGE WEEKLY DISCHARGE LIMITATION. The highest allowable average of the
daily discharges over a calendar week, calculated as the sum of all daily
discharges, measured during a calendar week divided by the number of daily
discharges measured during that week. An electroplating (EP) categorical
standard has a four-day maximum limit, in which case, a week as noted above may
be four consecutive working days.
   BENEFICIAL USES. These uses include, but are not limited to, domestic,
municipal, agricultural and industrial use, power generation, recreation,
aesthetic enjoyment, navigation and the preservation and enhancement of fish,
wildlife and other aquatic resources or reserves and other uses, both tangible
or intangible, as specified by state or federal law.
   COMPOSITE SAMPLES. A COMPOSITE SAMPLE should contain a minimum of eight
discrete samples taken at equal time intervals over the compositing period or
proportional to the flow over the compositing period. More than the minimum
number of discrete samples will be required where wastewater loading is highly
variable.
   DAILY DISCHARGE. Discharge of a pollutant measured during a calendar day or
any 24-hour period that reasonably represents the calendar day for purposes of
sampling.
   DISCHARGER. Any person or persons, commercial, industrial or institutional
company that discharges any type of liquid or solid substances to the POTW.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY, EPA or U.S. EPA. The U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency, or where appropriate the term may also be used as a
designation for the administrator or other duly authorized official of the
agency.
   GARBAGE. Any solid wastes from the preparation, cooking or dispensing of
food and from handling, storage or sale of produce.
   GRAB SAMPLE. A sample which is taken from a wastestream on a one-time basis
with no regard to the flow in the wastestream and without consideration of
time.
   GROUND (SHREDDED) GARBAGE. Garbage that is shredded to such a degree that
all particles will be carried freely in suspension under the conditions
normally prevailing in the sewerage system, with no particle normally being
greater than one-half inch in diameter.
   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any industrial or commercial establishment that discharges
industrial (process) wastewater to a publicly-owned treatment works (POTW).
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE PERMIT. A permit to deposit or discharge industrial waste
into any sanitary sewer as issued by the POTW.
   INFLUENT. The water, together with any wastes that may be present flowing
into a drain, sewer, receptacle or outlet.
   INTERFERENCE. The inhibition or disruption of a POTW treatment processes or
operations which contributes to a violation of any requirement of the town’s
NPDES permit. The term includes prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal by
the POTW in accordance with § 405 of the Act, (33 U.S.C. § 1345) or any
criteria, guidelines or regulations developed pursuant to the Solid Waste
Disposal Act (SWDA) being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq., the Clean Air Act being 42
U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq., the Toxic Substance Control Act being 15 U.S.C. §§ 2601
et seq. or any more stringent state criteria (including those contained in any
state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to Title IV of SWDA) applicable
to the method of disposal or use employed by the POTW.
   MAXIMUM DAILY DISCHARGE LIMITATIONS. Highest allowable daily discharge.
   MAY. Indicates a discretionary condition.
   MONITORING, SELF AND COMPLIANCE. Indicates the monitoring of flow rates and
collection of wastewater samples representative of the discharge to the POTW
for analysis of various chemical constituents.
   NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD. Any regulation containing
pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in accordance with § 307(b)
and (c) of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317(b) and (c) which applies to a
specific category of industrial users.
   NATIONAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD. Any regulation containing pollutant
discharge limits promulgated by EPA under § 307(b) and (c) of the CWA, being 33
U.S.C. § 1317 (b) and (c) applicable to IUs, including the general and specific
prohibitions found in 40 C.F.R. § 403.5.
   NEW SOURCE. A facility from which there is, or may be, a discharge of
pollutants, construction of which began after the publication of the proposed
pretreatment standards pursuant to § 307(c) of the CWA, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317
(c), which will apply to the facility if the standards are promulgated,
provided certain location and construction criteria are met. Reference 40
C.F.R. § 403.3(k) for construction and location criteria.
   NPDES PERMIT. National pollutant discharge elimination system permit which
sets the conditions of the discharge of any pollutant or combinations of
pollutants to the navigable waters of the United States pursuant to § 402 of
Pub. Law No. 95-217, being 33 U.S.C. § 1342.
   PASS THROUGH. A discharge which exits the POTW in quantities or
concentrations which, alone or with discharges from other sources, causes a
violation of the POTW’s NPDES permit.
   PERSON. Any and all persons, including any individual, firm, company,
municipal or private corporation, partnership, co-partnership, joint stock
company, trust, estate, association, society, institution, enterprise,
governmental agency, the state, the United States of America or other legal
entity, or their legal representatives, agents or assigns. The masculine gender
includes the feminine, the singular includes the plural where indicated by the
context.
   POLLUTION. An alteration of the quality of the waters of the state by waste
to a degree which unreasonably affects such waters for beneficial uses or
facilities which serve such beneficial uses. The human-made/human-induced
alteration of the chemical, physical, biological and radiological integrity of
water.
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment, other than a national pretreatment standard imposed on an
industrial user.
   RECEIVING STREAM. The watercourse, stream or body of water receiving the
waters finally discharged from the wastewater plant.
   SHALL. Is mandatory.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER (SIU). A contributor that: Is any categorical
industrial user (CIU); any industrial user which discharges 25,000 gallons or
more of process wastewater per day, or contributes a process wastewater which
makes up 5% or more of the dry weather average hydraulic or organic capacity of
the POTW, or is designated as such by the control authority on the basis that
it has a reasonable potential to adversely affect the POTW’s operation or to
violate a pretreatment standard or requirement; or has in its waste a toxic
pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in § 307 of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. §
1317.
   SLUDGE. Any solid, semi-solid or liquid waste generated from a municipal,
commercial or industrial wastewater treatment plant, water supply treatment
plant or air pollution control facility or any other waste having similar
characteristics and effects as defined in standards issued under §§ 402 and 405
of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1342 and 1345 and in applicable requirements
under §§ 3001, 3004 and 4004 of the Solid Waste Disposal Act, Pub. Law No. 95-
580, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6921, 6924 and 6944.
   SLUG LOAD (SLUG). Any substance released in a discharge at a rate and/or
concentration which causes interference to the POTW.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC). A classification pursuant to the
standard industrial classification issued by the executive office of the
President, Office of Management and Budget, 1972.
   STANDARD METHODS. The laboratory procedures set forth in the latest edition,
at the time of analysis, of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater prepared and published jointly by the American Public Health
Association, the American Water Works Association and the Water Pollution
Control Federation.
   TOWN. Town of Pierceton, Indiana.
   TOXIC AMOUNTS. Concentrations of any pollutants which upon exposure to any
organism will cause adverse effects such as cancer, genetic mutations and
physiological manifestations as defined in standards issued pursuant to § 307
(a) of Pub. Law No. 95-217, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317(a).
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. The substances referred to in § 307(a) of the Act, being 33
U.S.C. § 1317(a) as well as any other known potential substances capable of
producing toxic effects.
   UPSETS. An exceptional incident in which a discharger unintentionally and
temporarily is in a state of noncompliance with the applicable standard due to
factors beyond the reasonable control of the discharger, and excluding
noncompliance to the extent caused by operational error, improperly designed
treatment facilities, inadequate treatment facilities, lack of preventative
maintenance or careless or improper operation of the treatment facilities.
   USER. Any person that discharges, causes or permits the discharge of
wastewater into the sewerage system.
   WASTEWATER CONSTITUENTS AND CHARACTERISTICS. The individual chemical,
physical, bacteriological and radiological parameters, including volume, flow
rate and other parameters that serve to define, classify or measure the
contents, quality, quantity and strength of wastewater.
   WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT. A permit issued to a discharger by the
authority which states the conditions and requirements under which the
discharger may use the transportation and treatment facilities of the POTW.
Abbreviations
Abbreviations
BOD    Biological oxygen demand
C.F.R. Code of Federal Regulations
CWA    Clean Water Act
EPA    Environmental Protection Agency
IU     Industrial user
mg     Milligrams
mg/l   Milligrams per liter
NPDES  National pollutant discharge elimination system
O & M  Operation and maintenance
POTW   Publicly-owned treatment works
SIC    Standard industrial classification
TSS    Total suspended solids
WWTP   Wastewater treatment plant
 
(Ord. 2015-6-1, passed 7-13-2015)
§ 52.17 GENERAL DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   The discharge of any pollutant into a POTW which causes interference
is prohibited.
   (B)   Additionally, no discharger shall contribute or cause to be
discharged, directly or indirectly, any of the following described substances
into the wastewater disposal system of the town or otherwise to the facilities
of the authority:
      (1)   Any liquids, solids or gases which by reason of their nature or
quantity are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction to cause
fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the operation of the
POTW. This includes any substance with a flashpoint limit of less than 140°F
(60°C);
      (2)   Solid or viscous substances which will or may cause obstruction to
the flow in a sewer or other interference, which includes any oxygen-demanding
pollutants (BOD) in interference concentrations, with the operation of the
wastewater system;
      (3)   Any wastewater having a pH less than 6.0 or higher than 10.0 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment or
personnel of the system;
      (4)   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction to injure or interfere with any wastewater
treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, or to exceed the
limitation set forth in §
52.37 of this code. A toxic pollutant shall include but not be limited to any
pollutant identified in the toxic pollutant list set forth in §
52.35 of this code;
      (5)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases or solids which either
singly or by interaction are capable of creating a public nuisance or hazard to
life or are sufficient to prevent entry into the sewers for their maintenance
and repair;
      (6)   Any substance which may cause the POTW’s effluent or treatment
residues, sludges or scums to be unsuitable for reclamation and reuse or to
interfere with the reclamation process. In no case shall a substance discharged
to the POTW cause the POTW to be in noncompliance with sludge use or disposal
criteria, guidelines or regulations developed under § 405 of the Act, being 33
U.S.C. § 1345; any criteria, guidelines or regulations affecting sludge use or
disposal developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act being 42 U.S.C. §§
6901 et seq., the Clean Air Act being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq., the Toxic
Substances Control Act being 15 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq. or state standards
applicable to the sludge management method being used;
      (7)   Due to pass through, any substance which will cause the POTW to
violate its NPDES and/or other disposal system permits;
      (8)   Any substance with objectionable color not removed in the treatment
process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable tanning
solutions;
      (9)   Any wastewater having a temperature which will inhibit biological
activity in the POTW treatment plan resulting in interference; but in no case,
wastewater with a temperature at the introduction into the POTW which exceeds
40°C (104°F);
      (10)   Any slug load, which shall mean any pollutant, including oxygen-
demanding pollutants (BOD and the like) released in a discharge at a flow rate
or pollutant concentration which will cause interference, is prohibited;
      (11)   Any unpolluted water including but not limited to noncontact
cooling water;
      (12)   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes of
such half-life or concentration as exceed limits established by the authority
in compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (13)   Any wastewater which causes a hazard to human life or creates a
public nuisance; or
      (14)   Any trucked or hauled waste discharge is prohibited, except at a
designated manhole site at the POTW.
(Ord. 2015-6-1, passed 7-13-2015) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.18 LIMITATIONS ON WASTEWATER STRENGTH.
   (A)   National categorical pretreatment standards. National categorical
pretreatment standards as promulgated by the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency (EPA) pursuant to the Act and adopted as §
52.37 of this code shall be met by all dischargers of the regulated industrial
categories, unless the local limits are more stringent. An application for
modification of the national categorical pretreatment standards may be
considered for submittal to the regional administrator by the town or the
authority, when the town or the authority’s wastewater treatment system
achieves consistent removal of the pollutants as defined by 40 C.F.R. § 403.7.
   (B)   State requirements. State requirements and limitations on discharges
to the POTW shall be met by all dischargers which are subject to such standards
in any instance in which they are more stringent than federal requirements and
limitations or those in any other applicable ordinance or this code.
   (C)   Right of revision. The town reserves the right to amend this
subchapter to provide for more stringent limitations or requirements on
discharges to the POTW where deemed necessary to comply with the objectives set
forth in §
52.17 of this code.
   (D)   Dilution. No discharger shall increase the use of potable or process
water in any way, nor mix separate wastestreams for the purpose of diluting a
discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate treatment to achieve
compliance with the standards set forth in this subchapter.
   (E)   Supplementary limitations.
      (1)   Reference §
52.36 of this code for conventional and other pollutants not indicated in the
following table. Those pollutants found in §
52.36 of this code and in the following table shall not be discharged at a flow
rate or pollutant concentration which will cause interference to the POTW. No
discharger shall discharge wastewater containing concentrations of the
following enumerated materials, exceeding the following average monthly
concentration or a daily maximum concentration based upon twice the average
monthly concentration reported herein:
Chemical Average Concentration (mg/1)
Chemical              Average Concentration (mg/1)
Arsenic               0.20
Barium                2.00
Boron                 0.50
Cadmium               0.05
Chlorine              15.00
Chromium (hexavalent) 0.20
Chromium (total)      1.00
Copper                0.15
Cyanide               0.05
Fluoride              2.00
Iron                  10.00
Lead                  0.12
Manganese             0.40
Mercury               0.0003
Molybdenum            0.01
Nickel                0.35
Phenol                0.05
Selenium              0.10
Silver                0.50
Sulfide (as S)        10.00
Tin                   2.00
Zinc                  1.00
 
      (2)   Although the reported values in division (E)(1) above are average
monthly amounts, electroplating industries will be allowed to meet the daily
maximum and four-day average concentrations for the metals covered in the
electroplating categorical pretreatment standards of 40 C.F.R. part 413 and
these shall also be applied to the discharge of wastewater to the POTW by an
electroplating industry. See §
52.37 of this code for categorical pretreatment standards for electroplating.
However, these supplementary limitations, if more stringent than the
categorical limits, will be the guideline if the company has the technology to
meet the limits or to reduce the level of the chemical below the supplementary
limitations. If a company does not have the technology or the technology does
not exist, then the company will provide a study detailing the levels it can
reach without causing a financial hardship. The authority or the town will then
consider what mass limitations can be accepted.
      (3)   The town may impose mass limitations on dischargers which are using
dilution to meet the pretreatment standards or requirements of this subchapter,
or in other cases where the imposition of mass limitations is deemed
appropriate by the authority or the town.
      (4)   In the event of an organic chemical discharge, the town shall
control such discharge by imposing the limit at one-fourth of the current
existing water quality criteria level. In the event such limit is insufficient
to control treatment plant upset, then the town will either determine a more
safe level of discharge or ban such discharge.
(Ord. 2015-6-1, passed 7-13-2015)
§ 52.19 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Each discharger shall provide protection from accidental discharge of
prohibited or regulated material or substances established by this subchapter.
Where necessary, facilities to prevent accidental discharge of prohibited
materials shall be provided and maintained at the discharger’s cost and
expense. Detailed plans showing facilities and operating procedures to provide
this protection shall be submitted to the authority and the town for review and
shall be approved by the authority and the town before construction of the
facility.
   (B)   Each existing discharger shall complete its plan and submit same to
the town and the authority by 180 days following adoption of this revision to
the town; no discharger who discharges to the POTW after the aforesaid date
shall be permitted to introduce pollutants into the system until accidental
discharge protection procedures have been approved by the authority and the
town.
   (C)   Review and approval of such plans and operating procedures by the town
or the authority shall not relieve the discharger from the responsibility to
modify its facility as necessary to meet the requirements of this subchapter.
   (D)   Dischargers shall notify the Town Council immediately upon the
occurrence of a slug load or accidental discharge of substances prohibited by
this subchapter. The notification shall include location of discharge, date and
time thereof, type of waste, concentration and volume and corrective actions.
Any discharger who discharges a slug load of prohibited materials shall be
liable for any expense, loss or damage to the POTW, in addition to the amount
of any fines imposed on the authority on account thereof under state or federal
law. Signs shall be permanently posted in conspicuous places on discharger’s
premises, advising employees whom to call in the event of slug or accidental
discharge. Employees who may cause or discover such a discharge with respect to
emergency notification procedure.
   (E)   In addition to the above materials and information supplied to the
control authority, all SIUs shall develop and submit, for approval, a slug/
spill plan for the prevention of slug loads.
(Ord. 2015-6-1, passed 7-13-2015)
§ 52.20 ADMINISTRATIVE FEES AND PERMITS.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this section to provide for the payment
of fees from dischargers to the town and the authority’s wastewater disposal
system and to compensate the town and the authority for the cost of
administration of the pretreatment program established herein.
   (B)   Charges and fees.
      (1)   The town shall adopt charges and fees which may include:
         (a)   Fees for monitoring, inspections and surveillance procedures;
         (b)   Fees for filing appeals; and
         (c)   Fees for reviewing accidental discharge procedures and
construction.
      (2)   Permit charges and fees will be due annually or monthly with the
program cost being prorated based upon the total of industrial wastewater
contributed by each permitted industry or a flat fee based on each industry’s
categorical classification. The POTW Superintendent will establish which of
these two methods will be used, with approval by the Town Council.
      (3)   Permit charges and fees will be assessed annually by the POTW
Superintendent and approved by the Town Council at its regular meeting. Charges
and fees may change from year-to-year based upon verifiable documentation of
previous year costs through acceptable accounting practices.
   (C)   Missing material.
   (D)   Missing material.
   (E)   Permit modifications. The Town Council reserves the right and reserves
unto the authority the right to amend any wastewater discharge permit issued
hereunder in order to assure compliance by the authority with applicable laws
and regulations. Within nine months of the promulgation of a national
categorical pretreatment standard, the wastewater discharge permit of each
discharger subject to such standard shall be revised to require compliance with
such standards within the time frame prescribed by such standards. All national
categorical pretreatment standards adopted after the promulgation of this
subchapter shall be adopted by the authority as part of this subchapter. Where
a discharger, subject to a national categorical pretreatment standard, has not
previously submitted an application for a wastewater discharge permit as
required by this section, the discharger shall apply for a wastewater discharge
permit from the authority within 180 days after the promulgation of the
applicable national categorical pretreatment standard by the U.S. EPA. In
addition, the discharger with an existing wastewater discharge permit shall
submit to the authority within 180 days after the promulgation of an applicable
national categorical pretreatment standard, the information required by
division (C) above. The discharger shall be informed of any proposed changes in
his or her permit at least 30 days prior to the effective date of change. Any
changes or new conditions in the permit shall include a reasonable time
schedule for compliance.
   (F)   Permit conditions. Wastewater discharge permits shall specify no less
than the following:
      (1)   Fees and charges to be paid upon initial permit issuance;
      (2)   Limits on the average and maximum wastewater constituents and
characteristics regulated thereby;
      (3)   Limits on average and maximum rate and time of discharge and/or
requirements for flow regulations and equalization;
      (4)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities;
      (5)   Special conditions as the town and the authority may reasonably
require under particular circumstances of a given discharge including sampling
locations, frequency of sampling number, types and standards for tests and
reporting schedule;
      (6)   Compliance schedules;
      (7)   Requirements for submission of special technical reports of
discharge reports where same differ from those prescribed by this subchapter.
It is mandatory that the IU submit reports to the POTW, state and EPA for the
discharge of any hazardous waste and must notify the POTW in advance of any
substantial changes in volume or character of pollutants in their discharges,
including hazardous wastes (hazardous waste notifications must comply with 40
C.F.R. § 403.12(p) requirements);
      (8)   The duration of permits shall be for five years;
      (9)   The permit is nontransferable;
      (10)   The permit shall contain applicable federal, state and local
limits;
      (11)   The permit shall contain provisions for self-monitoring, sampling,
reporting, notification and record-keeping requirements; and
      (12)   A statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties.
   (G)   Permits duration. All wastewater discharge permits shall be issued for
a period not greater than five years, subject to amendment or revocation as
provided in this subchapter. Under certain circumstances, a permit may be
issued for a stated period or may be stated to expire on a specific date.
   (H)   Baseline monitoring report. All categorical industrial users (CIU)
must, as a minimum, submit a baseline monitoring report. This report must
include identifications of the facility, permits held, description of
operations and contain flow and pollutant measurements (as required in 40
C.F.R. § 403.12(b)). Also, this report must contain the proper signatory and
certification statements as described in §
52.20 of this code.
(Ord. 2015-6-1, passed 7-13-2015)
§ 52.21 REPORTING REQUIREMENTS FOR PERMITTEE.
   (A)   Compliance date report. All categorical industrial users (CIU) must
submit, within 90 days after the final date for compliance (or if a new source,
following the commencement of the discharge) which contains flow and pollutant
measurements, and a certification of whether pretreatment standards are being
met consistently. A description of needed additional O & M or pretreatment must
be provided, if standards are not met consistently. This statement shall be
signed by an authorized representative of the discharger and certified by a
qualified engineer licensed to practice in the state. Additionally, include
certification statements as outlined in §
52.20 of this code.
   (B)   Periodic compliance reports.
      (1)   Any discharger subject to the pretreatment standards set forth in
this subchapter, after the compliance date of such pretreatment standard, or,
in the case of a new discharger, after commencement of the discharge to the
authority, shall submit to the town and the authority during the months of June
and December, unless required more frequently by the authority, a report
indicating the nature and concentration, or prohibited or regulated substances
in the effluent which are limited by the pretreatment standards hereof. In
addition, this report shall include a record of all measured or estimated
average and maximum daily flow rates during the reporting period reported in
division (A) above. Flow shall be reported on the basis of actual measurements,
provided, however, where cost or feasibility considerations justify, the
authority may accept reports of average and maximum daily flows estimated by
verifiable techniques. The Town Council, for good cause when considering such
factors as local high or low flow rates, holidays, budget cycles or other
extenuating factors may authorize the submission of said reports on months
other than those specified above. Also, all IUs required to submit self-
monitoring reports must notify the POTW within 24 hours of becoming aware of a
violation. Furthermore, the IU is required to resample and submit the results
of this resampling within 30 days.
      (2)   Reports of permittees shall contain all results of sampling and
analysis of the discharge, including the flow and the nature and concentration,
or production and mass where required by the authority. The frequency of
monitoring by the discharger shall be as prescribed in the applicable
pretreatment standards of this subchapter. All analyses shall be performed in
accordance with 40 C.F.R. part 136 and amendments thereto. Where 40 C.F.R. part
136 does not include a sampling or analytical technique for the pollutant in
question, sampling and analysis shall be performed in accordance with the
procedures set forth in the EPA publication, Sampling and Analysis Procedures
for Screening of Industrial Effluents for Priority Pollutants, April, 1977, and
amendments thereto, or with any other sampling and analytical procedures
approved by the Administrator of the U.S. EPA. All above mentioned reports must
contain all of the proper signatory information and certification statements
indicated in §
52.20 of this code.
   (C)   Notification requirements. Any SIU or other discharger must notify the
control authority of any change in discharge characteristics, such as, flow
rate changes and pollutant strength. The control authority reserves the right
to deny or condition new or increased discharges or changes in the nature of
the discharge when they do not meet applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements or when it would cause the POTW to violate its NPDES permit. If
the IU is permitted, then the control authority can revoke a permit if the
above conditions are not met.
(Ord. 2015-6-1, passed 7-13-2015)
§ 52.22 MONITORING FACILITIES.
   (A)   Each discharger shall provide and operate at the discharger’s own
expense, a monitoring facility to allow inspection, sampling and flow
measurement of each sewer discharge to the authority. Each monitoring facility
shall be situated on the discharger’s premises, except where such a location
would be impractical or cause undue hardship on the discharger, the authority
may concur with the facility being constructed in the public street or sidewalk
area providing that the facility is located so that it will not be obstructed
by landscaping or parked vehicles.
   (B)   There shall be ample room in or near such sampling facility to allow
accurate sampling and preparation of samples for analysis. The facility,
sampling and measuring equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and
proper operating condition at the expense of the discharger.
   (C)   All monitoring facilities shall be constructed and maintained in
accordance with all applicable local construction standards and specifications.
Construction shall be completed within 180 days of receipt of the permit by the
discharger.
(Ord. 2015-6-1, passed 7-13-2015)
§ 52.23 INSPECTION AND SAMPLING.
   The authority or the town may inspect the monitoring facilities of any
discharger to determine compliance with the requirements of this subchapter.
The discharger shall allow the authority or its representatives, upon
presentation of credentials of identification, to enter upon the premises of
the discharger at all reasonable hours, for the purposes of inspection,
sampling or records examination. The authority and the town shall each have the
right to set up on the discharger’s property such devices as are necessary to
conduct sampling, inspection, compliance monitoring and/or metering operations.
Also, the discharger must make all monitoring records available to the POTW for
the purposes of copying, when needed.
(Ord. 2015-6-1, passed 7-13-2015)
§ 52.24 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   Information and data furnished to the town and the authority with respect to
the nature and frequency of discharge shall be available to the public without
restriction. Any portion of an IU’s file that they have deemed confidential, as
it applies to their manufacturing processes or trade secrets shall not be made
available to the public in any circumstance. Wastewater constituents and
characteristics will not be recognized as confidential information. All
information submitted by the IUs to the POTW shall be immediately accessible to
the EPA. This access shall be unlimited in regards to all collected information
by the POTW.
(Ord. 2015-6-1, passed 7-13-2015)
§ 52.25 EMERGENCY SUSPENSION OF SERVICE AND DISCHARGE PERMITS.
   The authority or the town may, for good cause shown, suspend the wastewater
treatment service and the wastewater discharge permit of a discharger when it
appears to the authority or the town that an actual or threatened discharge
presents or threatens an imminent or substantial danger to the health or
welfare of persons, substantial danger to the environment, interfere with the
operation of the POTW, violate any pretreatment limits imposed by this
subchapter or any wastewater discharge permit issued pursuant to this
subchapter. Any discharger notified of the suspension of the authority’s
wastewater treatment service and/or the discharger’s wastewater discharge
permit, shall within a reasonable period of time, as determined by the
authority and the town, cease all discharges. In the event of failure of the
discharger to comply voluntarily with the suspension order within the specified
time, the authority shall commence judicial proceedings immediately thereafter
to compel the discharger’s compliance with such order. The authority shall
reinstate the wastewater discharge permit and/or the wastewater treatment
service and terminate judicial proceedings pending proof by the discharger of
the elimination of the non-complying discharge or conditions creating the
threat of imminent or substantial danger as set forth above. Furthermore, if
the discharge appears to present a treat that requires a more immediate
response from the POTW then the POTW shall have the authority, on its own, to
halt or prevent such discharge (this includes notice to the affected user and
an opportunity to respond). Additionally, the control authority shall be able
to seek injunctive relief against all users of the POTW for all violations of
pretreatment standards or requirements, whether or not such users have actually
been permitted.
(Ord. 2015-6-1, passed 7-13-2015)
§ 52.26 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The authority or the town may revoke the permit of any discharger which
fails to: Factually report the wastewater constituents and characteristics of
its discharge; report significant changes in wastewater constituents or
characteristics; refuses reasonable access to the discharger’s premises by
representatives of the authority or the town for the purpose of inspection or
monitoring; or violates the conditions of its permit, or this subchapter, or
any final judicial order entered with respect thereto.
(Ord. 2015-6-1, passed 7-13-2015)
§ 52.27 NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATION; ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUSTMENT.
   Whenever the authority or the town finds that any discharger has engaged in
conduct which justifies revocation of a wastewater discharge permit, pursuant
to §
52.26 of this code, the authority shall serve or cause to be served upon such
discharger a written notice either personally or by certified or registered
mail, return receipt requested, stating the nature of the alleged violation.
Any violation of the town’s pretreatment program will subject the offending
party to immediate liability. Therefore, the parties shall meet to ascertain
the veracity of the allegations and where necessary, establish a plan for the
satisfactory correction thereof.
(Ord. 2015-6-1, passed 7-13-2015) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.28 SHOW CAUSE HEARING.
   Where the violation of §
52.26 of this code is not corrected by timely compliance by means of
administrative adjustment, the authority may order any discharger which causes
or allows conduct prohibited by §
52.26 of this code to show cause before the authority or its duly authorized
representative or the Town Council, or its duly authorized representative, why
the proposed permit revocation action should not be taken. A written notice
shall be served on the discharger by personal service, certified or registered,
return receipt requested, specifying the time and place of a hearing to be held
by the Town Council or its designee, regarding the violation, the reasons why
the enforcement action is to be taken, the proposed enforcement action, and
directing the discharger to show cause before the Town or its designee why the
proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The notice of the hearing
shall be served no less than ten days before the hearing. Service may be made
on any agent, officer or authorized representative of a discharger. The
proceedings at the hearing shall be considered by the Town Council which shall
then enter appropriate orders with respect to the alleged improper activities
of the discharger. Appeal of such orders may be taken by the discharger in
accordance with applicable local or state law.
(Ord. 2015-6-1, passed 7-13-2015)
§ 52.29 JUDICIAL PROCEEDINGS.
   Judicial action (40 C.F.R. § 403.8(f)(1)(vi)) may take place for any
violation of a town ordinance or any permit issued under this subchapter, in
addition to situations where an order has been issued by the authority with
respect to the conduct of a discharger contrary to the provisions of §
52.26 of this code, the attorney for the authority or the town may, following
the authorization of such action by the Town Council, commence an action for
appropriate legal and/or equitable relief in the appropriate local court.
(Ord. 2015-6-1, passed 7-13-2015)
§ 52.30 ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS; ANNUAL PUBLICATION.
   (A)   A list of all industrial dischargers (40 C.F.R. § 403.8(f)(2)(vii))
which were found to be in significant violation during the 12 previous months
shall be annually published by the authority in the largest daily newspaper
published in the municipality in which the authority is located.
   (B)   Significant violations of an industrial discharger shall be determined
as follows:
       (1)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here as
those in which 66% or more of all of the measurements taken during a six-month
period exceed (by any magnitude) the daily maximum limit or the average limit
for the same pollutant parameter;
      (2)   TECHNICAL REVIEW CRITERIA (TRC) VIOLATIONS, defined here as those
in which 33% or more of all of the measurements for each pollutant parameter
taken during a six-month period equal or exceed the product of the daily
maximum limit or the average limit multiplied by the applicable TRC (TRC equals
one and four-tenths for BOD, TSS, fats, oil and grease, and one and two-tenths
for all other pollutants except pH);
      (3)   Any other violation of a pretreatment effluent limit (daily maximum
or longer term average) that the control authority determines has caused, alone
or in combination with other discharges, interference or pass through
(including endangering the health of POTW personnel or the general public);
      (4)   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment
to human health, welfare or to the environment, or any discharge that has
resulted in the POTW exercising its emergency authority under §
52.25 of this code;
      (5)   Failure to meet, within 90 days after the schedule date, a
compliance schedule milestone contained in a local control mechanism or
enforcement order for starting construction, completing construction or
attaining final compliance;
      (6)   Failure to provide, within 30 days after the due date, required
reports such as baseline monitoring reports, 90-day compliance reports,
periodic self-monitoring reports and reports on compliance with compliance
schedules;
      (7)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; and
      (8)   Any other violation or group of violations which the control
authority determines will adversely affect the operation or implementation of
the local pretreatment program.
(Ord. 2015-6-1, passed 7-13-2015) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.31 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   Any discharger or any interested party shall have the right to request in
writing an interpretation or ruling by the Town Council on any matter covered
by this subchapter and shall be entitled to a prompt, written reply. In the
event that such inquiry is by a discharger and deals with matters of
performance or compliance with this subchapter or deals with a wastewater
discharge permit issued pursuant hereto for which enforcement activity relating
to an alleged violation is the subject, receipt of a discharger’s request shall
stay all enforcement proceedings pending receipt of the aforesaid written
reply. Appeal of any final judicial order entered pursuant to this subchapter
may be taken in accordance with the town and state law.
(Ord. 2015-6-1, passed 7-13-2015)
§ 52.32 OPERATING UPSETS.
   (A)   Any discharger which experiences an upset in operations which places
the discharger in a temporary state of non-compliance with this subchapter or
the discharger’s wastewater discharge permit shall inform the authority thereof
within 24 hours of the first awareness of the commencement of the upset. Where
such information is given orally, a written follow-up report thereof shall be
filed by the discharger with the authority within five days.
   (B)   The report shall specify:
      (1)   Description of the upset, the cause thereof and the upsets impact
on a discharger’s compliance status;
      (2)   Duration of non-compliance, including exact dates and times of non-
compliance, and if the non-compliance continues, the time by which compliance
is reasonably expected to occur; and
      (3)   All steps taken or to be taken to reduce, eliminate and prevent
recurrence of such an upset or other conditions of non-compliance.
   (C)   A documented and verified bona fide operating upset shall be an
affirmative defense to any enforcement action brought by the authority against
a discharger for any non-compliance with this subchapter or the discharger’s
wastewater discharge permit which arises out of violations alleged to have
occurred during the period of the upset.
(Ord. 2015-6-1, passed 7-13-2015)
§ 52.33 RECORDS RETENTION.
   (A)   All dischargers subject to this subchapter shall retain and preserve
for no less than three years any records, books, documents, memoranda, reports,
correspondence and any and all summaries thereof, relating to monitoring,
sampling and chemical analysis made by or in behalf of a discharger in
connection with its discharge.
   (B)   All records which pertain to matters which are the subject of
administrative adjustment or any other enforcement or litigation activities
brought by the authority pursuant hereto shall be retained and preserved by the
discharger until all enforcement activities have been concluded and all periods
of limitation with respect to any and all appeals have expired.
(Ord. 2015-6-1, passed 7-13-2015)
§ 52.34 DECLARATION OF AN EMERGENCY.
   An emergency is existing in that immediate enactment of this subchapter is
required to maintain compliance with the regulations and requirements of the
state’s Department of Environmental Management, and the public health and
safety of the town, by reason of which an emergency is declared, and this
subchapter shall be in full force and effect upon its adoption and posting as
required and provided by I.C. 36-5-2-10.
(Ord. 2015-6-1, passed 7-13-2015)
§ 52.35 FEDERAL TOXIC POLLUTANT LIST ADOPTED.
   The authority will adopt the federal priority pollutant list.
(Ord. 2015-6-1, passed 7-13-2015)
§ 52.36 GENERAL LIMITATIONS ON OTHER POLLUTANTS.
   Monthly averages used unless indicated otherwise:
Parameter Average Concentration (mg/l)
Parameter                          Average Concentration (mg/l)
Ammonia NH3-N                      30 (daily or monthly)
Biological oxygen demand (BOD)     250 (daily or monthly)
Chemical oxygen demand (COD)       500 (daily or monthly)
Cyanide (amenable to chlorination) 0.05
FOG (fats, oils and grease)        50
MBAS surfactants                   2.5
pH (maximum and minimum)           6-10
Phosphorus P04-P                   10 (daily or monthly)
Temperature                        150°F (65.6°C)
Total metals (Cu+Ni+Tot.Cr+-Zn)    *Categorical limit
Total suspended solids             250 (daily or monthly)
Total toxic organics               *Categorical limit
* Applies only to industry that have to meet the categorical standards.
 
(Ord. 2015-6-1, passed 7-13-2015)
§ 52.37 NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS ADOPTED.
   The authority will adopt national categorical pretreatment standards as its
own, as found in 40 C.F.R. Chapter I, subchapter N, parts 405-471. This section
of 40 C.F.R. is hereby incorporated into this subchapter and made a part
hereof.
(Ord. 2015-6-1, passed 7-13-2015)
SEWER RATES AND CHARGES
§ 52.50 RATES AND CHARGES.
   For the use of and the service rendered by said sewage disposal works, rates
and charges shall be collected from the owners of each and every lot, parcel of
real estate or building that is connected with the town’s sanitary sewerage
system or otherwise discharges sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or
other liquids either directly or indirectly into the sanitary sewerage system
of the town, which rates and charges shall be payable as hereinafter provided
and shall be in an amount determinable as follows.
   (A)   Except as herein otherwise provided, sewage rates and charges shall be
based on the quantity of water used on or in the property or premises subject
to such rates and charges, as the same is measured by the water meter then and
there in use. If a sewage meter is in use with consent of the Town Council,
then for purposes of determining rates and charges, the term “sewage meter”
shall be synonymous with “water meter.” Water meters will be read monthly and
sewage bills rendered monthly.
   (B)   The water usage schedule on which the amount of said sewage rates and
charges shall be determined for all users other than an intergovernment sewage
utility, shall be as follows.
      (1)   Charge per 1,000 gallons.
                  Charge Per 1,000 Gallons
Quantity of Water Phase I Effective 1- Phase II Effective Phase III Effective
Used Per Month    1-2022               1-1-2023           1-1-2024
                    Charge Per 1,000 Gallons
Quantity of Water   Phase I Effective 1- Phase II Effective Phase III Effective
Used Per Month      1-2022               1-1-2023           1-1-2024
First 2,000 gallons $16.12               $16.44             $16.77
Next 4,000 gallons  $9.64                $9.83              $10.03
Next 9,000 gallons  $6.37                $6.50              $6.63
Next 20,000 gallons $5.63                $5.74              $5.85
Next 45,000 gallons $4.83                $4.93              $5.03
Over 80,000 gallons $4.05                $4.13              $4.21
 
      (2)   Minimum charge. The minimum charge for any user per month shall be
based upon meter sizes as follows:
           Minimum Charge
Meter Size Phase I Effective 1-1- Phase II Effective 1- Phase III Effective 1-
           2022                   1-2023                1-2024
                 Minimum Charge
Meter Size       Phase I Effective 1- Phase II Effective Phase III Effective
                 1-2022               1-1-2023           1-1-2024
5/8-inch by 3/4- $32.24               $32.88             $33.54
inch
1-inch           $55.22               $56.31             $57.45
1-1/4-inch       $78.91               $80.47             $82.10
1-1/2-inch       $110.46              $112.67            $114.94
2-inch           $134.15              $136.84            $139.58
2-1/2-inch       $157.76              $160.90            $164.11
3-inch           $189.21              $192.97            $196.80
4-inch           $268.01              $273.34            $278.74
6-inch           $401.93              $410.03            $418.20
 
      (3)   Exception. In no event shall the minimum charge be less than $32.24
per month in phase I, less than $32.88 per month in phase II, less than $33.54
per month in phase III. The above rates and charges will apply except as
otherwise provided herein or by other ordinance.
   (C)   The sewage usage schedule on which the amount of rates and charges for
an intergovernment sewage utility user shall be as follows:
 
                  Charge Per 1,000 Gallons
                  Phase I Effective 1- Phase II Effective Phase III Effective
                  1-2022               1-1-2023           1-1-2024
All over 1 gallon $2                   $2.05              $2.10
 
   (D)   For the service rendered to the town, said town shall be subject to
the same rates and charges as hereinabove provided.
   (E)   Out-of-town rates:
      (1)   An intergovernmental sewage utility is a sewage utility operated by
another governmental unit. I.C. 36-9-23-26(b) and I.C. 8-1.5-3-8.1(c) and (d)
require that if this section imposes different rates and charges on the users
of the works for service to property located outside of the town’s corporate
boundaries as compared to property located within the boundaries, then the
ordinance must state in plain language the percentage difference between the
rates and charges. Except for intergovernmental sewage utility rates and
charges, there is no difference in the rates and charges for users of the works
for service to property located outside of the town’s corporate boundaries as
compared to property located within said boundaries of the town. The
intergovernmental sewage utility rates are lower than the rates for other in-
town users.
                  % Difference Between Intergovernmental and In-Town Rates as
                  Per 1,000 Gallons
Compared to       Phase I Effective 1- Phase II Effective Phase III Effective
Quantity of Water 1-2022               1-1-2023           1-1-2024
Used Per Month
                    % Difference Between Intergovernmental and In-Town Rates as
                    Per 1,000 Gallons
Compared to         Phase I Effective 1- Phase II Effective Phase III Effective
Quantity of Water   1-2022               1-1-2023           1-1-2024
Used Per Month
First 2,000 gallons 87.593%              87.530%            87.478% less than
                                                            in-town charges
Next 4,000 gallons  79.253%              79.145%            79.063% less than
                                                            in-town charges
Next 9,000 gallons  68.603%              68.462%            68.326% less than
                                                            in-town charges
Next 20,000 gallons 64.476%              64.286%            64.103% less than
                                                            in-town charges
Next 45,000 gallons 58.592%              58.418%            58.250% less than
                                                            in-town charges
All over 80,000     50.617%              50.363%            50.119% less than
gallons                                                     in-town charges
 
      (2)   Charges for various items of property and service, if needed, are
set forth in Ord. 91-12-1 adopted by the town, which approves the mutual
agreement dated September 19, 1991, entered into by the town and the Town of
Larwill, and approved by the state’s Department of Environmental Management
pursuant to I.C. 36-9-23-16, which agreement was supplemented by a supplemental
agreement of the parties dated October 12, 1992, and further supplemented by
the parties’ addendum dated December 8, 1992. Such specific charges or events
to occur, if any, are unknown and not comparable to the rates of other users.
   (F)   There will be a charge in the amount of $25 assessed to the consumer
for each check which is returned to the town for non-sufficient funds.
   (G)   All connections to the town’s sewer main must be inspected, and there
will be a $25 charge assessed to the consumer for inspection of all connections
to the municipal sewage works including replacement of existing connections.
   (H)   A system development charge shall be collected from each customer
prior to connection to the sewage works system based on meter size as follows:
Meter Size Meter Ratio Charge
Meter Size           Meter Ratio Charge
5/8-inch by 3/4-inch 1.0         $500
1-inch               2.5         $1,250
1-1/4-inch           4.0         $2,000
1-1/2-inch           5.0         $2,500
2-inch               8.0         $4,000
3-inch               15.0        $7,500
4-inch               25.0        $12,500
6-inch               50.0        $25,000
 
(Prior Code, § 10-2-1) (Ord. 2021-12-2, passed 1-10-2022)
§ 52.51 CONNECTION FEES TO CERTAIN AREAS.
   (A)   In addition to the sewage use rates and charges provided by §
52.50 of this code, and in addition to the costs and expenses charged for
tapping into the sewage lines of the town, each lot desiring to connect to the
following described lines of the town shall pay a connection fee prior to
connection as follows.
      (1)   The connection fee shall be $2,500 for each lot which connects into
the sewage lines of the town, which commences at the intersection of Catholic
Street and Seventh Street in the town, and then continues south on the east
side of Seventh Street 200 feet, more or less, to a manhole, thence west 200
feet, more of less, to a manhole, thence south along a utility easement 650
feet, more or less, along the west side of lots numbered one through and
including lot numbered four of a platted subdivision commonly known as the
Beyer Subdivision, to the northwest corner of lot numbered five in said
subdivision.
      (2)   The connection fee shall be $1,700 for each lot connecting to a
sewage line of the town which begins at a manhole on the south edge of School
Street and the west edge of Third Street, thence north to the north side of
School Street, thence west on the north side of School Street.
   (B)   In addition to the sewage use rates and charges provided by §
52.50 of this code, and in addition to the costs and expenses charged for
tapping into the sewage lines of the town, there is hereby established a
connection fee in the amount of $2,500 for each of the lots numbered five
through and including eight in Beyers First Addition to the town, which is now
connected to or which hereinafter connects into the sewage lines of the town,
which connection fee shall be due and payable within 30 days following the
passage of Ord. 88-9-1, or if one of said lots is already connected into the
sewage lines at the time of the passage of Ord. 88-9-1, or if one of such lots
is not already connected to the town sewage lines, then at the time of
connection, whichever of the time periods is later, which fee may be paid in
either of the following two manners:
      (1)   Two thousand five hundred dollars to the Sewage Clerk in cash at
the time that said payment is due; or
      (2)   A minimum of $1,000 in cash at the time that said payment is due,
and the remaining balance (the difference between $2,500 and the amount paid),
to be paid in equal payments amortized over a 120-month period at a rate of 6%,
an amortization schedule for which is attached to the ordinance codified in
this section and marked Exhibit A and made a part hereof by reference. The
first of said 120 monthly payments shall be due with and on the same day as the
next regular monthly sewage payment for sewage use is due, provided, however,
if said next first payment is due within the next 15 days, then such first
payment will be due on the next payment with the next sewage payment which is
due, and thereafter, each payment will be due and payable on the same date
thereafter until the balance is paid. The owner of any lot electing this
payment option may pay the balance in full on any payment date, by paying the
present value of the remaining payments due and owing at a rate of 6% as is
determined by 6% present value tables.
   (C)   (1)   In the event two or more residential lots, parcels of real
estate, building, trailers, apartments or dwelling units discharging sanitary
sewage, water or other liquids into the town’s sanitary sewerage system, either
directly or indirectly, are users of waste and the quantity of water is
measured by a single water meter, then, in such case, for billing purposes, the
sewage rates and charges shall be based, either on the quantity of water used
on the property or premises subject to such rates and charges, as the same is
measured by said single water meter there in use and shown by consumption
records of said water utility.
      (2)   Except that in no event shall the charge billed be less than the
product of the number of such dwelling units served through the single water
meter times the minimum charge for a single service. In the case of trailer
parks, the number of dwelling units shall be interpreted as the maximum
capacity for trailers in said park, plus any other dwelling units served
through the meter. A dwelling unit shall be interpreted as a room or rooms or
other living space or spaces in which cooking facilities are provided.
   (D)   In order that the single-family domestic and residential users of
sewage service shall not be penalized for sprinkling lawns during the third
quarter, the billing for sewage service for residences and/or domestic users
for said months shall be based upon the water usage for the previous first
quarter of the year. In the event the water usage for said previous first
quarter is greater than the water usage for said summer quarter, then the
billing for sewage services shall be computed on the actual water used in the
quarter for which the sewage service bill is being rendered. Domestic and/or
residential sewage service, as applicable to the sprinkling rate, shall apply
to each lot, parcel of real estate or building which is occupied and used as a
single family residence. Said sprinkling rate shall not apply to any premises
which are partially or wholly used for commercial or industrial purposes. In
the event a portion of such premises shall be used for commercial or industrial
purposes, the owner shall have the privilege of separating the water served
through a separate meter and in such case the water usage as registered by the
water meter serving such portion of the premises used for residential purposes
would qualify under the sprinkling rate.
   (E)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate or building discharges
sanitary sewage, industrial waste, water or other liquids into the town’s
sanitary sewerage system, either directly or indirectly, and uses water in
excess of 25,000 gallons per month, and it can be shown to the satisfaction of
the town that a portion of water as measured by the water meter or meters does
not and cannot enter the sanitary sewage system, then the owner or other
interested party shall install and maintain meters, weirs, volumetric measuring
devices or any adequate and approved method of measurement acceptable to the
town for the determination of sewage discharge.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-1.1) (Ord. 148, passed 5-6-1977; Ord. 87-9-3, passed - -)
§ 52.52 QUALITY OF SEWAGE; RATES.
   In order that the rates and charges may be justly and equitably adjusted to
the service rendered to industrial users, the town shall base its charges not
only on the volume, but also on strength and character of the stronger than
normal domestic sewage and wastes which it is required to treat and dispose of.
The town shall require the industrial user to determine the strength and
content of all sewage and wastes discharged, either directly or indirectly into
the sanitary sewage system, in such manner and by such method as the town may
deem practicable in the light of the conditions and attending circumstances of
the case, in order to determine the proper charge. In all cases, the costs of
measuring and monitoring will be borne by the industrial user. Also, the
industrial user shall furnish a central sampling point available to the town at
all times.
   (A)   Normal sewage domestic waste strength should not exceed a biochemical
oxygen demand of 220 milligrams per liter of fluid or suspended solids in
excess of 220 milligrams per liter of fluid. Additional charges for treating
stronger-than-normal domestic waste shall be made on the following basis.
      (1)   Rate surcharge based upon suspended solids. There shall be an
additional charge of $0.05 per pound for suspended solids received in excess of
220 milligrams per liter of fluid.
      (2)   Rate surcharge based upon BOD. These shall be an additional charge
of $0.05 per pound of biochemical oxygen demand for BOD received in excess of
220 milligrams per liter of fluid.
   (B)   The determination of suspended solids and five-day biochemical oxygen
demand contained in the waste shall be in accordance with the latest copy of
Standard Methods for the Examination of Water, Sewage and Industrial Wastes, as
written by the American Public Health Association, the American Water Works
Association, the Water Pollution Control Federation and in conformance with
Guidelines Establishing Test Procedures for Analysis of Pollutants, 40 C.F.R.
part 136, published in the Federal Register on October 16, 1973.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-3) (Ord. 148, passed 5-6-1977)
§ 52.53 COLLECTION OF RATES AND CHARGES.
   Such rates and charges shall be prepared, billed and collected by the town
in the manner provided by law and ordinance. (See I.C. 36-9-23-1 et seq.)
   (A)   The rates and charges may be billed to the tenant or tenants occupying
the properties served, unless otherwise requested in writing by the owner, but
such billing shall in no way relieve the owner from the liability, in the event
payment is not made as herein required. The owners of properties served, which
are occupied by a tenant or tenants, shall have the right to examine the
collection records of the town for the purpose of determining whether bills
have been paid by such tenant or tenants, provided that such examination shall
be made at the office at which said records are kept and during the hours that
such office is open for business.
   (B)   The connection fee provided herein and the method for the payment of
said connection fee shall be also applicable to those lots which in the future
connect into the town sewage line which extends from the manhole at the
northeast corner of lot numbered five in said Beyers First Addition to the
town, and then southward to the manhole near the northeast corner of lot
numbered eight in said Beyers First Addition to the town, provided, however,
that prior to connecting to said line, if a lot connecting into said line is
more than 150 feet in width, such lot owner shall not be permitted to connect
into the line until the Town Council have first had opportunity to study the
costs of the line with respect to such larger lot and determine the fair
proportionate share of expense which is applicable to said lot, which share may
be cause for a larger connection fee.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-4) (Ord. 88-9-1, passed - -; Ord. 148, passed 5-6-1977)
§ 52.54 WATER QUANTITY DETERMINATION; RATES.
   (A)   The quantity of water discharged into the sanitary sewerage system and
obtained from sources other than the utility that serves the town shall be
determined by the town in such manner as the town shall reasonably elect, and
the sewage service shall be billed at the above appropriate rates.
   (B)   Further, as is hereinafter provided in this section, the town may make
proper allowances in determining the sewage bill for quantities of water shown
on the records to be consumed, but which are also shown to the satisfaction of
the town that such quantities do not enter the sanitary sewage system.
      (1)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate or building discharging
sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or other liquids into the town
sanitary sewerage system, either directly or indirectly, is not a user of water
supplied by the water utility serving the town, and the water used thereon or
therein is not measured by a water meter, or is measured by a water meter not
acceptable to the town, then the amount of water used shall be otherwise
measured or determined by the town. In order to ascertain the rate of charge
provided in this subchapter, the owner or other interested party shall, at his
or her expense, install and maintain meters, weirs, volumetric measuring
devices or any adequate and approved method of measurement acceptable to the
town for the determination of sewage discharge. If there is no meter or any
adequate and approved method of measurement for residential lots or residential
parcels of real estate, then the service charge for such sewage service shall
be $10.88 per month or $32.64 per quarter.
      (2)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate or building discharging
sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or other liquids into the town’s
sanitary sewerage system, either directly or indirectly, is a user of water
supplied by the water utility serving the town and, in addition, is a user of
water from another source which is not measured by a water meter or is measured
by a meter not acceptable to the town, then the amount of water used shall be
otherwise measured or determined by the town. In order to ascertain the rates
or charges, the owner or other interested parties shall, at his or her expense,
install and maintain meters, weirs, volumetric measuring devices or any
adequate and approved method of measurement acceptable to the town for the
determination of sewage discharge.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-2)
§ 52.55 ENFORCEMENT; PROHIBIT WASTES.
   (A)   The town shall make and enforce such by-laws and regulations as may be
deemed necessary for the safe, economical and efficient management of the
town’s sewerage system, pumping stations and sewage treatment works, for the
construction and use of house sewers and connections to the sewerage system,
and for the regulation, collection, rebating and refunding of such rates and
charges.
   (B)   The town is authorized to prohibit dumping of wastes into the town’s
sewage system which, in its discretion, are deemed harmful to the operation of
the sewage treatment works of said town, or to require methods affecting
pretreatment of said wastes to comply with the pretreatment standards included
in the national pollution discharge elimination system (NPDES) permit issued to
the sewage works.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-5) (Ord. 148, passed 5-6-1977)
§ 52.56 SPECIAL RATES.
   The Town Council is hereby further authorized to enter into special rate
contracts with customers of the sewage works where clearly definable reductions
in cost to the sewage works can be determined, and such reduction shall be
limited to such reduced costs.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-6) (Ord. 148, passed 5-6-1977)
§ 52.57 REQUIRED CONNECTION.
   The owner of any real estate within 150 feet of a sewerage line of the town
shall connect to and discharge all sewage from said real estate into the
sanitary sewerage system of the town.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-5) (Ord. 83-10-3, passed - -)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   As is provided by statute, all rates and charges not paid when due are
hereby declared to be delinquent and a penalty of 10% of the rates or charges
shall thereupon attach thereto. The time at which such rates or charges shall
be paid is now fixed at 20 days after the date of mailing of the bill.
(Prior Code, §§ 10-2-4, 10-6-1)
   (C)   (1)   Any discharger who is found to have violated an order of the
Town Council or who has failed to comply with any provision of §§
52.15 through
52.37 of this code, and the regulations or rules of the Town Council, or orders
of any court of competent jurisdiction may be subjected to the imposition of a
civil penalty. Permit violations will trigger civil penalties. The civil
penalties can amount to as much as $1,000 per day per each violation by IUs of
pretreatment standards and requirements.
      (2)   Any discharger violating any of the provisions of §§
52.15 through
52.37 of this code or who discharges or causes a discharge producing a deposit
or obstruction, or causes damage to or impairs the town’s or the authority’s
wastewater disposal system shall be liable to the authority and the town for
any expense, loss or damage caused by such violation or discharge. The
authority and the town shall bill the discharger for the costs incurred by the
authority and the town for any cleaning, repair or replacement work caused by
the violation or discharge. Refusal to pay the assessed costs shall constitute
a violation of §§
52.15 through
52.37 of this code enforceable under the provisions of this penalty section.
Civil/criminal penalties may be assessed in the amount of $1,000 per day per
violation.
      (3)   Any person who knowingly makes any false statement, representation
or certification in any application, record, plan or other document filed or
required to be maintained pursuant to §§
52.15 through
52.37 of this code, or who falsified, tampers with or knowingly renders
inaccurate any monitoring device or method required under §§
52.15 through
52.37 of this code shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not more
than $1,000 per violation per day or imprisonment for not more than one year or
both.
      (4)   (a)   In addition to divisions (C)(1), (C)(2) and (C)(3) above, as
well as any other legal proceeding detailed in §§
52.15 through
52.37 of this code a surcharge and/or daily violation charges may be imposed
when in the opinion of the Town Council the violation is a reoccurring problem
that for inadequate reasons are not being reduced or stopped by the discharger.
These surcharges and/or daily violation charges may be imposed separately or
together or including any other violation measure imposed on the discharger
depending on the severity of the violation as indicated from the discharger’s
wastestream.
         (b)   The following table gives the surcharge levels for any
constituent found that is regulated by EPA, state or local limitations, and the
charge shall be based on the excess pounds over the limitation set by the
discharger’s permit:
Parameter Charge/Pound
Parameter                Charge/Pound
Ammonia: N               $0.83
Biological oxygen demand $0.260
Chemical oxygen demand   $0.124
Metals                   $0.34
Organics                 $0.45
Phosphorus: P            $1.22
Suspended solids         $0.132
All other                $0.113
 
         (c)   It shall be at the discretion of the authority as to how the
surcharge be imposed either against daily maximum limits or monthly average
limits.
         (d)   The daily violation charge shall be imposed when in the opinion
of the authority the violation is severe enough to cause the POTW to be in
violation of its own permit or any extreme condition that may cause a threat to
life, property or the environment. The charge shall be set according to the
concentration of the constituent that is greater than the limitation either on
a daily maximum or monthly average. The calculation will be the tested
concentration divided by the limit concentration times $100. The daily
violation charge shall be limited to no less than $100 per day per violation
and no more than $1,000 per day per violation.
      (5)   In addition to the penalty in division (C)(2) above, any costs
incurred by the town through fines from the local, state or federal agencies
will be prorated back to the involved industries. The pretreatment office will
determine the prorated cost to those industries that indicated violations of
their own permit, for the metals or organics that caused the POTW violation of
its NPDES permit. The POTW violations caused by interference, pass through or
process upset will be considered in the prorated determination. The total
violation cost for each industry will be billed along with the regular
pretreatment/sewer collection billing methods.
(Ord. 148, passed 5-6-1977; Ord. 2015-6-1, passed 7-13-2015)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
72.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
   
70.01   Speed limits
   
70.02   Engine braking or jake braking
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 SPEED LIMITS.
   No person shall operate any vehicle at a speed of more than 25 mph on any
street within the corporate limits of the town. The speed limit shall not be
altered: Along any portion of State Road 13 or U.S. Route 30 which lies within
the corporate limits of the town; along any portion of any street which is
located in a designated school zone; or along any portion of any street where
the speed limit is already reduced in the immediate vicinity of any school,
park or playground.
(Ord. 2019-11-2, passed 12-9-2019) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.02 ENGINE BRAKING OR JAKE BRAKING.
   (A)   Definition. ENGINE BRAKING which is also commonly known as JAKE
BRAKING means the use of or operation of any mechanical exhaust device designed
to aid in braking, decompression or deceleration of any motor vehicle which
results in the excessive, loud, unusual or explosive noise from such vehicle.
   (B)   Prohibited acts. It shall be unlawful for the driver of any motor
vehicle to use or operate or cause to be used or operated at any time and on
any street or road within the town any mechanical exhaust or decompression
device which results in the practice known as engine braking or jake braking.
   (C)   Exemptions. The provisions of this section shall not apply to the
application of unmuffled compression brakes where necessary for the protection
of persons and/or property which cannot be avoided by application of an
alternative braking system. Noise caused by the application of engine
compression brakes otherwise known as engine braking or jake braking which is
effectively muffled or if the application is necessary for the health, safety
and welfare of the community is exempt from the provisions of this section.
Sounds created by emergency equipment for emergency purposes are also exempt.
   (D)   Posting of signs. It is hereby directed that signs prohibiting engine
braking or jake braking be posted at reasonable locations around the town.
(Ord. 2010-11-1, passed 12-13-2010) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   A person who violates §
70.01 of this code shall be fined in an amount of $35 plus court costs, if any.
A person shall be fined not more than $500 if a person who contests a violation
of §
70.01 of this code in court is found by the court to have violated §
70.01 of this code and to have committed, within the county, within five years
before the appearance date specified in the summons and complaint, one or more
moving violations as permitted by I.C. 34-28-5-4.
   (C)   Unless another penalty is hereinafter expressly provided for engine
braking in this code, any person in violation of §
70.02 of this code shall be punished with a fine of $100.
(Ord. 2010-11-1, passed 12-13-2010; Ord. 2019-11-2, passed 12-9-2019)
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Parking restrictions; U-turns
   
71.02   Truck parking
   
71.03   Areas to be marked and signed
   
71.04   Parking and loitering
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 PARKING RESTRICTIONS; U-TURNS.
   (A)   U-turn prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any
motor vehicle within the corporate limits of the town, so as to make a U-turn
upon any portion of First Street, between Columbia Street and Elm Street.
   (B)   Parking restrictions other than exceeding two-hour limit. It shall be
unlawful for any person or entity to park, leave standing or knowingly permit
any motor truck, automobile, motorcycle, trailer or any other vehicle to be
parked or left standing in the following places or in the following manner:
      (1)   Upon any public street or municipal parking lot within the town
that is not specifically designated as “truck parking” if the vehicle is a
semi-tractor, semi-trailer or any vehicle exceeding 30 feet in length or
exceeding seven feet in width, except for the purpose of loading or unloading,
unless the vehicle is a stretch limousine or a hearse;
      (2)   In any area designated either by signs or yellow curbs as a “no
parking” or as a “loading zone” area or to park any vehicle within 15 feet of a
fire hydrant;
      (3)   In such a way that the vehicle or trailer is double-parked or is
left standing in an open lane of traffic upon any street within said town;
      (4)   To park or leave standing any vehicle or trailer upon an alley,
except for loading and unloading; or
      (5)   To park any vehicle in a space or area on any street or municipal
parking lot within the town marked for handicapped parking without bearing the
handicapped sticker or license plate as required by law or, if bearing those,
without the driver or a passenger therein being handicapped.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-1)
§ 71.02 TRUCK PARKING.
   The Town Council may, from time to time, by action of the Town Council,
without the requirement of a resolution, designate one or more areas in the
town as “truck parking,” with such restrictions as the Council determines. The
Town Council may, by a majority vote of a quorum, repeal or modify any
designation made under this section.
(Ord. 02-6-1, passed 6-10-2002)
§ 71.03 AREAS TO BE MARKED AND SIGNED.
   The Town Council shall cause areas heretofore described in the town to be
marked and suitable signs to be erected, to give notice of conduct and parking
prohibited by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-3) (Ord. 02-6-1, passed 6-10-2002)
§ 71.04 PARKING AND LOITERING.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, PROTECTED PROPERTY is defined as any
business, church, organization or other property accessed by the public.
   (B)   It shall be a violation of this section to block entrances or exits to
any parking area providing access to a protected property, whether by vehicle,
persons or barricades, in any manner that causes difficulty in entering or
exiting the parking area. This section does not apply to blocked entrances or
exits resulting from municipal or private repairs on or near a protected
property or blocked entrances or exits otherwise created at the proper
direction of the owner or manager of a protected property.
   (C)   It shall be a violation of this section to create, directly or
indirectly, any loud, excessive or other unseemly noise on or near the premises
of any protected property.
   (D)   It shall be a violation of this section for any person to drive a
motor vehicle repeatedly through any parking area providing access to a
protected property without attempting to park said vehicle.
   (E)   It shall be a violation of this section for any person to enter on or
near a protected property, unless the person does so for the purpose of
conducting business or does so with the consent of the owner or manager of the
protected property.
   (F)   A parent or legal guardian is deemed to violate this section when a
child under the age of 17 residing with that parent or legal guardian engages
in a violation of this section.
   (G)   It shall be the duty of the owner or manager of a protected property
to conspicuously post at least one sign notice displaying the fact that the
protected property is regulated by the terms of this section.
(Ord. 97-5-3, passed 5-12-1997) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
71.01 of this code shall be fined in an amount of not less than $25 nor more
than $1,000 for each such violation, together with the attorneys’ fees incurred
by the town, provided, however, that the total amount of the fine and
attorneys’ fees shall not exceed $2,500. In lieu of an ordinance violation
being filed against a person violating the provisions of §
71.01 of this code, a person may pay the Town Clerk-Treasurer for the benefit
of the General Fund of the town, the sum of $25 for each such violation withing
14 days of being given notice of an ordinance violation by the office of the
Town Marshal, also known as the town’s Police Department.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
71.02 of this code shall be fined an amount not less than $5 nor more than
$100, together with the reasonable attorneys’ fees incurred by the town in
enforcement of the provisions of §
71.02 of this code, provided, however, that the combined total of the fine and
attorneys’ fees shall not exceed $2,500 for each violation. Any person
initially charged by the office of the Town Marshal, also known as the town’s
Police Department, shall have 14 days from the time of the issuance of the
initial ordinance violation to pay to the Town Clerk-Treasurer, for the benefit
of the General Fund of the town within 30 days of the issuance of the ordinance
violation, the following:
      (1)   The sum of $5 for each such violation if paid within 72 hours of
the violation; or
      (2)   If the sum provided for in division (C)(1) above has not been paid
within 72 hours, then by paying the sum of $5 plus an additional $1 for each
24-hour period from the time of the violation charge to date of payment, with
said total sums not to exceed $25.
(Prior Code, § 9-5-2)
   (D)   In addition to the penalties provided herein, any vehicle parked in
violation of the terms of this traffic code may be towed at the direction of
the office of the Town Marshal, also known as the town’s Police Department, and
the owner of the vehicle shall be responsible for payment of all costs of
towing.
   (E)   Any person violating the terms of §
71.04 of this code shall be subject to a fine not exceeding $25 for a first
offense or $50 for any second or subsequent offense, or, at the option of the
parent or legal guardian of the child, community service as directed by the
Town Marshal to be performed by the child may be utilized for the purpose of
payment of any fine imposed at the rate of $5 per hour.
(Ord. 92-11-1, passed 11-11-1991; Ord. 97-5-3, passed 5-12-1997; Ord. 02-6-1,
passed 6-10-2002)
CHAPTER 72: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Skateboards and Wheeled Skates
   
72.01   “Wheeled device” defined
   
72.02   Wheeled device prohibited area
   
72.03   Signage
Off-Road Vehicles
   
72.15   Definitions
   
72.16   Operation of off-road vehicles prohibited
   
72.17   Exception for off-road vehicles equipped with snowplow
   
72.18   Suspension upon declaration of emergency
Golf Carts
   
72.30   Definitions
   
72.31   Operation of golf cart
   
72.32   Operator
   
72.33   Financial responsibility
   
72.34   Time of operation and lights
   
72.35   Place of operation
   
72.36   Occupants
   
72.37   Traffic and parking rules
   
72.38   Slow-moving vehicle sign
 
   
72.99   Penalty
SKATEBOARDS AND WHEELED SKATES
§ 72.01 “WHEELED DEVICE” DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, a WHEELED DEVICE is a board, skate or
other non-motorized personal mobility device with wheels used primarily for
recreational purposes. The term includes but is not limited to bicycles,
skateboards, roller skates and roller blades. However, the term does not
include devices intended and being used to aid the mobility of infants,
disabled or elderly individuals.
(Ord. 05-02-01, passed 3-14-2005)
 
§ 72.02 WHEELED DEVICE PROHIBITED AREA.
   No person shall ride or otherwise operate a wheeled device upon any street
or sidewalk within the following designated areas within the town:
   (A)   First Street (State Road 13) from Columbia Street to Elm Street;
   (B)   West Market Street from First Street to Second Street;
   (C)   East Market Street from First Street to Washington Street;
   (D)   West Catholic Street from First Street to Second Street; and
   (E)   East Catholic Street from First Street to Washington Street.
(Ord. 05-02-01, passed 3-14-2005) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 SIGNAGE.
   The Town Marshal is authorized to erect signs on any sidewalk or roadway
prohibiting the riding of wheeled recreational devices thereon by any person
and when these signs are in place no person shall disobey the same. Signage may
also be accomplished by painting notices of the prohibition upon the sidewalks.
(Ord. 05-02-01, passed 3-14-2005) Penalty, see §
72.99
OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
§ 72.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OFF-ROAD VEHICLE.
      (1)   A motor driven vehicle capable of cross-country travel:
         (a)   Without benefit of a road or trail; and
         (b)   On or over land.
      (2)   The term includes but is not limited to the following:
         (a)   A multi-wheel drive or low-pressure tire vehicle;
         (b)   A golf cart; or
         (c)   Other means of transportation deriving motive power from a
source other than muscle or wind.
      (3)   The term does not include the following:
         (a)   A farm vehicle being used for farming;
         (b)   A vehicle used for military or law enforcement purposes;
         (c)   A construction, mining or other industrial-related vehicle used
in performance of the vehicle’s common function;
         (d)   A registered aircraft;
         (e)   Any other vehicle properly registered by the Bureau of Motor
Vehicles;
         (f)   Any watercraft that is registered under state statutes; or
         (g)   A snowmobile.
   OPERATE. To ride in or on and control the operation of an off-road vehicle.
   OPERATOR. Every person who operates or is in actual physical control of an
off-road vehicle.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, corporation, the state and its agencies
and sub-divisions and any body of persons whether incorporated or not.
   SNOWMOBILE. Snowmobile means a motor driven vehicle:
      (1)   Designed for travel primarily on snow or ice; and
      (2)   Of a type that uses:
         (a)   Sled-type runners or skis;
         (b)   An endless belt tread; or
         (c)   Any combination of these or other similar means of contact with
the surface upon which the vehicle is operated.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width and length of any public way or public
place that is open to the use of the public as a matter of right for the
purpose of vehicular traffic or pedestrian traffic. This term includes a
sidewalk in a public way.
(Ord. 06-12-1, passed 1-8-2007)
§ 72.16 OPERATION OF OFF-ROAD VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 16 years to operate an
off-road vehicle upon any street or highway within the corporate limits of the
town, except as provided hereinbelow in the event of an emergency.
(Ord. 06-12-1, passed 1-8-2007) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.17 EXCEPTION FOR OFF-ROAD VEHICLES EQUIPPED WITH SNOWPLOW.
   This subchapter shall not apply to an off-road vehicle that is equipped with
an operating snow removal blade or snow blower when it is being used for, or is
in route for the purpose of snow removal.
(Ord. 06-12-1, passed 1-8-2007)
§ 72.18 SUSPENSION UPON DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY.
   This subchapter pertaining to off-road vehicles shall be suspended upon the
declaration by the Town Marshal, or the President of the Town Council of an
emergency. Said suspension shall last for the duration of the emergency.
(Ord. 06-12-1, passed 1-8-2007)
GOLF CARTS
§ 72.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRIVER’S LICENSE. A valid license, issued by Indiana or any other state, to
operate a motor vehicle.
   FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY. Liability insurance coverage on a golf cart in an
amount not less than required by applicable state law for motor vehicles
operated on public highways within the state.
   GOLF CART. A vehicle with four wheels originally designated for operation on
a golf course and powered by a battery or internal combustion motor, including
the use of utility vehicle (UTV), with a maximum speed limit of less than 25
mph.
(Ord. 16-9-1, passed - -)
§ 72.31 OPERATION OF GOLF CART.
   The operation of a golf cart within the town is strictly prohibited unless
said golf cart is operated and equipped in full compliance with all of the
terms and conditions set forth in this subchapter.
(Ord. 16-9-1, passed - -) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.32 OPERATOR.
   Only persons 16 years of age or older who hold a valid driver’s license may
operate a golf cart upon the streets, roadways, intersections and alleys
located within the town.
(Ord. 16-9-1, passed - -)
§ 72.33 FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   The operator of a golf cart must be able to show financial responsibility
when operating a golf cart. Written proof of financial responsibility must be
available either by placing the same on the golf cart or via carrying by the
operator of said golf cart at all times.
(Ord. 16-9-1, passed - -)
§ 72.34 TIME OF OPERATION AND LIGHTS.
   Golf carts operated during darkness, from dusk to dawn or during inclement
weather, when headlamps are necessary for other motor vehicles, must be
equipped with and use headlights and taillights visible from a distance of no
less than 500 feet.
(Ord. 16-9-1, passed - -)
§ 72.35 PLACE OF OPERATION.
   A golf cart may be operated on the streets, roadways and alleys of the town
which have a posted speed limit of 30 mph or less, or at and through
intersections of such streets, roadways and alleys. A golf cart may not, in any
circumstances, be operated on sidewalks or along national or state highways
located within the town; provided, however, that a golf cart may be operated
through intersections with national or state highways located within the town.
(Ord. 16-9-1, passed - -)
§ 72.36 OCCUPANTS.
   The number of occupants in a golf cart shall be limited to the number of
persons for whom factory seating is installed. The operator of a golf cart and
all occupants of said golf cart shall be seated in said golf cart.
(Ord. 16-9-1, passed - -)
§ 72.37 TRAFFIC AND PARKING RULES.
   The operator of a golf cart shall comply with all traffic and parking rules
and regulations adopted by the town or the state which govern the operation and
parking of motor vehicles.
(Ord. 16-9-1, passed - -) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.38 SLOW-MOVING VEHICLE SIGN.
   A golf cart must display a “slow-moving vehicle” sign on the rear of said
golf cart. Said sign shall be of the same type required under applicable state
law.
(Ord. 16-9-1, passed - -)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates §§
72.01 through
72.03 of this code shall be subject to a fine of $25 for each violation, and
the bicycle, skateboard or other wheeled recreational device shall be impounded
and held by the Town Marshal until such time as the fine for the violation. If
the sums are not paid within 30 days, then the wheeled recreational device
shall be considered as abandoned property.
   (C)   A violation of §§
72.15 through
72.16 of this code shall carry a fine in the amount of not less than $50 nor
more than $250, plus the reasonable attorneys’ fees incurred by the town in the
enforcement of §§
72.15 through
72.16, provided that the fine and attorneys’ fees do not exceed $2,500.
   (D)   A violation of §§
72.30 through
72.38 of this code shall carry a fine in the amount of $50 to $250 per
violation, plus attorneys’ fees incurred by the town. The fines and attorneys’
fees shall not exceed $2,500 per violation.
(Ord. 05-02-01, passed 3-14-2005; Ord. 06-12-1, passed 1-8-2007; Ord. 16-9-1,
passed - -)
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Yield intersections
      
II.   Stop intersections
SCHEDULE I. YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Based upon an engineering and traffic study of the town and presented
to the town, the Town Council of the town hereby declare and ordain the
intersection set forth hereinafter a yield intersection.
 
Street                                                         Ord. Date Passed
Northeast corner of Mill Street where it intersects with Keith 85   - -
Street
 
(Prior Code, § 9-3-1)
   (B)   The penalty for violating the provisions of this schedule shall be
those penalties for which provision is made under state statutes for such cases
made and provided. (See I.C. 9-21-8-49.)
(Prior Code, § 9-5-4)
(Ord. 167, passed - -)
SCHEDULE II. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   All vehicles shall be required to stop at the following places, stop
signs shall be erected at the following places, and at intersections where a
stop sign is to be located herein upon each of the streets to the intersection,
the intersection may be designated as a four-way stop, which stops are as
follows:
Location Ord. Date Passed
Location                                                Ord.        Date Passed
Northwest, southwest, northeast and southeast corners               - -
where the first alley south of Elm Street and the first 167, 88-6-1 - -
alley east of First Street (S.R. 13) intersect
Southeast corner of Arnold Drive and U.S. 30
Northeast corner of both private drives at Whitley
Products, Inc. and First Street (S.R. 13)
Northeast corners of both private drives at the
Pletchers Food Center where they intersect with First
Street (S.R. 13)
Southwest corner of both exits to the Pierceton-
Washington Township Park and Seventh Street
Northwest corner of the first alley east of First
Street (S.R. 13) and Catholic Street
Southeast corner of first alley east of First Street    167         - -
(S.R. 13) and Catholic Street
Southwest corner of the private drive to the town
middle school where it intersects with First Street
(S.R. 13)
Northwest corner of Catholic Street and Fifth Street
Southeast corner of Catholic Street and Fifth Street
Northeast corner of Catholic Street and First Street
(S.R. 13)
Southwest corner of Catholic Street and First Street
(S.R. 13)
Northeast corner of Catholic Street and Seventh Street
Northwest corner of Catholic Street and Seventh Street
Southeast corner of Catholic Street and Seventh Street
Southwest corner of Catholic Street and Seventh Street
Northeast corner of Catholic Street and Washington
Southwest corner of Catholic Street and Washington
Southeast corner of Cherry Street and Columbia Street
Northwest corner of Cherry Street and Mill Street
Northeast corner of Church Street and First Street
(S.R. 13)
Northeast corner of Columbia Street and First Street
(S.R. 13)
Southwest corner of Columbia Street and First Street
(S.R. 13)
Northeast corner of Columbia Street and Second Street
Southwest corner of Columbia Street and Second Street
Northeast corner of Columbia Street and Third Street
Southwest corner of Columbia Street and Third Street
Northwest and southeast corners of the first alley
north of Church Street and the first alley east of      88-6-1      - -
First Street (S.R. 13)
Northwest corner of CR 200S and U.S. 30
Northwest corner of Elm Street and Fifth Street
Southeast corner of Elm Street and Fifth Street
Northeast corner of Elm Street and First Street (S.R.
13)
Southwest corner of Elm Street and First Street (S.R.
13)
Northeast corner of Elm Street and Seventh Street
Northeast corner of Elm Street and Third Street
Southwest corner of Elm Street and Third Street
Northeast corner of Elm Street and Washington Street.
Four-way stop markers are to be placed on all stop
signs at these intersections
Northwest corner of Elm Street and Washington Street.
Four-way stop markers are to be placed on all stop      98-10-1     10-12-1998
signs at these intersections
Southeast corner of Elm Street and Washington Street.
Four-way stop markers are to be placed on all stop      98-10-1     10-12-1998
signs at these intersections
Southwest corner of Elm Street and Washington Street.
Four-way stop markers are to be placed on all stop
signs at these intersections
Southeast corner of Fifth Street and Walnut Street
Northeast corner of Fourth Street and Catholic Street
Northwest corner of Fourth Street and Catholic Street
Southeast corner of Fourth Street and Catholic Street
Southwest corner of Fourth Street and Catholic Street
Northwest corner of Fourth Street and Elm Street
Southeast corner of Fourth Street and Elm Street
Northeast corner of Fourth Street and Market Street
Northwest corner of Fourth Street and Market Street
Southeast corner of Fourth Street and Market Street
Southwest corner of Fourth Street and Market Street
Northwest corner of Fourth Street and Pine Street
Southeast corner of Fourth Street and Tower Street
Northwest corner of Fourth Street and Walnut Street
Southeast corner of Fourth Street and Walnut Street
Southeast corner of Fourth Street where it intersects   85-9-1      - -
with Wayne Street
Northwest corner of Grant Street and Columbia Street
Southeast corner of Grant Street and Columbia Street
Northwest corner of Grant Street and Keith Street
Northwest corner of Indiana Street and Columbia Street
Southeast corner of Indiana Street and Columbia Street
Northwest corner of Indiana Street and Keith Street
Southeast corner of Indiana Street and Tulip Street
Northeast corner of Keith Street and Cherry Street
Southwest corner of Keith Street and Cherry Street
Northeast corner of Keith Street and First Street (S.R.
13)
Northeast corner of Keith Street and Mill Street
Northwest corner of Maple Street and Church Street
Northwest corner of Market Street Extended (Pierceton
Road) and Market Street, to be placed in the west end
of the grass triangle that separates the Pierceton Road
and Market Street
Southwest corner of Market Street Extended and Seventh
Street
Northwest corner of Market Street and Fifth Street
Southeast corner of Market Street and Fifth Street
Northeast corner of Market Street and First Street
(S.R. 13)
Southwest corner of Market Street and First Street
(S.R. 13)
Southeast corner of Market Street and Rail Street
Southwest corner of the first alley south of Market
Street and Washington Street
Southeast corner of Matchett Drive where it intersects  96-12-1     12-9-1996
with Pequinot Drive
Southwest corner of Matchett Drive where it intersects  96-12-1     12-9-1996
with U.S. Highway 30
Southwest corner of Mill Street and U.S. Highway 30
Northeast corner of Miller Street and Rail Street
Southeast corner of Oak Street and Columbia Street
Northwest corner of Oak Street and Keith Street
Northeast corner of Pequinot Drive where it intersects  96-12-1     12-9-1996
with S.R. 13
Northwest corner of Pine Street and Fifth Street
Southwest corner of Pine Street and First Street (S.R.
13)
Northeast corner of Pine Street and Seventh Street
Northeast corner of Pine Street and Third Street
Southwest corner of Pine Street and Third Street
Northeast corner of School Street and Seventh Street
Southwest corner of School Street and Third Street
Northwest corner of Second Street and Catholic Street
Southeast corner of Second Street and Catholic Street
Northwest corner of Second Street and Elm Street
Southeast corner of Second Street and Elm Street
Northwest corner of Second Street and Market Street
Southeast corner of Second Street and Market Street
Northwest corner of Second Street and Pine Street
Southeast corner of Second Street and Tulip Street
Northwest corner of Second Street and Walnut Street
Southeast corner of Second Street and Walnut Street
Northwest corner of Seventh Street and Market Street
Southeast corner of Seventh Street and Market Street
Southeast corner of Seventh Street and Tower Street
Southeast corner of Sixth Street and Catholic Street
Northwest corner of Sixth Street and Elm Street
Northwest corner of Sixth Street and Market Street
Northwest corner of Sixth Street and Tower Street
Southeast corner of Sixth Street and Tower Street
Southeast corner of Tenth Street and Market Street
Extended (Pierceton Road)
Northwest corner of Third Street and Catholic Street
Southeast corner of Third Street and Catholic Street
Northwest corner of Third Street and Market Street
Southeast corner of Third Street and Market Street
Southeast corner of Third Street and Wayne Street
Southeast corner of North Third Street where it         96-7-1      8-12-1996
intersects with West Wayne Street
Southeast corner of Tower Street and Fifth Street
Southwest corner of Tower Street and Third Street
Northeast corner of Tulip Street and First Street (S.R.
13)
Southwest corner of Tulip Street and First Street (S.R.
13)
Northwest corner of Twelfth Street and Market Street
Extended (Pierceton Road)
Southeast corner of Twelfth Street and Tower Street
Northwest corner of Walnut Street and Fifth Street
Southwest corner of Walnut Street and First Street
(S.R. 13)
Northeast corner of Walnut Street and Seventh Street
Northeast corner of the west-bound lane of Walnut
Street and Third Street. Four-way stop markers are to   2002-10-1   10-14-2002
be placed on all stop signs at these intersections
Northwest corner of the south-bound lane of Third
Street at its intersection with Walnut Street. Four-way 2002-10-1   10-14-2002
stop markers are to be placed on all stop signs at
these intersections
Southwest corner of the intersection of the east-bound
lane of Walnut Street and Third Street. Four-way stop   2002-10-1   10-14-2002
markers are to be placed on all stop signs at these
intersections
Southeast corner of the north-bound lane of Third
Street at its intersection with Walnut Street. Four-way 2002-10-1   10-14-2002
stop markers are to be placed on all stop signs at
these intersections
Northwest corner of Washington Street and Church Street
Southeast corner of Washington Street and Market Street
Northeast corner of Wayne Street and First Street (S.R.
13)
Southwest corner of Wayne Street and First Street (S.R.
13)
Northeast corner of Wayne Street and Grant Street
Southwest corner of Wayne Street and Grant Street
Northeast corner of Wayne Street and Indiana Street
Southwest corner of Wayne Street and Indiana Street
Northeast corner of Wayne Street and Second Street
Southwest corner of Wayne Street and Second Street
Northeast corner of West Wayne Street where it          96-7-1      8-12-1996
intersects with North Third Street
Northwest corner of the intersection of the southbound  2023-8-1    8-14-2023
lane of Seventh Street and School Street
Southeast corner of the intersection of the northbound  2023-8-1    8-14-2023
lane of Seventh Street and School Street
Northeast corner of the intersection of the westbound   2023-8-1    8-14-2023
lane of School Street and Seventh Street
Southwest corner of the intersection of the access
drive from the Washington Township-Pierceton Community  2023-8-1    8-14-2023
Park and Seventh Street
 
(Prior Code, § 9-3-1)
   (B)   The penalty for violating the provisions of this schedule shall be
those penalties for which provision is made under state statutes for such cases
made and provided. (See I.C. 9-21-8-499-4-1 et seq.)
(Prior Code, § 9-5-4)
Editor’s note:
By operation of street name changes made by Ords. 90-6-1 and 96-2-1, East Main
Street became Keith Street, West Main Street became Tower Street, North Street
became Tulip Street, Church Street west of State Road 13 became Pine Street,
East Street became Village Street, Catholic Street Extended became Tenth
Street, and that part of Pierceton Road from Seventh Street to the intersection
of Market Street bounded on the north by a grass triangular strip, became known
as Market Street Extended and the Pierceton Road from the intersection with
Market Street westward became known as Market Street within the town, and the
street designations in the Stop Intersection Ordinance were accordingly changed
in this code to reflect the changes in the names.
CHAPTER 74: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Two-hour parking and improper parking
      
II.   No parking signs
SCHEDULE I. TWO-HOUR PARKING AND IMPROPER PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park, or leave standing, or to
knowingly permit any motor truck, automobile, motorcycle, trailer or any other
vehicle or object to be parked or to be left standing as follows:
 
Areas of Town                                                Ord.   Date Passed
On the east side of First Street (State Road 13) from
Catholic Street North to the railroad tracks for a period of 02-6-1 6-10-2002
more than two hours from 6:00 a.m. until 6:00 p.m.
On the west side of First Street (State Road 13) from
Catholic Street North to the railroad tracks for a period of 02-6-1 6-10-2002
more than two hours from 6:00 a.m. until 6:00 p.m.
Upon any street or traveled way so as to be heading into     02-6-1 6-10-2002
oncoming traffic
Upon any sidewalk or in such a way as to block a sidewalk    02-6-1 6-10-2002
In such a way as to block the traveled portion of a street   02-6-1 6-10-2002
On the right-hand side of the street with the right wheels
more than 12 inches from the right-hand curbing where there  02-6-1 6-10-2002
is such right-hand curbing along the street, except where
angle parking is permitted by town ordinance
 
(Prior Code, § 9-2-2) Penalty, see §
71.99
SCHEDULE II. NO PARKING SIGNS.
   (A)   The following identified areas shall be no parking zones, in which it
shall be unlawful for any person, corporation or entity to park or leave
standing any motor truck, automobile, motorcycle, or any other vehicle or
object, which areas are more particularly described as follows:
 
Areas of Town                                               Ord.    Date Passed
The west side of the southbound lane of State Road 13,
between the southern edge of the eastbound lane of U.S. 30  92-11-1 11-11-1991
and the northern edge of a private drive 280 feet south of
said southern edge of U.S. 30
The northbound lane of State Road 13, between the southern
edge of the eastbound lane of U.S. 30, and the Northern
Indiana Public Service Company pole number 623-493, located 92-11-1 11-11-1991
282 feet south of the edge of said eastbound lane of U.S.
30
 
   (B)   The portions of State Road 13 listed in the table above are entirely
within the town.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-4)
   (C)   “No parking” signs shall be erected in “no parking” zones.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-5)
   (D)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this schedule shall be
subject to a fine of $25, together with the reasonable attorneys’ fees of the
town incurred in collecting the fine, however the fine and attorneys’ fees
shall not exceed $2,500. Any person charged with the violation of the
provisions of this schedule may, in lieu of being charged for such violation in
court for the penalties prescribed hereinabove, pay to the Town Clerk-Treasurer
for the benefit of the General Fund of the town, the sum of $25 for each such
violation, within 14 days of being notified of any such violation.
(Prior Code, § 9-5-3)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   NUISANCES
      
92.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
93.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
94.   FAIR HOUSING
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Prohibited animals
   
90.03   Barking, trespassing, at large prohibited
Animal Control
   
90.15   Dog or cat running at large
   
90.16   Animal control officer; duties
Kennels
   
90.30   Definitions
   
90.31   Kennel requirements
   
90.32   Apartment exclusion
   
90.33   Kennel fee; division
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AT LARGE. Not securely confined by a fence or other means on premises under
the control of or occupied by the owner of the animal, and not under the
control of the owner, a member of his or her immediate family 12 years of age
or older or an agent of the owner, by leash or otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-5)
   OWNER. Any person, firm or corporation owning, harboring or keeping any
animal. The occupant of any premises on which a domesticated or tamed animal
remains, or to which it customarily returns for a period of ten days or more,
is deemed to be harboring or keeping the animal.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-6)
(Ord. 165, passed - -)
§ 90.02 PROHIBITED ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain, or suffer to be
kept or maintained, any cow, horse, donkey, mule, pig, goat, sheep, goose,
chicken, duck, turkey or rabbit upon any property or premises in the corporate
limits of the town, provided, however, it shall be a defense to any person
charged with the violation of this section that the property or premises within
the corporate limits of the town upon which said person is charged with
maintaining, or suffering to be kept or maintained any such animal, is zoned
agricultural by the county’s Area Plan Commission.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-1) (Ord. 165, passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 BARKING, TRESPASSING, AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Barking. It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or harbor within
the town any dog or other animal which, by barking, howling, meowing or
otherwise disturbs the peace and quiet of any person or persons.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-2)
   (B)   Trespassing. It shall be unlawful for any person being the owner or
keeper of any dog or cat to permit any such dog or cat to trespass upon the
premises of any person within the limits of said town, to the annoyance of such
person.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-3)
   (C)   At large. No person shall permit any dog(s) or cat(s) owned, harbored
or kept by such person to be at large within the town.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-4)
(Ord. 165, passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.99
ANIMAL CONTROL
§ 90.15 DOG OR CAT RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   The animal control officer of the town shall pick up and hold any dog
or cat which is running at large and shall dispose of such animal as provided
within this subchapter.
   (B)   In the event that a dog or cat is picked up and held by an animal
control officer of the town for running at large, the following fee must be
paid to the Town Clerk-Treasurer before the animal control officer may release
such dog or cat to its owner.
      (1)   If it is the first time that such dog or cat has been picked up and
held by the animal control officer for running at large, the fee is $5.
      (2)   If it is the second time that such dog or cat has been picked up
and held by the animal control officer for running at large, the fee is $10.
      (3)   At the third and subsequent time that such dog or cat is picked up
and held by the animal control officer, the fee is $15.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-5) (Ord. 164, passed - -; Ord. 2015-12-2, passed 12-14-2015)
§ 90.16 ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER; DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   The animal control officer of the town shall, as soon as is
expedient to the animal control officer, deliver any such animals picked up by
him or her to the County Humane Society’s shelter. If the animal has been
transferred to the County Humane Society’s shelter, then the fees provided in §
90.15 of this code shall not be required to be paid to the Clerk-Treasurer of
the town, and any individual owning any such animal shall pay to the County
Humane Society’s shelter the fees fixed by such shelter for the return of any
such animal. Notwithstanding the foregoing, each time the animal control
officer of the town transfers any such animal to the County Humane Society’s
shelter, it shall be considered in determining the fees hereunder any
subsequent time that the officer picks up such animal and holds the same.
      (2)   For example: If the animal control officer for the town shall pick
up any animal for running at large and transfers such animal to the County
Humane Society’s shelter, the owner of any such animal will pay the fees
required of the County Humane Society’s shelter and shall not make any payment
to the Town Clerk-Treasurer for holding of the animal. If such animal is picked
up again by the animal control officer of the town, and the owner thereof
appears to claim such animal, then the owner thereof would be required to pay
the fee to the Town Clerk-Treasurer, which is required for the pick-up and
holding of an animal the second time, i.e., $10.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-6)
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the Town Marshal, the Deputy Town
Marshal and any person employed as animal control officer by the town, shall
all be considered animal control officers of the town with the responsibilities
and duties placed upon the animal control officer herein.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-7)
(Ord. 164, passed - -)
KENNELS
§ 90.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Dog or cat.
   AT LARGE. Any animal shall be deemed to be AT LARGE when it is off its
keeper’s real property and not restrained or controlled by a person.
   CAT. All domesticated members of the genus Felis, male or female.
   DOG. Includes all members of the Canidae family, male or female.
   KENNEL. An owner is considered as operating a KENNEL, without regard to
whether such person is holding animals for breeding, resale, training, sport or
pleasure purposes when:
      (1)   The owner has five or more animals over the age of four months; and
      (2)   Those five or more animals are upon the same real estate. For the
purpose of determining whether animals are upon the same real estate, all
parcels and parts of parcels together with all adjacent parcels or parts of
parcels of real estate over which the owner has or exercises any right to use
or possession, shall collectively be considered as one parcel of real estate.
Further, when more than one person is an owner of an animal by the terms of
this subchapter, then real estate to which each of the other owners has or
exercises a right to use and possession shall be considered as one parcel of
real estate to the extent that the various parcels are adjacent.
   OWNER.
      (1)   Any person or persons who individually or with some other person:
         (a)   Has any right of possession or control of an animal;
         (b)   Has an animal in his or her care or otherwise acts as an
animal’s custodian;
         (c)   Knowingly permits an animal or animals to remain on or about any
premises over which such person has any right of control; or
         (d)   Is further defined as an OWNER under and by reason of the
attribution of ownership provided hereinafter.
      (2)   Attribution of ownership: A person who has or exercises any right
to the use or possession of a parcel of real estate or a part of a parcel of
real estate shall also be considered as an owner of each and every animal over
which each and every other person is considered an owner as defined herein,
when each such other person or persons has or exercises any right to the use or
possession of the same parcel or the same part of a parcel of real estate,
regardless whether such right or exercise of right is joint, subservient,
permissive or dominant.
      (3)   By way of example, the rules in division (2) of this definition
applied to a family of five, (husband, wife, three children) where each member
of the family has a dog or cat, all at the same house, would result in each
member of the household considered as the owner of five animals (his or hers
plus the animal of each of the other persons).
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, the agent or employees of a
corporation, partnership or joint venture, partners of a partnership, agents or
employees of a partnership.
   RESTRAINT. An animal off its owner’s premises is under RESTRAINT when:
      (1)   The animal is restrained by a line or leash no more than four feet
in length and held by a person of sufficient age, size and ability to control
the animal by the leash; if the animal is a dog, the leash should be attached
to a choke chain of any material around the dog’s neck;
      (2)   An animal is on a training leash of 20 feet or less, controlled by
a person carrying on a bona fide training session, or is tied to a stationary
object, strong enough to hold and with a guard dog chain strong enough to hold
the animal upon the premises so that the animal will not venture upon property
of others;
      (3)   An animal is in a vehicle driven which does not permit the animal’s
escape, or the animal is physically held by a person who is able to hold the
animal so that it cannot escape from him or her. This definition does not
authorize cruel confinement; or
      (4)   An animal is in a house or other structure.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-1) (Ord. 84-2-1, passed - -)
§ 90.31 KENNEL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Kennels shall not be located within a residential zoning district but
must be located within a commercial or industrial zoning district, pursuant to
the zoning ordinances of the town subservient to the county’s Area Plan
Commission.
   (B)   A kennel must provide a shelter for each animal and each shelter shall
meet the following minimum requirements.
      (1)   For each animal under 12 inches of height when full grown, a
shelter shall be at least 22 inches high, 24 inches wide and four feet deep.
      (2)   The shelter for each animal which is more than 12 inches high but
less than 30 inches high when fully grown, shall be at least 40 inches high, 36
inches wide and 60 inches deep.
      (3)   The height of an animal shall be measured by the distance from the
bottom of one of his or her front paws in a perpendicular line to the plane at
the top of the animal’s head, and incorporated herein by reference for purposes
of determining fully grown dog height, is the Gaines Guide to America’s Dogs,
drawing by E.M. Stevenson, copyright 1979, Gaines Dog Research Center, White
Plains, New York, a copy of which is attached to the ordinance codified herein,
marked Exhibit A and made a part of this subchapter by reference.
      (4)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions regarding the size of
shelter, all shelters provided for animals shall be of sufficient height, width
and depth to permit said animal to stand up and turn around inside when fully
grown. If the minimum standards provided herein are not sufficient for the
foregoing movement by the animal, then it shall be incumbent upon the owner to
provide more adequate size shelter to meet the foregoing requirements.
      (5)   All shelters provided for herein shall be constructed with such
materials as to reasonably restrain the animal for which it is intended, and
shall be so constructed so that the animal cannot reasonably injure itself
within the confines of such shelter. The shelter shall be constructed or
located so as to protect the animal from excessive sun exposure and rain
exposure and shall be so that the temperature within the shelter is never below
20°F, and is never above 85°F.
      (6)   Every kennel shall maintain a fenced or other enclosed area,
reasonably close to the shelter required for animals herein, which fenced or
other enclosed areas shall provide 100 square feet of area per animal, but not
less than 400 square feet of area, in which to allow the animals to exercise
and which fence or other enclosing wall shall be at least four feet in height
for animals, less than 20 inches high when fully grown, and shall have no holes
or other open space greater than four square inches in size per open space in
said fences or other enclosing wall.
      (7)   The owner of each kennel shall keep all parts of the kennel,
including the shelter areas, odor free. Waste shall be removed from the kennel,
shelter and open areas as needed, but at least once each 24 hours, and shall be
disposed of in a sanitary method. Shelters and any buildings housing shelters
shall be kept clean and disinfected at least once every 24 hours.
      (8)   The owner of every kennel defined herein shall permit inspection of
the kennel for compliance with this subchapter at any and all reasonable times,
by the Town Marshal or any of his or her assistants, or by any other person
appointed by the Town Council for that purpose, which requirement shall be a
condition of maintaining a kennel within the town.
      (9)   The shelters provided herein shall be so situated and so
constructed so that any noise made by the animals cannot be heard from a
distance of 40 feet outside the buildings in which the shelter is maintained,
if located within a building, or if not located within a building, then so that
the animals cannot be heard from a distance of 40 feet outside the shelter.
      (10)   In the event that a kennel is located upon real estate, although
the same is zoned as provided herein, if such parcel of real estate is adjacent
to a residence, or in an area of the town zoned as residential, then no part of
the shelter, building housing shelters or the enclosure shall be closer to such
residence or residential-zoned area than 50 feet.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-2) (Ord. 84-2-2, passed - -)
§ 90.32 APARTMENT EXCLUSION.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of this subchapter, an owner or occupant of
any apartment house may have one animal per occupied apartment without being
considered a kennel.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-3) (Ord. 84-2-2, passed - -)
§ 90.33 KENNEL FEE; DIVISION.
   The owners of a kennel shall pay to the town a fee of $10 per year, in
addition to all other animal licenses, so as to provide for a minimal offset
against the expenses incurred by the town in policing and supervising the terms
of this subchapter, one-half of which fees shall go to the Sewage Department,
and one-half to the town’s General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-4) (Ord. 84-2-1, passed - -)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any failure to comply with any provisions of this chapter or the doing
of anything prohibited or deemed unlawful by any provision of this chapter
shall be deemed a violation of this chapter. Any person or entity who shall
violate any provision of this chapter for which the penalty provisions of
divisions (C) and (D) below do not apply shall pay $25 for each provision of
this chapter which is violated and payable into the General Fund of the town,
and each day that a violation continues to occur shall constitute a separate
violation. In the event that legal action is necessary to enforce any provision
of this chapter or to collect the charge for a violation of this chapter, the
town shall be entitled to recover from such persons or entities violating any
of the provisions of this chapter, the reasonable attorneys’ fees incurred by
the town provided, however, that the penalty and attorneys’ fees for each
violation shall not exceed $2,500.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-2)
   (C)   Any person who violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions
of §§
90.02 and
90.03 of this code shall be deemed in violation and shall pay to the town a
fine of $25 for each violation, plus the reasonable attorneys’ fees incurred by
the town in enforcing and collecting the fine, provided, however, that the fine
and attorneys’ fees for each violation shall not exceed $2,500 in amount. Where
the violation is continuing, each day that the violation continues is
considered a separate violation.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-3)
   (D)   Any person who shall fail to comply with any of the provisions of §§
90.30 through
90.33 of this code shall pay $25 for each violation. Further, each day that a
violation of §§
90.30 through
90.33 of this code continues to occur shall constitute a separate violation,
and each shelter which is in violation of those terms, or is used in violation
of those provisions, shall be a separate violation. In the event that legal
action is necessary to enforce the provisions of, or to collect license fees
provided by §§
90.30 through
90.33 of this code, the town shall be entitled to recover from such persons
violating these provisions, the reasonable attorneys’ fees incurred by the
town, provided, however, that for each such violation, the attorneys’ fees and
the penalty provided herein shall not exceed $2,500. Owners of animals, by the
provisions of the attribution rules herein or otherwise are jointly and
severally responsible for any violations of §§
90.30 through
90.33 of this code in connection with any animals owned by or attributed to
them. Fines so collected shall be paid one-half to the town’s General Fund and
one-half to the town’s Sewage Fund, and in return, the town’s Sewage Department
shall assist in the administration of §§
90.30 through
90.33 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-1)
(Ord. 84-2-1, passed - -; Ord. 85-1-2, passed - -)
CHAPTER 91: NUISANCES
Section
   
91.01   Weed control
§ 91.01 WEED CONTROL.
   (A)   Removal of weeds and rank vegetation. All owners of real property
within the corporate limits of the town shall cut and remove all weeds and/or
rank vegetation growing upon the property.
   (B)   Definition. WEEDS and/or RANK VEGETATION are any vegetable matter,
weed or grass that is not cultivated in plant beds by the landowner and which
exceeds the height of six inches. Notwithstanding the foregoing, such
definition shall not include trees, such definition shall not include bushes or
shrubs which have been planted and cultivated by the landowner, and provided
further, such definition does not include agricultural crops such as hay and
pasture.
   (C)   Administration. The office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall be
responsible for the administration of this section.
   (D)   Notice. Upon determination by the Town Clerk-Treasurer, the weeds and/
or rank vegetation exist as defined in this section, the Clerk-Treasurer shall
issue a written notice to the landowner that the weeds and/or rank vegetation
must be removed within eight days of the date of the mailing of the notice,
which notice shall be sent to the landowner’s last known address by United
States first-class mail, or in the alternative, the Clerk-Treasurer may have
the office of the Town Marshal deliver the notice to the landowner personally,
and which notice shall be deemed given on the date of mailing if mailed, or on
the date of personal delivery if served by the office of the Town Marshal.
Certified mailing of the notice is not required but may be done in addition to
the first-class mailing, at the option of the Clerk-Treasurer. The landowner
may appeal the order to remove the weeds and/or rank vegetation by delivering
to the office of the Clerk-Treasurer written notice of contest within the eight
days of the mailing of the notice, if mailed, or within eight days of delivery
of the notice if delivered by the office of the Town Marshal.
   (E)   The procedure for removal. If the landowner fails to remove the
vegetation within the time prescribed, the town may remove the vegetation as is
permitted by I.C. 36-7-10.1-3 and I.C. 36-1-6-2 by having employees of the town
enter upon the property and remove or cut the weed and/or rank vegetation with
the town equipment, or by contracting with others to remove the weeds and/or
rank vegetation.
   (F)   Administrative costs incurred. After removal of the rank weeds and
vegetation by the town, as is provided in this section, the Clerk-Treasurer
shall then issue a billing to the landowner for the costs incurred by the town
in the removal. Costs shall include an administrative charge of $20 to
compensate the town for the administrative costs incurred in issuing the bill,
plus the fees of the contractor, if a contractor is used. If the town employees
and equipment are used, the Clerk-Treasurer shall also include in the billing
charges for the time of the town employees, and for the use of the equipment of
the town, in such amounts as the Town Council from time to time by Town Council
action establishes as the current rate for the use of such equipment and the
use of such the town employees for such services. The billing shall be sent to
the landowner in the same manner as is provided for the issuing of the initial
notice as is provided by this section, and the landowner shall be given a
period of 15 days from the date of the mailing of the notice, if mailed, or
from the date of personal delivery if personally delivered, to make payment of
the charges, provided, however, that if the landowner contests the propriety of
the charges or the propriety of the cutting of said weeds, the landowner may
within said 15-day period of time, deliver written notice to the office of the
Town Clerk-Treasurer of the landowner’s contest of the cutting and/or the
charges. The appeal of the landowner shall be heard and determined by the Town
Council at its next regularly scheduled Town Council meeting, at which time the
landowner may appear and be heard.
   (G)   Enforcement. If the owner of the real property fails to pay a bill
issued under this section, within the time specified, the Town Clerk-Treasurer
shall certify the amount of the bill plus any additional administrative costs
incurred in the certification as is provided for by I.C. 36-7-10.1-4.
   (H)   Disbursement of collections. Amounts collected for the removal of
weeds and/or rank vegetation, as provided by this section, shall be disbursed
to the General Fund of the town.
(Ord. 96-8-1, passed 8-12-1996)
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Burning
   
92.01   Unlawful to open burn
   
92.02   Exemptions
   
92.03   Variances
   
92.04   Air curtain destructors
   
92.05   Vandalism, accident, act of God
   
92.06   Town entitled to make application to court
Smoke Detectors
   
92.20   Definitions
   
92.21   Buildings affected
   
92.22   Detector locations
   
92.23   Detector type
   
92.24   Exceptions
   
92.25   Testing
   
92.26   Removal or tampering
   
92.27   Enforcement
 
   
92.99   Penalty
BURNING
§ 92.01 UNLAWFUL TO OPEN BURN.
   It shall hereinafter be and it is hereby declared to be unlawful for any
person, persons, firm, partnership, corporation or for any entity to open burn
or permit the open burn of any material within the limits of the town, except
as is provided in §§
92.02 through
92.04 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-1) (Ord. 91-6-1, passed - -) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following types of open fires are permitted:
   (A)   Fires celebrating Twelfth Night ceremonies;
   (B)   Fires celebrating school pep rallies;
   (C)   Fires celebrating scouting activities;
   (D)   Fires used for recreational and cooking purposes, i.e., campfires;
   (E)   Residential burning where the residence contains four or fewer units,
however, the burning shall be in a non-combustible container sufficiently
vented to induce adequate primary combustion air with enclosed sides, a bottom
and a mesh covering with openings no larger than one-fourth inch square.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, burning is prohibited in apartment complexes,
mobile home parks and condominium structures;
   (F)   Farm burning: Wood products derived from the following farm
maintenance operations:
      (1)   Burning of fence rows and fields or materials derived therefrom;
      (2)   Burning of natural growth derived from clearing a drainage ditch;
and
      (3)   Burning of limbs and prunings that are so diseased or infected as
to present a contamination problem.
   (G)   Department of Natural Resources burning in order to facilitate
“prescribed” burning on DNR controlled properties for: Wildlife habitat
maintenance; forestry purposes; and natural area management. All exemptions
permitted under this division (G) shall be subject to the following:
      (1)   Only wood products shall be burned unless otherwise stated above;
      (2)   Fires shall be attended at all times until completely extinguished;
      (3)   If fires create a nuisance or a fire hazard, they shall be
extinguished;
      (4)   All residential and farm burning shall occur during daylight hours
during which the fires may be replenished, but only in such manner that nearly
all of the burning material is consumed by sunset; and
      (5)   No burning shall be conducted during unfavorable meteorological
conditions such as temperature inversions, high winds, air stagnations,
hailstorms, snow blizzards, tornados and the like.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-2) (Ord. 91-6-1, passed - -)
§ 92.03 VARIANCES.
   Any burning that has been granted prior approval by the Commissioner of the
State Department of Environmental Management or by said Commissioner’s
designated agent is permitted.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-3) (Ord. 91-6-1, passed - -)
§ 92.04 AIR CURTAIN DESTRUCTORS.
   An air curtain destructor shall be permitted if the owner or operator of the
air curtain destructor has a letter of approval from the Commissioner of the
State Department of Environmental Management, which letter of approval shall be
at the air curtain destructor site at all times for verification by the town.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-4) (Ord. 91-6-1, passed - -)
§ 92.05 VANDALISM, ACCIDENT, ACT OF GOD.
   Any person, persons, firm, partnership, corporation or any entity who allows
the accumulation or existence of combustible material which constitutes or
contributes to an open fire, may not refute liability for violation of this
subchapter on the basis that said fire was set by vandals, or was accidental,
or occurred by reason of an act of God.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-7) (Ord. 91-6-1, passed - -)
§ 92.06 TOWN ENTITLED TO MAKE APPLICATION TO COURT.
   The town, by its duly elected officials, shall be entitled to make
application to any court having jurisdiction for the purpose of enjoining any
person, persons, firm, partnership, corporation or any other entity from
violating the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-8) (Ord. 91-6-1, passed - -)
SMOKE DETECTORS
§ 92.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DWELLING UNIT. The part of a structure used or intended to be used as a
single housekeeping unit. Further, any room within a building or structure used
or intended to be used for cooking and sleeping shall be considered as a
DWELLING UNIT in and of itself so as to require a smoke detector in such room.
It is therefore possible that, for the purposes of this subchapter, there may
be more than one DWELLING UNIT within a single housekeeping unit.
   HOUSEKEEPING UNIT. The part of a building occupied or intended to be
occupied by one or more persons but as one single housekeeping group as
distinguished from separate occupancies.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-1)
   LEASE or RENTAL. Any building that contains living quarters for one or more
occupancies, and shall include hotels, motels, boarding houses, sleeping room
houses and any other buildings of mixed occupancy and shall hereinafter be
referred to as lease or rental, single or multiple dwellings.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-4)
   MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLING UNIT. Any building that contains living quarters
for two or more occupancies, and shall include hotels, motels, boarding houses,
sleeping room houses and buildings of mixed occupancy and shall hereinafter be
referred to as MULTIPLE DWELLINGS.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-3)
(Ord. 87-4-1, passed - -)
§ 92.21 BUILDINGS AFFECTED.
   All multiple-family dwelling units, and all lease or rental, single- or
multiple-family dwelling units, motels, hotels, apartments and apartment
houses, boarding houses, sleeping room houses and any other buildings of mixed
occupancy having any residential units shall be equipped with approved smoke
detectors.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-2) (Ord. 87-4-1, passed - -)
§ 92.22 DETECTOR LOCATION.
   (A)   Every owner, manager or agent of any multiple dwelling or of any
single or multiple occupancy lease or rental family dwelling unit shall
install, in every dwelling unit, not less than one approved smoke detector on
the ceiling, not less than six inches from any wall, or on a wall, located from
six to 12 inches from the ceiling, and within 15 feet of all rooms used for
sleeping purposes.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-5)
   (B)   Every owner, manager or agent of any multiple dwelling or any single
or multiple occupancy lease or rental family dwelling unit shall install not
less than one approved smoke detector on the uppermost ceiling of each level,
not less than six inches from any wall, or on wall, located from six to 12
inches from the uppermost ceiling of all interior stairwells.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-6)
(Ord. 87-4-1, passed - -)
§ 92.23 DETECTOR TYPE.
   All approved smoke detectors required in this subchapter shall be the
ionization or photoelectric type, either battery-powered or 110-volt AC and
shall comply with all the requirements of the Underwriters Laboratories, Inc.
standard, UL-217 (Standard for Safety: Single and Multiple Station Smoke
Detectors, 1976). Smoke detectors shall bear the label of a nationally
recognized standards testing laboratory that indicates that the smoke detectors
have been tested and listed under the requirements of UL-217 (1976).
(Prior Code, § 6-1-7) (Ord. 87-4-1, passed - -)
§ 92.24 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not be required in buildings which
contain an approved automatic sprinkler system throughout.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-8) (Ord. 87-4-1, passed - -)
§ 92.25 TESTING.
   At every change of tenant in every single or multiple dwelling, it shall be
the responsibility of the owner, manager or agent to test and ascertain that
the approved smoke detectors are in operating condition.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-9) (Ord. 87-4-1, passed - -)
§ 92.26 REMOVAL OR TAMPERING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except in case of fire or for the
purpose of repair or maintenance, to remove or tamper with fire extinguishers,
fire escapes, fire hoses, nozzles or other fire control or fire extinguishing
equipment or fire reporting equipment, including smoke detector systems, in or
about any building or other premises in the town.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-10) (Ord. 87-4-1, passed - -) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.27 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Town Marshal, with the assistance of the town’s Fire Department
(presently the Pierceton-Washington Township Volunteer Fire Department) shall
be charged with the duty of enforcing the terms of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-12) (Ord. 87-4-1, passed - -)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person, persons, firm, partnership, corporation or any other
entity failing to comply with any of the provisions of §§
92.01 through
92.06 of this code shall be subject to a penalty of not less than $25 nor more
than $100 for each violation, plus the cost of the attorneys’ fees incurred by
the town in enforcing §§
92.01 through
92.06 of this code, which attorneys’ fees and penalties shall not exceed
$2,500.
      (2)   Each day that any violation of §§
92.01 through
92.06 of this code continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, §§ 4-3-6, 4-5-2)
   (C)   Failure to comply with the terms of §§
92.20 through
92.27 of this code shall result in a complaint being brought against the person
obligated herein to maintain the equipment as provided in §§
92.20 through
92.27 of this code, and upon a judgment being entered against said person for
violation of §§
92.20 through
92.27 of this code, such offending party shall be penalized in the amount of
$25 for each violation plus the reasonable attorneys’ fees incurred by the town
in enforcing §§
92.20 through
92.27 of this code, provided, however, that the attorneys’ fees and penalty for
each violation shall not exceed $2,500. Each day’s violation shall constitute a
separate violation.
(Prior Code, §§ 6-1-11, 6-5-1)
(Ord. 87-4-1, passed - -; Ord. 91-6-1, passed - -)
CHAPTER 93: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
Pierceton-Washington Township Park
   
93.01   Park created
   
93.02   Maintenance and costs
   
93.03   Conveyance of park lands
   
93.04   Park Board established; members
Park Lands
   
93.15   Dedicated park lands
PIERCETON-WASHINGTON TOWNSHIP PARK
§ 93.01 PARK CREATED.
   From and after the passage of the ordinance codified herein by each of the
respective corporations, the town and Washington Township, there is established
upon real estate owned by the town a recreational park and playground for the
joint use of the citizens of the town and said Washington Township.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-1) (Ord. 134, passed 6-20-1974)
§ 93.02 MAINTENANCE AND COSTS.
   The costs and maintenance of said park and playground shall be defrayed one-
half by the town and one-half by Washington Township, and each of said
corporations shall make due appropriation to defray such costs as the same may
occur.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-2) (Ord. 134, passed 6-20-1974)
§ 93.03 CONVEYANCE OF PARK LANDS.
   The town shall, upon request by said Washington Township, convey an
undivided one-half interest (as tenants in common) in and to the real estate.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-3) (Ord. 134, passed 6-20-1974)
§ 93.04 PARK BOARD ESTABLISHED; MEMBERS.
   There shall be established, for the purpose of operating said joint park or
playground, a Board of Recreation consisting of five resident freeholders, at
least one of whom shall be a member of the Board of School Trustees of the
school system exercising jurisdiction within the territory of the town and said
Washington Township. Said Board of Recreation shall be duly appointed by the
Town Council, after consultation with and approval of the Trustee of Washington
Township and of the Advisory Board of Washington Township. Said Board members
shall serve without compensation therefore.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-4) (Ord. 134, passed 6-20-1974)
PARK LANDS
§ 93.15 DEDICATED PARK LANDS.
   On August 14, 1978, by resolution of the Town Council, the town dedicated
certain of its real estate to the use of the Pierceton-Washington Township
Park. A copy of that resolution is marked Exhibit Section 6-3-1 and attached to
the ordinance codified herein.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-1)
CHAPTER 94: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
94.01   Policy statement
   
94.02   Definitions
   
94.03   Unlawful practice
   
94.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
94.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
94.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
94.07   Interference, coercion or intimidation
   
94.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
94.09   Exemptions
   
94.10   Administrative enforcement
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the town to provide, within constitutional
limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for
under the Federal Civil Rights Act of 1968 being 42 U.S.C. §§ 3601 et seq., as
amended, the Federal Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 being 42
U.S.C. §§ 5301 et seq., as amended, and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-1) (Ord. 93-1-1, passed - -)
§ 94.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-2)
   COMMISSION. The state’s Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-
9-1-4 et seq.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-3)
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-4)
   DISABILITY.
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person’s major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment;
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the Federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq.; and
         (e)   Any other impairment defined under I.C. 22-9-5-6.
      (2)   The term DISABILITY shall not include current illegal use of or
addiction to a controlled substance as defined in 21 U.S.C. § 802 (I.C. 22-9-5-
6(d)(5)); nor does the term DISABILITY include an individual solely because
that individual is a transvestite.
(I.C. 22-9-5-6(d)(3))
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
94.04 through
94.08 of this code or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure or part of a building or structure that is
occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancies as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancies as a
residence by one or more families.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-8)
   FAMILIAL STATUS. Discrimination on the basis of FAMILIAL STATUS means
discrimination because the person is pregnant; domiciled with an individual
under the age of 18 years of age in regard to whom the person is the parent or
legal custodian, or has the written permission of the parent or legal custodian
for domicile with that person; or in the process of obtaining legal custody of
an individual younger than 18 years of age.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual with the status of such family being
further defined in FAMILIAL STATUS.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-9)
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees,
trustees in cases under 11 U.S.C., receivers and fiduciaries.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)
   TO RENT. To lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the right to occupy the premises not owned by the occupant.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-13)
(Prior Code, § 6-4-2) (Ord. 93-1-1, passed - -)
§ 94.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of division (A)(2) below, §
94.09 of this code and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination
in the sale or rental of housing set forth in I.C. 22-9.5-5-1 and in §
94.04 of this code shall apply to:
      (1)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (A)(2) below and I.C.
22-9.5-3; and
      (2)   Other than the provisions of division (B) below, nothing in §
94.04 of this code shall apply to:
         (a)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided, that in the sale of such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or who
was not the most recent resident of such house prior to the sale, the exemption
shall apply only to such sale within any 24-month period. The private
individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or reserved on his
or her behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the proceeds from
the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses at any one
time. The sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be excepted from
application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
            1.   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental
facilities or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesman or any
person in the business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or
agent of any such broker, agent or salesman or person; and
            2.   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
94.04(C) of this code, but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of
attorneys, escrow agents, abstracters, title companies and other such
professional assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title.
         (b)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied
or intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently
of each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (B)   For the purposes of division (A)(2) above, a person shall be deemed to
be in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more, transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
agent, other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in
providing sales or rental facilities or services in two or more transactions
involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended
for occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-3) (Ord. 93-1-1, passed - -) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
94.03 of this code and except as exempted by §§
94.03(B) and
94.09 of this code, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, familial
status or national origin;
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
familial status or national origin;
   (C)   To make, print or publish, or cause to be made, printed or published
any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation or discrimination based on
race, color religion, sex, disability, familial status or national origin, or
an intention to make any such preference, limitation or discrimination;
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status or national origin that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is in fact so
available;
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
sex, disability, familial status or national origin; and
   (F)   (1)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a disability
of:
         (a)   That buyer or renter;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (2)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a disability of:
         (a)   That person;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (3)   For purposes of this division (F), DISCRIMINATION includes:
         (a)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the disabled person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may where it is reasonable to do so condition permission for a modification on
the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modification, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
         (b)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices or services, when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
         (c)   In connection with the design and construction of covered
multifamily dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months
after September 13, 1988, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in
such a manner that:
            1.   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by disabled persons;
            2.   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
disabled persons in wheelchairs; and
            3.   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
               a.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
               b.   Light, switches, electrical outlets, thermostats and other
environmental controls in accessible locations;
               c.   Reinforcements in bathroom walls to allow later
installation of grab bars; and
               d.   Usable kitchens and bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
      (4)   Compliance with the appropriate requirements of the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990 and of the American National Standard for Buildings
and Facilities providing accessibility and usability for physically disabled
people (commonly cited as “ANSI A117.1”) suffices to satisfy the requirements
of division (F)(3)(c)3. above.
      (5)   Nothing in this division (F) requires that a dwelling be made
available to an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to
the health or physical damage to the property of others.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-4) (Ord. 93-1-1, passed - -) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, disability, familial status or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED
TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, disability or familial
status.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-5) (Ord. 93-1-1, passed - -) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers’
organization or other service, organization or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her
in the terms or conditions of such access, membership or participation, on
account of race, color, religion, sex, disability, familial status or national
origin.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-6) (Ord. 91-3-3, passed - -) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
94.03 through
94.06 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-7) (Ord. 93-1-1, passed - -) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under color of law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with or attempts to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status or national origin and because he or she is or has
been selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization, or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings; or
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, disability, familial status or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in this chapter; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate;
(Prior Code, § 6-4-8) (Ord. 93-1-1, passed - -) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.09 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to a
person of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color or national
origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact
open to the public, which as incident to its primary purpose or purposes
provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodgings to its members
or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   (1)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply
with respect to housing for older persons.
      (2)   As used in this section, HOUSING FOR OLDER PERSONS means housing:
         (a)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary
of the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the state’s Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly persons (as defined in the state or federal program);
         (b)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, persons 62 years of age or
older; or
         (c)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55
years of age or older per unit.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-9) (Ord. 93-1-1, passed - -)
§ 94.10 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commission as set forth in
division (B) below shall be vested in the Chief Executive Officer of the town.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the town, because
of lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under this chapter, herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of this chapter by
complainants to the state’s Civil Rights Commission (“Commission”) for
administrative enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6 and the Chief
Elected Officer of the town shall refer all said complaints to the Commission
as provided for under division (A) above to said Commission for purposes of
investigation, resolution and appropriate relief as provided for under I.C. 22-
9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the town shall administer
their departments, programs and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter
and shall cooperate with the Chief Executive Officer and the Commission to
further such purposes.
   (D)   The Chief Executive Officer of the town, or the Chief Executive
Officer’s designee, shall provide information on remedies available to any
aggrieved person or complainant requesting such information.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-10) (Ord. 93-1-1, passed - -)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to
discourage such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, color, religion, sex, disability, familial status or national origin, in
any of the activities, services, organizations or facilities described in §
94.08(A) of this code, or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly
opposing any denial of the opportunity to participate shall be fined not more
than $1,000, or imprisoned not more than one year, or both; and if bodily
injury results shall be fined not more than $10,000, or imprisoned for not more
than ten years, or both; and if death results shall be subject to imprisonment
for any term of years or for life.
(Prior Code, §§ 6-4-8, 6-5-4) (Ord. 93-1-1, passed - -)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   HANDBILLS
CHAPTER 110: HANDBILLS
Section
   
110.01   Authority
   
110.02   Definitions
   
110.03   Exemption
   
110.04   Discarding or throwing in public places
   
110.05   Depositing on uninhabited or vacant private premises
   
110.06   Distributing prohibited where signs posted
   
110.07   Distributing at inhabited private premises
 
   
110.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-4-5-5, 36-8-2-4 and 36-8-2-10
§ 110.01 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is made by the Town Council pursuant to the authority granted
by I.C. 36-8-2-4, 36-8-2-10 and 36-8-2-11.
§ 110.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL HANDBILL. Any printed or written matter, any sample or device,
dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, paper, booklet or any other printed matter
which:
      (1)   Advertises for sale any merchandise, product, commodity or thing;
      (2)   Directs attention to any business or mercantile or commercial
establishment, or other activity, for the purpose of either directly or
indirectly promoting the interest thereof by sales; or
      (3)   While containing reading matter other than advertising matter is
predominantly and essentially an advertisement, and is distributed or
circulated for advertising purposes or for the private benefit and gain of any
person so engaged as advertiser or distributor.
   NON-COMMERCIAL HANDBILL. Any printed or written matter, any sample or
device, dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, paper, booklet or any other
printed matter not included in the definition of a commercial handbill, as set
out in this section.
   PRIVATE PREMISES. Any dwelling, house, building or other structure, designed
or used either wholly or in part for private residential purposes, whether
inhabited or temporarily or continuously uninhabited or vacant, and includes
any yard, grounds, walk, driveway, porch, steps, vestibule, or mailbox
belonging or appurtenant to such dwelling house, building or other structure.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys or other
public ways and any and all public parks, squares, spaces, grounds and
buildings.
§ 110.03 EXEMPTION.
   This chapter shall have the following exceptions.
   (A)   This chapter shall not apply to persons engaged in the delivery of
daily newspapers, or any person operating a regular route, or insurance route
to solicit additional customers on a route when solicitation is incidental to
his or her regular duties, or to the producers of farm products within the
pursuit of the sale of the products raised by them.
   (B)   Additionally, this chapter shall not apply to any person engaged in
the exercise of his or her right of free speech as it pertains to religion and/
or political conviction as long as the person or persons are only speaking or
promoting their cause without the solicitation of funds or sale of materials or
products.
§ 110.04 DISCARDING OR THROWING IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall discard or throw any commercial or non-commercial handbill
in or upon any sidewalk, street, or other public place within the town.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.05 DEPOSITING ON UNINHABITED OR VACANT PRIVATE PREMISES.
   No person shall throw, deposit, or distribute any commercial or non-
commercial handbill in or upon any private premises which are temporarily or
continuously uninhabited or vacant.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06 DISTRIBUTING PROHIBITED WHERE SIGNS POSTED.
   No person shall throw, deposit or distribute any commercial or non-
commercial handbill upon any private premises, if requested by anyone thereon
not to do so, or if there is placed on said premises in a conspicuous position
near the entrance thereof, a sign bearing the words, “no trespassing”, “no
peddlers or agents”, “no advertisement” or any similar notice, indicating in
any manner that the occupants of said premises do not desire to be molested or
have their right of privacy disturbed, or to have any such handbills left upon
such premises.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.07 DISTRIBUTING AT INHABITED PRIVATE PREMISES.
   No person shall throw, deposit or distribute any commercial or non-
commercial handbill in or upon private premises which are inhabited, except by
handing or transmitting any such handbill directly to the owner, occupant or
other person then present in or upon such private premises; provided, however,
that, in case of inhabited private premises which are not posted, as provided
in this chapter, such person, unless requested by anyone upon such premises not
to do so, may place or deposit any such handbill in or upon such inhabited
private premises, if such handbill is so placed or deposited as to secure or
prevent such handbill from being blown or drifted about such premises or
sidewalks, streets, or other public places; and, except that, mailboxes may not
be so used when so prohibited by federal postal law or regulations. The
provisions of this section shall not apply to the distribution of mail by the
United States, nor to newspapers; except that, newspapers shall be placed on
private property in such a manner as to prevent their being carried or
deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk or other public place or
upon private property.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
chapter shall, upon conviction, be punished with a minimum fine of $25 and a
maximum fine of $300, in addition to costs. A separate violation shall be
deemed committed upon each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues.
   (B)   In addition to the foregoing, the town is empowered to obtain a
restraining order and/or a permanent injunction against any person, firm,
corporation or any other entity who shall be in violation of this chapter.
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
General Provisions
   
130.01   Curfew for minors
   
130.02   Nude acts prohibited
   
130.03   Firearms, weapons and air guns
   
130.04   Alcoholic beverages in town parks
Junk Cars
   
130.15   Definition
   
130.16   Junk cars declared nuisance
   
130.17   Order of removal
   
130.18   Notice
   
130.19   Impoundment of illegally parked vehicles authorized
   
130.20   Removal, impoundment at risk of owner
   
130.21   Removal and release expenses to be borne by owner; payment
prerequisite to release
   
130.22   Charges
   
130.23   Release authorization
   
130.24   Procedure where alleged violator innocent
   
130.25   Contracts for towing, storage
   
130.26   Impoundment no bar to other penalties
Abandoned Vehicles
   
130.40   Definitions
   
130.41   Abandonment prohibited
   
130.42   Wrecked, non-operating vehicles on street prohibited
   
130.43   Use of vehicle for storage restricted
   
130.44   Disposition of wrecked or discarded vehicles
   
130.45   Restriction regarding junk vehicles on automobile business
establishment premises
   
130.46   Vehicles in violation declared nuisance
   
130.47   Impoundment and redemption of disposition of vehicles in violation
Horseback Riding/Parades
   
130.60   Horseback riding without permit prohibited
   
130.61   Parades without permits prohibited
 
   
130.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.01 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   It is a curfew violation for a child 15, 16 or 17 years of age to be
in a public place:
      (1)   Between 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. on Saturday or Sunday;
      (2)   After 11:00 p.m. on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday;
or
      (3)   Before 5:00 a.m. on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday.
   (B)   It is a curfew violation for a child under 15 years of age to be in a
public place after 11:00 p.m. or before 5:00 a.m. on any day.
   (C)   Before taking any enforcement action under this section, a police
officer shall ask the apparent offender’s age and reason for being in the
public place. The officer shall not issue a citation or make an arrest under
this section unless the officer reasonably believes that an offense has
occurred and that, based on any response and other circumstances, including any
investigation that a reasonable person would deem necessary, none of the
exceptions enumerated in this section apply. This section shall not apply to a
child who is:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
police department about the minor’s presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the town, a civic organization
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the town, a civic organization or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with state law.
   (D)   A parent or legal guardian is hereby deemed to violate this section
when a child residing with that parent or legal guardian engages in a curfew
violation.
(Ord. 97-5-4, passed 5-12-1997) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 NUDE ACTS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The following acts shall be prohibited, and it shall be a violation of
this section for any person maintaining, owning or operating a commercial
establishment located within the corporate limits of the town, at which
alcoholic beverages are offered for sale for consumption on the premises:
      (1)   To suffer or permit any female person, while on the premises of
said commercial establishment, to expose to the public view that area of the
human female breast at or below the top of the areola thereof;
      (2)   To suffer or permit any female person, while on the premises of
said commercial establishment, to employ any device or covering which is
intended to give the appearance of or simulate such portions of the female
breast as described in division (A)(1) above;
      (3)   To suffer or permit any person, while on the premises of said
commercial establishment, to expose to public view his or her genitals, pubic
area, buttocks, anus or anal cleft or cleavage; or
      (4)   To suffer or permit any person, while on the premises of said
commercial establishment, to employ any device or covering which is intended to
give the appearance of or simulate the genitals, pubic area, buttocks, anus or
anal cleft or cleavage.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any female person, while on the premises of a
commercial establishment located within the corporate limits of the town, at
which alcoholic beverages are served or offered for sale for consumption on the
premises, to expose to public view that area of the human female breast at or
below the top of the areola thereof or to employ any device or covering which
is intended to give the appearance of or simulate such areas of the female
breast as described herein.
   (C)   It shall be a violation of this section for any person, while on the
premises of a commercial establishment located within the boundaries of the
town, at which alcoholic beverages are offered for sale for consumption on the
premises, to expose to public view his or her genitals, pubic area, buttocks,
anus or anal cleft or cleavage, or to employ any device or covering which is
intended to give the appearance of or simulate the genitals, pubic area,
buttocks, anus or anal cleft or cleavage.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-1) (Ord. 94-7-1, passed - -) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 FIREARMS, WEAPONS AND AIR GUNS.
   (A)   Discharge of firearms prohibited; exception. It shall be unlawful for
any person to discharge any pistol, revolver, rifle, shotgun or firearm of any
type within the town. The provisions of this section shall not apply to any
police officer while in the discharge of his or her police duties, or to any
person exercising his or her lawful right to the defense of his or her person
and property by another person.
   (B)   Discharge of air rifles and the like prohibited. It shall be unlawful
for any person to discharge any rifle, air pistol or revolver or any gun
operated by air, carbon monoxide gas or other gaseous propellants within the
limits of the town.
   (C)   Limitations on bows and arrows, sling shots. It shall be unlawful to
discharge or cause to be propelled any arrow or other missile from a bow or
slingshot, except at a practice target designed so as to prevent the ricochet
or exit through such target of any such arrow or other missile. This division
(C) shall not apply to fishing with a bow and arrow.
(Ord. 98-9-2, passed - -1998) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES IN TOWN PARKS.
   (A)   No person may use, possess, consume, sell or give away intoxicating or
alcoholic beverages in any town park, except upon the written consent or
permission of the Town Council.
   (B)   The Town Council may authorize such use, possession or sale of
alcoholic beverages in either Brower Park or the Pierceton-Washington Township
Park upon written request made at least 45 days in advance to the Town Council,
unless such time frame is waived by the Council, under such terms and
conditions as may be approved by the Council.
   (C)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer may and is authorized to develop an
application form for the use of persons who wish to apply to the Town Council
for written consent or permission from the Town Council to use, possess or sell
alcoholic beverages in Brower Park or the Pierceton-Washington Township Park.
   (D)   Applicants must comply with state law in all respects, must submit
verification of liability insurance and must submit a copy of any required
permits or applications from the state’s Alcohol and Tobacco Commission or the
State Excise Police.
(Ord. 2021-6-1, passed 6-14-2021) Penalty, see §
130.99
JUNK CARS
§ 130.15 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JUNK CAR. Any motor vehicle or the remains thereof which does not bear a
currently valid license plate or is not housed in a garage or other building.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-1) (Ord. 93, passed - -; Ord. 95-8-1, passed - -)
§ 130.16 JUNK CARS DECLARED NUISANCE.
   Junk cars as defined in §
130.15 of this code are declared to be nuisances except where situated in
lawfully operated junk yards, yards lawfully operated for vehicles awaiting
permission for junking from the Bureau of Motor Vehicles, or upon lots utilized
by new or used car dealers at their legally recognized places of business.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-2) (Ord. 93, passed - -; Ord. 95-8-1, passed - -)
§ 130.17 ORDER OF REMOVAL.
   Any Town Marshal or Deputy Town Marshal may order any junk car removed
within ten days following the giving of notice of an order for removal as
hereinafter; provided, however, if the junk car is, without the giving of any
further notice, a vehicle described by §
130.19 of this code, then the notice required by §
130.18 of this code hereinafter is not required to be given, and the provisions
of this subchapter may be followed. When ordering such vehicle removed, the
Town Marshal or Deputy Town Marshal may remove such vehicle, or cause the same
to be removed to any town-owned or operated property, or to a private garage or
place, where so authorized pursuant to a contract, where the same shall be
impounded and detained as hereinafter provided by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-3) (Ord. 93, passed - -; Ord. 95-8-1, passed - -)
§ 130.18 NOTICE.
   (A)   Notice of order of removal as provided by §
130.17 of this code shall be placed upon such junk car, and a copy thereof
shall be served upon:
      (1)   Any one adult occupying the real estate upon which the junk car is
located; or
      (2)   The owner of the junk car if such owner can be found.
   (B)   A notice affixed to any building on the real estate shall constitute
notice to the owner or occupant of the real estate and to the owner of the junk
car. If there is no building on the real estate, said notice may be affixed
elsewhere on the real estate.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-4) (Ord. 95-8-1, passed - -)
§ 130.19 IMPOUNDMENT OF ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES AUTHORIZED.
   Any vehicle parked or left standing unattended upon any street or public
place in the town, except for vehicles found to have been abandoned under the
terms of §§
130.40 through
130.47 of this code, at any time or place, in violation of any of the
provisions of this subchapter, any other ordinance of the town, any statute or
any vehicle known to have been stolen and so left on any street, is hereby
declared to be a public nuisance as an unlawful obstruction upon the street or
public place, and a hazard to traffic thereof, and any police officer
(including but not limited to the Town Marshal and Deputy Town Marshal), upon
discovering any such vehicle so parked or kept standing, unattended or when it
is attended and the operator or occupant, if able to do so, refuses or fails to
move it, on request, shall attach to such vehicle, or serve upon such person a
notice of such violation, and in addition to and independent of the penalty and
remedy for such violation, such officer may remove such vehicle, or cause the
same to be removed, to any town-owned or operated property, or to a private
garage or place, where so authorized pursuant to a contract, where the same
shall be impounded and detained, as hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-5) (Ord. 95-8-1, passed - -)
§ 130.20 REMOVAL, IMPOUNDMENT AT RISK OF OWNER.
   The removal and impoundment of a vehicle pursuant to this subchapter shall
be accomplished with reasonable care, but otherwise shall be at the risk of the
owner, his or her agent or representative.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-6) (Ord. 95-8-1, passed - -)
§ 130.21 REMOVAL AND RELEASE EXPENSES TO BE BORNE BY OWNER; PAYMENT
PREREQUISITE TO RELEASE.
   The expenses of and resulting from removal and storage of a vehicle pursuant
to this subchapter shall be borne by the owner, his or her agent or
representative, and before surrendering such vehicle, such expense shall be
paid by or for such owner, his or her agent or representative, for the use and
benefit of the town, or of the person who operates or has charge of such
garage, or other place of storage, whether a public or a private garage, or
place, unless it shall be otherwise ordered by a judge of any court.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-7) (Ord. 95-8-1, passed - -)
§ 130.22 CHARGES.
   In no event shall the charge for driving or towing in, impounding and
receiving for storage of any vehicle impounded pursuant to this subchapter, or
under any contract authorized by this subchapter exceed the initial sum of $50,
to which may be added storage charges of $4 per day, or fraction thereof,
payable to vehicles so stored on property owned or rented by the town or in
lieu thereof, such reasonable storage charges shall be assessed at the rate
fixed in any contract entered into pursuant to this section for storage of such
impounded vehicles for each day, or fraction thereof, on and after the day that
such vehicle is impounded.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-8) (Ord. 95-8-1, passed - -)
§ 130.23 RELEASE AUTHORIZATION.
   Vehicles impounded pursuant to this subchapter shall be released only upon
order of the office of the Town Marshal, the Town Council or upon an order of
the judge of any court having jurisdiction therein.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-9) (Ord. 95-8-1, passed - -)
§ 130.24 PROCEDURE WHERE ALLEGED VIOLATOR INNOCENT.
   In the event that any judge shall find from the evidence that a vehicle
impounded pursuant to this subchapter was not parked or left standing in
violation of any provision of this subchapter, any other ordinance of the town
or of any statute, the judge may order the vehicle restored to such owner his
or her agent or representatives, without penalty or the assessment of any
charges provided for in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-10) (Ord. 95-8-1, passed - -)
§ 130.25 CONTRACTS FOR TOWING, STORAGE.
   In order to make feasible and adequate arrangements for towing in,
impounding and caring for impounded vehicles, in addition to the town’s own
facilities therefor, the Town Council is hereby authorized to examine the
facilities of other persons and the general conditions of garages and other
places and facilities suitable for towing in, impounding and storage of
vehicles which may be impounded, to solicit prices and terms from the persons
operating or controlling the same for such uses and services and to contract,
as authorized by law, with any person owing or operating any such garage, place
or facility, for the driving or towing in, impounding, receiving and storing of
any such vehicles which may be impounded in such garage, place or facility,
pursuant to the terms of such contract and the provisions of this subchapter,
any other ordinance or of any statute.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-11) (Ord. 95-8-1, passed - -)
§ 130.26 IMPOUNDMENT NO BAR TO OTHER PENALTIES.
   The removal, impounding and storage of a vehicle pursuant to this subchapter
shall in no way supersede, bar, excuse or prevent a prosecution of any person,
or in any way relieve him or her from the penalty prescribed for his or her
violation of any provision of this subchapter, of any other ordinance of the
town, or of any statute, for the violation of which by such person any such
vehicle has been so removed, impounded and stored, but such remedies and
penalties are declared to be distinct and separate means of enforcing obedience
to this subchapter and to law.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-12) (Ord. 95-8-1, passed - -) Penalty, see §
130.99
ABANDONED VEHICLES
§ 130.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PROPERTY. Any real property within the town which is not a street or
highway.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel and shall include but not be limited to every fire
lane or alley and any other public way.
   VEHICLE. A machine propelled by power, other than human power, designed to
travel along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners or slides and
transport persons or property or pull machinery, and whether currently licensed
or registered or not, and shall include, without limitation, automobiles,
trucks, trailers, motorcycles, tractors, buggies and wagons.
   VEHICLE, ABANDONED. As set forth at I.C. 9-13-2-1. A stored vehicle titled
to and owned by a U.S. serviceperson, as provided by I.C. 9-22-1-1 shall not be
considered an ABANDONED VEHICLE as long as it is stored on private property.
(Prior Code, § 4-1.5-1) (Ord. 95-8-1, passed - -)
§ 130.41 ABANDONMENT PROHIBITED.
   No person shall abandon any vehicle within the town. The fact that the
vehicle has been abandoned may be inferred from proof of the fact that such
vehicle has been left outside of a garage or building and has been left
unattended and has not been moved from its place of parking for a period of 15
consecutive days.
(Prior Code, § 4-1.5-2) (Ord. 95-8-1, passed - -) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.42 WRECKED, NON-OPERATING VEHICLES ON STREET PROHIBITED.
   No person shall leave any partially dismantled, non-operating, wrecked or
junked vehicle on any street or highway with the town.
(Prior Code, § 4-1.5-3) (Ord. 95-8-1, passed - -) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.43 USE OF VEHICLE FOR STORAGE RESTRICTED.
   No person shall use any vehicle as a warehouse or storage building other
than a vehicle in which personal properties are stored while in transit, or
preparation for transit, or after arrival upon transit and prior to unloading.
(Prior Code, § 4-1.5-4) (Ord. 95-8-1, passed - -) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.44 DISPOSITION OF WRECKED OR DISCARDED VEHICLES.
   No person in charge or control of any property within the town, whether as
owner, tenant, occupant, lessee or otherwise, shall allow any partially
dismantled, non-operating, wrecked, junked, non-street-worthy, non-insured, not
properly licensed and registered or discarded vehicle to remain on such
property longer than 72 hours, and no person shall leave any such vehicle on
any property within the town for a longer time than 72 hours, except that this
section shall not apply with respect to a vehicle in an enclosed building, or
with respect to a vehicle situated upon property which is operated as an
automobile sales or service business when necessary or appropriate to the
operation of such business, nor to a vehicle situated in a duly licensed junk
yard, nor to a vehicle stored in a depository maintained for such purpose by
the town.
(Prior Code, § 4-1.5-5) (Ord. 95-8-1, passed - -) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.45 RESTRICTION REGARDING JUNK VEHICLES ON AUTOMOBILE BUSINESS
ESTABLISHMENT PREMISES.
   No person in charge of or in control of any property which is operated as an
automobile sales or service business shall permit any partially dismantled,
non-operating, wrecked, junked, non-street-worthy, non-insured, not properly
licensed and registered or discarded vehicle to remain not garaged on such
property for a period exceeding 45 days, unless at the expiration of such
period such person is in the process of disposing of such vehicle pursuant to
the state law pertaining to the sale of abandoned and unclaimed vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 4-1.5-6) (Ord. 95-8-1, passed - -) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.46 VEHICLES IN VIOLATION DECLARED NUISANCE.
   Any vehicle found under such circumstances that renders the owner of such
vehicle or the person in charge or control of the property upon which the same
is found in violation of this subchapter is hereby declared to be a nuisance
and dangerous to the public health and safety. Any person maintaining such a
nuisance shall promptly abate the same by placing such vehicle within an
enclosed building or disposing of it according to state law.
(Prior Code, § 4-1.5-7) (Ord. 95-8-1, passed - -) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.47 IMPOUNDMENT AND REDEMPTION OF DISPOSITION OF VEHICLES IN VIOLATION.
   (A)   The Town Marshal or any member of the Police Department is hereby
authorized to impound and to remove or have removed any vehicle left at any
place in the town which is so left in violation of this subchapter that it is a
nuisance or which may appear to have been lost, stolen or which is unclaimed.
   (B)   Such vehicle may be towed either by employees of the town or by
commercial towing firms and shall then be held in a depository or storage place
designated by the Town Marshal for a period of 45 days.
      (1)   During such time, the owner thereof may repossess the vehicle by
applying all expenses of towing and impoundment storage. Immediately upon
impoundment of a vehicle, the Town Marshal, or any member of the Police
Department, shall give written notice of the fact of such impoundment to the
owner thereof, if such owner can be found.
      (2)   If such vehicle is not claimed within 45 days, then such vehicle
shall be disposed of in accordance with the laws of the state pertaining to
disposal of abandoned and unclaimed vehicles.
      (3)   The provisions of this section shall also apply §§
130.15 through
130.26 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 4-1.5-8) (Ord. 95-8-1, passed - -)
HORSEBACK RIDING/PARADES
§ 130.60 HORSEBACK RIDING WITHOUT PERMIT PROHIBITED.
   Any and all horseback riding from and after the date of passage hereof shall
be expressly prohibited within the corporation limits of the town, except upon
special occasions approved by the Town Council, or in connection with public
parades specifically approved by said Council or upon designated horseback
riding trails or avenues as may, from time to time, be established by said
Council.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-1) (Ord. 125, passed - -) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.61 PARADES WITHOUT PERMITS PROHIBITED.
   Any and all public parades upon the streets or other public grounds of the
town are hereby expressly prohibited without obtaining at least 24 hours in
advance express written permission of the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-2) (Ord. 125, passed - -)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   A violation of §
130.01 of this code subjects a child or any parent or legal guardian with whom
the violating child resides to a fine not exceeding $25 for a first offense or
$50 for any second or subsequent offenses, or, at the option of the parent or
legal guardian of the child, community service as directed by the Town Marshal
to be performed by the child may be utilized for the purpose of payment of any
fine imposed at the rate of $5 per hour.
   (C)   A violation of §
130.02 of this code may be punished by a fine of not less than $100, nor more
than $2,500 per occurrence.
(Prior Code, §§ 4-4-2, 4-5-3)
   (D)   Any person, persons, firm, partnership, corporation or other entity
failing to comply with any of the provisions of §
130.03 of this code shall be subject to a penalty of not less than $25 nor more
than $100 for each violation, plus the cost of the attorneys’ fees incurred by
the town enforcing §
130.03 of this code, which attorneys’ fees and penalties shall not exceed
$2,500. Each day that any violation of §
130.03 of this code continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (E)   Any person who violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions
of §§
130.15 through
130.26, §§
130.40 through
130.47 or §§
130.60 and
130.61 of this code shall be deemed in violation of the article and shall pay
the town a fine of $25 for each violation plus the reasonable attorneys’ fees
incurred by the town in enforcing and collecting the fine, provided however
that the fine and attorneys’ fees for each violation shall not exceed $2,500 in
amount. Where the violation is continuing, each day that the violation
continues is a separate violation.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-1)
(Ord. 85-1-2, passed - -; Ord. 94-7-1, passed - -; Ord. 95-8-1, passed - -;
Ord. 97-5-4, passed 5-12-1997; Ord. 98-9-2, passed - -1998)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
152.   ZONING AND SUBDIVISION CONTROL
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Building Regulations
   
150.01   Intent
   
150.02   Definitions
   
150.03   Standards
   
150.04   Temporary use permit
   
150.05   Appeal
   
150.06   Other provisions and ordinances
Unsafe Buildings
   
150.20   Definitions
   
150.21   Unlawful conditions
   
150.22   Criteria
   
150.23   Cause of condition
   
150.24   Use, effect on others
   
150.25   Manner of determination
   
150.26   Town Council to be informed
   
150.27   Notice to violators
   
150.28   Failure to correct
   
150.29   Hearing
   
150.30   Failure to obey final determination
   
150.31   Building includes real estate
   
150.32   Notice to owners
   
150.33   Notice to lessee
   
150.34   State Building Code adopted
   
150.35   State Unsafe Building Law adopted
 
   
150.99   Penalty
BUILDING REGULATIONS
§ 150.01 INTENT.
   It is the intent of this subchapter to encourage provision of alternative
modest income housing in general residential areas by permitting the use of
certain manufactured homes, as defined herein, in all districts in which
similar dwellings constructed on-site are permitted, subject to the
requirements set forth herein to ensure acceptable similarity in exterior
appearance between such manufactured homes and dwellings that have been or
might be constructed under these and other lawful regulations on adjacent or
nearby lots in the same district, and to establish minimum square-foot
requirements for all single-family residences.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-1) (Ord. 86-6-1A, passed - -)
§ 150.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EXPANDO ROOM. An expandable manufactured housing unit.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A dwelling unit fabricated on or after June 15, 1976, in
an off-site manufacturing facility for installation or assembly at the building
site, bearing a seal certifying that it is built in compliance with the Federal
Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Code, being 42 U.S.C. §§
5401 et seq. or Pub. Law No. 360, Acts of 1971, as promulgated by the state’s
Administrative Building Council.
   MANUFACTURED HOUSING CONSTRUCTION AND SAFETY STANDARDS CODE. Title IV of the
1974 Housing and Community Development Act (42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq.), as
amended (previously known as the Federal Mobile Home Construction and Safety
Act), rules and regulations adopted thereunder, which include HUD-approved
information supplied by the home manufacturer and regulations and
interpretations of said Code by the state’s Administrative Building Council.
   MOBILE HOME. A transportable structure built prior to June 15, 1976, the
effective date for the Federal Mobile Home Construction and Safety Act of 1974,
larger than 320 square feet, and designed to be used as a year-round
residential dwelling.
   PLAN COMMISSION. The county’s Area Plan Commission.
   PUBLIC LAW 360, ACTS OF 1971. Enabling legislation requiring the state’s
Administrative Building Council to adopt rules and regulations for the
construction, repair or maintenance of factory-constructed one- or two-family
residential dwellings.
   SPECIAL EXCEPTION PERMIT. A device for permitting a use within a district
other than a principally permitted use.
   STATE ONE- AND TWO-FAMILY DWELLING CODE. The mandatory statewide Building
Code adopted by the state’s Administrative Building Council for one- and two-
family residential dwellings, codified at 675 I.A.C. 14-4.4-1 through 245.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-2) (Ord. 86-6-1A, passed - -)
§ 150.03 STANDARDS.
   (A)   Permitted placement. The establishment, location and use of
manufactured homes and on-site built homes as scattered-site residences shall
be permitted in any zone permitting installation of a dwelling unit subject to
requirements and limitations applying generally to such residential use in the
district and provided such homes shall meet the following requirements and
limitations.
      (1)   The home shall meet all requirements applicable to single-family
dwellings and possess all necessary improvement location, building and
occupancy permits and other certifications required by the code.
      (2)   The home shall be larger than 720 square feet of occupied space,
with a minimum width of 23 feet and with a minimum length of 23 feet.
      (3)   The home shall be attached and anchored to a permanent foundation
below frost line in conformance with the regulations in the state’s One- and
Two-Family Dwelling Code and with manufacturer’s installation specifications.
      (4)   The home shall be covered with an exterior material customarily
used for on-site built residential dwellings, and such material shall extend
over the top of the foundation.
      (5)   The home shall have a roof composed of a material customarily used
for on-site built residential dwellings, such as asbestos, fiberglass, shake,
asphalt, slate or tile, which shall be installed onto a surface appropriately
pitched for the materials used.
   (B)   Placement with permit. Manufactured homes not meeting the terms of
division (A) above and mobile homes shall be permitted within the town only
after receiving a special exception permit from the body authorized to grant
special exception permits.
   (C)   Structural alteration. Due to its integral design, any structural
alteration or modification of a manufactured or mobile home after it is placed
on the site must be approved by the Director of the Area Plan Commission.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-3) (Ord. 86-6-1A, passed - -)
§ 150.04 TEMPORARY USE PERMIT.
   (A)   Circumstances for permit issuance. Subject to conditions, fees and
standards otherwise required in the zoning ordinance, a temporary use permit
shall be issued:
      (1)   To an applicant in the process of building an on-site built
dwelling to locate a manufactured or mobile home on a building lot during the
course of construction of the dwelling. Such permit shall not be issued until
after a building permit for the dwelling has been issued;
      (2)   To an applicant to use a manufactured or mobile home as a
caretaker’s quarters or construction office at a job site; or
      (3)   To an applicant whose own health or the health of another
necessitates care, and where the facts show that an unnecessary hardship would
occur if not permitted to locate a manufactured home adjacent to the residence
of one who is able to provide such care or in need of such care.
   (B)   Length of permit. A temporary use permit may be issued, at the
discretion of the Plan Commission or its designated administrator, for a period
not to exceed two years. The temporary permit may be renewed for an additional
one-year period upon showing of good cause, and with permission to do so.
However, at the discretion of the Plan Commission or its designated
administrator, a temporary use permit may be issued to an applicant for a
health or age-related circumstance for a period coterminous with the health or
age-related circumstance.
   (C)   Permit expiration. At the time the temporary permit expires, the
manufactured or mobile home and all appurtenances shall be removed from the
property within 90 days.
   (D)   Utility requirements. Manufactured or mobile homes used for temporary
uses shall have an approved water supply, sewage disposal system and utility
connections, where appropriate, and at the discretion of the Plan Commission or
its designated administrator.
   (E)   Permit fee. A temporary use permit shall be issued by the Plan
Commission’s designated administrator. The fee shall be $25 and is in addition
to all other required permits including, but not limited to, permits for
utilities and sewage disposal systems.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-4) (Ord. 86-6-1A, passed - -)
§ 150.05 APPEAL.
   An action to review any order, requirement, decision or determination made
by an administrative official or board charged with enforcement of the zoning
ordinance shall be pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-919.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-5) (Ord. 86-6-1A, passed - -)
§ 150.06 OTHER PROVISIONS AND ORDINANCES.
   The provisions of this subchapter are in addition to the requirements of any
and all other applicable provisions and ordinances of the town, or of the
county, which are not otherwise in direct conflict with the terms of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-7) (Ord. 86-6-1A, passed - -)
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TOWN. The Town of Pierceton, Indiana.
   TOWN MARSHAL. The Town Marshal or any of his or her deputies.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-1)
§ 150.21 UNLAWFUL CONDITIONS.
   Any condition or conditions of any building, structure or part thereof in
the town, which for any reason is an unreasonable, clear and present danger to
the health or physical being of persons, or is an unreasonable danger to
property other than the structure itself, are hereby declared to be unlawful
conditions or an unlawful condition.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-2) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.22 CRITERIA.
   In determining whether a condition or conditions of a structure are unlawful
condition or conditions within the meaning of this subchapter, all relevant
factors are to be considered, including but not limited to the following:
   (A)   Any condition of a building which violates any state building,
plumbing, electrical or fire protection statute of the state and the respective
regulations thereunder;
   (B)   Any condition or conditions of a building which violate any state
health statute and regulations thereunder;
   (C)   Any condition or conditions which individually or in combination with
other conditions of any building or structure which cause any part of the
building or structure to be architecturally or engineeringly inadequate to
withstand the normal weight loads of the use of the building or structure or
otherwise rendering any part of the structure subject to collapse;
   (D)   Any condition or conditions of any part of any building or structure
which render it unreasonably susceptible to fire, whether through spontaneous
combustion or otherwise;
   (E)   Any condition or conditions of electrical systems or electrical wires;
   (F)   Any condition or conditions of plumbing or sewage facilities including
but not limited to plumbing for natural gas, liquefied petroleum gas, fuel oil
or other flammable substance, connections or delivery systems;
   (G)   Inadequate or insufficient bath, toilet or kitchen facilities;
   (H)   Inadequate or insufficient fire exits or escapes;
   (I)   Inadequate or insufficient water supply or water supply systems;
   (J)   Inadequate or insufficient or other deficient air cooling, air heating
or water heating equipment;
   (K)   Inadequate or insufficient exterior materials of any structure
including but not limited to insulation, siding, windows and roofing material
to protect the interior of the structure and the people therein from weather
conditions; or
   (L)   Any other condition or conditions of the building or structure which
are relevant in determining whether any part of any structure or building is an
unlawful condition under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-3) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.23 CAUSE OF CONDITION.
   An unlawful condition under this subchapter remains unlawful regardless of
whether the condition is a result of design, deterioration, alteration or other
factors.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-4) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.24 USE, EFFECT ON OTHERS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter in determining whether a condition or
conditions of a building or structure is an unlawful condition, the present use
of the building or structure shall be considered, and the reasonable
foreseeable class of persons who may be directly affected thereby shall be
considered and the property, whether real or personal, which may be affected by
any unlawful condition and which is reasonably foreseeable shall be considered
in determining whether any condition or conditions is or are unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-5)
§ 150.25 MANNER OF DETERMINATION.
   When the Town Marshal or such other person who is designated by the Town
Council to enforce the provisions of this subchapter believes that an unlawful
condition under this subchapter may exist, then he or she may confer with the
Town Engineer and make inspection of the structure of premises for the purpose
of determining whether any unlawful conditions exist under this subchapter. In
making a determination with respect to an unsafe building condition or
conditions, the Town Marshal or such other designated person may consult with
any other persons reasonably necessary in making such determination, including
but not limited to the State Fire Marshal, the town’s Volunteer Fire Department
Chief and the County Health Officer.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-6) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.26 TOWN COUNCIL TO BE INFORMED.
   Upon the determination that an unsafe building condition or conditions
exist, the Town Marshal or such other designated person shall inform the Town
Council of the findings and determination, together with recommendations for
correcting the unlawful condition or conditions.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-7)
§ 150.27 NOTICE TO VIOLATORS.
   (A)   The Town Council shall consider the determination of the Town Marshal
or other designated person of any unlawful conditions under this subchapter,
and if the Town Council determines that it does appear that an unlawful
condition or conditions exist, then the Town Council shall direct the Clerk-
Treasurer or such other person as designated by the Council to notify, in
writing, the person, persons, entity or entities who violate this subchapter by
certified mail or personal service at the discretion of the Town Council, of
the determination and notify such person, persons, entity or entities to
correct the unlawful conditions within a time specified therein not less than
20 days from the date of the letter or respond in writing or in person before
the Town Council within that designated period.
   (B)   The notice shall specifically include the following:
      (1)   A specific description of each and every unlawful condition;
      (2)   The dangers to persons or other property by reason of the unlawful
condition or conditions;
      (3)   Any recommendations for correcting the unlawful condition or
conditions;
      (4)   The time within which the unlawful condition or conditions are to
be corrected;
      (5)   A statement notifying the person, persons, entity or entities that
he or she must respond to this notice in person or in writing or by
representative before the date specified requesting a hearing, or indicating
that the person, persons, entity or entities will correct the unlawful
condition;
      (6)   The specific date, time and place by which a response must be
filed, either in writing or in person, requesting a review of the determination
of the unlawful condition and further notifying the individuals named therein
that on the date above set forth therein that the Town Council will set a date,
time and place for hearing before the Town Council upon the determination of
the unlawful conditions, if a request for hearing has been filed. The
individuals named therein shall be further notified that any response denying
the determination will be considered as a request for hearing; and
      (7)   The notice is to further state that failure to respond to the
notice shall constitute a conclusive presumption that the unlawful condition or
conditions set forth in the notice do exist and are a violation of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-8) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.28 FAILURE TO CORRECT.
   The failure of the person, persons, entity or entities to whom the notice of
unlawful condition or conditions was sent to correct the conditions within the
time provided in the notice shall constitute a violation of this subchapter,
and each day that any unlawful condition shall continue after that date shall
be considered a separate violation of this subchapter, unless a request for
hearing has been filed.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-9) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.29 HEARING.
   In the event of a hearing before the Town Council of any unlawful condition
or conditions, the Council shall hear evidence and may conduct any additional
fact-finding process which it may determine necessary. Within a reasonable time
thereafter, the Council shall issue a final determination of whether any
unlawful condition or conditions exist, and in the event the Council finds any
unlawful condition or conditions to exist, the Council shall specifically set
forth in writing the unlawful conditions found to exist, the findings of fact
upon which the decision is based, and a specific but reasonable date in which
the unlawful conditions are to be corrected, copies of which shall be delivered
to the individuals named in the notice.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-10)
§ 150.30 FAILURE TO OBEY FINAL DETERMINATION.
   Any failure by any person, persons, entity or entities named in the final
determination of the Town Council to correct the unlawful condition or
conditions which were found to exist within the time period provided by the
Town Council shall constitute a violation of this subchapter, and for each such
condition which exists after said date, and each day that any such unlawful
condition shall exist after the date in which the person, persons, entity or
entities were allowed to correct the same, shall constitute a separate
violation of this subchapter for each unlawful condition which exists.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-11) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.31 BUILDING INCLUDES REAL ESTATE.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, any building or structure shall include
the real estate upon which such building or structure is situated.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-15)
§ 150.32 NOTICE TO OWNERS.
   When any unlawful condition or conditions exist under this subchapter which
are within the control of the owner or owners of the real estate upon which the
building or structure is situated, then notice shall be given to those owners
who appear of record.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-16)
§ 150.33 NOTICE TO LESSEE.
   In the event it is determined that the unlawful condition or conditions
under this subchapter which exist are solely within the control of the lessee
of a building or structure other than the owner, then notice shall be given to
such lessee or other person in addition to the owner or owners of the building
or structure.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-17)
§ 150.34 STATE BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   The State Building Code, most current edition (675 I.A.C. 13-2),
originally published as 91.R.719, which identifies, amends and incorporates
therein the Uniform Building Code, most current edition, as amended, is hereby
adopted by the town.
   (B)   State Building Code Standards, most current edition (675 I.A.C. 13-3),
originally published as 9 I.E.750, which identifies, amends and incorporates
therein the Uniform Building Code Standards, most current edition, as amended,
is hereby adopted by the town.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-18)
§ 150.35 STATE UNSAFE BUILDING LAW ADOPTED.
   The Town Council shall and hereby does:
   (A)   Adopt I.C. 36-7-9 (the state’s Unsafe Building Law), pursuant to I.C.
36-7-9-3;
   (B)   Appoint and designate the town’s Police Department as the executive
department responsible for the administration of the Unsafe Building Law and
the Town Marshal as the enforcement authority;
   (C)   Designate the Town Council as the hearing authority with respect to
orders issued pursuant to the Unsafe Building Law; and
   (D)   Incorporate by reference the definition of SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY
INTEREST as that term is used in I.C. 36-7-9 (Unsafe Building Law), which
chapter defines the term as follows: Any right in real property that may be
affected in a substantial way by actions authorized by this chapter, including
a fee interest, a life estate interest, a future interest, a mortgage interest
or an equitable interest of a contract purchaser.
(Ord. 17-4-1, passed 5-8-2017)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Each day of non-compliance with the provisions of §§
150.01 through
150.06 of this code constitutes a separate and distinct ordinance violation.
Judgment of up to $500 per day may be entered for a violation.
      (2)   A home, sited upon property in violation of §§
150.01 through
150.06 of this code, shall be subject to removal from such property. However,
the homeowner must be given a reasonable opportunity to bring the property into
compliance before action for removal can be taken. If action finally is taken
by the appropriate authority to bring compliance, the expenses involved may be
made a lien against the property.
      (3)   The Plan Commission or its designated administrator may institute a
suit in an appropriate court for injunctive relief to cause such violation to
be prevented, abated or removed.
(Prior Code, §§ 6-2-6, 6-5-2)
   (C)   (1)   In the event that any person, persons, entity or entities of
whatsoever nature violate any provision of §§
150.20 through
150.35 of this code, the town may take action in any court of proper
jurisdiction in the county to obtain a mandatory injunction or other relief to
require such person, persons, entity or entities to correct the unlawful
conditions and to request any other temporary and preliminary injunctive relief
to protect persons and property and further, may request final orders requiring
the structure or building to be removed, sold or other relief which is proper
under the circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-12)
      (2)   In addition to applying for any injunctive relief, the town may
file ordinance violation charges against any person, persons, entity or
entities violating §§
150.20 through
150.35 of this code, and for each unsafe building condition violation, such
person, persons, entity or entities shall be fined $25 for each violation.
(Prior Code, §§ 6-3-13, 6-5-3)
      (3)   In the event that the town files ordinance violation charges or
seeks injunctive or other relief before any court, then upon any determination
in favor of the town, the town shall be further entitled to recover and have
judgment against any person, persons, entity or entities violating this
subchapter for the town’s reasonable attorneys’ fees incurred in prosecuting
any of the actions therein, provided however, that the attorneys’ fees and
penalty for each violation shall not exceed $2,500 in amount.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-14)
(Ord. 86-6-1A, passed - -)
CHAPTER 151: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Obstruction and damaging sidewalk
   
151.02   Damaging streets
Street Names and Block Numbers
   
151.15   Street names
   
151.16   Numbering system
   
151.17   Numbering base
   
151.18   Block numbering
   
151.19   Number spacing
   
151.20   Directional designation
   
151.21   Block length variations
   
151.22   Vacation, extension procedure
   
151.23   Renumbering procedure
   
151.24   Multiple units and additional entrances
   
151.25   Numbers required for all buildings
   
151.26   Compliance requirement
   
151.27   Time limit for compliance
   
151.28   Numbering by town
 
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 OBSTRUCTING AND DAMAGING SIDEWALK.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place any obstruction in the streets
or upon the sidewalks of the town, without first obtaining the written
permission to do so from the Town Marshal, Town Clerk or Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-1) (Ord. 10, passed - -) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.02 DAMAGING STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to dig holes in or otherwise damage the
streets and sidewalks within the town without first obtaining written
permission to do so from the Town Marshal, Town Clerk or Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-2) Penalty, see §
151.99
STREET NAMES AND BLOCK NUMBERS
§ 151.15 STREET NAMES.
   (A)   The streets within the town that are shown upon the map attached to
the ordinance codified in this subchapter, marked Exhibit A and made a part
hereof by reference, shall hereinafter be known as and carry the names as shown
upon said map.
   (B)   Streets within the town that are not shown upon the attached map shall
continue with such names as are presently given to said streets, or with such
names as are hereinafter given to said streets.
   (C)   The portion of Pierceton Road which extends westward from Seventh
Street to the intersection of Market Street (traveling on Market Street
westward from the center of town to the Pierceton Road) shall hereinafter be
known as “Market Street Extended.”
(Prior Code, § 9-1-1) (Ord. 90-6-1, passed - -; Ord. 96-2-1, passed - -)
§ 151.16 NUMBERING SYSTEM.
   (A)   System description. The numbering system created by this section
utilizes an east-west street to represent the dividing line between north and
south designations, and a north-south street for the dividing line between east
and west designations, which streets shall be referred to as “numbering base.”
Even numbers shall be assigned to properties that are on the right side of the
street as one proceeds away from the base, and odd numbers shall be assigned to
properties that are on the left side of the street as one proceeds away from
the base street.
   (B)   Excluded properties. The Arnolt Industrial Park and the Cubs
Development District are excluded from the numbering system created herein. The
Town Clerk-Treasurer shall determine the numbers for these properties.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-2) (Ord. 90-6-1, passed - -)
§ 151.17 NUMBERING BASE.
   (A)   North-south base street. First Street (State Highway 13), as shown on
the map attached to the ordinance codified in this subchapter, shall be the
north-south base street. All buildings and properties east of this street shall
have the word “east,” or an abbreviation thereof, prefixed to its name, and all
buildings and properties west of this base street shall have the word “west” or
the abbreviation thereof prefixed to its name.
   (B)   East-west base street. Catholic Street, as shown upon the attached
map, shall be the east-west base street, and all buildings and properties north
of this base street shall have the word “north” prefixed to its name, and all
buildings and properties south of this base street shall have the word “south”
prefixed to its name. The abbreviation “N” for north and the abbreviation “S”
for south may be used in designating the address.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-3) (Ord. 90-6-1, passed - -)
§ 151.18 BLOCK NUMBERING.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter and for the numbering required by
this subchapter, the first block or square of any street in any direction from
either of the base streets identified in §
151.17 of this code shall be numbered 100, and the second block shall be
numbered 200, and from thereon to the end of said street, each consecutive
block shall be numbered 100 higher than the block nearer to such base street.
   (B)   For the purposes of determining blocks, streets that do not proceed
entirely through the town, shall be extended by a hypothetical imaginary line
in a north-south or east-west direction that said street is laid out, with said
imaginary line constituting the separation of one block from another.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-4) (Ord. 90-6-1, passed - -)
§ 151.19 NUMBER SPACING.
   (A)   Business District. Between the streets of Market Street and Catholic
Street, on First Street within the town (which area is the Business District),
each 20 feet shall constitute one number.
   (B)   Remaining properties. In each block within the town not otherwise
provided for within this section, each 50 feet shall constitute one number.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-5) (Ord. 90-6-1, passed - -)
§ 151.20 DIRECTIONAL DESIGNATION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter and for the numbering required by this
subchapter, diagonal streets shall be considered north and south streets or
east and west streets, as the case may be, according whether their course lies
nearest north and south or east and west; those whose course lies nearest north
and south shall be considered north and south streets, and those whose course
lies nearest east and west shall be considered east and west streets. Streets
lying at an angle of 45 degrees shall be considered a north and south street.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-6) (Ord. 90-6-1, passed - -)
§ 151.21 BLOCK LENGTH VARIATIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter and for the numbering required by this
subchapter, if any blocks are longer than 1,100 feet, then for the purposes of
this subchapter, 1,100 feet will be considered the maximum length of any block,
and the numbering for the next property shall be considered as a separate
block.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-7) (Ord. 90-6-1, passed - -)
§ 151.22 VACATION, EXTENSION PROCEDURE.
   In case of the establishment, extension or vacation of any street or part of
a street in the town, the numbering on a part or a whole of such street, as the
case may be, shall be made or remade, if necessary, to conform to this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-8) (Ord. 90-6-1, passed - -)
§ 151.23 RENUMBERING PROCEDURE.
   From time to time, as circumstances may require, in case of the renumbering
of any street or in case buildings shall be built or rebuilt, or numbers shall
be destroyed, or for any reason buildings shall not be properly numbered,
notices shall be given and the numbering shall be made as required in this
subchapter. Buildings spanning property that encompasses more than one number,
as is provided by this subchapter, shall be numbered as follows: Residential
homes shall be given that number which is that number applicable to that part
of the lot upon which the entrance to the home is situated; two-family and
other structures with more than one entrance shall be given a number for each
entrance that coincides with the lot upon which it is located.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-9) (Ord. 90-6-1, passed - -)
§ 151.24 MULTIPLE UNITS AND ADDITIONAL ENTRANCES.
   (A)   Multiple units. Where multiple units are served by a singularly
numbered street entrance, or the entrances thereto do not front a street, then
the units shall be each separately lettered with consecutive letters. A sketch
of the units and the letters assigned to them shall be delivered to the Town
Clerk-Treasurer, and the Clerk-Treasurer shall, in turn, deliver copies of such
sketches to the Fire Department, Police Department and emergency medical
service.
   (B)   Multiple street entrances. Second street entrances within a property
carrying one number shall carry the fraction of one-half, but if there be more
than two separate entrances, then quarter fractions shall be used so that the
first additional entrance shall be one-fourth, the second additional entrance
shall be one-half and so on.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-10) (Ord. 90-6-1, passed - -)
§ 151.25 NUMBERS REQUIRED FOR ALL BUILDINGS.
   All dwelling houses and business buildings, or other structures situated
within the town and fronting upon any public street thereof shall be numbered,
as follows.
   (A)   Duty of owner. It shall be the duty of any owner of a building
required to be numbered or lettered herein to place the number of such building
in a neat and tasteful manner, and in a conspicuous place, in accordance with
all of the requirements of this subchapter. Where letters are also required,
the letters shall be placed upon the outside door of the entrance to the unit.
   (B)   Size of numbers. All numbers and letters shall be at least three
inches high, shall be block numbers and shall be sufficiently contrasted with
the building so as to be easily readable. The numbers shall be larger than the
three inches required herein when such larger size is necessary for the numbers
to be easily readable and locatable from the street. All numbers shall be of
metal, wood or other material of substantial thickness except that in the
Business District, the numbers may be painted on the exterior of the building.
   (C)   Location of numbers. All numbers shall be located upon the street side
of the property, and where possible, upon the building itself, closest to the
entrance to the building. The numbers required herein shall be located at a
height of not less than four feet above street level and not more than nine
feet above street level.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-11) (Ord. 90-6-1, passed - -)
§ 151.26 COMPLIANCE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Existing structures. It shall be the duty of the town to notify the
owner or agent of the owner of each building now existing within the town and
fronting on any street thereof to number any such building in conformity with
this subchapter. Such notice shall be in writing, the numbers shall be
specified therein, and also specified therein shall be the time within which
such numbering shall be completed. Such notice may be served upon the owner or
his or her agent personally, by mailing notice to either of them by first-class
mail, or by leaving a copy thereof at the last and usual place of the residence
of the owner or agent. If any person who is the owner of any building to be
numbered in the town is a non-resident of the town and has no local agent known
to the Clerk-Treasurer, then a notice left upon the premises to be numbered
shall be deemed a good and sufficient notice to such non-resident, provided
however, the Clerk-Treasurer may (but shall not be required), issue notice to
such owner by certified mail at the last known address of the owner, although
in such circumstances, receipt of the notice shall not be required. The Town
Clerk-Treasurer shall act on behalf of the town and may designate any person to
carry out the notice required herein. Any notice that is given by mailing shall
be considered as having been given on the date of mailing, unless the envelope
is returned for reason of insufficient or wrong address.
   (B)   Future construction or reconstruction. It shall be the duty of any
owner of property within the town prior to the construction or reconstruction
of a building upon a property within the town at the time that such
construction or reconstruction is commenced, to obtain a street number from the
Town Clerk-Treasurer and to have said number upon said building prior to its
occupancy. No person shall commence or continue any construction that requires
a number under this subchapter until a number has been obtained as required by
this subchapter.
   (C)   Annexation. In the event that any territory is annexed to the town,
then the numbering notice shall be given as is provided by division (A) above.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-12) (Ord. 90-6-1, passed - -)
§ 151.27 TIME LIMIT FOR COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   With respect to dwelling houses, businesses and other buildings in
existence within the town at the time that this subchapter becomes effective,
such buildings shall be numbered as required by this subchapter within 60 days
after this subchapter becomes effective as provided by law, or within 60 days
after notice is given, whichever last occurs.
   (B)   For persons described in §
151.26(B) of this code, the building shall be numbered prior to occupancy or
within 60 days after written notice is given under §
151.26 of this code, whichever first occurs.
   (C)   For all other persons, the dwelling house, business or other building
shall be numbered within 60 days after notice is given as provided by §
151.26 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-13) (Ord. 90-6-1, passed - -)
§ 151.28 NUMBERING BY TOWN.
   Any building or structure that is not numbered in the manner and form and
within the time specified in this subchapter shall be numbered by the Town
Council of the town or by any person designated by it. The cost and expense
thereof shall in the first instance be paid out of the funds of the town, and
the cost and expense thereupon shall be and constitute a lien upon the real
estate of the delinquent owner, and such lien shall be enforced and collected
as town taxes are collected or as street improvement assessments are collected,
or the same may be foreclosed as other liens are foreclosed in any court of
competent jurisdiction by a suit in the name of the town.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-14) (Ord. 90-6-1, passed - -)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions
of §
151.01 of this code shall be deemed in violation and shall pay to the town a
fine of $25 for each violation plus the reasonable attorneys’ fees incurred by
the town in enforcing and collecting the fine, provided, however, that the fine
and attorneys’ fees for each violation shall not exceed $2,500 in amount. Where
the violation is continuing, each day that the violation continues is
considered a separate violation.
(Prior Code, § 9-5-5)
   (C)   Any person who digs holes in or otherwise damages a street or sidewalk
in the town (see § 151.02 of this code), without first obtaining written
permission to do so from the Town Marshal, Town Clerk or Town Council, shall in
addition to paying any costs of repair shall also pay a fine of $25 for each
act of damage, plus the reasonable attorneys’ fees of the town incurred in
enforcing this provision, provided, however, that the fine and attorneys’ fees
for each act of damage shall not exceed $2,500.
(Prior Code, § 9-5-6)
   (D)   If any building is not numbered in the manner and form required by §§
151.15 through
151.28 of this code and within the time provided, then any owner of the
property shall be subject to a penalty in the amount not less than $25 nor more
than $50, plus the costs incurred by the town to enforce the penalty,
including, but not limited to, the reasonable attorneys’ fees incurred by the
town, provided, however, that the penalty and attorneys’ fees shall not exceed
$2,500 in amount. The foregoing penalty is in addition to the obligation of the
owner to pay the costs described in §
151.28 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 9-5-1)
(Ord. 85-1-2, passed - -; Ord. 90-6-1, passed - -)
CHAPTER 152: ZONING AND SUBDIVISION CONTROL
Section
   
152.01   Plan Commission
   
152.02   County ordinances adopted
§ 152.01 PLAN COMMISSION.
   (A)   Area Plan Commission created.
      (1)   There is hereby established an Area Planning Department for the
county, pursuant to the authority provided in Chapter 138 of the Acts of 1957
of the state’s General Assembly, as amended.
      (2)   The Area Planning Department shall be created effective January 1,
1968.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-1)
   (B)   Membership.
      (1)   The membership of the Area Plan Commission of the county’s Area
Planning Department shall be as set forth in paragraphs 8, 9, 10 and 25 of said
Chapter 138 of said Acts of 1958, as amended, and the members of the Area Plan
Commission shall have the qualifications of the terms of office and shall be
appointed, all as provided in paragraphs 11, 12 and 13 of said Chapter 138 of
the Acts of 1957, as amended.
      (2)   The members of the Area Plan Commission representing the county and
the members representing the cities and towns participating in the
establishment of the Area Planning Department shall be appointed or elected as
provided for in said statutes and shall be certified to the County Board of
Commissioners. The President of the County Board of Commissioners will assemble
the Area Plan Commission promptly after January 1, 1968 and preside at such
meeting until the membership of the Area Plan Commission has elected a
President.
(Prior Code, § 12-2-1)
(Ord. 117, passed - -)
§ 152.02 COUNTY ORDINANCES ADOPTED.
   (A)   The Comprehensive Plan, Zoning Ordinance, Subdivision Control
Ordinance and Mobile Home Park Ordinance, adopted by the county’s Area Plan
Commission and thereafter by the County Board of Commissioners on January 2,
1975, and certified to the town by the county’s Area Plan Commission on January
6, 1975, is adopted by the town.
   (B)   On February 12, 1977, the county’s Area Plan Commission certified
County Ord. 77-1 to the town, which ordinance is an ordinance amending the
Zoning Ordinance, Subdivision Control Ordinance and Mobile Home Park Ordinance
heretofore adopted by the town and the county’s Area Plan Commission, which
certified ordinance is hereby adopted by the town.
(Prior Code, § 12-2-1) (Ord. 137, passed - -1975; Ord. 147, passed 2-14-1977;
Ord. 98-4-2, passed 3- -1998)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS AND DISANNEXATIONS
      
II.   INTERLOCAL AGREEMENTS
      
III.   FRANCHISES AND CONTRACTS
      
IV.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
      
V.   STREET VACATIONS
      
VI.   FUNDS
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS AND DISANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
66       4-16-1959   Annexation ordinance.
                     (Prior Code, § 1-8-1)
67       4-16-1959   Annexation ordinance.
                     (Prior Code, § 1-8-1)
68       4-16-1959   Annexation ordinance.
                     (Prior Code, § 1-8-1)
69       4-16-1959   Annexation ordinance.
                     (Prior Code, § 1-8-1)
70       5-20-1959   Annexation ordinance.
                     (Prior Code, § 1-8-1)
80       11-18-1959  Annexation ordinance.
                     (Prior Code, § 1-8-1)
86       11-19-1964  Disannexation ordinance.
                     (Prior Code, § 1-8-2)
85-4-1   4-8-1985    Annexation ordinance.
                     (Prior Code, § 1-8-1)
85-5-1   5-13-1985   Annexation ordinance.
                     (Prior Code, § 1-8-1)
85-12-2  12-9-1985   Annexation ordinance.
                     (Prior Code, § 1-8-1)
88-7-1   7-11-1988   Annexation ordinance.
                     (Prior Code, § 1-8-1)
89-6-1   6-12-1989   Annexation ordinance.
                     (Prior Code, § 1-8-1)
91-11-1  11-11-1991  Annexation ordinance.
                     (Prior Code, § 1-8-1)
92-11-2  11-9-1992   Annexation ordinance.
                     (Prior Code, § 1-8-1)
                    
 
TABLE II: INTERLOCAL AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
                      Contracting to provide sewage treatment to the Town of
91-12-1   9-19-1991   Larwill.
                      (Prior Code, § 10-5-1)
2010-12-2 12-13-2010  Amendment to interlocal agreement between the town and
                      Washington Township for the Pierceton-Washingto n Park.
                     
 
TABLE III: FRANCHISES AND CONTRACTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
74       7-3-1959    Contract for street lighting service.
                     (Prior Code, § 13-2-1)
                     Establishing 50-year electrical franchise to Northern
65       11-15-1959  Indiana Public Service Company.
                     (Prior Code, § 13-1-1)
                     Establishing 25-year gas service franchise to Northern
79       11-18-1959  Indiana Public Service Company.
                     (Prior Code, § 13-1-2)
                     Establishing 15-year cable television service franchise to
82-2-1   1-25-1982   Warner-Amex Cable Communications, Inc.
                     (Prior Code, § 13-1-3)
                     Establishing 15-year cable television franchise to Triax
83-4-3   6-13-1983   Associates II.
                     (Prior Code, § 13-1-4)
                     Contract for street lighting service with Northern Indiana
85-6-1   6-10-1985   Public Service Company.
                     (Prior Code, § 13-2-2)
85-11-2  - -         Contract with Kosciusko Development, Inc.
                     (Prior Code, § 1-10-4)
                     Contract for electrical service for a liftwell with
87-11-1  11-9-1987   Northern Indiana Public Service Company.
                     (Prior Code, § 13-2-3)
98-5-1   5-11-1998   Granting a cable television franchise to Triax Midwest
                     Associates, L.P.
                    
 
TABLE IV: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
            A tract of land in the northwest quarter of section 27, Township 32 North,
            range 7 east, beginning at the northeast corner of the southeast quarter of the
            northwest quarter of section 27; thence south to the north right-of-way line of
            U.S. Highway 30; thence northwesterly along the north right-of-way line of U.S.
            Highway 30 to the north line of the southeast quarter of the northwest quarter
142  - -    of section 27; thence east to the point of beginning is hereby removed from
            classification as an Agricultural District and subject real estate shall be
            reclassified and rezoned as a Commercial District. This tract contains block 45
            and parts of block 44 and 46 of Keith’s Addition to the town. Contains 2.8
            acres more or less.
            (Prior Code, § 12-2-2)
            Lots numbered 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8 and fractional lot numbered 5 in block 11,
12-         all in the original plat of the town be, and the same is hereby removed from
5-83 - -    classification as a Light Industrial District and subject real estate shall be
            reclassified and rezoned as a Commercial District.
            (Prior Code, § 12-2-2)
               (A)    A tract of land located in the southwest quarter of section 27,
            Township 32 North, range 7 east, and more accurately described as follows: Lots
            numbered 7 and 8 block 9 Samuel McCoy’s Addition are removed from
85-         classification as a Residential District and rezoned as a Commercial District.
1-1  - -       (B)    A tract of land located in the southwest quarter of section 27,
            Township North, range 7 east, and more accurately described as follows: Lot
            number 3 block 2 Redkey Addition is removed from classification as a
            Residential District and rezoned as a Commercial District.
            (Prior Code, § 12-2-2)
            A tract of land located in the northwest quarter of section 27, Township 32
            North, range 7 east, and more accurately described as follows: Lot numbered 3,
9-1- - -    4, 7 and 8, less north 8 feet of lot number 8 in block 25 Keith’s Addition is
86          removed from classification as a Public Use District and rezoned as a
            Residential District.
            (Prior Code, § 12-2-2)
            A tract of land located in the northwest quarter of section 34, Township 32
88-         North, range 7 east, and more accurately described as follows: Lots 4, 5 and of
11-1 - -    Gradeless Subdivision, less the north 38.50 feet of lot 4 is removed from
            classification as a Residential District and rezoned as a Commercial District.
            (Prior Code, § 12-2-2)
            All of blocks 43 and 46 lying south of the right-of-way of U.S. Highway No. 30
            in Keith’s Addition to the town, including a vacated portion of Elm Street in
            said town, which vacated area lies between lots 11 and 12 in block 46 and lots
88-         2, 3 and 4 in block 43; and also the north half of the vacated Wayne Street in
12-2 - -    said town bordered on the west by the extension to the south of the west line
            of block 43 and bordered on the east by the right-of-way of said U.S. Highway
            30 is removed from classification as a Residential District and rezoned as a
            Commercial District.
            (Prior Code, § 12-2-2)
            A tract of land located in the northwest quarter of section 27, Township 32
97-  5-12-  North, range 7 east in the county, more accurately described as follows: Lot 8
5-1  1997   and the north 7.5 feet of lot 7 block number 23, original plot of the town, is
            removed from classification as a Public Use District and rezoned as a
            Commercial District.
            A tract of land located in the southwest quarter of section 27, Township 32
99-  9-13-  North, range 7 east, and more accurately described as follows: Lot number 4,
9-2  1999   Redkey’s Addition is removed from classification as a Commercial District and
            rezoned as a Residential District.
00-  - -    Block 14, original town plat is removed from classification as a Residential,
4-1         Public Use and Industrial District and rezoned as a Commercial District.
05-  1-10-  A parcel of land located in the west half of section 27, Township 32 North,
1-01 2005   range 7 east is removed from classification as a Industrial II District and
            rezoned as a Public Use District.
06-  8-14-  A parcel of land located in the west half of section 27, Township 32 North,
8-1  2006   range 7 east is removed from classification as a Public Use District and
            rezoned as a Commercial District.
15-  5-11-  Part of block B in Matchett Industrial Park is removed from classification as a
5-1  2015   Industrial II District to Commercial District.
18-  4-9-   Lot number 8 and the north 7.5 feet of lot number 7 in block 23, in the
4-1  2018   original plat of the town is removed from classification as a Public Use
            District to Commercial District.
           
 
TABLE V: STREET VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
            The following described portion of an alley within the town is hereby vacated:
            All that part of the following described alley, which alley runs north and south
82-         on the west side of lots numbered 7 and 8 of the Ryerson Addition in the town.
7-1  - -    The vacation granted herein is subject to right of Northern Indiana Public
            Service Company for its utility easements which are presently being used, upon,
            along, through and over the portion of the alley being vacated.
            (Prior Code, § 12-3-1)
87-  7-13-  Vacating certain streets and/or alleys in M.T. Barbour’s Addition to the town.
7-1  1987   (Prior Code, § 12-3-2)
            The following is vacated: A portion of Sixth Street lying between Elm and Walnut
            Streets, subject to existing easement, and any easements and present use for
            existing utilities and subject to continual easement in favor of the town for
96-         future utility needs, including but not limited to the construction,
1-1  - -    reconstruction, expansion, and maintenance of utilities, including but not
            limited to sewage lines, subject to storm and sanitary sewage lines, water
            lines, gas, electrical, and other power lines, and communication lines,
            including but not limited to telephone and television.
            (Prior Code, § 12-3-2)
96-  10-14- The following described street is vacated: A strip 50 feet in equal width and
10-1 1996   200 feet in length lying between lot 5 to the north and lot 6 to the south in
            Beyer’s First Addition to the town, known as Pine Street.
            The following described real estate situated in the county is vacated: The part
            of the platted street denominated Indiana Street in the town, beginning at a
96-  10-14- point on the southeast corner of lot 4 in block 33 of Keith’s Addition; thence
10-2 1996   north along the west line of lots 5, 6, 7 and 8 to the northwest corner of lot 8
            in block 34; thence west to the northeast corner of lot 1 in block 33 of Keith’s
            Addition; thence south along the east line of lots 1, 2, 3 and 4 in block 33 of
            Keith’s Addition to the place of beginning.
            The following described real estate situated in the county are vacated:
                (A)     The part of the platted street denominated Grant Street in the town
            described: Beginning at a point on the southeast corner of lot 4 in block 34 of
            Keith’s Addition; thence east to the southwest corner of lot 5 in block 35 of
            Keith’s Addition; thence north along the west line of lots 5, 6 and 7 to the
            right-of-way line to where it intersects the east line of lot 1 in block 34 of
96-  10-14- Keith’s Addition; thence south along the east line of lots 1, 2, 3 and 4 in
10-3 1996   block 34 of Keith’s Addition to the place of beginning.
                (B)     A part of Church Street in the town and more specifically desribed
            as follows: Beginning at the southwest corner of lot 5 in block 35 of Keith’s
            Addition; thence south to the northwest corner of lot 8 in block 36 of Keith’s
            Addition; thence east along the north line of lot 8 and lot 1 to the northeast
            corner of lot 1 in block 36 of Keith’s Addition; thence north to the southeast
            corner of lot 4 in block 35 of Keith’s Addition; thence west along the south
            line of lot 4 and lot 5 to the place of beginning.
            The following portion of an alley is vacated: Beginning at the northeast corner
97-  12-8-  of lot number 3 in block 2 in George W. Ryerson’s Second Addition to the town;
12-1 1997   thence south to the southeast corner of lot 4 in said addition; thence east to
            the southwest corner of lot 5 in said addition; thence north to the northwest
            corner of lot 6 in said addition; thence west to the place of beginning.
            The following described public road way situated in the town is vacated: A road
99-  9-13-  known as Fifth Street running in a north-south direction between the Pittsburgh,
9-1  1999   Fort Wayne and Chicago Rail Road right-of-way (a.k.a. Penn Central Rail Road)
            and Wayne Street in the Lewis Keith’s Addition to the town.
16-  4-11-  The following public way located in the down is vacated: Part of Tenth Street in
4-1  2016   the Fairview Addition to the town.
           
 
TABLE VI: FUNDS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
85-11-3  - -         Creating the Industrial Development Fund.
                     (Prior Code, § 1-10-1)
                     Creating the Non-Reverting Operating Fund for the
88-1-1   - -         Pierceton-Washington Township Park Board.
                     (Prior Code, §§ 7-2-3, 7-2-4, 7-2-5, 7-2-6)
89       - -         Creating the Cumulative Capital Improvement Fund.
                     (Prior Code, § 1-4-1)
90-1-1   - -         Delineating use of Public Relations Fund.
                     (Prior Code, § 1-4-5)
                     Creating the Local Law Enforcement Continuing Education
90-9-1   - -         Fund.
                     (Prior Code, § 1-4-5)
93-5-1   - -         Creating the Cumulative Capital Development Fund.
                     (Prior Code, § 1-4-4)
129      - -         Creating the Federal Revenue Sharing Trusts Fund.
                     (Prior Code, § 1-4-2)
133      - -         Creating the McNamara Bequest Fund.
                     (Prior Code, § 1-4-3)
144                 Creating the Pierceton-Washington Township Park Fund.
                     (Prior Code, §§ 7-2-1, 7-2-2)
2006-7-2 7-10-2006   Creating Law Enforcement Forfeiture Fund.
2008-8-1 8-4-2008    Creating a Rainy Day Fund.
2020-7-1 7-13-2020   Creating a Covid Relief Fund.
20-8-10  8-10-2020   Establishing funds for compensation of elected officials.
2021-4-1 4-12-2021   Creating a Christmas Lights Fund.
2021-5-1 5-17-2021   Creating the ARP Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Fund.
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Section Code Section
I.C. Section         Code Section
1-1-1-5              10.04
1-1-1-7              10.12
1-1-1-8              10.06
1-1-4-5              10.05
1-1-5-1              10.11
1-1-6-1              10.08
5-14-1.5             30.02
5-14-3-8             32.01
5-28-1-1 et seq.     33.02
6-1.1-12.1-1         32.16
6-1.1-12.1-1 et seq. 32.15—
                     32.17
6-1.1-12.1-2.5       32.17
6-1.1-12.1-3         32.15;
                     32.16
6-1.1-12-3(b)        32.15;
                     32.16
6-1.1-12.4-5         32.15
8-1.5-3-8.1(c)       52.50
8-1.5-3-9.1          51.01
9-13-2-1             130.40
9-21-8-49            Ch. 73 Schd. I;
                     Ch. 73 Schd. II
9-22-1-1             130.40
22-9-1-4 et seq.     94.02
22-9-5-6             94.02
22-9-5-6(d)(3)       94.02
22-9-5-6(d)(5)       94.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.     94.01
22-9.5-2-2           94.02
22-9.5-2-3           94.02
22-9.5-2-4           94.02
22-9.5-2-8           94.02
22-9.5-2-9           94.02
22-9.5-2-11          94.02
22-9.5-2-13          94.02
22-9.5-3             94.03
22-9.5-3 et seq.     94.09
22-9.5-4-8           94.10
22-9.5-5             94.02
22-9.5-5-1           94.03
22-9.5-6             94.02;
                     94.10
34-28-5-4            70.99
36-1-3-8(a)(10)      10.99
36-1-6-2             91.01
36-4-5-5             Ch. 110
36-5-2-4.1           30.05
36-5-2-10            52.34
36-7-4-919           150.05
36-7-9               150.35
36-7-9-3             150.35
36-7-10.1-3          91.01
36-7-10.1-4          91.01
36-7-13-1            33.03
36-7-13-1 et seq.    33.03
36-7-13-4            33.03
36-7-13-5            33.03
36-7-14-1 et seq.    33.04
36-8-2-4             Ch. 110;
                     110.01
36-8-2-10            Ch. 110;
                     110.01
36-8-2-11            110.01
36-9-23-1 et seq.    52.02
36-9-23-16           52.50
36-9-23-26(b)        52.50
36-9-23-1 et seq.    52.53
36-9-30-1 et seq.    50.35;
                     50.36
                     
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section 2024 Code Section
Prior Code Section 2024 Code Section
1-1-1              30.01
1-1-2              30.01
1-2-1              30.02
1-2-2              30.03
1-2-3              30.04
1-4-1              TSO Table VI
1-4-2              TSO Table VI
1-4-3              TSO Table VI
1-4-4              TSO Table VI
1-4-5              TSO Table VI
1-4-6              TSO Table VI
1-5-1              33.01
1-6-1              33.02
1-6-2              33.02
1-6-3              33.02
1-6-4              33.02
1-6-5              33.02
1-7-1              30.05
1-7-2              30.05
1-8-1              TSO Table I
1-8-2              TSO Table I
1-9-1              34.01
1-9-2              34.02
1-9-3              34.03
1-9-4              34.04
1-9-5              34.05
1-9-6              34.06
1-9-7              34.07
1-9-8              34.08
1-10-1             TSO Table VI
1-10-2             33.03
1-10-3             33.03
1-10-4             TSO Table III
1-11-1             32.15
1-11-2             32.15
1-11-3             32.15
1-11-4             32.15
1-11-5             32.16
1-11-6             32.16
1-11-7             32.16
1-11-8             32.16
1-11-9             32.16
1-11-10            32.16
1-11-11            32.17
1-11-12            32.17
1-12-1             33.04
1-12-2             33.04
1-12-3             33.04
1-12-4             33.04
1-12-5             33.04
1-12-6             33.04
1-13-1             34.99
2-1-5              90.15
2-1-6              90.16
2-1-7              90.16
2-2-1              90.30
2-2-2              90.31
2-2-3              90.32
2-2-4              90.33
2-3-1              90.02
2-3-2              90.03
2-3-3              90.03
2-3-4              90.03
2-3-5              90.01
2-3-6              90.01
2-4-1              90.99
2-4-2              90.99
2-4-3              90.99
3-1-1              50.01
3-1-2              50.02
3-1-2.01           50.03
3-1-2.02           50.04
3-1-2.03           50.05
3-1-2.04           50.06
3-1-2.05           50.07
3-1-2.06           50.08
3-1-2.07           50.09
3-1-2.08           50.10
3-1-2.09           50.10
3-1-2.10           50.11
3-1-2.11           50.11
3-1-2.12           50.11
3-1-2.13           50.11
3-1-2.14           50.10
3-1-2.15           50.11
3-1-2.18           50.11
3-1-3              50.12
3-1-4              50.13
3-1-5              50.14
3-1-6              50.15
3-1-7              50.16
3-1-8              50.17
3-1-9              50.18
3-1-10             50.19
3-1-11             50.20
3-1-13             50.99
3-2-1              50.35
3-2-2              50.36
3-2-3              50.37
3-2-4              50.38
3-2-5              50.39
3-2-6              50.40
3-3-1              50.99
4-1-1              130.15
4-1-2              130.16
4-1-3              130.17
4-1-4              130.18
4-1-5              130.19
4-1-6              130.20
4-1-7              130.21
4-1-8              130.22
4-1-9              130.23
4-1-10             130.24
4-1-11             130.25
4-1-12             130.26
4-1.5-1            130.40
4-1.5-2            130.41
4-1.5-3            130.42
4-1.5-4            130.43
4-1.5-5            130.44
4-1.5-6            130.45
4-1.5-7            130.46
4-1.5-8            130.47
4-2-1              130.60
4-2-2              130.61
4-3-1              92.01
4-3-2              92.02
4-3-3              92.03
4-3-4              92.04
4-3-6              92.99
4-3-7              92.05
4-3-8              92.06
4-4-1              130.02
4-4-2              130.99
4-5-1              130.99
4-5-2              92.99
4-5-3              130.99
6-1-1              92.20
6-1-2              92.21
6-1-3              92.20
6-1-4              92.20
6-1-5              92.22
6-1-6              92.22
6-1-7              92.23
6-1-8              92.24
6-1-9              92.25
6-1-10             92.26
6-1-11             92.99
6-1-12             92.27
6-2-1              150.01
6-2-2              150.02
6-2-3              150.03
6-2-4              150.04
6-2-5              150.05
6-2-6              150.99
6-2-7              150.06
6-3-1              150.20
6-3-2              150.21
6-3-3              150.22
6-3-4              150.23
6-3-5              150.24
6-3-6              150.25
6-3-7              150.26
6-3-8              150.27
6-3-9              150.28
6-3-10             150.29
6-3-11             150.30
6-3-12             150.99
6-3-13             150.99
6-3-14             150.99
6-3-15             150.31
6-3-16             150.32
6-3-17             150.33
6-3-18             150.34
6-4-1              94.01
6-4-2              94.02
6-4-3              94.03
6-4-4              94.04
6-4-5              94.05
6-4-6              94.06
6-4-7              94.07
6-4-8              94.08,
                   94.99
6-4-9              94.09
6-4-10             94.10
6-5-1              92.99
6-5-2              150.99
6-5-3              150.99
6-5-4              94.99
7-1-1              93.01
7-1-2              93.02
7-1-3              93.03
7-1-4              93.04
7-2-1              TSO Table VI
7-2-2              TSO Table VI
7-2-3              TSO Table VI
7-2-4              TSO Table VI
7-2-5              TSO Table VI
7-2-6              TSO Table VI
7-3-1              93.15
8-1-1              10.99
8-1-2              10.99
8-1-3              10.99
9-1-1              151.15
9-1-2              151.16
9-1-3              151.17
9-1-4              151.18
9-1-5              151.19
9-1-6              151.20
9-1-7              151.21
9-1-8              151.22
9-1-9              151.23
9-1-10             151.24
9-1-11             151.25
9-1-12             151.26
9-1-13             151.27
9-1-14             151.28
9-2-1              71.01
9-2-2              Ch. 74 Schd. I
9-2-3              71.03
9-2-4              Ch. 74 Schd. II
9-2-5              Ch. 74 Schd. II
9-3-1              Ch. 73 Schd. I;
                   Ch. 73 Schd. II
9-4-1              151.01
9-4-2              151.02
9-5-1              151.99
9-5-2              71.99
9-5-3              71.99
9-5-4              Ch. 73 Schd. I;
                   Ch. 73 Schd. II
9-5-5              151.99
9-5-6              151.99
10-1-1             52.02
10-1-2             52.02
10-1-3             52.02
10-1-4             52.02
10-2-1             52.50
10-2-1.1           52.51
10-2-2             52.54
10-2-3             52.52
10-2-4             52.53;
                   52.99
10-2-5             52.55;
                   52.57
10-2-6             52.56
10-5-1             TSO Table II
10-6-1             52.99
11-1-1             51.01
11-1-2             51.01
11-1-3             51.01
11-1-4             51.01
11-1-5             51.02
11-1-6             51.02
11-1-7             51.02
12-1-1             152.01
12-2-1             152.01;
                   152.02
12-2-2             TSO Table IV
12-3-1             TSO Table V
12-3-2             TSO Table V
13-1-1             TSO Table III
13-1-2             TSO Table III
13-1-3             TSO Table III
13-1-4             TSO Table III
13-2-1             TSO Table III
13-2-2             TSO Table III
13-2-3             TSO Table III
                   
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No.   Date Passed Code Section
2-1-92     - -         32.16
3-1-86     - -         32.15
4-1-86     4-14-1986   32.15
3-1-92     3-9-1992    32.16
12-1-94    12-14-1994  33.04
RDC-1-1-95 2-13-1995   33.04
                      
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.  Date Passed Code Section
00-4-1    - -         TSO Table IV
9-1-86    - -         TSO Table IV
10        - -         151.01
12-3-83   - -         30.02
12-5-83   - -         TSO Table IV
12-83-1   - -         10.99
                      72.30—
16-9-1    - -         72.38;
                      72.99
                      50.01;
81-7-1    - -         50.12—
                      50.20
82-7-1    - -         TSO Table V
83-4-2    - -         51.01
83-10-3   - -         52.57
                      90.30;
84-2-1    - -         90.33;
                      90.99
84-2-2    - -         90.31;
                      90.32
85        - -         Ch. 73 Schd. I
85-1-1    - -         TSO Table IV
                      10.99;
85-1-2    - -         90.99;
                      130.99;
                      151.99
                      34.01—
85-2-2    - -         34.06;
                      34.99
85-9-1    - -         Ch. 73 Schd. I
85-11-2   - -         TSO Table III
85-11-3   - -         33.03;
                      TSO Table IV
86-5-1    - -         32.16;
                      32.17
                      150.01—
86-6-1A   - -         150.06;
                      150.99
86-12-3   - -         34.08
                      92.20—
87-4-1    - -         92.27;
                      92.99
87-9-3    - -         52.51
88-11-1   - -         TSO Table IV
88-12-2   - -         TSO Table IV
88-12-3   - -         50.37
88-6-1    - -         Ch. 73 Schd. II
88-9-1    - -         52.51;
                      52.53
89        - -         TSO Table VI
90-1-1    - -         TSO Table VI
                      151.15—
90-6-1    - -         151.28;
                      151.99
90-9-1    - -         TSO Table VI
90-11-1   - -         51.01
91-3-3    - -         94.06
                      92.01—
91-6-1    - -         92.06;
                      92.99
                      50.03—
92-4-4    - -         50.11;
                      50.99
93        - -         130.15—
                      130.17
                      94.01—
93-1-1    - -         94.10;
                      94.99
93-5-1    - -         TSO Table VI
93-12-2   - -         34.07
94-7-1    - -         130.02;
                      130.99
94-11-1   - -         30.05
94-11-2   - -         33.04
                      130.15—
                      130.26;
95-8-1    - -         130.40—
                      130.47;
                      130.99
96-1-1    - -         TSO Table V
96-2-1    - -         151.15
96-2-2    - -         50.37
117       - -         152.01
125       - -         130.60;
                      130.61
129       - -         TSO Table VI
133       - -         TSO Table VI
142       - -         TSO Table IV
144       - -         TSO Table VI
153       - -         33.02
161       - -         33.01
164       - -         90.15;
                      90.16
165       - -         90.01—
                      90.03
167       - -         Ch. 73 Schd. I;
                      Ch. 73 Schd. II
66        4-16-1959   TSO Table I
67        4-16-1959   TSO Table I
68        4-16-1959   TSO Table I
69        4-16-1959   TSO Table I
70        5-20-1959   TSO Table I
74        7-3-1959    TSO Table III
65        11-15-1959  TSO Table III
79        11-18-1959  TSO Table III
80        11-18-1959  TSO Table I
86        11-19-1964  TSO Table I
134       6-20-1974   93.01—
                      93.04
137       - -1975     152.02
147       2-14-1977   152.02
                      52.51—
                      52.53;
148       5-6-1977    52.55;
                      52.56;
                      52.99
                      50.35—
82-2-1    1-25-1982   50.40;
                      TSO Table III
83-4-3    6-13-1983   TSO Table III
85-4-1    4-8-1985    TSO Table I
85-5-1    5-13-1985   TSO Table I
85-6-1    6-10-1985   TSO Table III
85-12-2   12-9-1985   TSO Table I
87-7-1    7-13-1987   TSO Table V
87-11-1   11-9-1987   TSO Table III
88-7-1    7-11-1988   TSO Table I
89-6-1    6-12-1989   TSO Table I
91-12-1   9-19-1991   52.50;
                      TSO Table II
                      71.99;
91-11-1   11-11-1991  Ch. 74 Schd. II;
                      TSO Table I
92-11-2   11-9-1992   TSO Table I
96-7-1    8-12-1996   Ch. 73 Schd. II
96-8-1    8-12-1996   91.01
96-10-1   10-14-1996  TSO Table V
96-10-2   10-14-1996  TSO Table V
96-10-3   10-14-1996  TSO Table V
96-12-1   12-9-1996   Ch. 73 Schd. II
97-5-1    5-12-1997   TSO Table IV
97-5-3    5-12-1997   71.04;
                      71.99
97-5-4    5-12-1997   130.01;
                      130.99
97-12-1   12-8-1997   TSO Table V
98-9-2    - -1998     130.03;
                      130.99
98-4-2    3- -1998    152.02
98-5-1    5-11-1998   TSO Table III
98-10-1   10-12-1998  Ch. 73 Schd. II
99-6-1    7-12-1999   52.01
99-9-1    9-13-1999   TSO Table V
99-9-2    9-13-1999   TSO Table IV
                      71.02;
02-6-1    6-10-2002   71.03;
                      71.99;
                      Ch. 74 Schd. I
2002-10-1 10-14-2002  Ch. 73 Schd. II
05-1-01   1-10-2005   TSO Table IV
                      72.01—
05-02-01  3-14-2005   72.03;
                      72.99
2006-7-2  7-10-2006   TSO Table VI
06-8-1    8-14-2006   TSO Table IV
                      72.15—
06-12-1   1-8-2007    72.18;
                      72.99
2008-8-1  8-4-2008    TSO Table VI
2010-11-1 12-13-2010  70.02;
                      70.99
2010-12-2 12-13-2010  TSO Table II
15-5-1    5-11-2015   TSO Table IV
                      52.15—
2015-6-1  7-13-2015   52.37;
                      52.99
2015-12-1 12-14-2015  50.02
2015-12-2 12-14-2015  90.15
16-4-1    4-11-2016   TSO Table V
17-4-1    5-8-2017    150.35
18-4-1    4-9-2018    TSO Table IV
2018-10-1 10-8-2018   32.01
2019-11-2 12-9-2019   70.01;
                      70.99
2020-7-1  7-13-2020   TSO Table VI
20-8-10   8-10-2020   TSO Table VI
2021-4-1  4-12-2021   TSO Table VI
2021-5-1  5-17-2021   TSO Table VI
2021-6-1  6-14-2021   130.04
2021-12-1 1-10-2022   50.37
2021-12-2 1-10-2022   52.50
2021-12-3 1-10-2022   51.02
2023-8-1  8-14-2023   Ch. 73 Schd. II
2023-12-2 12-28-2023  31.15—
                      31.36
2024-1-1  1-8-2024    31.01
                     
 
