TOWN OF POSEYVILLE, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Current through 2025-05-13-01
passed on 5-13-2025
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
(800) 445-5588
DIRECTORY OF TOWN OFFICIALS
of the
TOWN OF POSEYVILLE, INDIANA
Council Members
President Justin Rutledge
Randall Rankin
Michael Baehl
Clerk-Treasurer
B. Jodie Rankin
Utility Superintendent
Jeremy Farrar
Utility Office Manager
Billye Robling
Town Marshal
Charles Carter
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights, and liabilities
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component codes,
titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“Poseyville Code,” for which designation “code of ordinances,” “codified
ordinances,” or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter, and section
headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto, and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters, or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning,
application, or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary, and
usual sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk- Treasurer of the Town Council.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council.
      COUNTY. Posey County, Indiana.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads, and streets unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver, and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur unless some other section is designated.
      STATE. The State of Indiana.
      TOWN. The Town of Poseyville, Indiana.
      TOWNSHIP. Robb Township, Indiana.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing, or other modes
of representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section or amendment stating that the provisions of a
chapter, subchapter, or section are severable as provided in division (B) above
does not affect the operation of division (B) above with respect to that
chapter, subchapter, or section.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer, or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties, or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority, or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or following the
effective date, the rights, powers, duties, or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority, or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers, and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday, or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture, or liability incurred under
the section unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture, or
liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings, and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the city published and subsequently amended, the previous code
section number shall be indicated in the history by “(Prior Code, §      ).”
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS, AND LIABILITIES.
   (A)   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date
of this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those
laws.
   (B)   This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code.
   (C)   The liabilities, proceedings, and rights are continued; punishments,
penalties, or forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not
been enacted. In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize
highway rights-of-way; contracts entered into or franchises granted; the
acceptance, establishment, or vacation of any highway; and the election of
corporate officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not
been enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   TOWN COUNCIL
      
31.   TOWN OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES, AND ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   TOWN POLICIES
      
33.   FINANCE AND TAXATION
CHAPTER 30: TOWN COUNCIL
Section
   
30.01   Legislative districts and at large representation
§ 30.01 LEGISLATIVE DISTRICTS AND AT LARGE REPRESENTATION.
   (A)   The Council shall consist of three members, who shall all be elected
at each election.
   (B)   The Council hereby establishes two legislative districts as follows:
      (1)   District 1 shall contain all the area of Robb 1 Precinct that is
within the town limits; and
      (2)   District 2 shall contain all the area of Robb 2 Precinct that is
within the town limits.
   (C)   One Town Council member shall be a resident of District 1 and shall be
elected by the voters of the whole town.
   (D)   One Town Council member shall be a resident of District 2 and shall be
elected by the voters of the whole town.
   (E)   One Town Council member shall be a resident of the town elected at
large by the voters of the whole town.
(Ord. 1998-4-8-1, passed 4-8-1998)
CHAPTER 31: TOWN OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES, AND ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Positions covered by a blanket bond
   
31.02   Wabash River Port Authority
   
31.03   Retired law enforcement officers to retain credentials and service
weapons
Department of Economic Development
   
31.15   Establishment and composition
   
31.16   Revenue bond application fees
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 POSITIONS COVERED BY A BLANKET BOND.
   The bond covering the positions of Town Marshal, Deputy Marshal(s), and
Utility Clerk(s) shall be a blanket bond.
(Ord. 2016-01-13-01, passed 1-13-2016)
§ 31.02 WABASH RIVER PORT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Establishment. A port authority, to be known as Wabash River Port
Authority, is hereby established and shall have the powers and jurisdiction
enumerated and set forth in I.C. 8-10- 5-1 et seq., as amended from time to
time.
   (B)   Board of Directors. The Port Authority shall be governed by a Board of
Directors consisting of seven members, three of whom shall be appointed by the
Town Council and shall be residents of the town’s community, three of whom
shall be appointed and approved by the Town of Owensville Common Council and
shall be residents of the Owensville community, and one of whom shall be
appointed and approved by consent of the Owensville Common Council and the Town
Council and shall be resident of the Cynthiana area, as to be determined by
agreement of the two Councils.
(Ord. 2013-06-12-02, passed - -2013)
§ 31.03 RETIRED LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS TO RETAIN CREDENTIALS AND SERVICE
WEAPONS.
   In recognition of the dedication of a town law enforcement officer with a
minimum of 20 years of service, such law enforcement officer shall be entitled
to receive the following upon his or her retirement:
   (A)   The retired officer’s badge;
   (B)   An identification card stating the officer’s name and signifying that
the officer is retired, and noting the officer’s authority to retain his or her
service weapon, all as is provided by Indiana Code; and
   (C)   Such officer may retain his or her service weapon upon the conditions
set forth herein and by state statute.
(Ord. 2016-07-13-02, passed 7-13-2016)
DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
§ 31.15 ESTABLISHMENT AND COMPOSITION.
   (A)   The Town Council hereby establishes a Department of Economic
Development for the town pursuant to I.C. 36-7- 12-1 to 36-7-12-39.
   (B)   The Economic Development Commission shall consist of three members to
be appointed by the Town Executive. The Town Executive shall select one member,
the County Council shall nominate one member, and the Town Council shall
nominate one member.
   (C)   Furthermore, pursuant to I.C. 36-7- 12-6, the Economic Development
Commissioners shall take office upon their appointment and serve according to
I.C. 36-7-12-1 to 36-7-12-39.
(Ord. 1995-7-5-1, passed 7-5-1995; Ord. 1997-6-11-2, passed 6-11-1997)
§ 31.16 REVENUE BOND APPLICATION FEES.
   Any person, firm, or corporation for whom bonds are issued pursuant to the
State Act for Economic Development and Pollution Control (I.C. 36-7-12-1 to 36-
7-12-39) shall, upon issuance of such bonds or refunding bonds, pay to the
Commission a fee equal to 1% of the total amount of the issue, not exceeding
$10,000 per issue for a single project issue. The fee shall apply to each issue
for a single project issue. If a bond is issued in phases, the fee shall apply
to each phase.
(Ord. 1997-6-11-1, passed 6-11-1997)
CHAPTER 32: TOWN POLICIES
Section
   
32.01   Travel policy
   
32.02   Personnel ordinance adopted by reference
   
32.03   Copier and fax machine fees
§ 32.01 TRAVEL POLICY.
   (A)   The Town Council acknowledges that most employees will have a town
purchasing card, which they are encouraged to use for expenses incurred while
on town business. All receipts need to be presented along with a purchasing log
for these expenses.
   (B)   The Town Council also acknowledges that there may be times when the
purchasing card cannot be used. At these times, any mileage, which is to be
paid at the current federal mileage rate, meal expenses, lodging expenses, or
other expenses incurred by any employee or Council member while on town
business shall be reimbursed to the respective individual upon presentation of
receipts for expenses incurred.
   (C)   The Town Council would also like to acknowledge there may be times
when it is more efficient for a car to be rented or to fly rather than have an
employee drive his or her personal vehicle. In these instances, the Council
approves the paying of the fees incurred with renting a car or flying.
(Ord. 2005-03-09-02, passed 3-9-2005)
§ 32.02 PERSONNEL ORDINANCE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The town’s personnel ordinance and policies are hereby adopted by reference
as if included in full herein.
(Ord. 83-3, passed - -; Ord. 1996-05-08-01, passed 5-8-1996)
§ 32.03 COPIER AND FAX MACHINE FEES.
   The following fee schedule be set, effective March 1, 1996:
   (A)   Copy machine: $0.25 per copy; and
   (B)   Fax machine:
      (1)   Two dollars per page outgoing; and
      (2)   Fifty cents per page incoming.
(Ord. 1996-03-13-01, passed 3-13-1996)
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND TAXATION
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Authority to budget and appropriate funds
   
33.02   Depositories for the town
   
33.03   Internal control standards
   
33.04   Fixed capitalization policy
   
33.05   Public safety tax
   
33.06   Payment of claims
Purchasing Procedures
   
33.20   Use and procedure for purchasing cards
   
33.21   Purchasing agents
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 AUTHORITY TO BUDGET AND APPROPRIATE FUNDS.
   (A)   The Town Council is hereby authorized to budget and appropriate funds
from the General Fund or from other funds to pay the expenses incurred in
promoting the betterment of the municipality.
   (B)   Expenditures may include, but are not necessarily limited to, the
following:
      (1)   Membership dues in local, regional, state, and national
associations of a civic, educational, or governmental nature, which have as
their purpose the betterment and improvement of municipal operations;
      (2)   Direct expenses for travel, meals, and lodging in conjunction with
municipal business or meetings or organizations to which the municipality
belongs;
      (3)   Expenses incurred in the promotion of economic or industrial
development for the municipality, including meeting room rental, decorations,
meals, and travel;
      (4)   Commemorative plaques, certificates, or objects such as
commemorative keys; and
      (5)   Other purposes which are deemed by the Town Council to directly
relate to promotion or betterment of the town.
   (C)   No expenses shall be allowed from this Fund without prior
authorization and approval of the Town Council. Claims for expenses under this
section shall be allowed as prescribed by law.
(Ord. 2005-03-09-01, passed 3-9-2005)
§ 33.02 DEPOSITORIES FOR THE TOWN.
   In accordance with Public Depository and Investment Law 46-1997, citations
affected I.C. 5- 13: I.C. 36-10, the town designates the following depositories
for 2001 and hereinafter:
   (A)   CSB (Cynthiana State Bank); and
   (B)   Fifth Third Bank (formerly Civitas, formerly Citizens Bank).
(Ord. 2001-04-11-01, passed 4-11-2001)
§ 33.03 INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS.
   The minimum level of internal control standards developed by the State Board
of Accounts, as published in Uniform Internal Control Standards for Indiana
Political Subdivisions, is hereby adopted by the town, and that its appropriate
personnel be trained according to, and implement the policies and procedures
consistent with, the said internal control standards.
(Ord. 2016-05-11-01, passed 5-11-2016)
§ 33.04 FIXED CAPITALIZATION POLICY.
   (A)   Purpose. The Capitalization Ordinance aims to establish guidelines for
classifying and recording capital assets in compliance with the State Board of
Accounts (SBOA) requirements and Generally Accepted Accounting Principles
(GAAP). Ordinance 2025-04-08-01 replaces ordinances 2004-02-11-01 and 2022-12-
13-02.
   (B)   Capital asset definition. CAPITAL ASSETS include land, buildings,
infrastructure, equipment, and improvements that:
      (1)   Have an estimated useful life of more than one year; and
      (2)   Meet or exceed the capitalization threshold established in this
policy.
   (C)   Capitalization thresholds. To ensure consistency and accountability,
the town will capitalize assets based on the following thresholds.
 
Asset Category Capitalization Threshold
Buildings      $5,000
Equipment      $5,000
Improvements   $10,000
Infrastructure $10,000
Land           All acquisitions
 
   (D)   Depreciation methodology. Capital assets will be depreciated over
their estimated useful lives using the straight-line method, with no salvage
value unless otherwise determined. Estimated useful lives are as follows.
 
Asset Category Useful Life (Years)
Buildings                                           40
Equipment                                           5 to 15
Improvements                                        10 to 25
Infrastructure                                      20 to 50
Land and specific works of art or historical assets Not depreciate d
 
   (E)   Asset valuation.
      (1)   Assets will be recorded at historical cost, including purchase
price, taxes, and installation costs.
      (2)   If historical cost is unavailable, a reasonable estimated cost will
be used.
      (3)   Donated assets will be recorded at fair market value at the time of
donation.
   (F)   Inventory and asset tracking.
      (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer’s office will maintain an inventory of all
capital assets.
      (2)   An annual physical inventory of capital assets will be conducted,
and records will be updated accordingly.
   (G)   Disposal of capital assets.
      (1)   Assets that are no longer useful will be disposed of in accordance
with I.C. 5-22-22 and town policies.
      (2)   Proceeds from the sale of assets will be recorded as revenue in the
appropriate fund.
   (H)   Compliance and review. This policy will be reviewed periodically to
ensure compliance with state regulations and financial reporting requirements.
Any amendments must be approved by the Town Council.
(Ord. 2024-04-08-01, passed 4-8-2025)
§ 33.05 PUBLIC SAFETY TAX.
   (A)   The County Income Tax Council previously imposed the local public
safety tax on the county taxpayers. The local public safety tax was imposed at
a rate of 0.25%, as provided by I.C. 6-3.5-6-31. This tax took effect on
October 1, 2016.
   (B)   The County Income Tax Council now ordains to impose, continue, and
affirm the local public safety tax on the county taxpayers. The local public
safety tax is imposed and continued at a rate of 0.25%, as provided by I.C. 6-
3.5-6-31. This continuation shall take effect on January 1, 2017.
   (C)   Pursuant to I.C. 6-3.5-6-1 et seq., the adoption of this section by
the Town Council shall be treated by the County Auditor as a casting of all of
the votes of the County Income Tax Council votes, certified as three votes, in
favor of, and adopting, this section imposing the local public safety tax on
the county taxpayers.
   (D)   Passage of this section shall be transmitted to the County Auditor,
who is instructed to record the vote of the Town Council.
(Ord. 2016-10-12-03, passed - -)
§ 33.06 PAYMENT OF CLAIMS.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-5-4-12, the Town Council does hereby authorize and
directs the Clerk-Treasurer of the town to write checks and pay claims prior to
formal Town Council approval at a regularly scheduled meeting with respect to
the following types of items:
      (1)   Property or services purchased from the United States Government or
its agencies, or any political subdivision of the United States Government;
      (2)   License or permit fees;
      (3)   Insurance premiums;
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
      (5)   General grant programs if:
         (a)   Advance refunding is not prohibited; and
         (b)   The contracting party posts sufficient security to cover the
amount advanced.
      (6)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute;
      (7)   Maintenance or service agreements;
      (8)   Leases or rental agreements;
      (9)   Principal and interest payments on bonds;
      (10)   Payroll expenses;
      (11)   State, federal, or county taxes;
      (12)   Emergency expenditures;
      (13)   Refunds;
      (14)   Claims subject to late charges if due before the next scheduled
Town Council meeting;
      (15)   Expenses described in specific ordinances; and
      (16)   Budgeted expenses where payments align proportionately with the
approved budget.
   (B)   Each payment of expenses must be supported by a fully itemized invoice
or bill and certified by the Fiscal Officer.
   (C)   The Town Council or board having jurisdiction over the allowance of
the claim shall review and allow the claim at the Council’s next regular or
special meeting following the preapproved payment of the expense.
(Ord. 2024-12-10-01, passed 12-10-2024)
PURCHASING PROCEDURES
§ 33.20 USE AND PROCEDURE FOR PURCHASING CARDS.
   (A)   Town employees and officials may use town purchasing cards for
purchases related to the performance of town duties when such use is in the
best interest of the town. Under no circumstances may town purchasing cards be
used for personal or any non-town purposes. The following shall constitute
appropriate purposes for which town purchasing cards may be used:
      (1)   Purchase of equipment, supplies, and/or service agreements;
      (2)   Travel and business meal expenses, including reasonable gratuities,
previously approved by the Town Council;
      (3)   Training expenses previously approved by the Town Council; and
      (4)   Postage and shipping expenses.
   (B)   Town purchasing cards may not be used for the following:
      (1)   Personal use;
      (2)   The purchase of alcohol;
      (3)   Any illegal purpose; or
      (4)   To bypass the town’s accounting system or purchasing policies.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer of the town is authorized to obtain purchasing
cards titled for town officials and town departments at the request of the
department supervisor(s).
   (D)   Prior to any purchases, whether a combination or single purchase,
greater than $1,000, the town official or employee issued the purchase card and
desiring to make the purchase shall submit a request and receive approval by
the Town Council for such purchase.
   (E)   (1)   Town officials and employees using a town credit card shall
maintain an accounting system or log for the use of their respective purchasing
card(s) (with such blank forms to be supplied by the Clerk-Treasurer),
including the names of the individuals requesting to use such purchasing card
(s), their position(s), the estimated amount(s) to be charged, the fund(s) and
account number(s) to be charged, and any other relevant information requested
by the Clerk- Treasurer.
      (2)   On or before the fifth of each month, any use of a purchasing card
shall be submitted to the Clerk-Treasurer, including the completion of a form
provided by the Clerk- Treasurer for such purchases and detailed receipts for
each and every purchase made with a town purchasing card during the same
period. Payment of such purchases shall not be made on the basis of a
purchasing card statement or slip alone.
   (F)   Payment of purchasing card bills shall be subject to the audit
requirements of accounts payable vouchers in conformity with I.C. 5-11-10 and
36-4-8, and the regulations of the State Board of Accounts.
   (G)   Purchasing card charges that do not meet audit requirements are the
responsibility of the employee authorizing the charge. Any interest or penalty
incurred due to the late filing with the Clerk-Treasurer of an accounts payable
voucher for payment of a purchasing card, or incurred due to delay in the
furnishing of documentation required for audit by an officer or employee, shall
be the responsibility of that officer or employee.
   (H)   Under no circumstances will the town be responsible for the payment of
tax for any purpose in any transaction requiring the use of a purchasing card.
In the event tax of any kind is paid in the use of any purchasing card, then
the officer or employee using the purchasing card shall be responsible for the
reimbursement of such taxes to the town.
   (I)   (1)   Department supervisors shall be responsible for the safekeeping
of any and all purchasing card(s) issued to his or her department.
      (2)   Supervisors shall maintain the purchasing cards in a secured
location and shall maintain a usage log for each such card, identified by
account number.
   (J)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be notified immediately in the event a
purchasing card is lost or stolen.
   (K)   Any misuse of a purchasing card may result in disciplinary action, up
to and including termination.
   (L)   Any town purchasing card must be surrendered immediately at separation
from employment or term of service.
   (M)   The Town Council may revoke any purchasing card that may have been
used in violation of any of the within policies.
(Ord. 2016-05-11-02, passed 5-11-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 33.21 PURCHASING AGENTS.
   (A)   The Town Council Purchasing Agency has determined it will designate a
primary and secondary for each of the following departments:
      (1)   Police Department;
      (2)   MVH (street) Department;
      (3)   Fire Department; and
      (4)   Clerk-Treasurer Office.
   (B)   The name of the persons to be designated as primary and secondary
purchasing agents will be submitted in writing to the Town Council Purchasing
Agency for its approval by the head of each of the above departments. The names
submitted and approved at the July 14, 1998 meeting will serve as purchasing
agent for the remainder of the year. Thereafter, the names are to be submitted
at the first Town Council meeting of every year with the designees to serve as
purchasing agent for one year. The approved purchasing agent designation forms
will be kept on file in the Town Hall.
(Ord. 1998-07-14-03, passed 7-14-1998)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL UTILITY PROVISIONS
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   SEWER
      
53.   NATURAL GAS
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL UTILITY PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Utility statement due dates; disconnections; reconnections
   
50.02   Deposits
   
50.03   Meter tampering
   
50.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
Right-of-way occupation by foreign public utilities, see §
150.02
§ 50.01 UTILITY STATEMENT DUE DATES; DISCONNECTIONS; RECONNECTIONS.
   (A)   All customers of gas, water, and sewage utility services owned and
operated by the town shall be sent statements indicating the account is due and
payable in full on the twenty- third of each month. In the event the twenty-
third falls on a nonbusiness day, a drop box is provided for customer use.
Payments shall be received in full by 4:00 p.m. on the due date or otherwise
considered delinquent.
   (B)   Bills unpaid by 4:00 p.m. on the due date as stated in division (A)
above shall be subject to a collections charge of 10% on the first $3 of each
unpaid charge, and 3% on the balance of each unpaid charge in the excess of $3
for water and gas charges. Sewage charges will be penalized at 10%. A second
(delinquent) notice will be sent on the twenty-fourth of the month stating that
the total balance is due on the first of the next month or services will be
disconnected.
   (C)   If any bill shall remain delinquent for a period of 30 days or more,
the gas and water service shall be disconnected and shall not be reconnected
except upon payment of all charges, together with a reconnection charge of $15
per utility; provided, however, that in case of a change in occupancy of any
leased premises, the new lessee shall not be charged with the delinquencies of
the prior occupant, but the utilities shall only be reconnected upon the
payment of the reconnection charge and/or deposits, or the property owner
consenting to a lien against property for all utility service.
   (E)   The Town Council reserves the right to work with delinquent customers
on a case- by-case basis.
(Ord. 1993-09-01-01, passed 9-10-1993; Ord. 1996-07-10-02, passed 7-10-1996;
Ord. 2001-02-14-01, passed 2-14-2001)
§ 50.02 DEPOSITS.
   (A)   Utility customers who own the property serviced by water and/or gas
utilities shall not be required to deposit any funds prior to commencement of
services if the owner(s) sign a statement of consent authorizing the town to
place a lien against the property serviced by utilities in the event of any
delinquent accounts.
   (B)   (1)   Utility customers who do not own the property to which the water
and/or gas services are provided (including mobile home owners who rent the lot
the home is on), shall be required to pay a $150 deposit for water and a $250
deposit for gas before services are commenced.
      (2)   Payment of deposits must be cash, cashier’s check, or money order.
   (C)   Utility customers who rent their mobile home which is serviced by
water and/or gas utilities shall be required to pay a $50 deposit for water and
a $100 gas deposit for gas before services are commenced, unless the lot owner
signs a statement of authorization, as stated in division (A) above, and
consents to assume responsibility for the account in the event the account
holder defaults. The $50 water deposit and the $100 gas deposit will be paid by
cash, cashier’s check, or money order.
(Ord. 1993-09-01-01, passed 9-10-1993; Ord. 2000-02-09-01, passed 2-9-2000;
Ord. 2021-08-10-02, passed 8-10-2021)
§ 50.03 METER TAMPERING.
   (A)   All meters that are in the town municipal utility systems are the
property of the town.
   (B)   Only personnel that are authorized by the town are allowed to access,
operate, or perform repairs to meters, meter sets (e.g., meter pits, lids, curb
boxes, and the like), or any other utility and/or infrastructure equipment.
   (C)   No person, without specific authorization from the Town Utility
Superintendent or the Town Council, shall open, enter, or in any way tamper
with or disturb any metering or other equipment of the town’s water, gas, and/
or wastewater (sewer) utilities.
   (D)   No person, without specific authorization from the Town Utility
Superintendent or the Town Council, shall permit, direct, or allow another
person to open, enter, or in any way tamper with or disturb any metering or
other equipment of the Town’s water, gas, and/or wastewater (sewer) utilities
that is on property that the person owns, resides in, or has any other interest
in. This provision includes, but is not limited to, a homeowner or occupant of
a residence who permits a company or individual, who does not have specific
authorization, to tamper with or in any way disturb any metering or other
utility equipment at his or her property.
   (E)   In addition to any fine assessed per §
50.99(B), a person in violation shall be responsible for any damages caused and
shall pay to the town the cost of any and all time, labor, materials, and lost
utility. The time and labor costs will be calculated using the hourly pay rate
and number of hours devoted by each town employee involved in responding to,
acquiring materials for, performing repairs, and performing any administrative
duties directly related to the violation. It is not a defense against paying
these costs, that the work occurred during normal working hours of the town
employees.
   (F)   For the purposes of this section, each occurrence shall constitute a
separate offense. Also, each day that a violation is continued shall constitute
a separate offense.
   (G)   Any costs, including reasonable attorney fees, incurred by the town
for enforcement of this section, will be charged to the violator(s).
   (H)   Any fines, fees, or other costs levied against a town utility customer
will be assessed on their next utility bill unless otherwise authorized by the
Town Council.
   (I)   Any fines, fees, or other costs levied against a person who is not a
town utility customer will be assessed by providing the person with a written
record of the costs, payable within 30 days, unless otherwise authorized by the
Town Council.
(Ord. 2008-02-13-01, passed 2-13-2008; Ord. 2025-02-11-01, passed 2-11-2025)
Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
50.03 shall be subject to a fine of $500 for the first offense, and a fine of
$2,000 for the second and every subsequent offense. For the purposes of this
provision, offenses will be tracked by the person, not the property. This means
that a person is guilty of a subsequent violation if that person violates §
50.03 two or more times at the same parcel/property or one time each at two or
more parcels/properties.
(Ord. 2008-02-13-01, passed 2-13-2008; Ord. 2025-02-11-01, passed 2-11-2025)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Connection required
   
51.02   Water leaks
   
51.03   Water rates
   
51.04   Distributions to the Water Depreciation Fund
Cross-Connections
   
51.15   Responsibility
   
51.16   Definitions
   
51.17   Water system requirements
   
51.18   Compliance
   
51.19   Inspection
   
51.20   Discontinuance of service
   
51.21   Installation of backflow prevention assembly
   
51.22   Type of protective assembly
   
51.23   Approval of backflow prevention assembly
   
51.24   Adoption of standards by reference
   
51.25   Duty to test and repair
   
51.26   Certification of testers
   
51.27   Rules incorporated by reference
   
51.28   Time to correct
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   (A)   The owner of all houses, buildings, or properties situated within the
town corporate limits and abutting on any street, alley, or right-of- way in
which there is now located water service is hereby required to be connected to
the service.
   (B)   No underground or surface water source shall provide water to any
property located within town limits other than the water service provided by
the town.
(Ord. 2005-07-13-01, passed 7-13-2005) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.02 WATER LEAKS.
   (A)   Where, due to a sudden increase in water usage, a water leak is
suspected, the customer and/or landowner should contact the Town Municipal
Utility Office by the twenty-third of the month.
   (B)   If the water leak is an underground leak only, the municipal utility
shall not charge or bill the actual water usage pursuant to the meter reading,
but rather shall average the customer’s bill using the immediate past three-
month average, with the sewage being adjusted accordingly, provided that the
customer furnishes a copy of the bill showing charges for the repair of the
leak or signs a statement stating that the leak was repaired.
   (C)   Commodes, water softeners, or other in-house leaks will not be
considered eligible for leak adjustments.
   (D)   If the suspected leak is not repaired within 30 days of notification,
municipal utilities shall bill or charge according to the actual meter reading.
(Ord. 2001-03-14-01, passed 3-14-2001)
§ 51.03 WATER RATES.
   (A)   The water usage schedule on which the amount of said rates and charges
shall be determined is as follows.
      (1)   Metered rates. Each metered customer shall pay a monthly charge
based upon the quantity of water supplied by the water utility as metered in
accordance with the following schedule.
 
Metered Quantity              Monthly Charge per 1,000 Gallons
                              Phase I Phase II
First 2,000 gallons per month $20.38  $20.76
Over 2,000 gallons per month  $14.86  $15.14
 
      (2)   Minimum charge. Each user shall pay a minimum charge in accordance
with the following applicable size of meter installed, for which the user will
be entitled to the quantity of water set out in the schedule of rates in
division (A)(1) above.
Meter Size  Minimum Charge per Month
(in inches) Phase I Phase II
Meter Size  Minimum Charge per Month
(in inches) Phase I   Phase II
5/8         $40.77    $41.53
3/4         $40.77    $41.53
1           $55.63    $56.67
1 1/2       $85.35    $86.95
2           $308.27   $314.03
3           $694.65   $707.64
4           $1,229.65 $1,252.63
 
   (B)   Implementation of rates and charges in phases. While this section is
intended to be effective upon adoption by the Town Council, the new rates and
charges set forth herein will not be implemented until the commencement of the
Phase I billing cycle and then will be further implemented for the Phase II
billing cycle as follows:
      (1)   Phase I: Effective on March 1, 2023; and
      (2)   Phase II: Effective on January 1, 2024, and thereafter.
   (C)   Except as hereby amended and revised, the prior ordinance shall remain
in full force and effect.
(Ord. 2022-06-28-01, passed 6-28-2022; Ord. 2023-01-31-01, passed 1-31-2023)
§ 51.04 DISTRIBUTIONS TO THE WATER DEPRECIATION FUND.
   The water utility of the town shall transfer the sum of $500 per month from
the Water Operating Fund to the town’s Water Depreciation Fund, commencing with
the town’s January 2017 claims and receipts.
(Ord. 2016-12-14-02, passed 12-14-2016)
CROSS-CONNECTIONS
§ 51.15 RESPONSIBILITY.
   The town’s municipal utilities shall be responsible for the protection of
the public potable water distribution system from contaminants or pollutants
through the water service connection. If, in the judgment of said municipal
utilities, an approved backflow prevention assembly is required as defined by
327 I.A.C. 8-10, Rule 10 (at the customer’s water service connection; or,
within the customer’s private water system) for the safety of the water system,
the municipal utilities shall give notice in writing by mail to said customer
to install such an approved backflow prevention assembly(s) at specific
location(s) on his or her premises. The customer shall install such approved
assembly(s) at the customer’s own expense; and, failure, refusal, or inability
on the part of the customer to install, have tested, and maintain said assembly
(s) shall constitute a grounds for discontinuing water service to the premises
until such requirements have been satisfactorily met.
(Ord. 2016-09-14-03, passed 9-14-2016)
§ 51.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR GAP. The unobstructed vertical distance through the free atmosphere
between the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet supplying water to a tank,
plumbing fixture, or other devise or flood level rim of said vessel. An
approved AIR GAP shall be at least double the diameter of the supply pipe,
measured vertically, above the overflow rim of the vessel; and in no case less
than one inch.
   APPROVED. Accepted by the municipal utilities as meeting applicable
specifications stated or cited in this subchapter, or as suitable for the
proposed use.
   AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY. Any water supply on or available to the premises
other than the utility’s approved public potable water supply. These AUXILIARY
WATERS may include water from another utility’s public potable water supply or
any natural source(s) such as a well, spring, river, stream, or the like, or
“used waters” or “industrial fluids.” These waters may be contaminated or
polluted or they may be objectionable and constitute an unacceptable water
source over which the water utility does not have sanitary control.
   BACKFLOW. The reversal of the normal flow of water caused by either
backpressure or backsiphonage.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTER. An approved assembly or means designed to prevent
backflow.
   BACKPRESSURE. The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures, or substances
under pressure into the distribution pipes of a potable water supply system
from any source or sources other than the intended source.
   BACKSIPHONAGE. The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures, or substances
into the distribution pipes of a potable water supply caused by the reduction
of pressure in the potable water supply system.
   CONTAMINATION. An impairment of the quality of the potable water by sewage,
industrial fluids, or waste liquids, compounds, or other materials to a degree
which creates an actual or potential hazard to the public health through
poisoning or through the spread of disease.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical connection or arrangement of piping or
fixtures between two otherwise separate piping systems, one of which contains
potable water and the other non-potable water or industrial fluids of
questionable safety, through which, or because of which, backflow may occur
into the potable water system.
   CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL BY CONTAINMENT.
      (1)   The installation of an approved backflow assembly at the water
service connection to any customer’s premises where it is physically and
economically unfeasible to find and permanently eliminate or control all actual
or potential cross-connections within the customer’s water system; or
      (2)   The installation of an approved backflow prevention assembly on the
service line leading to and supplying a portion of a customer’s water system
where there are actual or potential cross-connections which cannot be
effectively eliminated or controlled at the point of cross-connection.
   CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROLLED. A connection between a potable water system and
a non-potable water system with an air gap or approved backflow prevention
assembly installed and maintained so that it will continuously afford the
protection commensurate with the degree of hazard.
   DEGREE OF HAZARD. An evaluation of the potential risk and the adverse effect
of the hazard upon the potable water system.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY. An assembly of two independently operating,
approved check valves with resilient seated shut- off valves on each end of the
check valves, plus properly located resilient seated test cocks for testing of
each check valve. The entire ASSEMBLY shall meet the design and performance
specifications as determined by a laboratory and field evaluation program
resulting in an approval by a recognized and municipal utilities approved
testing agency for backflow prevention assemblies. To be approved, these
ASSEMBLIES must be readily accessible for in- line testing and maintenance.
Confined space installations will not be accepted.
   HEALTH HAZARD. Any condition, device, or practice in the water supply system
and its operation, which could create, or in the judgment of the municipal
utilities, may create a danger to the health and wellbeing of the water
customer.
   INDUSTRIAL FLUIDS SYSTEM. Any system containing a fluid or solution which
may be chemically, biologically, or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a
form or concentration such as would constitute a health, system, pollutional,
or plumbing hazard if introduced into an approved water supply. This term may
include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Polluted or contaminated waters;
      (2)   All types of process waters and “used water” originating from the
public potable water system which may have deteriorated in sanitary quality;
      (3)   Chemicals in fluid form;
      (4)   Plating acids and alkalines, circulating cooling waters connected
to an open cooling tower and/or cooling towers that are chemically or
biologically treated or stabilized with toxic substances;
      (5)   Contaminated natural waters such as wells, springs, streams,
rivers, irrigation canals or systems, and the like; and/or
      (6)   Oils, gases, glycerin, paraffin, caustic and acid solutions, and
other liquid or gaseous fluids used in industrial or other purposes or for
firefighting purposes.
   NON-POTABLE WATER. Water which is not safe for human consumption or which is
of questionable potability.
   PLUMBING HAZARD. A plumbing type cross-connection in a customer’s potable
water system that has not been properly protected by an approved air gap or
approved backflow prevention assembly.
   POLLUTION. The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic, or
biological) in water which tends to degrade its quality so as to constitute a
hazard or impair the usefulness or quality of the water to a degree which does
not create an actual hazard to the public health but which does adversely and
unreasonably affect such waters for domestic use.
   POLLUTIONAL HAZARD. An actual or potential threat to the physical water
system which could constitute a nuisance or be aesthetically objectionable, or
could cause damage to the system or its appurtenances, but would not be
dangerous to health.
   POTABLE WATER. Any water which, according to recognized standards, is safe
for human consumption.
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE ASSEMBLIES. An assembly of two independently
acting approved check valves together with a hydraulically operating,
mechanically independent differential pressure relief valve, the unit shall
include properly located resilient seated test cocks and resilient seated shut-
off valves at each end of the ASSEMBLY. The entire ASSEMBLY shall meet the
design and performance specifications as determined by a laboratory and a field
evaluation program resulting in approval by a recognized and municipal
utilities’ approved testing agency for backflow prevention assemblies. The
ASSEMBLY shall operate to maintain the pressure in the zone between the check
valves at an acceptable level less than the pressure on the public water supply
side of the ASSEMBLY. At cessation of normal flow, the pressure between the two
check valves shall be less than the pressure on the public water supply side of
the ASSEMBLY. In case of leakage of either of the check valves, the
differential relief valve shall operate to maintain the reduced pressure in the
zone between the check valves by discharging to the atmosphere. When the inlet
pressure is two pounds per square inch or less, the relief valve shall open to
the atmosphere. To be approved, these ASSEMBLIES must be readily accessible for
in-line testing and maintenance and be installed in a location where no part of
the ASSEMBLY will be submerged. Confined space installations will not be
approved.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the Water Department of the municipal
utilities who is vested with the authority and responsibility for the impletion
of an effective cross-connection control program and for the enforcement of
provisions of this subchapter.
   SYSTEM HAZARD. An actual or potential threat of severe damage to the
physical properties of the public potable water system or the consumer’s
potable water system or of a pollution or contamination which would have a
protracted effect upon the quality of the potable water in the system.
   USED WATER. Any water supplied by a water utility from a public potable
water system after it has passed through the point of delivery and is no longer
under the sanitary control of the water utility.
   WATER SERVICE CONNECTION. The terminal end of a service connection from the
public potable water system; i.e., where the water utility loses jurisdiction
and sanitary control over the water at its point of delivery to the customer’s
water system. If a meter is installed at the end of the SERVICE CONNECTION,
then the SERVICE CONNECTION shall mean the downstream end of the meter,
provided the meter is installed outside of a building; i.e., in a pit or vault.
If the meter is installed inside a building, then the water utility’s
jurisdiction terminates at the downstream end of the outside shut-off valve to
the water service. There should be no unprotected takeoffs from the water
service line ahead of any meter or ahead of any backflow prevention assembly.
SERVICE CONNECTION shall also include WATER SERVICE CONNECTION from a fire
hydrant and all other temporary or emergency WATER SERVICE CONNECTIONS from the
public potable water system.
(Ord. 2016-09-14-03, passed 9-14-2016)
§ 51.17 WATER SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS.
   The water system shall be considered as made up of two parts: the utility
system and the customer system.
   (A)   Utility system. The utility system shall consist of the source
facilities and the distribution system; and shall include all air gaps or
approved backflow prevention assemblies properly installed and maintained, up
to the point where the customer’s system begins.
      (1)   The source shall include all components of the facilities utilized
in the production, treatment, storage, and delivery of water to the
distribution system.
      (2)   The distribution system shall include the network of mains used for
the delivery of water from the source to the customer’s system.
   (B)   Customer system.
      (1)   The customer’s system shall include those parts of the facilities
beyond the termination of the utility distribution system which are utilized in
conveying utility-delivered domestic water to points of use.
      (2)   As further defined in the town’s service area, at or about the
customer fitting connection outside of the meter pit or 18 inches for
residential services, or at the corporation shut off at the distribution main
for commercial properties, unless otherwise designated.
(Ord. 2016-09-14-03, passed 9-14-2016)
§ 51.18 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   No water service connection to any premises shall be installed or
maintained by the municipal utilities unless the water supply is protected as
required by state rules and regulations and this subchapter.
   (B)   Service of water to any premises may be discontinued by the municipal
utilities if a backflow prevention assembly required by this subchapter is not
installed, tested, and maintained, or if it is found that a backflow prevention
assembly has been removed or bypassed; or if an unprotected cross-connection
exists on the premises.
   (C)   Service will not be restored until such conditions or defects are
corrected.
(Ord. 2016-09-14-03, passed 9-14-2016) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.19 INSPECTION.
   The customer’s system should be open for inspection at all reasonable times
to authorized representatives of the municipal utilities to determine whether
there exist cross-connections or other structural or sanitary hazards,
including violations of this subchapter or regulations which are adopted
through this subchapter.
(Ord. 2016-09-14-03, passed 9-14-2016)
§ 51.20 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   When a violation condition becomes known, the Superintendent may deny or
immediately discontinue service to the premises by providing for a physical
break in the service line until the customer has corrected the condition(s) in
conformance with state statutes and city ordinances relating to plumbing and
water supplies and the regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
(Ord. 2016-09-14-03, passed 9-14-2016)
§ 51.21 INSTALLATION OF BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY.
   An approved backflow prevention assembly shall also be installed on each
service line to a customer’s water system at or near the property line or
immediately inside the building being served; but, in all cases, before the
first branch line leading off the service line wherever the following
conditions exist.
   (A)   In the case of premises having an auxiliary water supply which is not
or may not be of safe bacteriological or chemical quality and which is not
acceptable as an additional source by the municipal utilities, the public water
system shall be protected against backflow from the premises by installing an
approved backflow prevention assembly in the service line appropriate to the
specification set forth by the municipal utilities.
   (B)   In the case of premises on which any industrial fluids or any other
objectionable substance is handled in such a fashion as to create an actual or
potential hazard to the public water system, the public system shall be
protected against backflow from the premises by installing an approved backflow
prevention assembly in the service line appropriate to the specification of the
municipal utilities. This shall include the handling of process waters and
waters originating from the utility system which have been subject to
deterioration of quality.
   (C)   In the case of premises having internal cross-connections that cannot
be permanently corrected or controlled, or intricate plumbing and piping
arrangements or where entry to all portions of the premises are not readily
accessible for inspection purposes, making it impractical or impossible to
ascertain whether or not dangerous cross-connections exist, the public water
system shall be protected against backflow from the premises by installing an
approved backflow prevention assembly in the service line or lines where
potential hazards could exist.
(Ord. 2016-09-14-03, passed 9-14-2016) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.22 TYPE OF PROTECTIVE ASSEMBLY.
   The type of protective assembly required shall depend upon the degree of
hazard which exists as follows.
   (A)   In the case of any premises where there is an auxiliary water supply,
the public water system shall be protected by an approved air gap separation or
an approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assembly.
   (B)   In the case of any premises where there is water or a substance that
would be objectionable but not hazardous to health, if introduced into the
public water system, the public water system shall be protected by an approved
reduced principle backflow assembly.
   (C)   In the case of any premises where there is any material dangerous to
health, such as to create an actual or potential hazard to the public water
system, the public water system shall be protected by an approved air gap
separation or an approved reduced principle backflow prevention assembly.
Examples of premises where these conditions will exist include, but are not
limited to, sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping stations, chemical
manufacturing plants, hospitals, mortuaries, and plating plants.
   (D)   In the case of any premises where there are uncontrolled cross-
connections, either actual or potential, the public water system shall be
protected by an approved air gap separation or an approved reduced pressure
principle backflow prevention assembly at the service connection.
   (E)   In the case of any premises where, because of security requirements or
other prohibitions or restrictions, it is impossible or impractical to make a
complete in-plant cross- connection survey, the public water system shall be
protected against backflow from the premises by either an approved air gap
separation or an approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevention
assembly on each service to the premises.
   (F)   In the case of any premises having a lawn irrigation system, the
public water system shall be protected by an approved pressure vacuum breaker
backflow prevention assembly or an approved reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention assembly.
   (G)   The municipal utilities will no longer recognize the use of any double
check backflow prevention assembly in the public water system or the customer
water system other than for fire service connections. Fire service systems will
use double detector check assemblies as deemed necessary by code. Existing
installations are not exempt from current rules and regulations cited in this
subchapter.
(Ord. 2016-09-14-03, passed 9-14-2016) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.23 APPROVAL OF BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY.
   (A)   Any backflow prevention assembly required herein shall be model and
size approved by the municipal utilities. The term APPROVED BACKFLOW PREVENTION
ASSEMBLY shall mean an assembly that has been manufactured in full conformance
with the standards established by the American Waterworks Association (AWWA)
entitled “AWWA C506-84 Standards for Reduced Pressure Principle and Double
Check Valve Backflow Prevention Devices.”
   (B)   Said assembly shall meet the laboratory and field performance
specifications of the Foundation for Cross-Connection Control and Hydraulic
Research (FCCC&HR) of the University of Southern California established by
“Specifications of Backflow Prevention Assemblies § 10” of the most current
issue of the Manual of Cross-Connection Control.
   (C)   Final approval shall be evidenced by a certificate of approval issued
by an approved testing laboratory certifying full compliance with the said AWWA
standards and FCCC&HR specifications.
(Ord. 2016-09-14-03, passed 9-14-2016) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.24 ADOPTION OF STANDARDS BY REFERENCE.
   The AWWA and FCCC&HR standards and specifications specifically referenced in
§
51.23 are hereby adopted and incorporated by reference.
(Ord. 2016-09-14-03, passed 9-14-2016)
§ 51.25 DUTY TO TEST AND REPAIR.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be the duty of any customer-user at any premises where
backflow prevention assemblies are installed to have certified inspections and
operational tests made upon installation and at least once per year.
      (2)   In those instances, where the Municipal Utilities Superintendent
deems the hazard to be great enough, the Superintendent may require inspection
at more frequent intervals.
   (B)   (1)   The inspections and tests shall be at the expense of the water
user and shall be performed by a certified tester registered and approved by
the state and the municipal utilities. It shall be the duty of the customer to
see that these tests are made in a timely manner.
      (2)   If a customer-user does not have its backflow prevention assembly
tested within 30 days of the testing due date, the municipal utilities may
discontinue water service to the premises to maintain the safety of the public
water system.
   (C)   These assemblies shall be repaired, overhauled, or replaced at the
expense of the customer-user whenever said assemblies are found to be
defective.
   (D)   Records of such tests, repairs, and overhaul shall be kept by the
customer-user and a copy furnished to the municipal utilities.
(Ord. 2016-09-14-03, passed 9-14-2016) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.26 CERTIFICATION OF TESTERS.
   Certified testers shall be registered with the municipal utilities and shall
provide proof of state registration. In addition, certified testers will
provide proof that test gauges used in testing backflow prevention assemblies
have been calibrated and certified annually. All inspection reports shall be
made using approved forms, either from the municipal utilities or approved by
same.
(Ord. 2016-09-14-03, passed 9-14-2016)
§ 51.27 RULES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE.
   The State Plumbing Code, State Department of Health, IDEM Rule, and 327
I.A.C. 8-10 are incorporated herein by reference.
(Ord. 2016-09-14-03, passed 9-14-2016)
§ 51.28 TIME TO CORRECT.
   Users of the town’s water utility identified in writing by the town as
posing a significant threat for cross-connection, as described in §
51.16, shall have 180 days to comply with this subchapter by the installation
of the appropriate device(s) and shall be responsible for providing the town
with evidence of annual testing of such device(s).
(Ord. 2016-10-12-02, passed 10-12-2016) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
51.15 to
51.28 for which no other penalty is otherwise specifically provided shall be
fined not more than $1,000. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on
each day that a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 2016-09-14-03, passed 9-14-2016)
CHAPTER 52: SEWER
Section
   
52.01   Sewer rates
   
52.02   Storm drainage fee
   
52.03   Distributions to Wastewater Depreciation Fund
   
52.04   Distribution of storm drainage fees
§ 52.01 SEWER RATES.
   (A)   The usage schedule on which the amount of said rates and charges shall
be determined is as follows and shall be effective in three phases as further
described in division (B) below.
      (1)   Treatment rate, per 1,000 gallons of metered water usage per month:
 
                              Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3
First 2,000 gallons per month $20.85  $23.10  $25.30
Next 18,000 gallons per month $10.42  $11.54  $12.6 5
Over 20,000 gallons per month $3.68   $4.08   $4.45
Minimum charge                $41.70  $46.20  $50.60
 
      (2)   Town of Cynthiana treatment rate, per 1,000 gallons of metered
water usage per month:
 
                              Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3
First 1,000 gallons per month $3.10   $3.45   $3.75
Capacity charge               $3,180  $3,180  $3,180
 
   (B)   While division (A) above is intended to be effective upon adoption by
the Town Council, the new rates and charges set forth herein will not be
implemented until the commencement of the Phase I billing cycle and then will
be further implemented for the Phase II billing cycle and Phase III billing
cycle as follows:
      (1)   Phase I: effective on November 1, 2020;
      (2)   Phase II: effective on May 1, 2021; and
      (3)   Phase III: effective on November 1, 2021 and thereafter.
   (C)   Residential sewage tap-in fee: $500 plus material cost.
(Ord. 1995-04-05-02, passed 4-5-1995; Ord. 2020-10-13-01, passed 10-13-2020)
§ 52.02 STORM DRAINAGE FEE.
   (A)   Each sewer utility customer shall be assessed a $2 per month fee
identified as storm drainage fee.
   (B)   The $2 per month storm drainage fee shall be added to the monthly
statement of each sewer utility customer. The $2 per month storm drainage fee
shall be imposed when the sewage revised rates and charges imposed by §
52.01 take effect.
(Ord. 2020-10-13-03, passed 10-13-2020)
§ 52.03 DISTRIBUTIONS TO WASTEWATER DEPRECIATION FUND.
   The wastewater utility of the town shall transfer the sum of $500 per month
from the Wastewater Operating Fund to the town’s Wastewater Depreciation Fund,
commencing with the town’s January 2017 claims and receipts.
(Ord. 2016-12-14-03, passed 12-14-2016)
§ 52.04 DISTRIBUTION OF STORM DRAINAGE FEES.
   As storm drainage fees are collected from each utility customer, the funds
shall be deposited into the town’s Storm Drain Operating Fund, and $500 per
month shall be transferred from the Storm Drain Operating Fund into the Storm
Drain Cash Reserve Fund, and $400 per month shall be transferred from the Storm
Drain Operating Fund into the Storm Drain Depreciation Fund. The monthly
transfers shall commence with the town’s first collection of storm drainage
fees.
(Ord. 2020-11-10-01, passed 11-10-2020)
CHAPTER 53: NATURAL GAS
Section
   
53.01   Gas rates and charges
   
53.02   Gas tap-in fees
   
53.03   Distributions to Gas Depreciation Fund
§ 53.01 GAS RATES AND CHARGES.
   Town Municipal Gas shall charge gas users the following gas rates and
charges measured by metered gas usage:
   (A)   Rate per MCF, subject to a purchased gas cost adjustment tracking
factor occasioned solely by the changes in the cost of purchased gas, including
transportation and balancing charges:
      (1)   Effective March 1, 2015: $9.95; and
      (2)   Effective August 1, 2022: $9.81.
   (B)   Monthly meter charge, in addition to rate per MCF charge and GCA
tracking charges:
      (1)   Residential and small commercial: $5.18;
      (2)   Medium commercial (rotary and three and one-half to four M):
$11.83; and
      (3)   Large commercial/industrial (five M to 16M): $24.65.
   (C)   Persons who opt to have their gas service locked off for whatever
reason will have to pay a (seasonal) reconnection charge of $150 for a
residential customer and $250 for a commercial customer at such time that they
want gas service restored.
(Ord. 2022-06-28-02, passed 6-28-2022)
§ 53.02 GAS TAP-IN FEES.
   Residential gas tap-in fee (up to 200 feet) is $650 (includes material
cost).
(Ord. 2015-10-14-02, passed 10-14-2015)
§ 53.03 DISTRIBUTIONS TO GAS DEPRECIATION FUND.
   The gas utility of the town shall transfer the sum of $500 per month from
the Gas Operating Fund to the town’s Gas Depreciation Fund, commencing with the
town’s January 2017 claims and receipts.
(Ord. 2016-12-14-01, passed 12-14-2016)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC AND PARKING REGULATIONS
      
71.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
72.   TRAFFIC AND PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC AND PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.01   Parking of semi-tractors and/or trailers
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 PARKING OF SEMI-TRACTORS AND/OR TRAILERS.
   No semi-tractor and/or trailer shall be parked on a street within the town
other than for delivery purposes. Deliveries shall not last longer than one
hour. After one hour, the owner and drive of the semi-tractor and/or trailer
shall be in violation of this section, unless, in the judgment of the Town
Marshal or other enforcing officer, reasonable progress is being made to
complete the delivery.
(Ord. 2013-02-13-01, passed 2-13-2013) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person or entity who violates §
70.01 shall be subject to a fine of $25 for the first violation, $50 for the
second violation, and $100 for a third violation and each violation thereafter.
A single violation cannot exceed a 24-hour period. After 24 hours, if the semi-
tractor and/or trailer has not been moved, the incident shall be considered a
second violation, and if not moved within the second 24-hour period a third
violation, and so on. Violations shall be cumulative from the effective date of
§
70.01. The fine shall be imposed upon both the owner of the semi-tractor and/or
trailer and the driver thereof. Section 70.01 may be enforced by the town, and
any of its Marshals or deputies, and prosecuted through the Courts of the
state. The town has the option to tow the semi- tractor and/or trailer at the
owner’s expense.
(Ord. 2013-02-13-01, passed 2-13-2013)
CHAPTER 71: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Off-Road Vehicles
   
71.01   Definitions
   
71.02   Use and operation of off-road vehicles on town streets; speed limit
   
71.03   Helmet requirement
   
71.04   Registration requirements
   
71.05   Lights and brakes
   
71.06   Statutory restrictions on use
   
71.07   Number of occupants
   
71.08   Duties in event of accident
   
71.09   Liability insurance
   
71.10   Possession of registration and certificate of insurance
   
71.11   Restriction on operation
   
71.12   Other laws and regulations
   
71.13   Disturbance of roadway
   
71.14   Mufflers
   
71.15   Emergencies
   
71.16   Enforcement
Golf Carts
   
71.30   Definition
   
71.31   Permitted operation
   
71.32   Registration
   
71.33   Operators
   
71.34   Financial responsibility of the owner, lessee, and operator
   
71.35   Equipment
   
71.36   Permissible streets
   
71.37   Restricted areas
   
71.38   Number and seating of occupants
   
71.39   Traffic rules
   
71.40   Hand signals
   
71.41   Restriction on operation
   
71.42   Responsibility of owner or lessee
   
71.43   Violations
   
71.44   Compliance
   
71.45   Enforcement
Skateboards, Roller Skates, and the Like
   
71.60   Definitions
   
71.61   Compliance required
   
71.62   Impoundment
   
71.99   Penalty
OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
§ 71.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OFF-ROAD STREET. All town streets within the town, except for the following:
      (1)   State Highways 68 and 165, except for the purposes of crossing
State Highways 68 and 165 in compliance with I.C. 14-16-1- 20(a)(2), except for
the intersections of Cale and Locust Streets that an operator is prohibited
from crossing;
      (2)   Any streets posted by order of the Town Council or its designee for
non-use for ORV; or
      (3)   Any of the following:
         (a)   On sidewalks;
         (b)   On any unpaved surfaces of public property on which motor
vehicles are not allowed; and
         (c)   On any private property without permission of the owner.
   OFF-ROAD VEHICLE or ORV. Has the definition as provided in I.C. 14-8-2-185.
(Ord. 2019-09-11-01, passed 9-11-2019)
§ 71.02 USE AND OPERATION OF OFF-ROAD VEHICLES ON TOWN STREETS; SPEED LIMIT.
   (A)   An operator of an ORV must possess a valid motor vehicle driver’s
license as is also required by I.C. 14-16-1-20(c).
   (B)   (1)   An operator may operate an ORV on off-road streets. An operator
must comply with the terms and conditions of this subchapter.
      (2)   ORVs are subject to a restricted speed limit of 15 mph. ORVs may
not be operated on restricted streets and areas, as designated by the Town
Marshal.
(Ord. 2019-09-11-01, passed 9-11-2019) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 HELMET REQUIREMENT.
   The operator must comply with I.C. 14-16-1-33 as to helmet requirements.
(Ord. 2019-09-11-01, passed 9-11-2019) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS.
   ORVs must be registered under I.C. 14-16-1-18, or as amended. At time of
passage, this registration occurs with the State Bureau of Motor Vehicles.
(Ord. 2019-09-11-01, passed 9-11-2019) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 LIGHTS AND BRAKES.
   The operator must comply with the requirements imposed by I.C. 14-16-1-21
with regard to lights and brakes on the ORV.
(Ord. 2019-09-11-01, passed 9-11-2019) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.06 STATUTORY RESTRICTIONS ON USE.
   Nothing in this subchapter modifies, alters, or changes the restrictions on
operation established under I.C. 14-16-1-23.
(Ord. 2019-09-11-01, passed 9-11-2019)
§ 71.07 NUMBER OF OCCUPANTS.
   No ORV shall be occupied by more persons that for which the vehicle was
designed with designated seating. All occupants of an ORV must be in designated
seating.
(Ord. 2019-09-11-01, passed 9-11-2019) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.08 DUTIES IN EVENT OF ACCIDENT.
   Nothing in this subchapter modifies, alters, or changes the duties under
I.C. 14-16-1-24 placed on the operator of an ORV in the event of an accident.
An operator must fully comply with the duties imposed upon him or her or other
in the event of an accident as mandated by I.C. 14-16-1-24.
(Ord. 2019-09-11-01, passed 9-11-2019) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.09 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   An operator operating an ORV on an off-road street must have liability
insurance specifically for such ORV in accordance with the minimum insurance
requirements for the operation of other motor vehicles on public highways in
the state. Said statute regarding liability insurance on other motor vehicles
is, as the time of the passing of this subchapter, codified at I.C. 9-25-4-5.
(Ord. 2019-09-11-01, passed 9-11-2019) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.10 POSSESSION OF REGISTRATION AND CERTIFICATE OF INSURANCE.
   Anyone operating an ORV shall carry on his or her person any registration
required under I.C. 14-16-1 and the certificate of insurance required under
this subchapter for the ORV being operated.
(Ord. 2019-09-11-01, passed 9-11-2019) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.11 RESTRICTION ON OPERATION.
   I.C. 14-16-1-23(a)(7) prohibits the operation of ORVs within 100 feet of a
dwelling between 12:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m., with few exceptions as provided by
the aforementioned law.
(Ord. 2019-09-11-01, passed 9-11-2019) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.12 OTHER LAWS AND REGULATIONS.
   Nothing in this subchapter modifies, alters, or changes the requirements of
the operation of vehicles on public roadways in the state, and all operators of
ORVs must obey and follow all rules and regulations applicable to the operation
of vehicles on roadways in the state.
(Ord. 2019-09-11-01, passed 9-11-2019) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.13 DISTURBANCE OF ROADWAY.
   No person shall operate an ORV on off- road streets in such a manner which
causes damage to the street or disturbs the surface of the roadway. Any
violator of this subchapter, in addition to the penalties set forth in §
71.99, shall be responsible for all costs of repairs of such damage or
disturbance.
(Ord. 2019-09-11-01, passed 9-11-2019) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.14 MUFFLERS.
   As required by I.C. 14-16-1-23(a)(6), each ORV being operated on town
streets pursuant to this subchapter must be equipped with a muffler in good
working order and in constant operation to prevent excessive noise and annoying
smoke.
(Ord. 2019-09-11-01, passed 9-11-2019) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.15 EMERGENCIES.
   Any town, county, or state law enforcement officer may prohibit operation of
an ORV on a town street or roadway during emergencies.
(Ord. 2019-09-11-01, passed 9-11-2019)
§ 71.16 ENFORCEMENT.
   All law enforcement officers in the town shall have the power and it shall
be their duty to enforce the provisions of this subchapter unless otherwise
prevented by state statues regarding the enforcement of state laws.
(Ord. 2019-09-11-01, passed 9-11-2019)
GOLF CARTS
§ 71.30 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition applies unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GOLF CART. A four-wheeled motor vehicle originally and specifically designed
and intended to transport one or more individuals and golf clubs for the
purpose of playing the game of golf on a golf course.
(Ord. 2016-07-13-03, passed 7-13-2016)
§ 71.31 PERMITTED OPERATION.
   Golf carts may be operated on the streets of the town, but only if such golf
carts are registered with the town and equipped and operated in full compliance
with this subchapter.
(Ord. 2016-07-13-03, passed 7-13-2016) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.32 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   The owner or lessee of a golf cart intending to operate the golf cart
on the streets of the town must register the golf cart annually with the town
and pay an annual registration fee of $25 to the Clerk-Treasurer of the town.
Such registration shall be valid until April 15 of the following year and may
be renewed each year on or before April 15 of each consecutive year.
   (B)   Owners or lessees of a golf cart shall also have the option of
purchasing a registration for a period of four years by paying the four-year
registration fee of $75 to the Clerk- Treasurer of the town. Such registration
shall expire on April 15 of the fourth year after payment of such registration
fee.
   (C)   At the time of any registration or renewal registration, the Town
Marshal or a Deputy Marshal shall perform an inspection to verify that the golf
cart is insured and equipped as defined in §
71.30. Upon the successful completion of such inspection and the payment of the
appropriate registration fee to the Clerk-Treasurer of the town, the Clerk-
Treasurer shall issue a certificate of registration (hereinafter “permit”),
which permit must be in the golf cart or in the possession of the individual
operating the golf cart at all times such golf cart is in operation upon the
streets of the town. The Clerk-Treasurer shall also issue a registration decal,
which decal must be clearly displayed on the back of the golf cart.
(Ord. 2016-07-13-03, passed 7-13-2016) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.33 OPERATORS.
   Only individuals of 18 years of age or older and having a valid motor
vehicle driver’s license may operate a golf cart within the town.
(Ord. 2016-07-13-03, passed 7-13-2016) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.34 FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY OF THE OWNER, LESSEE, AND OPERATOR.
   A golf cart in operation upon the streets of the town shall be insured by
liability insurance coverage in an amount not less than that provided by state
statute for motor vehicles operated on public thoroughfares in the state. Proof
of such liability coverage must be available on the golf cart or carried by the
operator of the golf cart at all times the golf cart is being operated on the
streets of the town.
(Ord. 2016-07-13-03, passed 7-13-2016) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.35 EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   All golf carts in operation upon the streets of the town shall be
equipped with brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and hold
the golf cart; a rear view mirror; and side reflectors (one on each side to
provide high visibility). A slow-moving placard shall be prominently displayed
on the rear of the golf cart.
   (B)   Additionally, all golf carts must have an orange pennant or flag of at
least 12 inches, but not more than 24 inches long, affixed to a staff or pole
measuring at least four feet, but not more than ten feet, in height. The pole
or staff height shall be measured from the top of the driver’s seat.
   (C)   All golf carts being operated between sunset and sunrise must have two
operating headlights (one on each side of the golf cart) visible from a
distance of 500 feet; brake lights/taillights (one on each side of the rear of
the golf cart) visible from a distance of 500 feet; and turn signals.
   (D)   All gas operated golf carts must be equipped with a muffler in good
working order and in constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise
and annoying smoke.
   (E)   Seatbelts are recommended (but not required) for all golf carts.
(Ord. 2016-07-13-03, passed 7-13-2016) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.36 PERMISSIBLE STREETS.
   Golf carts may be operated within the town having a speed limit of 35 mph or
less. Specifically, golf carts shall not be operated upon State Highways 165
and 68 within the town’s municipal limits, except to cross State Highways 165
and 68 at intersecting streets, using the most direct route to cross the said
highways. However, golf carts will not be permitted to cross State Highways 165
and 68 at the intersections of Main Street/Cale Street and Main Street/Locust
Street due to traffic congestion at these two intersections.
(Ord. 2016-07-13-03, passed 7-13-2016) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.37 RESTRICTED AREAS.
   Golf carts may not be operated:
   (A)   Upon sidewalks;
   (B)   Upon any unpaved surfaces of public property where motor vehicles are
not permitted; or
   (C)   Upon any private property, without consent of the property owner.
(Ord. 2016-07-13-03, passed 7-13-2016) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.38 NUMBER AND SEATING OF OCCUPANTS.
   Occupants of a golf cart in operation within the town shall be limited to
the number of individuals for whom seating is installed on the golf cart.
Occupants of the golf cart, including the operator, shall be seated in the cart
in the designated seating area, and no part of the body of the operator or an
occupant shall extend outside of the perimeter of the golf cart while the same
is in operation, except for the operator’s use of hand signals as required by §
71.40.
(Ord. 2016-07-13-03, passed 7-13-2016) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.39 TRAFFIC RULES.
   All golf carts and the operator thereof shall be subject to all traffic
rules as required by state statutes governing the application of motor vehicles
in addition to the requirements set forth in this subchapter.
(Ord. 2016-07-13-03, passed 7-13-2016) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.40 HAND SIGNALS.
   All operators of golf carts must use proper hand signals for turning or lane
changes if the golf cart is not equipped with turn signals.
(Ord. 2016-07-13-03, passed 7-13-2016) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.41 RESTRICTION ON OPERATION.
   A golf cart unequipped with two operating headlights, two taillights, and
turn signals may not be operated on any town street between sunset and sunrise.
(Ord. 2016-07-13-03, passed 7-13-2016) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.42 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER OR LESSEE.
   A golf cart owner or lessee applying for a permit to operate such golf cart
within the town, as herein provided, agrees to be responsible, jointly and
severally, with any person who is permitted to operate the permitted golf cart,
for any injury or damages caused by reason of the operation of such golf cart
if the operator is found liable for such damages.
(Ord. 2016-07-13-03, passed 7-13-2016)
§ 71.43 VIOLATIONS.
   Any persons who do not admit a violation of this subchapter and pay the
appropriate penalty shall be referred to the Town Attorney for the filing of a
claim against the violator in the appropriate court of the county.
(Ord. 2016-07-13–03, passed 7-13-2016)
§ 71.44 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner or lessee of any golf cart
in operation within the town to comply with the provisions of §§
71.32 to
71.35 and
71.41. Failure to comply with such requirements shall constitute a violation of
this subchapter by the golf cart owner or lessee.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of the operator of the golf cart to
comply with the provisions of §§
71.36 to
71.41 (including specifically the responsibility and actions of all occupants).
Failure to comply with the requirements of such sections shall constitute a
violation of the subchapter by the operator.
(Ord. 2016-07-13-03, passed 7-13-2016) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.45 ENFORCEMENT.
   All law enforcement officers in the town shall have the power and duty to
enforce the provisions of this subchapter, unless otherwise prevented by state
statute regarding the enforcement of state laws.
(Ord. 2016-07-13-03, passed 7-13-2016)
SKATEBOARDS, ROLLER SKATES, AND THE LIKE
§ 71.60 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ROLLER SKATES and STREET SKATES. Either a pair of small wheels near the toe
and another pair near the heel of a shoe or frame that would attach to a shoe,
or in-line skates, which are used for gliding on a hard surface such as a
floor, sidewalk, or the like.
   SKATEBOARD. An item consisting of a short, oblong board with a pair of small
wheels at each end, ridden on a hard surface such as a floor, sidewalk, or the
like.
   TO ROLLER SKATE. To skate on any type of roller skates or street skates or
skate board.
(Ord. 2006-11-15-01, passed 11-15-2006)
§ 71.61 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   No person shall roller skate or ride a skateboard within the town without
complying with this section and any or all other applicable ordinances and
statutes.
   (A)   Yielding to pedestrians. Whenever any person is roller skating or
riding a skateboard upon a sidewalk or other paved surface intended for use by
pedestrians, such person shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and
shall not approach, overtake, or pass such pedestrian in a reckless or careless
manner, nor pass such pedestrian except in single file if such person is roller
skating or riding a skateboard with other such skaters or riders.
   (B)   Skating or riding on certain devices or structures. No person shall
roller skate or skateboard on any public bench, table, planter wall, retaining
wall, playground equipment, picnic tables, or other device or structure which
is not intended for pedestrian or vehicular traffic, or jump or step on or off
such devices or structures in the process of roller skating or riding a
skateboard. No person shall roller skate or skateboard on any steps or
handicapped ramps.
   (C)   Reckless or dangerous skating or riding. No person shall roller skate
or skateboard on any sidewalk or other paved surface intended for pedestrian
use or for the parking of vehicles in a reckless or careless manner, nor in a
manner which is likely to result in injury or harm to any person or property.
   (D)   Skating or riding on private property without permission. No person
shall roller skate or ride a skateboard on private property without first
obtaining permission of the owner of said property to allow such skating or
riding.
   (E)   Skating or riding while attached to vehicles. No person shall roller
skate or ride a skateboard while either the roller skates, the skateboard, or
the person is attached to any vehicle.
   (F)   Prohibitions on public streets and in the downtown area. No person
shall roller skate or ride a skateboard on public streets. No person shall
roller skate or ride skateboard on public sidewalks on Main Street, Cale Street
between Oak Street and Fletchall Avenue, Locust Street between Oak Street and
Fletchall Avenue, and Church Street between Oak Street and Fletchall Avenue.
   (G)   Restrictions on use. No person shall ride a skateboard in any position
other than standing on the board.
   (H)   Prohibition of ramps and incline devices. No person shall construct,
establish, maintain, use, or place a ramp or other incline device to be used
for skateboarding or roller skating upon any public sidewalk or roadway of a
street in the town.
(Ord. 2006-11-15-01, passed 11-15-2006) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.62 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this subchapter shall have
his or her roller skates or skateboard impounded by a police officer. Upon
impoundment of any skate board, incline skates, or roller skates as provided
herein, the owner or operator of such device shall be issued a receipt. Said
receipt shall state the hours, location, time frame, and manner for claiming
the impounded skateboard, incline skates, or roller skates, as provided in
divisions (B) and (C) below. The release of the impounded skateboard, incline
skates, or roller skates will not be released until such time the fine provided
in §
71.99 is paid.
   (B)   Upon presentation of the receipt, the owner may claim the impounded
skateboard, incline skates, or roller skates at the Police Department during
business hours. If the owner is a minor, such owner may only claim the
impounded skateboard, incline skates, or roller skates if accompanied by a
parent or guardian.
   (C)   If the impounded skateboard, incline skates, or roller skates is/are
not claimed within 60 days after the date of impoundment, the town may dispose
of the item(s) by public sale at auction.
(Ord. 2006-11-15-01, passed 11-15-2006)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
71.01 to
71.16 shall be deemed guilty of a violation and, upon conviction, shall be
fined pursuant to the following schedule:
         (a)   First offense in a 12- month period: $100;
         (b)   Second offense in a 12-month period: $200; and
         (c)   Third offense in a 12-month period: $250.
      (2)   Each day that a violation occurs constitutes a separate offense.
   (C)   (1)   Any person who violates §§
71.30 to
71.45 shall be subject to a penalty of $100 for the first violation in any 12-
month period for each violation.
      (2)   Any person who violates §§
71.30 to
71.45 a second time in any 12-month period shall be subject to a penalty of
$200 for each violation.
      (3)   Any person who violates §§
71.30 to
71.45 a third time in any 12-month period shall be subject to a penalty of $250
for each violation.
      (4)   Any permit provided under §§
71.30 to
71.45 may be subject to suspension or revocation at the time of any violation;
and, in the event three or more violations of §§
71.30 to
71.45 occur within a 12-month period, the permit to operate the golf cart for
which it was issued shall be revoked and may not be re-issued for a period of
one year.
      (5)   In the event the individual responsible for the violation of §§
71.30 to
71.45 is a minor according to the laws of the state, then the custodial parent
(s) or guardian(s) of such minor child shall be responsible for the actions of
such minor child and shall be liable for payment of the fine(s) imposed under
this division (C).
      (6)   All fine(s) or penalty(ies) shall be payable to the Town Clerk-
Treasurer. The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized to accept the payment of
monetary penalties and to place such monetary penalties into the General Fund
of the town.
   (D)   Upon the first offense of §§
71.60 to
71.62, a warning will be issued. Each additional offenses will be fined as
follows:
      (1)   Second offense: $50;
      (2)   Third offense: $100; and
      (3)   Each additional offense thereafter: $500.
(Ord. 2006-11-15-01, passed 11-15-2006; Ord. 2016-07-13-03, passed 7-13-2016;
Ord. 2019-09-11-01, passed 9-11-2019)
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC AND PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Parking restrictions
      
II.   Speed limits and restrictions
      
III.   Turn restrictions
      
IV.   One-way streets
      
V.   Stop intersections
SCHEDULE I. PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   A no-parking zone is hereby designated to be north of the fire station
to the north edge of Fletchall Avenue between the intersection of Fletchall
Avenue and Endicott Street and the center of the two windows on the north wall
of the fire station. No parking shall be allowed within the no-parking zone.
   (B)   A sign or other designation shall be posted indicating the no-parking
zone. The no-parking zone designation is because of the fire station, and any
violation shall be considered consistent with any violation for parking in
front of a fire station under the laws of the state.
   (C)   Any violator of this schedule shall be subject to the identical fines
and penalties as violations of parking laws of the state. The County Prosecutor
and County Superior Court, or any of their successors, shall assume
jurisdiction for cases in violation of this schedule. Any law enforcement
officer in the state shall be allowed to enforce this schedule.
(Ord. 2004-04-14-01, passed 4-14-2004)
SCHEDULE II. SPEED LIMITS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   The speed limit for all motor vehicles traveling on St. Francis
Avenue between its intersection with State Highways 68 and 165 and its
intersection with South Street shall be 20 mph, and the speed limit on St.
Francis Avenue between its intersection with South Street and the southern town
limits shall be 30 mph.
      (2)   Any violator of this division (A) shall be subject to the identical
fines and penalties as violations of speed limit laws of the state. The County
Prosecutor and County Superior Court, or any of their successors, shall assume
jurisdiction for cases in violation of this division (A). Any law enforcement
officer in the state shall be allowed to enforce this schedule.
   (B)   (1)   Within the town, no person may drive a vehicle greater than 20
mph on Cale Street from the West South Street intersection off of South Cale
Street to the intersection of Cale Street and Main Street.
      (2)   Any local, county, or state law enforcement officer shall be
authorized to enforce this division (B), and the penalty for violation of this
division (B) shall be the same as that provided by the state for the same
violation.
(Ord. 2001-11-14-03, passed 11-14-2001; Ord. 2017-11-8-01, passed 11-8-2017)
SCHEDULE III. TURN RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Egress from the drive located in front of North Elementary School onto
Fletchall Street shall be a right turn only.
   (B)   Any local, county, or state law enforcement officer shall be
authorized to enforce this schedule, and the penalty for violation of this
schedule shall be the same as that provided by the state for the same
violation.
(Ord. 2017-02-08-01, passed 2-8-2017)
SCHEDULE IV. ONE-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   Second Avenue shall be one-way east from Church Street to Cale Street.
   (B)   Third Avenue shall be one-way west from Cale Street to Church Street.
   (C)   Any law enforcement officer shall be authorized to enforce this
schedule, and the penalty for violation of this schedule shall be the same as
that provided by the state for same violation.
(Ord. 1998-7-14-05, passed 7-14-1998)
SCHEDULE V. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The intersection of Cale Street and Pine Street shall be a four-way
stop. Stop signs shall be erected to designate the intersection as a four-way
stop.
   (B)   Any law enforcement officer shall be authorized to enforce this
schedule, and the penalty for violation of this schedule shall be the same as
that provided by the state for same violation.
(Ord. 1998-12-8-01, passed 12-8-1998)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   NUISANCES
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   FIRE PREVENTION
CHAPTER 90: NUISANCES
Section
Abandoned Vehicles
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Adoption of state law
   
90.03   Powers of the Town Council
   
90.04   Costs and charges
   
90.05   Abandoned Vehicle Account
Noise Control
   
90.20   Definitions
   
90.21   Loud or annoying noises prohibited
   
90.22   Radios, amplifiers, lawnmowers, and the like
   
90.23   Horns and audible signaling devices
   
90.24   Parties and gatherings
   
90.25   Animals
   
90.26   Quantitative limits
   
90.27   Permits
   
90.28   Use of engine or transmission braking devices prohibited
   
90.29   Exemptions
Weed, Grass, Garbage, and Trash Control
   
90.40   Definitions
   
90.41   Maintenance of premises
   
90.42   Littering prohibited
   
90.43   Violations and notice procedure
   
90.44   Removal by town; collection costs
   
90.45   Lien on property
   
90.46   Appeals
   
90.99   Penalty
ABANDONED VEHICLES
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically set forth herein, the definitions of the terms used in
this subchapter shall be the same as the terms are defined in I.C. 9-13-2, and
as those terms may be hereafter amended to provide. For the purpose of this
subchapter, the following definitions apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE.
      (1)   A vehicle located on public property illegally.
      (2)   A vehicle left on public property without being moved for three
days.
      (3)   A vehicle located on public property in such a manner as to
constitute a hazard or obstruction to the movement of pedestrian or vehicular
traffic on a public right-of-way.
      (4)   A vehicle that has remained on private property without the consent
of the owner, or person in control of that property, for more than 48 hours.
      (5)   A vehicle from which the engine, transmission, or differential has
been removed or that is otherwise partially dismantled or inoperable and left
on public property.
      (6)   A vehicle that has been removed by a towing service or a public
agency upon request of an officer enforcing a statute or ordinance other than
this subchapter, if the impounded vehicle is not claimed or redeemed by the
owner or the owner’s agent within 15 days of its removal.
      (7)   A vehicle that is at least six model years old, mechanically
inoperable, and is left on private property continuously in a location where
any portion of the vehicle is visible from public property for more than 30
days.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Property owned by the town, county, state, or federal
government, and any political subdivisions or agencies thereof. This shall
include and apply to all public roads, streets, and alleys.
   TOWING SERVICE. A person or entity who has been authorized by the Town
Council to move, remove, store, or impound vehicles and parts.
(Ord. 1999-06-09-01, passed 6-9-1999)
§ 90.02 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to provide for the removal and disposal
of abandoned vehicles. The town hereby in all ways adopts the powers and
procedures for the removal, storage, disposal, and impoundment of abandoned
vehicles and parts as set forth in I.C. 9-22-1 et seq., and as those provisions
may hereafter be amended.
(Ord. 1999-06-09-01, passed 6-9-1999)
§ 90.03 POWERS OF THE TOWN COUNCIL.
   The Town Council is hereby authorized to enter into towing contracts, employ
personnel, and acquire equipment, property, and facilities, subject to
appropriation, for the purpose of removal, storage, and disposition of
abandoned vehicles and parts.
(Ord. 1999-06-09-01, passed 6-9-1999)
§ 90.04 COSTS AND CHARGES.
   The following fees and charges are hereby imposed upon the owner of an
abandoned vehicle or parts, or upon a lienholder seeking to obtain possession
of the vehicle or parts, when any vehicle or parts are towed, removed, stored,
or impounded pursuant to this subchapter, and said fee shall be paid before the
owner of lienholder is entitled to reclaim the vehicle:
   (A)   A processing charge of up to $50;
   (B)   A towing charge of up to $200; and
   (C)   A storage charge of up to $25 per day or any part thereof.
(Ord. 1999-06-09-01, passed 6-9-1999; Ord. 2013-08-14-01, passed 8-14-2013)
§ 90.05 ABANDONED VEHICLE ACCOUNT.
   (A)   There is hereby created a new account to be known as the “Abandoned
Vehicle Account.”
   (B)   The cost for removing and storing an abandoned vehicle or parts not
claimed by the owner or lienholder shall be paid from the Abandoned Vehicle
Account.
   (C)   The proceeds from any sale of an abandoned vehicle or parts shall be
credited against all costs incidental to the removal, storage, and disposal of
the vehicle or parts. All proceeds from the sale of an abandoned vehicle or
parts that are sold, including charges for bills of sale, and all monies
received from an owner or lienholder for the cost of removal, storage, or the
vehicle or parts shall be deposited in the Abandoned Vehicle Account.
   (D)   The costs incurred by a public agency in administering this subchapter
shall be paid from the Abandoned Vehicle Fund.
   (E)   (1)   The Town Council shall annually appropriate sufficient money to
the Fund to carry out this subchapter.
      (2)   Money remaining in the Fund at the end of the year remains in the
Fund and does not revert to the General Fund.
(Ord. 1999-06-09-01, passed 6-9-1999)
NOISE CONTROL
§ 90.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. All terminology
used in this subchapter shall be in conformity with applicable publications of
the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) or its successor body.
   A-WEIGHTED SOUND LEVEL. The pressure level of a sound measured through an A-
weighting filter network. The level read is designated DB(A) or DBA.
   COMMERCIAL ZONE. Business district zones as established by the zoning code,
as amended.
   DECIBEL (DB). The unit used for comparing the sound pressure level of a
sound to the sound pressure level of a reference sound having a sound pressure
of 20 micropascals.
   FREQUENCY. The number of periodic oscillations, vibrations, or wavers per
unit time (usually one second).
   HERTZ (HZ). The unit used for measuring the frequency of a sound. The number
of HERTZ is a number of cycles per second of a periodic sound pressure wave.
   INDUSTRIAL ZONE. Manufacturing district zones as established by the zoning
code, as amended.
   LIGHT MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motorized vehicle with gross vehicular weight less
than 8,000 pounds, including automobiles, vans, motorcycles, motor-driven
cycles, motor scooters, dune buggies, snowmobiles, all-terrain vehicles, go
karts, minibikes, trail bikes, and light trucks.
   MODIFIED EXHAUST SYSTEM. Any exhaust system in which the original noise
abatement devices have been removed, altered, or replaced to produce more
noise.
   NOISE. Any unwanted sound.
   OCTAVE BAND. A portion of the entire sound frequency spectrum contained
between two frequencies, A and B, such that A equals two B.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
company, or organization of any kind.
   PLAINLY AUDIBLE. Any noise for which the information content is
unambiguously communicated to the listener, including understandable spoken
speech, comprehension of whether a voice is raised (agitated) or normal, or
comprehensible musical rhythms.
   RESIDENTIAL ZONES. Residential district zones as established by the zoning
code, as may be amended.
   SOUND LEVEL METER. An instrument designed to measure sound pressure levels.
   SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL.
      (1)   Twenty times the logarithm (base ten) of the ratio of the measured
sound pressure to a referenced pressure of 20 micropascals.
      (2)   The SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL is expressed in decibels (DB).
   SPL=20 log 10 Sound Pressure A*
   Sound Pressure B**
   *   Sound Pressure A is measured sound pressure; and
   **   Sound Pressure B is referenced sound pressure (20 micropascals).
(Ord. 2017-, passed - -2017)
§ 90.21 LOUD OR ANNOYING NOISES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall make or cause to be made any noise that unreasonably
annoys, disturbs, injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace,
safety, or welfare of any person or precludes their enjoyment of property or
affects their property’s value.
   (B)   This general prohibition is not limited by the specific restrictions
listed in this subchapter.
(Ord. 2017-, passed - -2017) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.22 RADIOS, AMPLIFIERS, LAWNMOWERS, AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall operate or permit the use or operation of radios, television
sets, musical instruments, tape or record players, amplifiers, mechanically
powered saws, drills, sanders, grinders, lawn or garden tools, lawnmowers,
snowblowers, or any other noise-producing devices between the hours of 10:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m. (prevailing local time) in such a manner as to be plainly
audible across property boundaries or through partitions common to two or more
persons within a building.
(Ord. 2017-, passed - -2017) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.23 HORNS AND AUDIBLE SIGNALING DEVICES.
   No person shall operate a horn or other audible signaling device on any
motor vehicle except in an emergency or when required by law.
(Ord. 2017-, passed - -2017) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.24 PARTIES AND GATHERINGS.
   No person shall participate in any party or gathering between the hours of
10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. (prevailing local time) giving rise to noise that is
plainly audible across property boundaries or between partitions common to two
or more persons within a building.
(Ord. 2017-, passed - -2017) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.25 ANIMALS.
   No person shall harbor or keep any animal which, by causing frequent or long
continued noise, shall disturb or annoy any reasonable person nearby.
(Ord. 2017-, passed - -2017) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.26 QUANTITATIVE LIMITS.
   (A)   Motor vehicles.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause the sound pressure
level of the noise emitted during the operation of a light motor vehicle to
exceed 80 DBA in speed zones of 35 mph or less within the corporate limits of
the town. The sound pressure level measurements shall be made at a distance of
not less than 15 feet from the edge of the lane of travel of the violator.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a light motor
vehicle which causes excessive noise as a result of a defective or modified
exhaust system or as a result of an unnecessary rapid acceleration, de-
acceleration, engine revving, or tire squealing.
   (B)   Stationary source.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause the sound pressure
level to exceed the limits listed below at any point on the boundary of the
property where the person is located:
         (a)   If the person is located within a residential zone: 55 DBA
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. (prevailing local time);
         (b)   If the person is located within a commercial zone: 64 DBA at all
times; and/or
         (c)   If the person is located within an industrial zone: 66 DBA at
all times.
      (2)   If the property boundary lies between two zones, the lower limit
shall apply, regardless of the zone in which the person creating the noise is
located.
      (3)   (a)   In addition to divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) above, no person
within a residential zone or a commercial zone shall make or cause to be made
any earth-shaking vibrations perceptible without the aid of instruments beyond
the property boundary of the vibration source.
         (b)   No person within an industrial zone shall make or cause to be
made any earth-shaking vibrations perceptible with the aid of instruments
beyond the zone boundary or the zone in which the vibrating source is located.
(Ord. 2017-, passed - -2017) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.27 PERMITS.
   (A)   The Town Marshal/Chief of Police shall have authority to issue permits
for:
      (1)   Holidays, celebrations, concerts, parades, or other special events
(public or personal); and
      (2)   Persons who demonstrate that bringing the source of sound or
activity for which the permit is sought into compliance with the provisions of
this section would constitute an unreasonable hardship on the applicant, the
community, or other persons and that the adverse impact upon the health,
safety, and welfare of persons affected by the permit has been outweighed by
the hardship. Permits may contain any conditions (include a time limit) that
are necessary to limit the adverse impact of the activity.
   (B)   Noncompliance with any condition of the permit shall terminate it and
subject the person holding it to the provisions of this section.
   (C)   The Town Council may issue guidelines defining the procedures to be
followed in applying for a permit and the specific criteria to be considered in
deciding whether to issue a permit.
(Ord. 2017-, passed - -2017)
§ 90.28 USE OF ENGINE OR TRANSMISSION BRAKING DEVICES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The town finds that the use of engine or transmission braking devices
or methods (aka, “jake braking” or “dynamic braking”) within the town’s limits
creates unusual and excessive noise that unreasonably disturbs and annoys
residents. The prohibition of such devices and methods is necessary to protect
the health, safety, and public welfare.
   (B)   No person may slow a vehicle by a device, method, or practice known as
engine braking or transmission braking, also referred to as “jake braking” or
“dynamic braking,” whereby rapid downshifting of the vehicle’s engine or a
compression release device is used in lieu of applying a vehicle’s wheel
brakes, causing loud noises to emit from the vehicle’s engine and exhaust
system. Such braking by any motor vehicle on any public highway, street,
parking lot, or alley within the town’s limits is declared to be a public
nuisance and is prohibited.
   (C)   This section does not apply to emergency vehicles.
(Ord. 2017-, passed - -2017) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.29 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to the emission of sound
for the purpose of alerting persons to the existence of an emergency or the
emission of sound in the performance of work to prevent or alleviate physical
or property damage threatened or caused by a public calamity or other
emergency.
(Ord. 2017-, passed - -2017)
WEED, GRASS, GARBAGE, AND TRASH CONTROL
§ 90.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. All putrescible material capable of breeding rats, mice, or
disease-carrying animals or insects.
   OCCUPANT. A person who resides in, on, or occupies real estate.
   OWNER. The person listed as the property owner in the County Auditor’s
records.
   PERSON. Includes individuals, organizations, associations, legal
representatives, agents, and governmental bodies.
   TRASH. All non-putrid waste material including tree trimmings, cans, glass,
paper, wood, and metal parts, regardless of health hazard.
   WEEDS, GRASS, AND RANK VEGETATION. Includes, but is not limited to:
      (1)   Uncultivated plants or vegetative matter exceeding nine inches in
height;
      (2)   Detrimental plants as defined in I.C. 15-16-8-1;
      (3)   Fallen trees, tree stumps over 36 inches, and dead plant material;
      (4)   Vegetation obstructing public ways or creating visual or safety
hazards; and/or
      (5)   Any plant or vegetation constituting a safety or health hazard.
(Ord. 2025-05-13-01, passed 5-13-2025)
§ 90.41 MAINTENANCE OF PREMISES.
   (A)   Vegetation control. Owners, occupants, or persons with interest in any
real estate within the town shall:
      (1)   Cut and remove all weeds, grass, and rank vegetation on their
property;
      (2)   Cut and remove such vegetation from sidewalks, gutters, and from
the street or alley up to the centerline; and
      (3)   Remove or clear mowed grass from the street within one hour after
mowing.
   (B)   Garbage and trash control.
      (1)   All persons, firms, and corporations shall keep their premises free
from garbage and trash.
      (2)   Temporary accumulation in approved containers is permitted prior to
scheduled collection.
(Ord. 2025-05-13-01, passed 5-13-2025) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.42 LITTERING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall deposit garbage or trash on public or private property,
except into containers approved by the Town or the State Board of Health.
(Ord. 2025-05-13-01, passed 5-13-2025) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.43 VIOLATIONS AND NOTICE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Upon observation of a violation, the Town Marshal shall issue a
written notice requiring abatement within five days. Notices shall be
personally delivered to both the property owner and the occupant, if
applicable. If either party resides outside the area, the notice shall be sent
via certified mail to their last known address.
   (B)   The notice shall include:
      (1)   The location of the property;
      (2)   Description of the violation; and
      (3)   Enforcement procedures.
(Ord. 2025-05-13-01, passed 5-13-2025) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.44 REMOVAL BY TOWN; COLLECTION COSTS.
   If violations are not abated within the time specified:
      (1)   The town may remove the vegetation, garbage, or trash through its
agents or contractors;
      (2)   A certified bill for removal costs, violation fines, administrative
costs, and attorney fees shall be sent to the owner and occupant;
      (3)   Payment must be made to the town within ten days;
      (4)   Unpaid costs shall be certified to the County Auditor for
collection as real estate taxes pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-2 or the State Tax
Refund Exchange and Compliance System (TRECS); and
      (5)   Collected costs will be distributed to the appropriate town funds.
(Ord. 2025-05-13-01, passed 5-13-2025)
§ 90.45 LIEN ON PROPERTY.
   All costs associated with violation abatement, including removal, fines, and
administrative costs, shall constitute a lien against the property and may be
enforced through foreclosure proceedings in a court of competent jurisdiction.
In addition, the town may certify any unpaid amounts to the State Tax Refund
Exchange and Compliance System (TRECS) for collection through the intercept of
state income tax refunds.
(Ord. 2025-05-13-01, passed 5-13-2025)
§ 90.46 APPEALS.
   (A)   Appeals must be submitted in writing to the Clerk-Treasurer of the
town within five days of a removal notice or cost certification.
   (B)   The Town Council shall hold a hearing and issue written findings.
   (C)   Further appeals must be filed in a court of competent jurisdiction
within ten days of the Town Council’s findings.
(Ord. 2025-05-13-01, passed 5-13-2025)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person found in violation of the motor vehicle noises set
forth in §§
90.20 to
90.29 shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $250.
      (2)   Any person found in violation of any other provision of §§
90.20 to
90.29 shall be fined not less than $1 for the first offense; not less than $25
for the second offense; and not less than $100 for the third or subsequent
offenses.
      (3)   Each day that a violation is in effect shall constitute a separate
offense.
      (4)   During any trial concerning the provisions of §§
90.20 to
90.29, the court may admit evidence of the sound pressure level as tested by a
sound level meter which meets or exceeds ANSI specifications for type II
equipment.
   (C)   The applicable fines for violation of §
90.43 are:
      (1)   First violation in calendar year: $50;
      (2)   Second violation in calendar year: $100; and
      (3)   Third and subsequent violations in calendar year: $250.
(Ord. 65-2, passed - -; Ord. 2017-, passed - -2017)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Owner responsibility
   
91.03   Impoundment and destruction
   
91.04   Farm animals and livestock
   
91.05   At large animals
   
91.06   Payment to County Animal Control Fund
Chicken Control
   
91.20   Definitions
   
91.21   Prohibition of chickens within town limits
   
91.22   4-H projects
   
91.23   Notice of violation
   
91.24   Collection of fines
   
91.25   Lien on property
   
91.26   Appeal rights
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any living creature, domestic or wild, including fowl, mammals, and
reptiles.
   AT LARGE. An animal shall be deemed to be AT LARGE when off the property of
the owner and not under restraint.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any tame animal associated with family life or accustomed
to life in or near the habitation of humans; however, such animal shall not be
used as or supply a food source, such as poultry.
   NUISANCE. An animal shall be considered a NUISANCE if it:
      (1)   Damages or destroys private property, which includes digging or
disturbing soil and plants. Also, an animal shall be considered a NUISANCE if
it soils, defiles, or defecates on private property other than its owner’s or
on public walks and recreation areas, unless such waste is removed immediately
and properly disposed of by the owner;
      (2)   Causes unsanitary, dangerous, or offensive conditions;
      (3)   Causes a disturbance by excessive barking or other noise-making; or
      (4)   Chases vehicles, or molests, attacks, or interferes with persons or
other domestic animals on public property.
   OWNER. A person having the right of property or custody of an animal or who
keeps or harbors an animal or knowingly permits an animal to remain on or about
any premises occupied by that person.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, partnership, organization, or
institution commonly recognized by law as a unit.
   RESTRAINT. An animal shall be considered under RESTRAINT if it is within the
real property limits of its owner or secured by a leash or lead or under the
control of a responsible person.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. An animal that constitutes a physical threat to humans or
other domestic animals.
(Ord. 1998-07-14-04, passed 7-14-1998; Ord. 2017-08-09-01, passed 8-9-2017)
§ 91.02 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   All dogs kept as pets in the town must wear a collar at all times
containing the name and phone number, if any, of the owner of such dog. Tags
showing current rabies shot, current taxes paid, and other information required
by state law may be attached to this collar.
   (B)   (1)   The dog, so apprehended, may be taken to any dog pound, private
kennel, ASPCA shelter, or similar place as the Town Council may designate for
temporary care of the dog
      (2)    It is not required that any notice be given to the owner, if
known, unless the dog is wearing identification as set forth in division (A)
above.
      (3)   Notice given to owners may be given by phone to any person
answering at the phone number given on the collar or by ordinary mail to the
owner at his or her given address.
   (C)   All animals shall be kept under restraint.
   (D)   Every vicious animal, as determined by the Town Marshal or other town
agents, shall be confined by its owner within a building or secure enclosure
and shall be securely muzzled or caged whenever off the premises of its owner.
   (E)   No animal shall be allowed to cause a nuisance. The owner of every
animal shall be held responsible for every behavior of such animal under the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 1998-07-14-04, passed 7-14-1998) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 IMPOUNDMENT AND DESTRUCTION.
   (A)   Any animal found running at large may be impounded by the Town Marshal
or other town agents and housed at the proper facility used by the town.
   (B)   Any vicious animal found running at large that, in the judgment of a
law enforcement officer, presents a danger to himself or herself, or third
parties, at any time may exercise discretion in deciding whether to destroy a
vicious animal immediately.
   (C)   Any person wishing to claim an animal shall be required to pay the
town the sum of $15 per day housing fees for animals, plus any other expenses
incurred by the town, plus property damage to owners, which owners can pursue
in civil suits or which can be ordered as part of restitution as penalty for
violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 1998-07-14-04, passed 7-14-1998)
§ 91.04 FARM ANIMALS AND LIVESTOCK.
   The following are specifically forbidden to be kept within the town: cattle,
cows, horses, ponies, mules or donkeys, sheep, llamas, swine, goats, rabbits,
chickens, ducks, geese or other fowl, or other farm animals or livestock.
(Ord. 2017-08-09-01, passed 8-9-2017) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 AT LARGE ANIMALS.
   (A)   For purposes of this section only, an animal shall be deemed to be AT
LARGE when:
      (1)   Off the property of the owner and not under restraint; or
      (2)   A stray.
   (B)   There is hereby established a prohibition on the feeding of at large
animals within the corporate limits of the town.
      (1)   No person shall purposely or knowingly provide food, feed, bait, or
in any manner provide access to food to any at large animal, on lands either
publicly or privately owned; and
      (2)   No person shall purposely or knowingly leave or store any refuse,
garbage, food product, pet food, forage product, or supplement in a manner that
would constitute an attractant to any at large animal.
   (C)   This section shall be enforced by the Town Marshal.
   (D)   Any person found to be in violation of the provisions of this section
shall be ordered to cease the feeding of at large animals immediately, and
shall be subject to a fine in accordance with §
91.99.
   (E)   Failure to remove or remedy a violation of this section within 24
hours after notice from the Town Marshal shall constitute a separate violation
of this section.
(Ord. 2014-12-10-01, passed 12-10-2014) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 PAYMENT TO COUNTY ANIMAL CONTROL FUND.
   The town will pay $500 annually to the County Animal Control Office for
their services.
(Ord. 1995-12-28-01, passed 12-28-1995)
CHICKEN CONTROL
§ 91.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHICKEN. A domestic fowl.
   OCCUPANT. The person who resides in, on, or occupies real estate.
   OWNER. The person listed as owner of real estate as shown on the records of
the County Auditor.
   PERSON. An individual, an incorporated or unincorporated organization or
association, a trustee or legal representative, an agent, the state, an agency
of the state, or a political subdivision.
(Ord. 2020-12-29-1, passed 12-29-2020)
§ 91.21 PROHIBITION OF CHICKENS WITHIN TOWN LIMITS.
   (A)   Any person, occupant, and/or owner of real estate within the corporate
limits of the town shall not be allowed to have any chickens on real estate
within town limits.
   (B)   The only exception is defined in §
91.22.
(Ord. 2020-12-29-1, passed 12-29-2020) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.22 4-H PROJECTS.
   A poultry or chicken 4-H project is allowed within town limits, but only if
complying with the following restrictions.
   (A)   The 4-H member is living at the residence where the chickens are
present.
   (B)   All chickens must be caged or fenced and not be allowed to roam beyond
property lines of the residence.
   (C)   The residence must not have more chickens than the 4-H project
requires, and in any case, shall not be more than five chickens.
(Ord. 2020-12-29-1, passed 12-29-2020) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.23 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   When it shall come to the attention of the Town Marshal that chickens
are on real estate within the corporate limits of the town, in violation of
this subchapter, the Town Marshal shall issue a five-day written notice to
remove chickens from the real estate and the notice shall be served upon the
landowner and occupant by personal service or by certified mail, return receipt
requested, at the last known addresses of the landowner and occupant.
   (B)   In the event the Town Marshal does not have the occupant’s name, the
Town Marshal shall request the occupant’s name from the landowner and the
landowner shall provide the occupant’s name to the Town Marshal within two days
of the request.
   (C)   The notice shall list the location of the real estate concerned,
removal of chickens from the real estate within five days of the date of the
notice and briefly describe the enforcement and collection procedures. The
notice shall also notify the owner and occupant that a fine shall be assessed,
as seen in §
91.99, for each parcel of real estate in violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2020-12-29-1, passed 12-29-2020)
§ 91.24 COLLECTION OF FINES.
   (A)   If the owner or occupant fails to pay the fines within the time
prescribed, a certified copy of the statement of costs shall be filed with the
Auditor’s Office of the county, and the Auditor shall place the amount so
claimed in the tax duplicate of the lands affected by the violation of this
subchapter, and the same shall be collected as taxes are collected, and when so
collected, shall be disbursed to the General Fund of the town. The fine and
costs due and owing to the town shall bear interest at the rate of 8% per annum
from the date of the certification, if not paid within ten days, until paid in
full, for the fines and costs.
   (B)   At the town’s option, the town may collect the costs, including the
town’s reasonable attorney fees and costs of collection, from the occupant.
   (C)   The amounts collected under §
91.99 for the costs certifying violation of this subchapter and fines shall be
disbursed to the General Fund.
(Ord. 2020-12-29-1, passed 12-29-2020)
§ 91.25 LIEN ON PROPERTY.
   The fines and cost of collection shall be a lien upon the real estate
affected and shall also be enforceable and collected by foreclosure proceedings
in the civil courts of the state the same as other liens are enforced and
collected.
(Ord. 2020-12-29-1, passed 12-29-2020)
§ 91.26 APPEAL RIGHTS.
   An appeal of the certification of costs issued pursuant to this subchapter
must be made in writing within five days of the date of certification of costs
and must be submitted to the Clerk-Treasurer which shall set the matter for
hearing before the Town Council. Following the hearing, the Town Council shall
issue its written findings. All appeals from the written findings of the Town
Council shall be made to courts of competent jurisdiction within ten days of
the date of the findings.
(Ord. 2020-12-29-1, passed 12-29-2020)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Owners of animals picked up as strays or whose animals have been
deemed “nuisance” under §
91.01 shall be fined at the rate of $50 for the first offense and $200 for each
subsequent offense.
      (2)   Any identified owner who does not redeem his or her animal shall
also pay the cost of the disposal of the animal in the actual amount charged
for the disposal of said animal.
      (3)   Any person violating any section of §§
91.01 to
91.03 shall be fined at the rate of $50 for the first offense and $200 for each
subsequent offense.
   (C)   Any person found to be in violation of the provisions §
91.04 shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $25 per violation.
   (D)   (1)   A fine shall be assessed as follows for each parcel of real
estate in violation of §§
91.20 to
91.26:
         (a)   First failure by owner or the occupant to remove the chickens
from the real estate within the five-day period during a calendar year: $25
fine;
         (b)   Second failure by owner or the occupant to remove the chickens
from the real estate within the five-day period during a calendar year: $100
fine; and
         (c)   Third failure by owner or the occupant to remove the chickens
from the real estate within the five-day period during a calendar year: $250
fine. Thereafter, each five-day period violation shall constitute a new
violation with a $250 fine.
      (2)   Fines are due and payable to the town within 15 days of assessment.
(Ord. 1998-07-14-04, passed 7-14-1998; Ord. 2000-12-27-02, passed 12-27-2000;
Ord. 2013-10-09-02, passed 10-9-2013; Ord. 2014-12-10-01, passed 12-10-2014;
Ord. 2020-12-29-1, passed 12-29-2020)
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
   
92.01   Burning of leaves or trash
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 BURNING OF LEAVES OR TRASH.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      STREETS. Any and all public thoroughfares within the town, regardless of
the nature of the composition used as a surfacing thereon.
      TRASH. Any and all waste or scrap material of a combustible nature,
whether the same be of a natural or synthetic composition.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, partnership, or corporation to
burn, or caused to be burned, leaves or trash within the corporate limits of
the town between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m., being that period of
time which includes the hours of darkness.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, corporation, or partnership to
burn, or caused to be burned, any leaves or trash on any of the streets within
the corporation limits of the town, regardless of the hour of day or night.
(Ord. 65-2, passed 9-1-1965) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person found to be in violation of this [missing text]
      (2)   In the event any person deemed to be guilty of any violation of the
terms of §
92.01 shall fail to pay the fine as provided herein, then an affidavit may be
filed in any Justice of the Peace Court by the arresting party, and the same
shall be tried in said court in the same manner as are other law violations.
(Ord. 65-2, passed 9-1-1965)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL BUSINESS REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Nude performance
Peddlers, Solicitors, and Transient Merchants
   
110.15   Registration required
   
110.16   Conditions of certificate
   
110.17   Revocation of certificate
   
110.18   Use of public property/roadway
   
110.19   Outdoor food vendor
   
110.20   Exceptions
   
110.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 NUDE PERFORMANCE.
   (A)   The Council hereby ordains that is a violation of this section to
allow or be involved in a nude performance in a business.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      NUDE or NUDITY.
         (a)   The showing of the human male or female genitals, pubic area, or
buttocks with less than a full opaque covering;
         (b)   The showing of the female breast with less than a fully opaque
covering of any part of the nipple; or
         (c)   The depiction of covered male genitals in a discernibly turgid
state.
      NUDE PERFORMANCE. Any performance involving nudity or nude people.
      PERFORMANCE. Any play, motion picture, dance, or other exhibition or
presentations, whether pictured, animated, or live, performed before an
audience of one or more persons.
(Ord. 2003-8-13-2, passed 8-13-2003) Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Pub. Law No. 311-1983, § 33, being I.C. 35-49-3-2
PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
§ 110.15 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person or entity shall sell or take orders for any goods, wares,
merchandise, or services within the town without first applying for and being
issued a registration certificate.
   (B)   An application for a registration certificate shall execute an
application form at the office of the Clerk-Treasurer prior to engaging in any
soliciting within the town, which form shall require:
      (1)   Applicant’s name, home address, and local address, if any;
      (2)   A copy of applicant’s photo identification;
      (3)   The name and address of the principal office of the company or
organization for whom the applicant is authorized to conduct such activity
solely on applicant’s own behalf; and
      (4)   A brief description of the type of goods or services to be sold and
a statement whether the delivery of such goods or services is to be immediate
or in the future.
   (C)   Such application shall be a continuing application and if, after the
issuance of the registration certificate, the information in the application
shall become inaccurate for any reason, and the holder of the registration
certificate intends to continue his or her activities, then notice of such
change and the correct information shall be furnished to the office of the
Clerk-Treasurer within 24 hours.
   (D)   The registration certificate shall be in effect for a period of three
months from the date of issuance and shall expire on the date specified in the
certificate. Upon expiration of the certificate, the vendor shall either
reapply for a registration certificate with the Clerk-Treasurer or cease his or
her activity immediately.
(Ord. 2017-08-09-02, passed 8-9-2017) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.16 CONDITIONS OF CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   The holder of the certificate shall openly display upon his or her
person, while engaging in door-to-door sales activity, the registration
certificate issued by the Clerk- Treasurer and shall exhibit the same at any
time upon request by any police officer or by an individual.
   (B)   The holder shall not enter into or upon any house, building, or other
structure or upon any land or other property, without the prior consent of the
owner thereof.
   (C)   The holder of a certificate shall be restricted to conducting door-to-
door activities between the daytime hours of 9:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. during any
weekday and Saturday, and from noon until 7:00 p.m. on Sunday.
   (D)   The holder is prohibited from door- to-door activities at a residence
or neighborhood if a sign has been posted by the property owner or landowners
association at either the front door of the residence or other conspicuous
place that reads “no soliciting.”
   (E)   The holder of a certificate shall make no false statement or
misrepresentation of fact in the course of carrying on the activity for which
the certificate is granted, and shall conduct himself or herself at all times
in an orderly and lawful manner.
   (F)   The holder of a certificate who takes orders for the future delivery
of any time of good or service shall give written receipt to the purchaser,
which shall be signed by the holder and set forth a brief description of the
goods or services ordered; the name, address, telephone number, fax number, and
email address of the entity with whom the purchaser may communicate regarding
the status of any such order; and the total purchase price and the amount of
payment, if any, received by the holder form the purchaser.
(Ord. 2017-08-09-02, passed 8-9-2017) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.17 REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATE.
   Any certificate issued may be revoked by the Clerk-Treasurer after notice of
hearing for any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statements contained in the
application, or for failure to observe the conditions of the certificate set
forth in §
110.16. Notice of the hearing for revocation of a certificate shall be in
writing, stating the reason for the hearing, along with the time and place
thereof. Notice shall be given to the holder at least three days, if by
personal service, and at least five days if by mail, addressed to holder’s last
known local address, or, if none, then to his or her home address, prior to the
date of such hearing.
(Ord. 2017-08-09-02, passed 8-9-2017)
§ 110.18 USE OF PUBLIC PROPERTY/ROADWAY.
   It shall be unlawful for a pedestrian to sit, stand, or move within or upon
a roadway, or a median between two roadways, for the purpose of or while
engaging in soliciting, peddling, selling, advertising, donating, or
distributing any product, property, or service, including, but not limited to,
tickets, handbills, newspapers, or other printed material, to or from an
occupant of a vehicle in the roadway; or, conversation or discourse with an
occupant of a vehicle in the roadway unless noted in §
110.20.
(Ord. 2017-08-09-02, passed 8-9-2017) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.19 OUTDOOR FOOD VENDOR.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation desiring to engage in the business of
soliciting or consulting an itinerant merchant who desires to sell food
products, non-prepackaged food products, ice, or other foodstuffs other than
items exempted in §
110.20 must obtain a registration certificate.
   (B)   All persons engaged in the conduct of selling or soliciting food items
must:
      (1)   Comply with the State and County Board of Health Standards and
Regulations;
      (2)   Obtain all required State and County Board of Health certificates,
which certificates must be displayed in plain view. Additionally, a copy of
such certificates shall be filed with the Clerk-Treasurer’s office upon
requesting a registration certificate;
      (3)   Maintain a minimum of 100 feet distance from any other licensed
vendor and from any other existing dining establishment; and
      (4)   Comply with the use of public property/roadways as set out in §
110.18.
   (C)   All persons engaged in the conduct of selling or soliciting food items
are prohibited from operating in a town park or on town property unless
otherwise approved by the Town Council.
(Ord. 2017-08-09-02, passed 8-9-2017) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.20 EXCEPTIONS.
   The following are exempt from the provisions of this subchapter:
   (A)   Persons engaged in the sale of newspapers;
   (B)   Persons who sell farm or dairy products or other foodstuffs of their
own raising or produced by them or by members of their immediate family;
   (C)   Persons who have established permanent places of business within the
town limits and bona fide salespersons selling at wholesale to such resident
merchants;
   (D)   Sales of nonprofit service or civic organizations having an office,
chapter, or lodge and scout troops within the limits of the county;
   (E)   Members of public safety departments while engaged in a fundraising
activity; and/or
   (F)   Persons engaged in sales during the Poseyville Autumnfest who have
registered with and paid a fee to the sponsorship committee of the Poseyville
Autumnfest, presently the Poseyville Kiwanis Chapter.
(Ord. 2017-08-09-02, passed 8-9-2017)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any violator of §
110.01 shall be subject to the identical fines and penalties as comparable or
similar violations of the State Criminal Code for obscenity and pornography.
The County Prosecutor and County Superior Court, or any of their successors,
may assume jurisdiction for cases in violation of §
110.01. Any law enforcement officer in the state shall be allowed to enforce §
110.01.
   (C)   (1)   Any person who violates any part of the provisions of §§
110.15 to
110.20 shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $50 and no more than $500
for each offense.
      (2)   Any person discovered by law enforcement to be selling, taking
orders for goods, wares, merchandise, or services without proper registration
shall be issued a citation of violation, which shall further contain a
prohibition against any further solicitation, sale, order-taking, or any other
action contemplated by §§
110.15 to
110.20 until such time as he or she is in compliance with all provisions of §§
110.15 to
110.20.
      (3)   If a person having received a registration certificate pursuant to
the provisions of §§
110.15 to
110.20 by a member of law enforcement, he or she shall immediately be issued a
citation establishing the date and time that he or she is to appear before the
Clerk-Treasurer of the town to answer as to the alleged violation, and his or
her registration certificate shall be immediately confiscated, suspended, and
held until such time as a ruling is made to the Clerk-Treasurer.
      (4)   All fines issued pursuant to §§
110.15 to
110.20 shall be collected by the Clerk-Treasurer with the assistance of the
Town Attorney, if needed.
(Ord. 2003-8-13-2, passed 8-13-2003; Ord. 2017-08-09-02, passed 8-9-2017)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Curfew hours
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 CURFEW HOURS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 16 years of
age to linger, loiter, or congregate upon the streets, parks, or public places
within the corporate limits of the town after the hours of 11:00 p.m. and
before the hour of 5:00 a.m. local time any day of the week unless such person
shall be accompanied by a parent, guardian, or relative within the class of
brother, sister, aunt, or uncle and said relative being 21 years of age or
older, unless exempted under division (D) of this section.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person 16 and 17 years of age to
linger, loiter, or congregate upon the streets, alleys, parks, or public places
within the corporate limits of the town after the hour of 11:00 p.m. and before
the hour of 5:00 a.m. local time on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, and
Thursday or between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. local time on Saturday
or Sunday unless such persons shall be accompanied by a parent or guardian or
relative within the class of brother, sister, aunt, or uncle and said relative
being 21 years of age or older, unless exempted under division (D) of this
section.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any parent, guardian, or other person having
the care and custody of any person under the age of 18 years to permit or allow
such person under the age of 18 to violate division (A) above, unless exempted
under division (D) of this section.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18 years to be
outside the confines of a private dwelling house and in any public street,
alley, park, or place within the town after the hours specified in division (A)
above unless said person be in attendance at some adult-sponsored meeting or
church, school, or other social gathering, or traveling to or from such social
gathering, unless said person shall be accompanied by a parent, guardian, or
other relative within the class of brother, sister, aunt, or uncle and said
relative being 21 years of age or older, unless exempted under division (D) of
this section.
   (D)   It is an exemption to a violation under this section that the person
engaged in the prohibited conduct while:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the minor’s presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with state law.
(Ord. 2000-07-12-01, passed 7-12-2000) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   (a)   Any person found to be violating the provisions of §
130.01 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined in
the amount of $25 for the first violation, said fine to be payable to the town
at the office of the Clerk-Treasurer within the time specified in the notice of
arrest.
         (b)   The fine for the second violation and each violation thereafter
shall double, up to a limit of $400. Example:
            1.   First violation: fine of $25;
            2.   Second violation: $50;
            3.   Third violation: $100;
            4.   Fourth violation: $200; and
            5.   Fifth violation: $400.
         (b)   If no second or additional violations occur within a two-year
period, a violator will be fined as a first time violator.
      (2)   In the event any person shall violate any provisions of §
130.01 and be judged guilty thereof, the fines as provided in division (B)(1)
above shall be imposed both upon the minor and upon the parent, guardian, or
other person having the care and custody of said minor.
      (3)   In the event any person shall be found guilty of any violation
under the terms of §
130.01 and shall fail to pay the fine provided in division (B)(1) above, an
affidavit may be filed in the appropriate court by the arresting party, and the
same shall be tried in said court in the same manner as are other violations.
(Ord. 2000-07-12-01, passed 7-12-2000)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND PUBLIC WAYS
      
151.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
152.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
153.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND PUBLIC WAYS
Section
   
150.01   Planting on right-of-way
   
150.02   Right-of-way occupation by foreign public utilities
§ 150.01 PLANTING ON RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   No person shall install a planting or plantings within a town right-
of-way without approval first had from the Town Council.
   (B)   Failure to obtain approval from the Town Council shall be responsible
and liable for any damages caused by their actions, and shall be responsible
for the cost of correcting any changes to any right-of-way caused by such
plantings to the satisfaction of the Town Council.
   (C)   This section shall be enforced by the Town Street Superintendent.
(Ord. 2016-09-14-02, passed 9-14-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.02 RIGHT-OF-WAY OCCUPATION BY FOREIGN PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   (A)   A foreign utility will comply and provide the town with the following
procedures for maintenance and installation of the foreign public utility’s
facilities.
   (B)   A foreign utility will comply with any existing or future lawful
ordinance passed by the town regarding a reasonable permitting process.
   (C)   Prior to placing its facilities in the public right-of-way, a foreign
public utility shall provide the town with the following:
      (1)   Certificate of insurance;
      (2)   Name of foreign utility owner and contact information, billing
address, name, and address of all subcontractors; and
      (3)   The type of utility facility the foreign utility plans to install,
and statement of whether overhead or underground installation.
   (D)   A foreign public utility wishing to install fiber within the town must
install the fiber in the town public right-of-way where commercially reasonable
unless crossing a street or unless the foreign public utility has obtained an
easement or consent to install the fiber on privately owned property. The
town’s PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY is defined as the edge of the street pavement to the
edge of the sidewalk.
   (E)   If crossing a street becomes necessary, the PMU supervisor shall be
present and monitor the crossing. The foreign public utility shall reimburse
the town for the costs of time spent by the PMU supervisor.
   (F)   A foreign public utility shall comply with 811 law and all other laws.
The town does not locate utilities on private property.
   (G)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CONFLICT. Defined as a foreign public utility’s facilities crossing a PMU
utility line.
      POTHOLE. Defined as small hole verifying by sight the location of PMU
utility line in the instance of a conflict. All potholes in the street shall be
filled with diggable, flowable fill to fill the pothole, and then topped with
at least two inches of concrete, and then at least two inches of asphalt in the
street.
   (H)   The town shall be reimbursed for actual time expended by town
personnel to perform ticket locates requested by the foreign public utility at
an hourly rate of $30, as this is the actual cost of wages and benefits
(together, the “wage”) of the PMU employees involved with locations on the date
this section is enacted, which may be adjusted from time to time to reflect the
hourly wage in effect at the time the ticket locate is requested.
   (I)   The town shall be allowed at least 30 days to invoice for locates.
   (J)   Pull boxes or service boxes size shall not be increased from the
original plans submitted to the town without town permission, which shall not
be unreasonably delayed or denied, because of the possibility of blocking town
right-of-way.
   (K)   A foreign public utility shall install its facilities below PMU
utility lines whenever reasonably and commercially feasible.
   (L)   When services are installed, the covers (flowerpots) shall be mounted
flush with the grade of the ground.
   (M)   A foreign public utility shall not set poles within the town right-of-
ways.
   (N)   A foreign public utility shall repair and replace damages to
sidewalks, grass, and landscaping after completion of installation to as near
as practicable the condition preceding construction, but shall not be obligated
to water said areas.
   (O)   A foreign public utility shall reimburse the town for any liability
insurance premium increases for the town that are incurred as a direct result
of the presence of the foreign public utility’s facilities within the town’s
public rights-of-way.
   (P)   A foreign public utility shall notify the town if it sells its
facilities located within the town’s public rights-of-way.
(Ord. 2023-05-16-02, passed 5-16-2023) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
151.01   Unsafe building regulations
§ 151.01 UNSAFE BUILDING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-9-3, the Council adopts I.C. 36-7-9 pursuant to
this section.
   (B)   The Town Council, or its designated agent, shall be responsible for
the administration of this section.
   (C)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-9-3, this section incorporates by reference the
definition of SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST as defined at I.C. 36-7-9-2.
(Ord. 2006-07-12-01, passed 7-12-2006)
CHAPTER 152: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
   
152.01   Subdivision control regulations adopted by reference
§ 152.01 SUBDIVISION CONTROL REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The “Subdivision Control Ordinance,” adopted through Town Ordinance 11-5-86-
1, is replaced by the “Subdivision Control Ordinance of the City of Mount
Vernon, the Town of Cynthiana, the Town of Poseyville, and Unincorporated Posey
County,” attached to the ordinance from which this section is derived.
(Ord. 2013-05-08-02, passed - -2013)
CHAPTER 153: ZONING
Section
   
153.01   Zoning regulations adopted by reference
§ 153.01 ZONING REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The “Zoning Ordinance of the City of Mount Vernon, the Town of Cynthiana,
the Town of Poseyville, and Unincorporated Posey County,” as amended from time
to time, is hereby incorporated by reference herein as if written out in full.
(Ord. 2012-08-15-02, passed 8-15-2012; Ord. 2014-08-13-01, passed 8-13-2014;
Ord. 2014-10-08-03, passed 10-8-2014; Ord. 15-12-9-01, passed 12-9-2015; Ord.
2019-05-001, passed - -2019; Ord. 2019-12-11-01, passed 12-11- 2019; Ord. 14-
10-8-03, passed 2-14-2023)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   REZONING
      
II.   ANNEXATIONS
      
III.   VACATIONS
      
IV.   FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
      
V.   FUNDS
TABLE I: REZONING
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.       Date Passed Description
1996-06-12-01  6-12-1996   Rezoning 114 South Cale Street from R-2 to B-3.
2003-9-10-1    9-10-2003   Rezoning 228 Cale Street from R-1 to R-3.
2004-07-14-01  7-14-2004   Rezoning 136 North Francis Street from M-2 to B-3.
2018-06-13-002 6-13-2018   Rezoning 228 South Cale Street from R-3 to B-3.
2024-07-09-01  7-9-2024    Rezoning 6751 Frontage Road from M-1 to M-2.
2025-01-14-01  1-14-2025   Rezoning 228 South Cale Street from R-3 to B-3.
 
TABLE II: ANNEXATIONS
 
 
Ord. No.      Date Passed Description
1995-1-4-1    1-4-1995    Annexing approximately one acre in Southwest Quarter
                          of Section 18, Township 4 South, Range 12 West.
                          Approving disannexation of Bender Original Tract,
2024-09-17-01 9-17-2024   being a part of Section 20, Township 4 South, Range
                          12 West.
 
TABLE III: VACATIONS
 
 
Ord. No.     Date Passed Description
1999-10-5-01 10-5-1999   Vacating a portion of an unnamed platted street lying
                         north of Lot 6 in the Northern Acres subdivision.
 
TABLE IV: FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
 
 
Ord. No.      Date Passed Description
1996-08-14-02 8-14-1996   Granting a cable franchise to Gibson Cable
                          Television, Inc.
 
TABLE V: FUNDS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.      Date Passed Description
1998-03-11-01 3-11-1998   Establishing a Water Construction Fund.
1999-03-10-02 3-10-1999   Establishing an Economic Development Fund.
2005-02-09-01 2-9-2005    Establishing a special non-reverting capital fund for
                          community center purposes.
2007-02-14-02 2-14-2007   Establishing the County Option Income Tax Fund
                          (COIT).
2007-04-11-01 4-11-2007   Establishing a Cemetery Permanent Maintenance Fund.
                          Amending Ord. 2005-02-09-01, establishing a special
2007-09-12-02 9-12-2007   non- reverting capital fund for community center
                          purposes.
2018-08-08-   8-8-2018    Amending Ord. 2009-03-11-01, establishing a Rainy Day
                          Fund.
2018-08-08-02 8-8-2018    Establishing a Local Road and Bridge Matching Fund
                          Account.
2018-08-08-03 8-8-2018    Establishing a Rainy Day Fund.
2021-08-10-1  8-10-2021   Establishing Police Department Donation Fund.
2021-09-14-01 9-14-2021   Amending Ord. 2021-05-11-01, establishing the ARP
                          Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Fund.
2024-10-22-02 10-22-2024  Establishing a capital project fund, No. 4450
                          Community Growth and Innovation Fund.
                         
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Cite Code Section
1-1-1-5   10.04
I.C. Cite               Code Section
1-1-1-5                 10.04
1-1-1-7                 10.12
1-1-1-8                 10.06
1-1-4-5                 10.05
1-1-5-1                 10.11
1-1-6-1                 10.08
5-11-10                 33.20
5-13                    33.02
5-22-22                 33.04
6-3.5-6-1 et seq.       33.05
6-3.5-6-31              33.05
8-10-5-1 et seq.        31.02
9-13-2                  90.01
9-22-1 et seq.          90.02
9-25-4-5                71.09
14-8-2-185              71.01
14-16-1                 71.10
14-16-1-18              71.04
14-16-1-20(a)(2)        71.01
14-16-1-20(c)           71.02
14-16-1-21              71.05
14-16-1-23              71.06
14-16-1-23(a)(6)        71.14
14-16-1-23(a)(7)        71.11
14-16-1-24              71.08
14-16-1-33              71.03
15-16-8-1               90.40
35-49-3-2               110.01
36-1-3-8(a)(10)         10.99
36-1-6-2                90.44
36-4-8                  33.20
36-5-2-2                10.15
36-5-4-12               33.06
36-7-9                  151.01
36-7-9-2                151.01
36-7-9-3                151.01
36-7-12-1 to 36-7-12-39 31.15;
                        31.16
36-7-12-6               31.15
36-10                   33.02
                        
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.       Date Passed Description
65-2           - -         90.99
83-3           - -         32.02
2016-10-12-03  - -         33.05
65-2           9-1-1965    92.01;
                           92.99
1993-09-01-01  9-10-1993   50.01;
                           50.02
1995-1-4-1     1-4-1995    TSO Table II
1995-04-05-02  4-5-1995    52.01
1995-7-5-1     7-5-1995    31.15
1995-12-28-01  12-28-1995  91.06
1996-03-13-01  3-13-1996   32.03
1996-05-08-01  5-8-1996    32.02
1996-06-12-01  6-12-1996   TSO Table I
1996-07-10-02  7-10-1996   50.01
1996-08-14-02  8-14-1996   TSO Table IV
1997-6-11-1    6-11-1997   31.16
1997-6-11-2    6-11-1997   31.15
1998-03-11-01  3-11-1998   TSO Table V
1998-4-8-1     4-8-1998    30.01
1998-07-14-03  7-14-1998   33.21
                           91.01 
1998-07-14-04  7-14-1998   91.03;
                           91.99
1998-7-14-05   7-14-1998   Ch. 72, Sched. IV
1998-12-8-01   12-8-1998   Ch. 72, Sched. V
1999-03-10-02  3-10-1999   TSO Table V
1999-06-09-01  6-9-1999    90.01 
                           90.05
1999-10-5-01   10-5-1999   TSO Table III
2000-02-09-01  2-9-2000    50.02
2000-07-12-01  7-12-2000   130.01;
                           130.99
2000-12-27-02  12-27-2000  91.99
2001-02-14-01  2-14-2001   50.01
2001-03-14-01  3-14-2001   51.02
2001-04-11-01  4-11-2001   33.02
2001-11-14-03  11-14-2001  Ch. 72, Sched. II
2003-8-13-2    8-13-2003   110.01;
                           110.99
2003-9-10-1    9-10-2003   TSO Table I
2004-04-14-01  4-14-2004   Ch. 72, Sched. I
2004-07-14-01  7-14-2004   TSO Table I
2005-02-09-01  2-9-2005    TSO Table V
2005-03-09-01  3-9-2005    33.01
2005-03-09-02  3-9-2005    32.01
2005-07-13-01  7-13-2005   51.01
2006-07-12-01  7-12-2006   151.01
                           71.60 
2006-11-15-01  11-15-2006  71.62;
                           71.99
2007-02-14-02  2-14-2007   TSO Table V
2007-04-11-01  4-11-2007   TSO Table V
2007-09-12-02  9-12-2007   TSO Table V
2008-02-13-01  2-13-2008   50.03;
                           50.99
2008091001     9-10-2008   TSO Table I
2012-08-15-02  8-15-2012   153.01
2013-05-08-02  - -2013     152.01
2013-06-12-02  - -2013     31.02
2013-02-13-01  2-13-2013   70.01;
                           70.99
2013-08-14-01  8-14-2013   90.04
2013-10-09-02  10-9-2013   91.99
2014-08-13-01  8-13-2014   153.01
2014-10-08-03  10-8-2014   153.01
2014-12-10-01  12-10-2014  91.05;
                           91.99
2015-10-14-02  10-14-2015  53.02
15-12-9-01     12-9-2015   153.01
2016-01-13-01  1-13-2016   31.01
2016-05-11-01  5-11-2016   33.03
2016-05-11-02  5-11-2016   33.20
2016-07-13-02  7-13-2016   31.03
                           71.30 
2016-07-13-03  7-13-2016   71.45;
                           71.99
2016-09-14-02  9-14-2016   150.01
                           51.15 
2016-09-14-03  9-14-2016   51.27;
                           51.99
2016-10-12-02  10-12-2016  51.28
2016-12-14-01  12-14-2016  53.03
2016-12-14-02  12-14-2016  51.04
2016-12-14-03  12-14-2016  52.03
                           90.20 
2017-          - -2017     90.29;
                           90.99
2017-02-08-01  2-8-2017    Ch. 72, Sched. III
2017-08-09-01  8-9-2017    91.01;
                           91.04
                           110.15 
2017-08-09-02  8-9-2017    110.20;
                           110.99
2017-11-8-01   11-8-2017   Ch. 72, Sched. II
2018-06-13-002 6-13-2018   TSO Table I
2018-08-08-    8-8-2018    TSO Table V
2018-08-08-02  8-8-2018    TSO Table V
2018-08-08-03  8-8-2018    TSO Table V
2019-05-001    - -2019     153.01
                           71.01 
2019-09-11-01  9-11-2019   71.16;
                           71.99
2019-12-11-01  12-11-2019  153.01
2020-10-13-01  10-13-2020  52.01
2020-10-13-03  10-13-2020  52.02
2020-11-10-01  11-10-2020  52.04
                           91.20 
2020-12-29-1   12-29-2020  91.26;
                           91.99
2021-08-10-1   8-10-2021   TSO Table V
2021-08-10-02  8-10-2021   50.02
2021-09-14-01  9-14-2021   TSO Table V
2022-06-28-01  6-28-2022   51.03
2022-06-28-02  6-28-2022   53.01
14-10-8-03     2-14-2023   153.01
2023-01-31-01  1-31-2023   51.03
2023-05-16-02  5-16-2023   150.02
2024-07-09-01  7-9-2024    TSO Table I
2024-09-17-01  9-17-2024   TSO Table II
2024-10-22-02  10-22-2024  TSO Table V
2024-12-10-01  12-10-2024  33.06
2025-01-14-01  1-14-2025   TSO Table I
2025-02-11-01  2-11-2025   50.03;
                           50.99
2025-04-08-01  4-8-2025    33.04
                           90.40 
2025-05-13-01  5-13-2025   90.46;
                           90.99
                          
 
