COUNTY OF PULASKI, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Current through Ord. 2021-06, passed 5-3-2021
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING CORPORATION
525 Vine Street  *  Suite 310  *  Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588  www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application for future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights, and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the county, as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known, and designated, as the
“Pulaski County Code”, for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified
ordinances”, or “code” may be substituted.
   (B)   Code title, chapter, and section headings do not constitute any part
of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02  INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03  APPLICATION FOR FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code, unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04  CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously-existing laws, amendments
thereto, and newly-enacted laws. Any previously-existing law, or amendment
thereto, reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if
it had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed, or amended, subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or subsection.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously-existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters, or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this, or any subsequent, codification in any official
publication to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only, and do not affect the meaning,
application, or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only, and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05  RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent,
or context, of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary, and
usual sense. Technical words and phrases, having a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law, shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a
different meaning.
      BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS. The Board of Commissioners of the county.
      COUNTY CLERK. The Clerk of the County Council.
      COUNCIL. The County Council.
      COUNTY. The County of Pulaski, Indiana.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads, and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to, and includes, person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver, and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as
applied to any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following, or next preceding,
that in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      STATE. The State of Indiana.
      TOWNSHIP. The township, or townships, in which the county is located.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Includes printing, lithographing, or other modes
of representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06  SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended, or
its application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity
does not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid
section or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
non-severability provision, each division, or part, of every section is
severable. If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the
invalidity does not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with, and
so dependent upon, the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before, or after, the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section or amendment stating that the provisions of a
chapter, subchapter, or section are severable, as provided in division (B)
above, does not affect the operation of division (B) above with respect to that
chapter, subchapter, or section.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07  REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08  REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer, or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties, or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the County
Council refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer,
agency, authority, or instrumentality of any government, and that name
designation is incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or
following the effective date, the rights, powers, duties, or liabilities placed
with that entity are, or were, transferred to a different entity; then the
named board, bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency,
authority, or instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its
effective date or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to
which the duties, liabilities, powers, and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word, or words, necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected; the use of a word, or words, to which no meaning
can be attached; or the use of a word, or words, when another word, or words,
was clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected,
and the word, or words, supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with
the manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though
the correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No
alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the
nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.10  REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday, or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11  REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   (A)   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former
section or law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section
or law is not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any
section shall not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture, or liability
incurred under the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides.
   (B)   The section shall be treated as still remaining in force for the
purposes of sustaining any proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of
the penalty, forfeiture, or liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12  LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings, and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature, and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code, shall remain in full force
and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14  ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section.  In addition to an
indication thereof, as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15  SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
         § 39.01  PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
or copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
§ 10.16  PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS, AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings, and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-
way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment, or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   EMPLOYEES AND OFFICIALS
      
31.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   PUBLIC SAFETY AND LAW ENFORCEMENT
      
33.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
      
34.   FINANCES AND REVENUE; TAXATION
      
35.   GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
CHAPTER 30:  EMPLOYEES AND OFFICIALS
Section
Employee Standards
   
30.01   County Treasurer; property taxes
   
30.02   Retention of issued duty weapons; Sheriff’s Department
General Employee Policies
   
30.15   Adoption of internal control standards
   
30.16   Retirement fund; public employees
EMPLOYEE STANDARDS
§ 30.01  COUNTY TREASURER; PROPERTY TAXES.
   Pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 6-1.1-22-9, the office of the County
Treasurer is authorized to require the owner of property to pay property tax
obligations for said property in one installment when the tax liability for a
particular year is less than $25, payable on May 10 of each year for any county
tax statements mailed pursuant to I.C. 6-1.1-22-8.1.
(Ord. passed 3-2-1987)
§ 30.02  RETENTION OF ISSUED DUTY WEAPONS; SHERIFF’S DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   This section shall affect the County Sheriff’s Department personnel
who will retire after December 1, 2014.
   (B)   The County Sheriff shall have the authority to release, and legally
transfer, to the retiring Sheriff’s Department member one of his or her duty
issued sidearms.
   (C)   The retiring Deputy or Sheriff must have served honorably as a Merit
Officer of the County Sheriff’s Department for a minimum of 20 years, and meet
the definition of a “retired law enforcement officer,” as defined in 18 U.S.C.
§ 926(C).
   (D)   The County Board of Commissioners hereby delegates to the County
Sheriff’s Merit Board the authority to determine whether a retiring Deputy or
Sheriff is, in all respects, qualified to receive this recognition; and
delegates to the County Sheriff the authority to determine what firearm is to
be transferred, and to sign all documents and comply with all the laws
necessary to effect the legal transfer of that firearm.
   (E)   The County Sheriff’s Department shall issue to the retiring member a
retired badge, and a retired ID card that provides for name and retiring rank,
and indicates the authority to retain the employee’s firearm.
(Ord. 01-2015, passed 1-5-2015)
GENERAL EMPLOYEE POLICIES
§ 30.15  ADOPTION OF INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS.
   (A)   It is the intent of the county to comply with applicable federal and
state employment laws and regulations.
   (B)   The State Board of Accounts, under I.C. 5-11-1-27(e), have defined the
acceptable minimum level of internal controls standards for internal controls
systems of political subdivisions, including: control environment; risk
assessment; control activities; information and communication; and monitoring.
   (C)   The internal control standard, as established by I.C. 5-11-1-27(e), is
hereby adopted and shall be in full force and effect from, and after, its
passage, and shall supersede and repeal existing oral or written personnel
policies and procedures.
(Ord. 001-2016, passed 6-20-2016)
§ 30.16  RETIREMENT FUND; PUBLIC EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The County Board of Commissioners desire to pay all of the 3%
mandatory contributions by the employees who are members of PERF through a
supplemental contribution that is separate and distinct from the employees’
current, or future, compensation. No contributions prior to January 1, 2012
shall be paid by the county.
   (B)   Said paid contributions, even though designated as employee
contributions for state law purposes, are being paid by the County Auditor in
lieu of said contributions by the employee.
   (C)   Said paid contributions will not be included in the gross income of
the employees for tax reporting purposes, that is, for federal or state income
tax withholding taxes, until distributed from PERF.
   (D)   Said paid contributions will be included in the gross income of the
employees, for employment tax purposes, as the contributions are made to PERF.
   (E)   Said employees shall not be entitled to any option of choosing to
receive the contributed amounts directly instead of having them paid by the
County Auditor to PERF.
(Res. passed - -)
CHAPTER 31:  ORGANIZATIONS
Section
   
31.01   Advisory Council for polling place
   
31.02   Emergency Medical Services Department
   
31.03   Floodplain Management Commission
§ 31.01  ADVISORY COUNCIL FOR POLLING PLACE.
   (A)   A local Advisory Council is hereby enacted, effective immediately, and
shall be comprised of representatives of the disabilities community and elderly
voters as follows: There shall be nine members to serve on the Council, and the
Council shall meet, from time to time, and make recommendations as to
improvements that should be done so that all polling places are handicapped
accessed in such a way that all of the voters are able to exercise his or her
right to vote.
      (1)   At least one person should be a person who is not ambulatory and is
confined to a wheelchair.
      (2)   At least one person who is blind or visually impaired.
      (3)   Two elderly voters who are at least 65 years of age.
      (4)   The three board members of the County Board of Commissioners.
      (5)   At least two residents with a variety of backgrounds and partisan
affiliations, being at least one democrat and one republican, preferably who
are members of the County Election Board, and have knowledge of Election Board
procedures and requirements.
   (B)   The County Council shall meet at least annually and advise in
selecting a Council President and Secretary, if necessary, and advise as to any
improvements needed at polling places, or to select a polling place that
complies with all of the necessary requirements of a polling place that will
accommodate disabled or elderly voters. The County Board of Commissioners may
recall this committee from time to time as may be necessary, and to appoint
vacancies that may occur from time to time.
(Ord. 2003-3, passed 12-15-2003)
§ 31.02  EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The County Emergency Medical Services Department is authorized,
pursuant to state law, to provide emergency medical services.
   (B)   The County Emergency Medical Services Department is authorized to
provide emergency medical services and charge fees from citizens who benefit
from said services within the terms and meanings of the state statute.
(Ord. 06-2016, passed 9-19-2016)
§ 31.03  FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT COMMISSION.
   (A)   There is hereby established the County Floodplain Commission for the
county under the authority provided by state law.
   (B)   The Floodplain Commission shall exercise those powers and duties as
provided in said I.C.  13-2-22.6.
   (C)   The Floodplain Commission shall consist of three members with
qualifications, terms of office, and methods of appointment as provided in the
said I.C. 13-2-22.6.
(Ord. passed 10-3-1983)
CHAPTER 32:  PUBLIC SAFETY AND LAW ENFORCEMENT
Section
Policies and Authorizations
   
32.01   Law enforcement recordings policy
   
32.02   Trained attack/drug-sniffing dog; authorized
   
32.03   Equipment sales
Police Reserves
   
32.15   Establishment
   
32.16   Appointment
   
32.17   Powers
   
32.18   Requirements
   
32.19   Compensation
   
32.20   Pension program; ineligibility
   
32.21   Probationary period; training
Public Defender Board
   
32.35   Establishment
   
32.36   Definitions
   
32.37   Membership; appointment
   
32.38   Powers and duties
   
32.39   Authority of judges
   
32.40   Scope
POLICIES AND AUTHORIZATIONS
§ 32.01  LAW ENFORCEMENT RECORDINGS POLICY.
   (A)   The County Council, a governmental agency, and the fiscal body as
defined under I.C. 36-1-2-6, desires to establish a fee schedule for body-worn
camera videos, dashboard camera videos, or any other law enforcement
recordings, as defined by I.C. 5-14-3-2(k), for the County Sheriff’s
Department, pursuant to I.C. 5-14-3-8.
   (B)   The County Council, as the fiscal body for the county, desires to
establish a uniform fee for the County Sheriff’s Department, I.C. 5-14-3-5.2,
to allow a permissible person to inspect or copy law enforcement recordings.
   (C)   The County Council, pursuant to I.C. 5-14-3-8(g)(1), establishes the
direct cost of supplying the information of a law enforcement recording, after
review for necessary redaction, is $150 per recording.
   (D)   The County Sheriff’s Department is authorized to charge the fees set
forth above for the copying and redaction of law enforcement recordings
according to state law.
(Council Ord. 2019-3, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 32.02  TRAINED ATTACK/DRUG-SNIFFING DOG; AUTHORIZED.
   The County Law Enforcement Agency shall be allowed the use of trained K-
9 drug/attack dog(s). Said dog(s) shall be properly trained, housed,
maintained, and cared for by the officer(s), and shall be the sole
responsibility of the officer(s) when the animal is not working for the county.
The county shall provide liability coverage for injury or property damage
caused by the dog in the course of its actual work for the county. During off
periods from working, liability will fall on the owner of the animal. The
actual working of the dog shall be in the discretion of the County Sheriff’s
Department.
(Ord. passed 6-21-1993)
§ 32.03  EQUIPMENT SALES.
   (A)   If the EMA Director and the County Sheriff agree that a piece of
equipment acquired through the DRMO is no longer of service to the county, they
may jointly petition the County Board of Commissioners to sell said property to
a third-party buyer. The petition must include the following:
      (1)   Detailed description of the DRMO property they seek to sell;
      (2)   A description of the applicable law and DRMO agreement terms that
allow for the sale of said property;
      (3)   An explanation of the steps taken to ensure the equipment could not
be utilized effectively by any other county departments, along with the
department heads that were contacted about the equipment; and
      (4)   The signature of both the acting Sheriff and the EMA Director.
   (B)   Once the petition, as set forth above, is presented to the County
Board of Commissioners, they will vote on whether to grant the petition. If the
petition is granted, the County Board of Commissioners will schedule an auction
date and auction the property to the general public after appropriate
advertisement.
(Ord. 8-2013, passed 11-18-2013)
POLICE RESERVES
§ 32.15  ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established in the county a County Police Reserve Unit. The
purpose and functions of said Police Reserve Unit is to complement and support
the County Police Department. Duly appointed members of the County Police
Reserve Unit shall be known as a “Reserve Deputy Sheriff”.
(Ord. passed 5-2-1983)
§ 32.16  APPOINTMENT.
   The County Sheriff is authorized and may appoint, with the approval of the
County Sheriff’s Merit Board, Reserve Deputy Sheriffs in such numbers as the
County Sheriff deems necessary to assist him or her in promoting the public
safety, and preserving the peace in and throughout the county. The County
Sheriff shall determine the length of time each appointment shall remain in
effect, but in no event shall the duration of the appointment be extended past
the appointing County Sheriff’s own term of office.
(Ord. passed 5-2-1983)
§ 32.17  POWERS.
   (A)   Such Reserve Deputy Sheriffs shall have all of the same police powers
as regular County Deputy Sheriffs of the County Police Department, except as
may be limited by the rules, regulations, and directives of the County Police
Department, and as approved by the County Sheriff’s Merit Board. Such
limitations may be imposed collectively or individually.
   (B)   Further, any and all rules and regulations concerning the duties and
activities of the County Sheriff’s Reserve Deputies shall be prepared by the
County Sheriff and approved by the County Sheriff’s Merit Board prior to the
submission to the County Board of Commissioners for its approval, all of which
shall be done prior to implementation of said rules and regulations. Further
still, the County Sheriff may limit the authority of each such County Reserve
Deputy Sheriff as he or she deems appropriate, including the limitations of the
geographical area in which such police powers may be exercised.
(Ord. passed 5-2-1983)
§ 32.18  REQUIREMENTS.
   The County Sheriff shall fix the prerequisites of training, education, and
experience for such County Reserve Deputy Sheriffs, subject to certain minimum
requirements prescribed herein, and as the rules and regulations may require.
Applicants must:
   (A)   Be 21 years of age or over;
   (B)   Never have been convicted of a felony, or a misdemeanor involving
moral turpitude;
   (C)   Be of good moral character;
   (D)   Have sufficient training to ensure the proper performance of their
authorized duties; and
   (E)   Set out in writing their personal acknowledgment that, as a County
Reserve Deputy Sheriff, they serve at the expressed pleasure of the County
Sheriff, and that the individual’s commission as County Reserve Deputy Sheriff
may be revoked by the County Sheriff for any reason, or for no given reason, at
any given time.
(Ord. passed 5-2-1983)
§ 32.19  COMPENSATION.
   To the extent that monies may be appropriated by the County Council, said
County Reserve Deputy Sheriff may be eligible to receive partial compensation
for time lost from other employment because of court appearances.
(Ord. passed 5-2-1983)
§ 32.20  PENSION PROGRAM; INELIGIBILITY.
   Under no circumstances are such County Reserve Deputy Sheriffs eligible to
participate in the pension program provided for the regular members of the
County Police Department.
(Ord. passed 5-2-1983)
§ 32.21  PROBATIONARY PERIOD; TRAINING.
   An individual may not be appointed as a County Reserve Deputy Sheriff of the
County Police Reserve until such time that such person has completed the
training, and any probationary period which shall be deemed appropriate prior
to the appointment by the rules, regulations, and directives of the County
Police Department.
(Ord. passed 5-2-1983)
PUBLIC DEFENDER BOARD
§ 32.35  ESTABLISHMENT.
   The County Public Defender Board is hereby established for the purpose of
providing legal representation to indigent defendants/respondents in criminal,
juvenile, probation violation, extradition, child support, civil commitments,
and other proceedings where the right to counsel has been established by law.
(Ord. 99-3, passed 5-19-1999)
§ 32.36  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   BOARD. The County Public Defender Board, created by this subchapter.
   INDIGENT DEFENDANT/RESPONDENT. A person who requests legal representation
and is determined by the court to be entitled to legal representation at public
expense.
   LEGAL REPRESENTATION.
      (1)   The services of an attorney provided to a defendant/respondent in a
matter originating in a state court in the county involving:
         (a)   A person charged with a crime, as defined in I.C. 5-2-6.1;
         (b)   An act of delinquency, as defined in I.C. 31-37-1-2;
         (c)   A violation of a condition of probation established as a part of
a sentence in a juvenile or criminal matter;
         (d)   Detention of a person subject to extradition to another
jurisdiction;
         (e)   Proceedings to collect unpaid child support, pursuant to I.C.
31-40;
         (f)   Civil commitment and contempt proceedings; or
         (g)   Other proceedings where the right to counsel at public expense
has been established by law.
      (2)   The term LEGAL REPRESENTATION includes services in connection with
all pre trial, trial, and appellate proceedings in which an indigent defendant/
respondent has a right to counsel.
(Ord. 99-3, passed 5-19-1999)
§ 32.37  MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   The County Public Defender Board shall consist of three members: One
member appointed by the County Board of Commissioners; and two members from
different political parties appointed by majority vote of the judges who
exercise felony or juvenile jurisdiction.
   (B)   The initial term of the member appointed by the County Board of
Commissioners shall expire on January 2, 2000. The initial term of one member
appointed by the judges shall expire on January 2, 2001, and the initial term
of the other member appointed by the judges shall expire on January 2, 2002.
   (C)   (1)   After the initial term of each member, appointments shall be for
three-year terms.
      (2)   Members of the County Public Defender Board shall serve until his
or her successor is appointed.
      (3)   An appointment to fill a vacancy shall be made by the authority
appointing the member vacating the position, and shall be for the remainder of
the unexpired term.
   (D)   The following persons shall be ineligible to serve as members of the
County Public Defender Board: A city, town, or county attorney; a law
enforcement officer; a judge; or a court employee.
   (E)   The County Public Defender Board members shall serve without pay, but
may receive reimbursement for expenses incurred in connection with the member’s
duties if approved by the County Public Defender Board.
   (F)   Two members of the County Public Defender Board shall constitute a
quorum for the purpose of conducting the business of the Board. Decisions of
the County Public Defender Board shall be approved by a majority of the members
present.
   (G)   The County Public Defender Board shall meet at least quarterly or upon
call of its Chairperson, or any two members of the County Public Defender
Board.
   (H)   The County Public Defender Board shall elect its Chairperson by a
majority vote of the Board.
(Ord. 99-3, passed 5-19-1999)
§ 32.38  POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The County Public Defender Board shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   Prepare a comprehensive plan for providing legal representation to
indigent defendants/ respondents in the county, in accordance with I.C. 33-40.
The comprehensive plan shall, at a minimum, provide for:
      (1)   Legal representation to an indigent defendant/respondent at the
earliest possible point in time;
      (2)   Legal representation to an indigent defendant/respondent by the
same attorney, or attorneys, through the pendency of the matter to the greatest
extent possible; and/or
      (3)   Professional development, continuing legal education, and
malpractice coverage for public defenders.
   (B)   Establish policies and procedure for the provision of competent legal
representation for indigent defendants/respondents in criminal, juvenile,
probation violation, extradition, child support, and criminal contempt, and
other matters pursuant to the Comprehensive Plan;
   (C)   Establish guidelines and procedures for the determination of indigence
and for the appropriate reimbursement for legal representation provided at
public expense, in accordance with I.C. 33-37;
   (D)   Recommend an annual operating budget for the agency and monitor the
expenditures of funds; and
   (E)   Prepare, and submit, to the County Council, and the general public, an
annual report on the operation of the agency.
(Ord. 99-3, passed 5-19-1999)
§ 32.39  AUTHORITY OF JUDGES.
   Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to abridge the authority of any
judge of a state court of this county from appointing counsel for any person
entitled thereto under the Constitution of the United States or the
Constitution of the State.
(Ord. 99-3, passed 5-19-1999)
§ 32.40  SCOPE.
   Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to create a right of reimbursement
pursuant to I.C. 33-37, except to the extent that any claims for reimbursement
comply with I.C. 33-37 and the standards of the State Public Defender
Commission.
(Ord. 99-3, passed 5-19-1999)
CHAPTER 33:  EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
33.01   Purpose
   
33.02   General scope and intent
   
33.03   Limitations
   
33.04   Definitions
   
33.05   Advisory Council; appointment, terms of members, duties
   
33.06   Department of Emergency Management; organization, constituency
   
33.07   Director of Emergency Management
   
33.08   Deputy Director; duties and powers
   
33.09   Chief Executive Officer, County Board of Commissioners
   
33.10   Volunteers; qualifications and appointment
   
33.11   Department budgeting, finance
   
33.12   Emergency Operations Plan; formulation, content, adoption
   
33.13   Jurisdiction; Emergency Operations Plan; official powers
   
33.14   Applicability
   
33.15   Responsibilities of Department prior to declaration of local disaster
emergency
   
33.16   General duties of officers and employees of incorporated and
unincorporated areas of county; declared emergency
   
33.17   Priority of emergency orders, rules, and regulations
   
33.18   Noncompliance with emergency orders, rules, regulations
   
33.19   Limitation of liability during emergency; tests
   
33.20   Reimbursement for use of property
§ 33.01  PURPOSE.
   To establish in the county a Department of Emergency Management, and to
provide for the exercise of necessary powers during emergencies.
(Ord. 2002-1, passed 1-7-2002)
§ 33.02  GENERAL SCOPE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The general intent of this chapter is to provide for all necessary and
indispensable powers and procedures reasonably needed to mitigate, prepare for,
respond to, and recover from emergency conditions.
   (B)   To this end all powers, both ministerial and discretionary as
conferred herein, shall be liberally construed as intending to supplement and
augment, but not to limit any other powers or reasonable exercise of discretion
which may ordinarily pertain to county officers, employees, departments and
agencies.
(Ord. 2002-1, passed 1-7-2002)
§ 33.03  LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Non-suppression of emergency powers of the County Sheriff. Nothing in
this chapter is intended to supersede, or delimit, any statutory powers of the
County Sheriff to request assistance of the National Guard under the
circumstances delineated in I.C. 10-16-7 et seq.
   (B)   Non-suppression of emergency powers of incorporated municipalities;
conformance of municipal regulation with county regulations. Nothing in this
chapter is intended to supersede, or delimit, the powers of any incorporated
municipality under I.C. 10-14 et seq. to adopt and implement emergency plans,
and to officially announce and enforce special emergency regulations and
procedures in the advent of an actual emergency affecting such municipality.
However, pursuant to I.C. 10-14 et seq., such regulations and procedures, as
announced by the municipal authorities, may not be inconsistent with the county
emergency regulations and procedures, as established in the County Emergency
Plan.
(Ord. 2002-1, passed 1-7-2002)
§ 33.04  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   ADVISORY COUNCIL. The County Emergency Management Advisory Council, as
established under this chapter, pursuant to I.C. 10-14 et seq.
   BOARD. The County Board of Commissioners as elected, pursuant to I.C. 36-2-
2.
   CHAIRPERSON. The Chairperson of the County Emergency Management Advisory
Council, as established under this chapter, pursuant to I.C. 10-14 et seq.
   CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER.
      (1)   As referred to in I.C. 10-14 et seq., for purposes of declaring a
local disaster or emergency, and as referred to hereinafter, means the
designated President of the County Board of Commissioners, except if he or she
is unavailable, or incapacitated, and the County Board of Commissioners has a
designated President Pro Tem, then the President Pro Tem shall be the CHIEF
EXECUTIVE OFFICER. If the President is unavailable or incapacitated, and there
is no designated President Pro Tem, then the remaining two County Board of
Commissioners members shall select among themselves one to be the presiding
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER in the same manner as when an ordinary business meeting
needs to be conducted in the absence of the President of the County Board of
Commissioners. If both the President and another County Board of Commissioner
member are absent or incapacitated, the remaining County Board of Commissioner
member shall be considered the CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER. In the absence, or
incapacity, of all the County Board of Commissioners, the office of CHIEF
EXECUTIVE OFFICER shall devolve upon: First, the County Auditor; second, the
County Clerk; third, the County Recorder; and fourth, the Emergency Management
Director.
      (2)   The CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER of the county selected by the above
procedure, if not a member of the County Board of Commissioners, shall exercise
all powers and fulfill all duties of the CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER until such
time as a County Board of Commissioners member shall no longer be unavailable
or incapacitated. At which time, the County Board of Commissioners member, or
the designated President of the County Board of Commissioners, if he or she is
no longer unavailable or incapacitated, shall assume all powers and duties
associated with the office of the President of the County Board of
Commissioners.
   DEPARTMENT. The Department of Emergency Management, as established under
this chapter, pursuant to I.C. 10-14 et seq.
   DIRECTOR. The County Director of Emergency Management, as established and
appointed, pursuant to this chapter.
   DISASTER. The occurrence of imminent threat of wide spread or severe damage,
or injury, or loss of life or property resulting from any natural or human-made
cause, including, but not limited to, fire, flood, earthquake, wind storm, wave
action, oil spill, water contamination requiring emergency action to avert
danger of air contamination, drought, explosion, riot or hostile military or
para-military action which cannot be handled by normal operating personnel,
procedures, resources, or facilities.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. The preparation for, and the execution of, all
emergency functions (other than functions for which the military forces are
primarily responsible) which include, but are not limited to, mitigation,
preparedness, response, and recovery.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT VOLUNTEER. Any person who serves without compensation
in the Department of Emergency Management, being first duly registered,
identified, and appointed by the Director. This includes persons and private
agencies, or governmental units, offering services to the county during
emergency situations, or mutual aid to other emergency services who request
assistance.
   NATURAL DISASTER. Any incidents affecting and/or threatening the public
health, welfare, safety or security, including, but not limited to, flood,
tornado, earthquake, wind storm, winter storm, or other natural causes.
   PARTICIPATING EMERGENCY SERVICE.
      (1)   Any county department or agency designated by the County Board of
Commissioners to participate in emergency management activities, pursuant to §
33.06(A); and/or
      (2)   Any department or agency of the state, another county, a municipal
corporation, or a participant in the county’s emergency management programs and
activities as the result of a cooperative or mutual aid agreement entered into,
pursuant to I.C. 10-14 et seq. and/or §
33.14.
   PERSONNEL. County officers, employees, and emergency management volunteers,
unless otherwise indicated.
   PLAN OR EMERGENCY PLAN. The current local EMERGENCY PLAN whose preparation
and updating are mandated by I.C. 10-14 et seq.
   SEMA. The State Emergency Management Agency, established under I.C. 10-14-2-
1.
   TECHNOLOGICAL DISASTER. Any incidents, including, but not limited to, severe
fire, explosion, hazardous material spills, radiological acts, or other
technological events.
(Ord. 2002-1, passed 1-7-2002)
§ 33.05  ADVISORY COUNCIL; APPOINTMENT, TERMS OF MEMBERS, DUTIES.
   (A)   The County Emergency Management Advisory Council established;
appointment and terms of members.
      (1)   In accordance with I.C. 10-14 et seq., there is established a
County Emergency Management Advisory Council which shall consist of a maximum
of nine members, each of which shall be appointed by the County Board of
Commissioners for a four-year term, and said members shall be residents of the
county; also, each member shall have an interest in emergency management
protection for the citizens of the county. Such membership may include, but is
not limited to, police and fire officials, medical personnel, and governmental
officials, to the end of broad participation by citizens and involvement of
other governmental entities, particularly incorporated towns within the county.
The County Attorney and Sheriff shall each be an ex-officio member of the
Advisory Council.
      (2)   The members of said council may be compensated for services and
expenses out of the annual Emergency Management Agency’s budget, but it is the
intent of this chapter and the County Emergency Advisory Council that such
compensation shall be consistent with the voluntary nature of this position.
      (3)   After the memberships have been appointed, they shall organize
forthwith and select their officers, and shall meet quarterly and create rules
for the meetings and operations.
      (4)   Minutes of these meetings shall be kept and maintained, and a
report shall be made to the County Board of Commissioners on a quarterly basis
advising of their activities. Provided, however, in case of an operational
disaster, the Advisory Council shall report fully within 24 hours as to the
status of conditions and possible remedies.
      (5)   The Advisory Council shall have a Chairman, a Vice Chairperson, and
a Recording Secretary. These officers shall be elected by the Advisory Council
for a one-year term.
   (B)   Duties of the Emergency Management Advisory Council as established,
according to I.C. 10-14 et seq.
      (1)   The Advisory Council shall exercise general supervision and control
over the emergency management and disaster program of the county.
      (2)   The Advisory Council shall meet at least quarterly. The frequency,
time, and place shall be determined by the Advisory Council.
      (3)   Any and all meetings of the Advisory Council shall be open
meetings, and shall be posted in accordance with I.C. 5-14-1.5.
(Ord. 2002-1, passed 1-7-2002)
§ 33.06  DEPARTMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT; ORGANIZATION, CONSTITUENCY.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Department of Emergency Management
within the executive branch of the county government for the purpose of
utilizing, to the fullest extent possible, the personnel and facilities of
existing departments and agencies to prepare for, and meet, any disaster as
defined in this chapter.
   (B)   The County Board of Commissioners and Director of Emergency Management
shall be responsible for its organization, administration, and operation. The
Department shall consist of the following:
      (1)   An executive head of the Department of Emergency Management who
shall be known as the Director of Emergency Management, appointed in accordance
with §
33.07(A)(1);
      (2)   A Deputy Director who shall be appointed by the Director with the
approval of the Advisory Council;
      (3)   Emergency Management volunteers, as deemed necessary and appointed
by the Director in accordance with §
33.11;
      (4)   The employees, equipment, and facilities of all county departments
and agencies suitable for, or adaptable to, emergency management, and
designated by the County Board of Commissioners to participate in emergency
management activities;
      (5)   Staff officer(s) with responsibility for warnings, communications,
radiological health, emergency care, fire and rescue, police, public works, and
public information who may be appointed by the Director; and
      (6)   Such assistants, clerical help, and other employees, as deemed
necessary, to the proper functioning of the Department who may be appointed by
the Director.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, no compensated
position may be established within the Department of Emergency Management, nor
any person appointed to such a position, without:
      (1)   The authorization of the County Council, pursuant to I.C. 36-2-5-3
(a); and/or
      (2)   The making of sufficient appropriations to pay such compensation.
   (D)   The County Council shall not have any power of approval over
particular candidates for any position, but the County Council shall have
general statutory powers to determine the number of officers and deputies, and
employees of county departments, classify positions, and adopt schedules of
compensation.
   (E)   It is the intent of this section that emergency management and
disaster assignments under this Plan shall be as nearly consistent with normal
duty assignments as possible.
(Ord. 2002-1, passed 1-7-2002)
§ 33.07  DIRECTOR OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   Director of Emergency Management appointment; qualifications and
tenure.
      (1)   The Director of Emergency Management shall be appointed by the
County Board of Commissioners. Qualifications for the Director shall be
recommended by the Advisory Council, and the County Board of Commissioners
shall establish the final qualifications. The Director may hold no other local,
state, or federal office.
      (2)   The appointment of the Director shall be permanent unless the
County Board of Commissioners determines the Director to be:
         (a)   Incapable of fulfilling his or her duties due to physical or
mental disability; or
         (b)   Unwilling to perform his or her duties as mandated below.
      (3)   The County Board of Commissioners shall consult with the Executive
Director of SEMA to obtain his or her opinion on the abilities and competence
of the Director prior to the Board of Commissioner’s termination of the
Director. The SEMA Executive Director’s opinion shall be advisory only.
   (B)   Director of Emergency Management: General powers and duties. The
Director, subject to the direction and control of the Advisory Council and/or
the County Board of Commissioners, shall be the executive head of the
Department, and shall have responsibility for the organization, administration,
and operation of the Emergency Management organization, including the following
specific powers and duties:
      (1)   Submitting to the Advisory Council and the County Board of
Commissioners a yearly report on the county’s Comprehensive Emergency
Management, including mitigation, preparedness, and response and recovery data
taken in the previous year, and planned, and recommended, for the year to come;
      (2)   Keeping the County Board of Commissioners fully informed of
emergency management activities;
      (3)   Writing and implementing the Plan, which shall conform to the
guidelines contained in the most current state and federal guidance manuals and
documents, if the county wishes to receive state and/or federal matching funds;
      (4)   Assuring that all county employees and rostered volunteers with
responsibilities, as part of the Plan, receive training in the functions which
they are to perform under the Plan;
      (5)   Designing and conducting exercises of the Plan, as required by
SEMA;
      (6)   Assuring that the Plan addresses all hazards and includes all
cities, towns, and other population centers within the county;
      (7)   Updating the Plan as needed to keep it current, as required by I.C.
10-14 et seq.;
      (8)   Identifying and analyzing the effects of hazards that may threaten
the jurisdiction included in the Plan;
      (9)   Working closely with officers and employees of incorporated, and
unincorporated, areas of the county to develop a hazard mitigation program to
eliminate, or reduce, potential hazards;
      (10)   Inventorying manpower and material resources from governmental and
private sector sources that would be available in a disaster or an emergency;
      (11)   Identifying resource deficiencies and working with appropriate
officials on measures to correct them;
      (12)   Developing an emergency operation center (E.O.C.) as a site from
which key officials can direct and control operations during a disaster or an
emergency, and designating a “back up” E.O.C. site in the event the primary
site is unusable or destroyed;
      (13)   Developing and maintaining an emergency communications system;
      (14)   Establishing a system to alert key officials in the event of a
disaster or an emergency;
      (15)   Developing continuity of governmental procedures and systems;
      (16)   Establishing and maintaining a shelter and reception, and care,
system;
      (17)   Developing a training program for emergency response personnel;
      (18)   Developing emergency simulation tests and exercises;
      (19)   Coordinating with industry to develop and maintain industrial
emergency plans and capabilities in support of the Plan;
      (20)   Making rapid and accurate assessment of the following as soon as
an emergency, or disaster, declaration has been made:
         (a)   Property damage;
         (b)   Personal injuries;
         (c)   Fatalities; and/or
         (d)   Basic and special needs;
      (21)   Submitting to SEMA the assessment specified in division (B)(20)
above. This assessment shall be submitted in SEMA’s required format and
timeframe;
      (22)   Providing to the SEMA Director annual reports and documentation as
mandated by SEMA;
      (23)   Competently managing the Agency’s various functions, including
financial, personnel, and logistical matters;
      (24)   Timely responsiveness to the Chairman of the Advisory Council and/
or the County Board of Commissioners;
      (25)   Timely obedience to the directives of superior authorities;
      (26)   Assuring that the activities of the Agency at all times comply
with I.C. 10-14 et seq., and other applicable statues and county ordinances;
      (27)   Attendance at, and passing grades in, the Emergency Management
Professional Development Series for Emergency Management presented by the
Public Safety Training Institute within one year of first assuming the position
of Director;
      (28)   Attendance at, and passing grades in, such emergency management
training as may be required by SEMA in subsequent years;
      (29)   Assuring the Deputy Director’s attendance at, and passing grades
in, the Emergency Management Professional Development Series for Emergency
Management presented by the Public Safety Training Institute within one year of
first assuming the position of Deputy Director;
      (30)   Assuring the Deputy Director’s, and all paid emergency management
staff’s, attendance at,  and passing grades in, such emergency management
training as may be required by SEMA in subsequent years;
      (31)   Assuring ongoing attendance by the Director, the Deputy Director,
and all paid emergency management staff at future emergency management courses
presented by the Public Safety Training Institute to assure continued knowledge
of the latest information of emergency management;
      (32)   Responsibility for public relations, information, and education
regarding all phases of emergency management;
      (33)   Assuring coordination within the county of all activities for
emergency management;
      (34)   Maintaining liaison and coordination with all other effected
agencies, public and private;
      (35)   Coordination of the recruitment and training of volunteer
personnel and agencies to augment the personnel and facilities of the county
for emergency management purposes;
      (36)   Seeking, negotiating, and entering into (with the approval and
ratification of the County Board of Commissioners and consistent with the State
Emergency Operations Plan and Program) mutual aid arrangements with other
public and private agencies. Also, to take steps in accordance with such mutual
aid arrangements to comply with, or take advantage of, the same in the event of
an actual emergency;
      (37)   Accepting any offer from the federal government to provide, for
the use of the county services, equipment and supplies, materials, and funds in
the form of gifts, grants, or loans. The offers may be used for emergency
management purposes with the approval of the Governor of the state;
      (38)   Seeking, and accepting, from any person, firm, or corporation, any
gratuitous offers to provide services, equipment, supplies, funds, materials,
licenses, or privileges to use real estate or other premises to the county for
emergency management purposes;
      (39)   Issuing proper insignia and papers to emergency management
workers, and other persons directly connected with emergency management;
      (40)   Assuring that all volunteers meet the criteria set forth in §
33.10(A) prior to accepting them as volunteers of the Agency; and
      (41)   In addition to the powers and duties expressly provided above, the
Director shall be construed to have all powers and duties of a local Emergency
Management Director. In particular, but not by limitation, the Director,
through the Agency, may perform, or cause to be performed, with respect to the
county, any function parallel or analogous to those performed on a state-wide
basis by SEMA.
   (C)   Special emergency powers and duties of the Director of Emergency
Management.
      (1)   The Director shall make recommendations and advise the County Board
of Commissioners or the Chief Executive Officer, on any actions which would be
necessary, or desirable, to take under §
33.09(E)(2) in the event of an emergency.
      (2)   In the event that an emergency clearly exist or is imminent in the
county, and a state of emergency has not been declared by the Governor, nor is
any person having the power of the Chief Executive Officer of the county
present to declare such an emergency pursuant to §
33.09(B), the Director may temporarily presume the existence of a state of
emergency.
      (3)   When the Director temporarily presumes the existence of a state of
emergency, the Director shall:
         (a)   Put into effect those portions of the Plan as necessary to cope
with the emergency, and to protect the public’s safety and welfare;
         (b)   Be construed to have all powers necessary and dispensable,
except those limited by statue or this chapter, until such time as a Chief
Executive Officer becomes available; and
         (c)   Have his or her functions performed by the Deputy Director to
the extent that the Deputy Director is required to assume the duties of the
Director, as provided by §
33.08, in the latter’s absence or incapacitation during the emergency.
      (4)   Assistance from the State Emergency Management Agency may be
rendered without a declaration of an emergency in order to assist local
emergency services in time of need.
(Ord. 2002-1, passed 1-7-2002)
§ 33.08  DEPUTY DIRECTOR; DUTIES AND POWERS.
   (A)   If a Deputy Director has been appointed pursuant to §
33.06(A)(2), he or she shall assist the Director in the performance of his or
her duties during normal times.
   (B)   During an emergency, the Deputy Director shall assist the Director,
and shall fulfill the duties of the Director in the absence or incapacity of
the Director.
(Ord. 2002-1, passed 1-7-2002)
§ 33.09  CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.
   (A)   Chief Executive Officer and the County Board of Commissioners: General
administrative powers and duties; test of Emergency Operation Plan.
      (1)   In time of normal county operations, the powers and duties of the
Chief Executive Officer of the County Board of Commissioners, pertaining to
emergency management, shall be:
         (a)   Seeking the advice and input of the Director as to the
advisability of declaring a local disaster emergency; and
         (b)   Declaring, pursuant to I.C. 10-14 et seq., a local disaster
emergency.
      (2)   In times of normal county operations, the powers and duties of the
County Board of Commissioners, pertaining to emergency management, shall be:
         (a)   Maintaining general supervision over the planning and
administration of the Agency;
         (b)   Adoption of the Plan;
         (c)   Coordinate emergency management activities;
         (d)   Making assignment of county personnel to emergency management
activities;
         (e)   Making assignments of county personnel to emergency management
duties in order to meet situations not covered in the normal duties and powers
of such agencies;
         (f)   Taking all necessary action in coordination with the County
Sheriff’s Department and the Emergency Management Agency to conduct tests of
the Plan; and
         (g)   Educate themselves as to their responsibilities under the Plan.
      (3)   Emergency management tests and exercises may be conducted at any
time with, or without, prior notification to persons other than the Director.
      (4)   All emergency tests and/or exercises conducted within the
boundaries of the county shall be coordinated with the County Sheriff’s
Department and the Emergency Management Agency.
   (B)   Special emergency powers and duties of the Chief Executive Officer:
Declaration of local disaster emergency.
      (1)   In the event of an actual, or threatened, enemy attack, or a
disaster effecting the county, the Chief Executive Officer of the county may
declare a local disaster emergency, pursuant to I.C. 10-14 et seq., for any
period not to exceed seven days.
      (2)   The declaration shall:
         (a)   Indicate, in writing, the nature of the disaster;
         (b)   Indicate the conditions which have brought the disaster about;
         (c)   Indicate the area, or areas, threatened, or to which the state
of emergency applies (which may include the entire county or only designated
area(s) thereof); and
         (d)   Announce or disseminate to the general public by the best means
available.
      (3)   The declaration shall be filed in the office of the:
         (a)   County Clerk;
         (b)   County Auditor; and
         (c)   The clerk of any incorporated municipality included in the
declared disaster area.
      (4)   The declaration shall not be invalidated, nor ineffective, if any
of the filing and dissemination requirements cannot be complied with due to the
prevailing adverse circumstances.
      (5)   Upon declaration, the county’s Comprehensive Emergency Management
and Disaster Control Plan, which has been adopted pursuant to §
33.12, or such several component parts thereof, as may be relevant to the
emergency, shall be activated and implemented.
      (6)   Such a declaration shall not be necessary if the Governor, pursuant
to I.C. 10-14 et seq., has already proclaimed a state-wide, or area wide, state
of emergency, including the county.
   (C)   Special emergency powers and duties of the Chief Executive Officer:
Convening the emergency meeting of the County Board of Commissioners; special
meeting procedures.
      (1)   As soon as possible after a disaster emergency effecting the county
is declared either by the Governor or by the Chief Executive Officer of the
county, the Chief Executive Officer of the county shall convene a meeting of
the County Board of Commissioners to perform its legislative and administrative
functions, as the situation may demand.
      (2)   If the Chief Executive Officer fails, or is unable, to convene the
meeting as mandated above, the meeting shall be convened by any other member of
the County Board of Commissioners, pursuant to §
33.04, under “Chief Executive Officer”.
      (3)   Any such meeting of the County Board of Commissioners shall:
         (a)   Be deemed an emergency meeting;
         (b)   Be subject only to such procedural provisions of law as govern
emergency meetings of the County Board of Commissioners;
         (c)   Include relaxation of any applicable notice requirements,
pursuant to I.C. 5-14-1.5-5(d);
         (d)   Be held in any convenient and available location;
         (e)   Continue without adjournment for the duration of the emergency;
and
         (f)   May be recessed for reasonable periods of time as necessary and
permitted by circumstances.
   (D)   Special emergency powers and duties of the Chief Executive Officer:
Plenipotentiary powers in absence of a County Board of Commissioners quorum.
      (1)   In the event that a quorum of the County Board of Commissioners
cannot be assembled for purposes of the meeting required under division (C)
above, the Chief Executive Officer of the county shall:
         (a)   Be considered a plenipotentiary representative of the County
Board of Commissioners; and
         (b)   Have all powers, and take all actions, of the full County Board
of Commissioners.
      (2)   When a quorum is assembled, such plenipotentiary powers shall
cease.
   (E)   Special emergency powers and duties of the County Board of
Commissioners.
      (1)   At the meeting convened under division (C) above, the County Board
of Commissioners may exercise any of its normal executive and legislative
powers to the extent related to the emergency and necessary to deal wherewith.
      (2)   In addition to the powers enumerated in division (E)(1) above, the
County Board of Commissioners may also exercise any of the following special
and extraordinary powers.
         (a)   The County Board of Commissioners may extend the period of a
state of emergency declared by the Chief Executive Officer, pursuant to
division (B) above, to last more than seven days if necessary.
         (b)   The County Board of Commissioners may terminate the state of
emergency, except for a state of emergency declared by the Governor.
         (c)   The County Board of Commissioners may assemble and utilize
emergency management forces, including:
            1.   Personnel of the Emergency Management Department;
            2.   Participating emergency services; and/or
            3.   Any other forces at the disposal of the County Board of
Commissioners hereunder for emergency management purposes.
         (d)   The County Board of Commissioners may order volunteer forces
which have been activated pursuant to the Plan to the aid of the county, state,
or political subdivisions thereof as soon as practicable. These volunteer
forces shall be under the direction of the State Emergency Management Agency.
         (e)   In order to control a disaster emergency and provide for public
health, safety, and welfare the County Board of Commissioners may, to the
extent permitted by I.C. 10-14 et seq. and subject to its provisions, command
services and/or requisition the use of:
            1.   Equipment;
            2.   Facilities;
            3.   Supplies; and/or
            4.   Other property.
         (f)   The County Board of Commissioners may order the evacuation of
all, or part, of the population from stricken areas of the county, and
prescribe:
            1.   Routes and modes of transportation; and/or
            2.   Evacuation destinations.
         (g)   The County Board of Commissioners may make provisions for
availability and use of temporary emergency housing. This housing need not
necessarily comply with minimum housing standards, or building and zoning codes
which would govern the use and location of premises for housing purposes during
normal times.
         (h)   The County Board of Commissioners may suspend, for the duration
of the state of emergency (or for a lesser period as it determines), any
provisions of, or procedures prescribed by, ordinances of the county if it:
            1.   Would be impractical during the emergency;
            2.   Would interfere with the implementation and carrying out of
emergency plans; or
            3.   Would be hostile or harmful to actions necessary to protect
the public safety and welfare.
         (i)   Except in accordance with division (E)(2)(m) below, the County
Board of Commissioners shall not suspend any provisions of ordinances or
procedures which are mandated by statute.
         (j)   In the event of an enemy attack, or when the state of emergency
has been proclaimed by the Governor, the County Board of Commissioners, in
accordance with I.C. 10-14 et seq., may waive any procedures or requirements of
statute, or of county ordinances reflecting statutory requirements and
mandates, and pertaining to:
            1.   The appropriation and expenditure of public funds;
            2.   The incurring obligations;
            3.   The performance of public works;
            4.   The entering into of contracts; and
            5.   The employment of workers whose employment may either be
permanent,  temporary, or voluntary.
         (k)   The County Board of Commissioners may assign any special
emergency duties and functions to county offices, departments, and agencies.
         (l)   Any unexpended and unencumbered monies budgeted and appropriated
for the operation of such offices, departments, and agencies, but not otherwise
dedicated by law to different purposes, may, within the scope of each major
budget and appropriation category (major object classification), be utilized
and expended for the purpose of carrying out such special emergency duties and
functions.
         (m)   The County Board of Commissioners may make, and officially
publish, such emergency regulations as may be deemed necessary to protect lives
and property, preserve order, conserve critical resources, or implement and
carry out the provisions of the county’s or state’s Plans.
            1.   Such regulations shall not be effective until published,
through either:
               a.   Written filing in the offices of the County Clerk and
Auditor, as required by I.C. 10-14 et seq.; or
               b.   If filing is impossible, through conspicuous posting at two
public locations within the county.
            2.   Such regulation shall have the full force of law and shall be
enforceable by any police officer, in accordance with I.C. 10-14 et seq.
         (n)   The County Board of Commissioners may, in accordance with the
Plan, request the state or the United States, or their agencies and political
subdivisions, to send aid (including financial assistance) if the situation is
beyond the control of the regular and emergency county forces and resources.
      (3)   All actions and regulation under this section shall be:
         (a)   Adopted by ordinance or resolution; and
         (b)   Consistent with, and subordinate to, any action, orders, or
regulations made by the Governor or a state agency implementing the State
Emergency Operations Plans.
(Ord. 2002-1, passed 1-7-2002)
§ 33.10  VOLUNTEERS; QUALIFICATIONS AND APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   The Director shall assure that all volunteer personnel meet the
following qualifications before being placed on the roster as a member of the
Agency:
      (1)   Be at least 18 years of age or older;
      (2)   Not have been convicted of a felony; and
      (3)   Have completed, and have on file with the Department, a resume and/
or an application form.
   (B)   Upon satisfaction of the above requirements and formal entry on the
Department’s roster of volunteers, the applicant is officially a member of the
County Emergency Management Department.
(Ord. 2002-1, passed 1-7-2002)
§ 33.11  DEPARTMENT BUDGETING, FINANCE.
   (A)   The Advisory Council shall advise the Director in the preparation of
the Agency’s budget.
   (B)   The County Council shall appropriate such funds, as it may deem
necessary, for the purpose of emergency management.
   (C)   All funds appropriated, or otherwise available, to the State Emergency
Management Agency shall be administered by the Director, subject to the
approval of the County Board of Commissioners, in the same manner as provided
by law or ordinance for other county funds.
(Ord. 2002-1, passed 1-7-2002)
§ 33.12  EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN; FORMULATION, CONTENT, ADOPTION.
   (A)   A County Emergency Operations Plan shall be adopted by resolution of
the County Board of Commissioners. In the preparation of this Plan, as it
pertains to county organization, it is the intent that the services, equipment,
facilities, and personnel of all existing departments and agencies shall be
utilized to the fullest extent possible.
   (B)   (1)   The Plan shall have the following contents:
         (a)   Basic plan to include:
            1.   Purpose;
            2.   Situation and/or assumptions;
            3.   Concept of operations;
            4.   Assignment of responsibilities;
            5.   Direction and control;
            6.   Continuity of government;
            7.   Administration and logistics; and
            8.   Education.
         (b)   Annexes to the Plan to include:
            1.   Warning and communication;
            2.   Radiological protection;
            3.   Law enforcement;
            4.   Fire and rescue;
            5.   Medical;
            6.   Public health;
            7.   Evacuation;
            8.   Shelter and care of mass populations;
            9.   Public works;
            10.   Damage assessment;
            11.   Resource management;
            12.   Hazard specific materials;
            13.   Persons with special needs;
            14.   County Courts/Clerks disaster plan;
            15.   SAVE, State Annex for Veterinary Emergencies;
            16.   Terrorism; and
            17.   Hazardous materials response for SARA Title III releases.
      (2)   All of division (B)(1) above shall be drafted by the local
Emergency Planning Committee.
   (C)   In addition, all emergency services within the county shall:
      (1)   If they develop internal plans, assure that those plans are drafted
subject to the requirements of the Plan;
      (2)   Coordinate internal plans with the State Emergency Management
Agency;
      (3)   Assure inclusion of internal plans with the County Plan;
      (4)   Perform the functions and duties assigned by the County Plan; and
      (5)   Maintain their portion of the Plan in a current state of readiness
at all times.
(Ord. 2002-1, passed 1-7-2002)
§ 33.13  JURISDICTION; EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN; OFFICIAL POWERS.
   (A)   Except as provided by §§
33.02 and
33.03, the jurisdiction of the Emergency Management Agency shall be:
      (1)   Comprehensive and inclusive county wide; and
      (2)   Effective in both the incorporated and unincorporated areas of the
county.
   (B)   The jurisdiction and applicability of the county’s Comprehensive
Emergency Management and Disaster Plan, as adopted pursuant to §
33.12, and the exercise of any powers of the Chief Executive Officer of the
county and the County Board of Commissioners under §
33.09(B) shall be:
      (1)   Comprehensive and inclusive county wide; and
      (2)   Effective in both the incorporated and unincorporated areas of the
county.
   (C)   All incorporated areas of the county shall:
      (1)   If they develop internal plans, assure that those plans are drafted
subject to the requirements of the Plan;
      (2)   Coordinate internal plans with the Emergency Management Agency;
      (3)   Assure inclusion of internal plans with the County Plan;
      (4)   Perform the functions and duties assigned by the County Plan; and
      (5)   Maintain their portions of the Plan in a current state of readiness
at all times.
(Ord. 2002-1, passed 1-7-2002)
§ 33.14  APPLICABILITY.
   This section shall apply whenever:
   (A)   A state of emergency affecting all, or part, of the county has been
declared by the Governor, pursuant to I.C. 10-14 et seq.;
   (B)   A state of emergency affecting all, or part, of the county has been
declared by the Chief Executive Officer of the county, pursuant to I.C. 10-14
et seq. or §
33.09(B) herein;
   (C)   A presumptive state of emergency is deemed to exist affecting all, or
part, of the county causing the Director to invoke and implement emergency
plans and procedures in accordance with §
33.07(C) herein; and/or
   (D)   When the County Board of Commissioners has implemented a test of the
county’s emergency plan and procedures in accordance with, and to the extent
necessary or dispensable to, such test.
(Ord. 2002-1, passed 1-7-2002)
§ 33.15  RESPONSIBILITIES OF DEPARTMENT PRIOR TO DECLARATION OF LOCAL DISASTER
EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Implement the warning system as prescribed in that portion of the
County Emergency Operations Plan.
   (B)   Assure proper functioning of emergency communications throughout the
county, including all cities and towns, as prescribed in that portion of the
County Emergency Operations Plan.
   (C)   Assure that mitigation, training, and exercises have been performed.
(Ord. 2002-1, passed 1-7-2002)
§ 33.16  GENERAL DUTIES OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES OF INCORPORATED AND
UNINCORPORATED AREAS OF COUNTY; DECLARED EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Officers and employees shall cooperate with, and give active support
to, the County Board of Commissioners and the County Emergency Management
Director.
   (B)   Officers and employees shall comply with all orders issued pursuant to
this chapter by the County Board of Commissioners and the County Emergency
Management Director.
(Ord. 2002-1, passed 1-7-2002)
§ 33.17  PRIORITY OF EMERGENCY ORDERS, RULES, AND REGULATIONS.
   At all times when the orders, rules, and regulations made and officially
published pursuant to this chapter shall be in effect, they shall supercede all
existing inconsistent ordinances, orders, rules, and regulations.
(Ord. 2002-1, passed 1-7-2002)
§ 33.18  NONCOMPLIANCE WITH EMERGENCY ORDERS, RULES, REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Whenever this chapter applies, it shall be unlawful and a penal
chapter violation for any person to:
      (1)   Willfully obstruct, hinder, or delay the County Board of
Commissioners or the Director of Emergency Management, the participating
emergency services, authorized emergency management volunteers, or other
authorities, from implementing, carrying out, and enforcing emergency plans and
procedures;
      (2)   Fail to observe, abide, and comply with any emergency management
duties, orders, regulations, and procedures as made applicable to such person
by the appropriate authorities; or
      (3)   Falsely wear or carry identification as a member of the County
Emergency Management Department, or to otherwise falsely identify, or purport
to be, a County Emergency Management authority.
   (B)   Any regular or reserve police officer of the state, or any of its
political subdivisions, is hereby empowered to issue, and serve, a civil
citation against any person found to be committing any offense described above.
(Ord. 2002-1, passed 1-7-2002)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 33.19  LIMITATION OF LIABILITY DURING EMERGENCY; TESTS.
   (A)   During an emergency management test or declared emergency, the
following shall be immune from liability to the extent provided by I.C. 10-14
et seq., and any other applicable law:
      (1)   The county;
      (2)   Its assigned personnel;
      (3)   Participating emergency services; and
      (4)   Participating volunteers.
   (B)   I.C. 10-14 et seq. limits the tort liability of private persons who
volunteer the use of their property for emergency management tests or other
purposes.
(Ord. 2002-1, passed 1-7-2002)
§ 33.20  REIMBURSEMENT FOR USE OF PROPERTY.
   Owners of property commandeered for the use in any emergency by any county
official shall be reimbursed for its use by the county in a manner approved by
the County Council, pursuant to I.C. 10-14 et seq.
(Ord. 2002-1, passed 1-7-2002)
CHAPTER 34:  FINANCES AND REVENUE; TAXATION
Section
Finances
   
34.01   County jail vending machine; proceeds
   
34.02   Purchasing agents
   
34.03   Purchase of supplies
   
34.04   Department authorized spending limit without approval
   
34.05   Claim payments in advance of Board allowance
   
34.06   Co-payment of inmates at County Jail
   
34.07   Prisoner reimbursement
Fees and Schedules
   
34.20   County Board of Health fees
   
34.21   Electronic map data fees
   
34.22   County Coroner; verdict, report, autopsy, disposition of fees
   
34.23   Real property transfer fees
   
34.24   Sheriff’s Department; copies, fees
   
34.25   Annual sex or violent offender registration fees
Taxation
   
34.40   Economic development income tax
   
34.41   Reduction of required six-month balance
   
34.42   Deduction for assessed value of inventory
   
34.43   County adjusted gross income tax rates
   
34.44   Heritage barn tax reduction
   
34.45   Property tax
   
34.46   Local income tax rates
Cross-reference:
   Building permit fees, see §
150.02
FINANCES
§ 34.01  COUNTY JAIL VENDING MACHINE; PROCEEDS.
   (A)   The County Board of Commissioners hereby ratify and affirm that the
net proceeds from the vending machine located in the County Jail shall be used
for any purpose which the employees of the County Sheriff’s Department may
agree upon.
   (B)   The County Sheriff shall be in charge of said net funds. No accounting
shall be necessary.
(Ord. passed 1-4-1994)
§ 34.02  PURCHASING AGENTS.
   (A)   House Enrolled Act 1139 amends I.C. 5-22-8, et seq., and is effective
July 1, 1998, and provides that the County Board of Commissioners must make a
written designation for purchasing agent, or agents, for the county unit of
government.
   (B)   Effective July 1, 1998, the County Board of Commissioners, or its duly
authorized agents, shall be the purchasing agent for the county governmental
unit, all as provided by I.C. 5-22-8.
   (C)   Further, the County Board of Commissioners may, from time to time,
designate specific agents as will be reflected in the minutes of the meetings
of the county, and may be amended from time to time as needed.
(Ord. 98-4, passed 6-15-1998)
§ 34.03  PURCHASE OF SUPPLIES.
   Supplies manufactured in the United States shall be specified for all county
purchases, and shall be purchased unless the county determines that:
   (A)   The supplies are not manufactured in the United States in reasonably
available quantities;
   (B)   The prices of the supplies manufactured in the United States exceeds
by an unreasonable amount the price of available and comparable supplies
manufactured elsewhere;
   (C)   The quality of the supplies manufactured in the United States is
substantially less than the quality of comparably priced available supplies
manufactured elsewhere; or
   (D)   The purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States is not in
the public interest.
(Ord. 98-5, passed 6-15-1998)
§ 34.04  DEPARTMENT AUTHORIZED SPENDING LIMIT WITHOUT APPROVAL.
   (A)   The County Board of Commissioners now authorizes for each department
the following limit for spending without prior approval of the Board, effective
July 1, 2014:
Government Position Total Amount
Government Position    Total Amount
Auditor’s office     $500
Assessor’s office    $500
Building Inspector     $500
C.D.C. office          $2,500
Clerk’s office       $500
County Circuit Court   $2,500
Coroner                $500
County Home            $2,500
County Superior Court  $2,500
EMA                    $2,500
EMS                    $2,500
Extension              $500
Health Department      $2,500
Highway Department     $2,500
Maintenance Department $2,500
Microfilm              $500
Probation              $500
Prosecutor’s office  $2,500
Recorder’s office    $500
Recycling/Transfer     $1,000
Sheriff’s Department $2,500
Surveyor’s office    $500
Treasurer’s office   $500
Veteran’s office     $500
 
   (B)   (1)   Any purchase that exceeds that department’s limit is required to
get approval first from the County Board of Commissioners before the purchase
can be made.
      (2)   To obtain approval for a purchase, the department head/elected
official is to complete a request form available at the Auditor’s Office no
later than 4:00 p.m. on the Monday preceding the meeting they wish to attend
and get approval for said purchase.
   (C)   The County Board of Commissioners reserves its right to reject any
request.
   (D)   (1)   The County Board of Commissioners recognizes, and acknowledges,
that emergency purchases may be necessary for the operation of the county.
      (2)   Any department head/elected official needing to make a purchase for
an emergency situation over the department’s spending limit must complete a
request form and request that an emergency meeting be scheduled with the Board,
at which time the issue may be addressed and voted upon.
   (E)   The department heads/elected officials are authorized to make
purchases within their spending limit set forth in division (A) above.
(Res. 2014-006, passed 6-16-2014)
§ 34.05  CLAIM PAYMENTS IN ADVANCE OF BOARD ALLOWANCE.
   (A)   I.C. 36-2-6-4.5 allows a county executive to adopt an ordinance
allowing money to be disbursed for lawful county purposes by the County Auditor
in advance of the County Board of Commissioners allowance for certain expenses.
   (B)   The county must make timely payment of its utility vouchers so as to
not be assessed late charges, penalties, and interest.
   (C)   The normal cycle for advertisement and payment of vouchers does not
always allow timely payment of these vouchers.
   (D)   (1)   The County Board of Commissioners does hereby permit payment of
all utilities upon receipt, with advertisement and presentation to the Board at
the next available regular County Board of Commissioners meeting.
      (2)   Said utilities shall include, but not be limited to, telephone,
electric, and gas.
(Ord. 2004-1, passed 3-15-2004)
§ 34.06  CO-PAYMENT OF INMATES AT COUNTY JAIL.
   (A)   The County Sheriff is authorized to collect a co-payment in the sum of
$15 to any person confined in the County Jail facility for the following
services:
      (1)   Medical care;
      (2)   Dental care;
      (3)   Eye care; and
      (4)   Any other health care related service, pursuant to all of the terms
as set forth in I.C. 11-12-5-5 and all subsections pertaining thereto.
   (B)   Further, that said funds collected pursuant to I.C. 11-12-5-5 shall be
deposited into the General Fund or may be deposited into a County Medical Care
for Inmate Fund that is specifically created, and that said funds may be used
to defray the cost of medical care to persons incarcerated in the County Jail
facilities.
(Ord. 2004-2, passed 5-17-2004)
§ 34.07  PRISONER REIMBURSEMENT.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-2-13-15, the county elects to implement the
provisions of the statute, effective November 1, 2009.
   (B)   The amount of reimbursement shall be as described in I.C. 36-2-13-15
(d), or as set by the court in I.C. 35-50-5-4(c).
   (C)   The County Council hereby fixes a daily per diem amount, payable by
the prisoners of $30.
   (D)   (1)   The County Board of Commissioners hereby directs the County
Sheriff to collect and account for the prisoner reimbursement payments pursuant
to the statute.
      (2)   If the County Sheriff fails to collect such amounts, the County
Attorney is authorized to begin legal proceedings, or take other actions to
collect such amounts.
(Ord. 09-2009, passed 9-21-2009)
FEES AND SCHEDULES
§ 34.20  COUNTY BOARD OF HEALTH FEES.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 16-46 (Board of Health fee schedules), the County
Board of Health Department may, with the approval of the County Board of
Commissioners, establish and collect fees for specific services and records as
established by local ordinances and state law; provided, that such fees shall
not be in excess of the costs of services rendered, and such fees shall be
accounted for, and transferred to, the Health Fund of the county (1965 Acts),
and amended effective May 15, 1988 to provide that no charge shall be made
under I.C. 16-46 for each certificate of birth, death, or stillborn
registration if the person applying for the certificate meets one of the
following purposes:
      (1)   To establish the person’s age, or to establish the dependency of
any member of the person’s family in connection with the person’s service in
the Armed Forces of the United States;
      (2)   To establish the person’s age, or to establish the dependency of
any member of the person’s family in connection with a death pension or
disability pension of any person serving, or who has served, in the United
States Armed Forces; or
      (3)   To establish or verify the age of a child in school who desires to
secure a work permit  (1988 Acts).
   (B)   The schedule of fees shall be as follows:
Environmental Health
   New septic permit                                     $70
   Repair/replacement septic permit                      $50
   Well permit                                           $20
   New septic  contractor’s fee                       $100
   Annual food permit                                    $75
   Temporary food permit                                 $20
   Tattoo parlor permit                                  $150
   Each additional tattoo artist working in establishment$25 each
Public Health Nursing
   Adult tetanus                                         $20
   Adult Tdap                                            $50
   TB testing (adults)                                   $20
   TB testing (students)                                 $10
   Adult hepatitis B shots (series of 3 shots)           $50 each shot
   Adult hepatitis A/B combination (series of 3 shots)   $60 each shot
   Adult Zostivax shingles vaccine                       $190
   Immunization record replacement (1 received free with $1
visit)
   Pregnancy testing                                     No charge
   Lead screening/hemoglobin                             No charge
   All VFC (vaccine for children) vaccines               Administrative fee;
                                                            $8 each
Vital records
   Birth certificates (each)                             $10
   Death certificates (each)                             $15
   Corrections/changes to vital records                  $15
   Paternity affidavits                                  $25
   Genealogy research (every 1/2 hour of research)       $10
NOTES TO TABLE:
-Medicaid patients will be billed through Medicaid; no payment due at time of
services
-Prices and eligibility subject to change according to federal vaccine
guidelines
 
(Ord. passed 4-15-1991; Ord. passed 7-19-1993)
§ 34.21  ELECTRONIC MAP DATA FEES.
   (A)   General. In accordance with I.C. 5-14-3-2, PERSON, as used in this
section, is defined as an individual, a corporation, a limited liability
company, a partnership, an unincorporated association, or a governmental
entity, and ELECTRONIC MAP DATA, as used in this section, is defined as
copyrighted data created, and provided by a public agency, from an electronic
geographic information system.
   (B)   Fee schedule.
      (1)   Pursuant to I.C. 5-14-3-8(j), the county may charge a fee, uniform
to all persons for providing electronic map data that is based upon a
reasonable percentage of the county’s direct cost of maintaining, upgrading,
and enhancing the electronic map, and for the direct cost of supplying the
electronic map in the form requested by the person(s).
      (2)   In the case where disclosable and non-disclosable electronic map
data are combined, I.C. 5-14-3-6 provides that the county may charge a
reasonable fee for the county’s direct cost of computer programming to separate
disclosable from non-disclosable electronic map data.
      (3)   It is hereby established by the County Board of Commissioners and
County Council that the initial fee schedule for the transmission of electronic
map data is as set forth below in divisions (B)(3)(a) through (B)(3)(c).
         (a)   For complete map data layers:
            1.   An annual fee of $1,500, paid in advance, for the continuous
transmission of available and disclosable county wide non-photo electronic map
data layers.
            2.   A fee of $750, paid in advance, for a one-time delivery of
available and disclosable county wide non-photo electronic map data layers
delivered on a CD.
            3.   A fee of $750, paid in advance, for a one-time delivery of a
county’s most recent aerial photo layer delivered on CDs.
         (b)   For subsets of map data layers (for less than county wide
areas), a fee of $75 per hour for the preparation of one-time specifically
requested subsets of the county electronic map data.
         (c)   For separating disclosable and non-disclosable data, a fee of
$150 per hour for computer programming required to separate disclosable and
non-disclosable electronic map data if this is required as part of a one-time
map data request.
      (4)   If the county contracts with a third-party contractor to handle the
transmission of county electronic map data, the third-party contractor shall
receive two-thirds, and the county one-third of the fees charged the person for
electronic map data. This fee schedule shall be reviewed on an annual basis,
and may be changed on an annual basis to reflect the change in the cost in
providing the electronic map data.
   (C)   Exceptions to fee schedule.
      (1)   Pursuant to I.C. 5-14-3-8(k), any public agency, as defined by I.C.
5-14-3-2, located within the county or within adjacent counties, that agrees to
share with the county any electronic map information that the public agency
might have, if any, that is of the same type as is being shared by the county,
the county will agree to automatically approve a data sharing application with
that public agency, and waive that portion of the electronic map fee that would
otherwise be retained by the county.
      (2)   Pursuant to I.C. 5-14-3-8(k), the county’s retained portion of the
electronic map fee shall be waived at the county’s discretion if the use of the
electronic map data will be used for a non-commercial purpose, including the
following: Public agencies that do not agree to share with the county the same
type of electronic map data being provided by the county; nonprofit activities;
journalism; and/or academic research.
   (D)   Third-party contractor.
      (1)   In accordance with I.C. 5-14-3-3.6, electronic map information may
be provided to person(s) through the county’s own computer gateway, or by
agreement through a computer gateway of a third-party contractor. I.C. 5-14-3-
3.6(e) provides that a contract entered into under this section may require the
payment of a reasonable fee to either the third-party contractor, the county,
or both.
      (2)   In accordance with I.C. 5-14-3-4, neither the county nor the third-
party contractor shall disclose electronic map data that is specifically
excepted from disclosure requirements.
   (E)   Payment.
      (1)   Where the county is using its own computer gateway for the
provision to person(s) of electronic map data, payment shall be made by the
person(s) at the time of delivery.
      (2)   Where the county has entered into an agreement with a third-party
contractor to provide electronic map data through the third-party contractor’s
computer gateway, the third-party contractor shall handle the billing and
invoicing of the fees charged, and shall agree to send by U.S. mail that
portion of the fee due the county to the county’s Electronic Map Generation
Fund within ten business days of the receipt of payment of fees to the third-
party contractor by the person(s) making the purchase.
   (F)   Compliance with state statutes. Nothing herein shall compel any
office, or their contracted third-party contractor, to charge a fee for copies
if the fee imposed by this section is contrary to state law. In the event the
fees in this chapter are contrary to any charges established by state statute,
the state statute shall apply.
   (G)   Use restrictions and notice.
      (1)   Pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 5-14-3-3(e), no person, other
than those authorized in writing by the County Board of Commissioners, may use
the electronic map data provided by the county for commercial purposes,
including to sell, advertise, or solicit the purchase of merchandise, goods, or
services, or sell, loan, give away, or otherwise deliver the information
obtained by request to any other person for these purposes. This includes the
repackaging or assimilation of electronic map data for a commercial purpose in
paper or electronic media.
      (2)   A person who uses information in a manner contrary to this section,
or a rule or ordinance adopted under I.C. 5-14-3-3, may be prohibited by the
county from obtaining any electronic map data.
      (3)   The following notice regarding data ownership, restrictions, and
qualifications shall be provided to every person that receives a copy of the
county’s electronic map data.
 

“Pulaski County electronic map data is the property of Pulaski County, Indiana.
All electronic map data supplied by Pulaski County has been derived from public
records that are constantly undergoing change and is not warranted for content or
accuracy. The County does not guarantee the positional or thematic accuracy of
the data. The cartographic digital file server is not a legal representation of
any of the features depicted, and the County disclaims any assumption of the
legal status they represent. Any implied warranties, including warranties of
merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose, shall be and/or expressly
excluded. The data represents an actual reproduction of data contained in the
County's computer files. This data may be incomplete or inaccurate, and is
subject to modifications and changes. Therefore, the County cannot be held liable
for errors or omissions in the data. The recipient's uses and reliance upon such
data is at the recipient's risk. By using this data, the recipient agrees to
protect, hold harmless and indemnify Pulaski County and its employees and
officers. This indemnity covers reasonable attorney's fees and all court costs
associated with the defense of Pulaski County arising out of this disclaimer. The
recipient may copy this data into computer memory or onto computer storage
devices and prepare derivative works from it for the recipient's own use.
 
   Pursuant to the provisions of Indiana Code 5-14-3-3(e), no person, other than
those authorized in writing by the Board of Commissioners may use the electronic
map data provided by the County for commercial purposes, including to sell,
advertise, or solicit the purchase of merchandise, goods, or services, or sell,
loan, give away, or otherwise deliver the information obtained by request to any
other person for these purposes. A person who uses information in a manner
contrary to a rule or ordinance adopted under Indiana Code 5-14-3-3(e) may be
prohibited by the Board of Commissioners from obtaining any electronic map data.
 
   Please refer to Pulaski County Ordinance 2005-2 for any other restrictions on
the use of electronic map data or penalties for the misuse electronic map data”.
 
      (4)   A copy of the language contained in division (G)(3) above shall be
conspicuously posted in all offices where electronic map data is sold in the
county, and shall be provided to any person(s) (as defined by I.C. 5-14-3-2)
who desires to purchase electronic map data from the county.
   (H)   Use violation policy.
      (1)   Any person(s) who violates the terms and conditions of this section
by failing to pay for purchased electronic map data shall be liable for total
fees charged for the electronic map data, plus attorney’s fees and the cost of
collection.
      (2)   Any person(s) who violates the restrictions on the use of
electronic map data, as set forth in division (G) above, shall be guilty of an
infraction and may be fined by the county up to $2,500, and each violation
shall be deemed a separate offence.
      (3)   In the event that there is an improper use of electronic map data,
as set forth in division (G) above, or in violation of state or federal law,
the county may prohibit the person(s) (as defined by I.C. 5-14-3-2) from
obtaining any electronic map data, and seek injunctive relief from any misuse
of electronic map data by the person(s) who originally purchased the electronic
map data, or any other person(s) who has received a copy of the electronic map
data.
(Ord. 2005-2, passed 2-1-2005)
§ 34.22  COUNTY CORONER; VERDICT, REPORT, AUTOPSY, DISPOSITION FEES.
   (A)   Coroner’s permit for disposition, autopsy report. The County Coroner
shall establish a coroner’s permit for disposition and autopsy report, and
shall charge a fee to be set by the County Council, and all monies collected
shall be deposited in the county’s General Fund for use by the County Coroner.
The Coroner’s permit for disposition shall be $25.
   (B)   Coroner’s verdict, report. The County Coroner shall provide copies of
a coroner’s verdict, coroner’s report, and charge a fee to be set by the County
Council, and all monies collected shall be deposited in the county’s General
Fund for use by the County Coroner. The Coroner’s verdict shall be $100.
(Ord. 2018-04, passed 8-6-2018; Ord. 2018-05, passed 8-6-2018; Ord. 2018-,
passed 8-6-2018; Ord. 2018-, passed 8-6-2018)
§ 34.23  REAL PROPERTY TRANSFER FEES.
   (A)   I.C. 36-2-9-18 allows that the legislative body of a county to adopt
an ordinance authorizing the County Auditor to collect a fee in the amount of
$10 for the legal description of each parcel contained in a deed for which the
County Auditor makes a real property endorsement; said fee shall be placed in a
dedicated fund for use to maintain plat books.
   (B)   The County Auditor shall charge $10 per transfer of each parcel of
property the County Auditor endorses.
(Council Ord. 2019-05, passed 6-22-2019)
§ 34.24  SHERIFF’S DEPARTMENT; COPIES, FEES.
   (A)   The County Sheriff’s Department shall assess fees as set forth herein:
Service Fee
Service                       Fee
Accident report/case incident $8
Call screen, per page         $0.50
CD                            $15
Firearm license               No fee
Other documents, per page     $0.50
Paper service, per person     $28
Body cam                      $150
 
   (B)   Further, the cost of certification, production, or reproduction costs
are not intended to be assessed to businesses or entities, including other
governmental entities or persons who are working on behalf of the county, or
have been retained to perform services for the county, and may need copies of
certain documents to perform their duties on behalf of the county.
(Council Ord. 2005-3, passed 2-14-2005)
§ 34.25  ANNUAL SEX OR VIOLENT OFFENDER REGISTRATION FEES.
   (A)   Registration fee.
      (1)   The annual fee for sex or violent offenders registering in the
county shall be $50.
      (2)   Payment of the fee shall be made upon the offender’s initial
registration in the county, and subsequently on, or before, each annual
registration date.
   (B)   Change of address fee. A fee of $5 shall be charged and collected each
time a sex or violent offender registers an address change with the County
Sheriff’s Department.
   (C)   Payment of fees. All fees collected under this section shall be
collected by the County Sheriff’s Department when a sex or violent offender
registers with the County Sheriff’s Department.
   (D)   Procedure. All fees collected under this section by the County
Sheriff’s Department shall be transferred to the County Auditor. On a monthly
basis, the County Auditor shall:
      (1)   Deposit 90% of any fees collected under this section in the County
Sex and Violent Offender Administration Fund; and
      (2)   Transfer 10% of any fees collected under this section to the state
for deposit in the State Sex and Violent Offender Administration Fund under
I.C. 11-8-8-21.
(Ord. 2007-11-5, passed 11-5-2007)
TAXATION
§ 34.40  ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT TAX.
   (A)   The County Council shall impose the County Economic Development Income
Tax (“CEDIT”) on the county taxpayers of the county. The County Economic
Development Income Tax is imposed at a rate of 0.25% on the taxpayers of the
county. This tax shall take effect on July 1, 1992 as provided by I.C. 6-3.6-9-
1 et seq.
   (B)   This CEDIT tax shall be at the rate of 0.25%, and shall be used for
county improvements, including the construction of jail facilities.
(Council Ord. passed 3-23-1992)
§ 34.41  REDUCTION OF REQUIRED SIX-MONTH BALANCE.
   The County Council elects to reduce the required county income tax special
account balance from a six-month balance to a three-month balance.
(Council Ord. 98-3, passed 6-8-1998)
§ 34.42  DEDUCTION FOR ASSESSED VALUE OF INVENTORY.
   (A)   A deduction equal to 100% of the assessed value of inventory applies
to inventory located in the county beginning with the 2003 assessment year.
   (B)   The County Auditor is hereby authorized, and directed, to provide a
certified copy of this section to the Department of Local Government Finance
and to the assessor of each township located in the county before February 1,
2003.
(Council Ord. 2002-2, passed 12-5-2002)
§ 34.43  COUNTY ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME TAX RATES.
   (A)   Pursuant to House Enrolled Act 1546, the County Council is permitted
to impose an additional tax rate after the eight years authorized under I.C. 6-
3.6-9-1 et seq. for the County Adjusted Gross Income (C.A.G.I.T.).
   (B)   I.C. 6-3.5-1.1-3 permits the County Council to adopt an ordinance to
increase the county adjusted gross income tax imposed upon the resident county
taxpayers of the county from 1% base rate, plus the property tax relief amount
of 1%, pursuant to Indiana Code, and the jail bond tax rate of 0.3%, pursuant
to Indiana Code; and the Local Option Income Tax (LOIT) amount of 0.4%,
pursuant to Indiana Code for a total rate of 2.7%. The period in which the
county may impose the additional 0.3% (CAGIT) County Adjusted Gross Income Tax
to operate and maintain the jail is approved till the end of December 31, 2020.
   (C)   The county adjusted gross income tax rate shall be imposed as set
forth in division (B) above.
(Council Ord. 06-2013, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 34.44  HERITAGE BARN TAX REDUCTION.
   (A)   House Enrolled Act 1046 (“HEA 1046”) § 4 adds I.C. 6-1.1-12-26.2,
which is a property tax deduction for certain barns designated as heritage
barns, and further provides that a county fiscal body may adopt an ordinance to
require an eligible applicant receiving the deduction under I.C. 6-1.1-12-26.2
to receive a 100% deduction on the assessed value of the structure and
foundation, and in exchange they shall pay an annual public safety fee for each
heritage barn for which the person receives a deduction, which fee may not
exceed $50.
      (1)   I.C. 6-1.1-12-26.2 defines a BARN as a building (other than a
dwelling) that was designed to be used for:
         (a)   Housing animals;
         (b)   Storing or processing crops;
         (c)   Storing, and maintaining, agricultural equipment; or
         (d)   Serving an essential or useful purpose related to agricultural
activities conducted on the adjacent land.
      (2)   I.C. 6-1.1-12-26.2 defines a HERITAGE BARN as a mortise and tenon
barn that, on the assessment date:
         (a)   Was constructed before 1950; and
         (b)   Retains sufficient integrity of design, materials, and
construction to clearly identify the building as a BARN.
      (3)   I.C. 6-1.1-12-26.2 defines MORTISE AND TENON BARN as a barn that
was built using heavy wooden timbers, joined together with wood-pegged mortise
and tenon joinery, that form an exposed structural frame.
      (4)   I.C. 6-1.1-12-26.2 defines an ELIGIBLE APPLICANT as:
         (a)   An owner of a heritage barn; or
         (b)   A person that is purchasing property that includes a heritage
barn, under a contract that:
            1.   Gives the person a right to obtain title to the property upon
fulfilling the terms of the contract;
            2.    Does not permit the owner to terminate the contract as long
as the person buying the property complies with the terms of the contract;
            3.   Specifies that, during the term of the contract, the person
must pay the property taxes on the property; and
            4.   Has been recorded with the County Recorder.
   (B)   An eligible applicant must file a certified deduction application with
the County Auditor on Form 55706, Statement of Deduction of Assessed Valuation
Attributed to Heritage Barn, provided by the Department of Local Government
Finance.
   (C)   (1)   An eligible applicant receiving a deduction against the assessed
value of the structure and foundation of a heritage barn for property tax under
I.C. 6-1.1-12-26.2 shall be required to pay an annual public safety fee of $50
for each heritage barn for which the eligible applicant receives a deduction
under I.C. 6-1.1-12-26.2.
      (2)   The County Auditor shall distribute any public safety fees
collected under I.C. 6-1.1-12-26.2 equitably among the police and fire
departments in whose territories each heritage barn is located.
(Ord. passed 9-6-2016)
§ 34.45  PROPERTY TAX.
   By the civil taxing unit of the county, being the County Council, that the
previous county property tax levy freeze shall be “thawed” and the maximum
assessed value growth quotient will be applied for property tax levies for the
year 2019 and thereafter.
(Council Ord. 2019-04, passed 6-17-2019)
§ 34.46  LOCAL INCOME TAX RATES.
   (A)   A need now exists to modify the lit rates imposed in the following
way:
 
Allocation Rate Category                Existing LIT Rate Proposed LIT Rate
Certified shares (I.C. 6-3.6-6)         1.40%             1.40%
Public safety (I.C. 6-3.6-6)            0.25%             0.60%
Economic development (I.C. 6-3.6-6)     0.25%             0.50%
Property tax relief rate (I.C. 6-3.6-5) 1.18%             0.35%
Special purpose rate (I.C. 6-3.6-7-18)  0.30%             0.00%
Total Rate                              3.38%             2.85%
 
 
Property Tax Credit       Existing Percent of
Allocation Categories     Revenue             Proposed Percent of Revenue
(I.C. 6-3.6-5-6)
All property tax          84.7458%            71.428(5%
allocation categories
1% allocation type
homesteads eligible for a 15.2542%            28.5714%
credit under I.C. 6-1.1-
20.6-7.5.
 
   (B)   The Public Safety allocation identified above includes revenue
associated with an expenditure rate to be authorized for the purposes of
funding the county's public safety access point (“PSAP”) (emergency-911
dispatch), pursuant to County Res. 2020-07, to be adopted concurrently with
this section. The revenue associated with this rate shall be directed to the
PSAP prior to the distribution of the remainder of the public safety revenue.
 
Allocation Rate Category     Existing LIT Rate Proposed LIT Rate
Public safety (I.C. 6-3.6-6) 0.25%             0.60%
 
 
Local Income Tax Type           Existing PSAP Rate Proposed PSAP Rate
Public safety access point rate 0.00%              0.30%
 
   (C)   The expenditure rate includes a rate associated with a levy freeze
rate previously imposed under the former local option income tax statutes.
 
Allocation Rate Category        Existing LIT Rate Proposed LIT Rate
Certified shares (I.C. 6-3.6-6) 1.40%             1.40%
 
 
Local Income Tax Type Existing Rate Proposed Rate
Levy freeze rate      0.40%         0.40%
 
   (D)   A public hearing was held on the proposed LIT rate modifications on
August 10, 2020. Proper notice of the public hearing was provided pursuant to
I.C. 5-3-1. The modifications to the LIT rate imposed in the county became
effective January 1, 2021.
   (E)   It is currently the intention of the Council to fund the aforesaid
public-works project fully with a debt-service property-tax levy, the Council
may revisit use of the aforesaid public works LIT rate in the future.
   (F)   Copies of this section shall be filed with the state’s Department of
Local Government Finance, the County Auditor, the County Assessor and the
offices of all taxing units within the county.
(Council Ord. passed 10-14-2019; Council Ord. 2020-05, passed 8-10-2020;
Council Res. 2020-07, passed 8-10-2020)
CHAPTER 35:  GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
Section
   
35.01   District boundaries
   
35.02   Membership in associations
   
35.03   Adoption of multi-hazard mitigation plan
§ 35.01  DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   The County Board of Commissioners hereby establishes the County Council
districts and the County Board of Commissioners districts for the county.
   (A)   County Council.
      (1)   District One:
         (a)   Cass Township;
         (b)   White Port Township; and
         (c)   Salem Township.
      (2) District Two:
         (a)   Jefferson Township;
         (b)   Rich Grove Township;
         (c)   Franklin Township; and
         (d)   Tippecanoe Township.
      (3)   District Three:
         (a)   Beaver Township;
         (b)   Indian Creek Township;
         (c)   Monroe (number three) Township; and
         (d)   Monroe (number four) Township.
      (4)   District Four:
         (a)   Van Buren Township;
         (b)   Harrison Township;
         (c)   Monroe (number one) Township; and
         (d)   Monroe (number two) Township.
   (B)   County Board of Commissioners.
      (1) District One:
         (a)   Cass Township;
         (b)   Rich Grove Township;
         (c)   Franklin Township; and
         (d)   Tippecanoe Township.
      (2)   District Two:
         (a)   White Post Township;
         (b)   Jefferson Township;
         (c)   Salem Township; and
         (d)   Beaver Township.
      (3)   District Three:
         (a)   Monroe Township;
         (b)   Harrison Township;
         (c)   Indian Creek Township; and
         (d)   Van Buren Township.
(Ord. 2001-1, passed 12-3-2001)
§ 35.02  MEMBERSHIP IN ASSOCIATIONS.
   (A)   Home Rule powers are vested in the county unit of government, as per
I.C. 36-1-3.
   (B)   The County Board of Commissioners recognizes the need for
participation of the county and its duly elected, and appointed, officials and
members of their respective boards in local, regional, state, and national
associations of a governmental nature which have, as their purpose, the
betterment and improvement of municipal operations.
   (C)   The County Council is hereby authorized to appropriate necessary funds
to provide membership of the county in state and national associations of a
governmental nature which have, as their purpose, the betterment and
improvement of municipal operations. The county representatives are also
authorized to participate through duly designated representatives in the
meetings and activities of such associations, and the County Council is
authorized to appropriate necessary funds to defray the expenses of such
representatives in connection therewith.
(Ord. passed 3-1-1982)
§ 35.03  ADOPTION OF MULTI-HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN.
   (A)   The county has participated in the hazard mitigation planning process,
as established under the Disaster Mitigation Act of 2000, being Pub. Law No.
106-390.
   (B)   The Act establishes a framework for the development of a multi-
jurisdictional County Hazard Mitigation Plan.
   (C)   The Act, as part of the planning process, requires public involvement
and local coordination among neighboring local units of government and
businesses.
   (D)   The County Plan includes a risk assessment including past hazards,
hazards that threaten the county, an estimate of structures at risk, a general
description of land uses, and development trends.
   (E)   The County Plan includes a mitigation strategy, including goals and
objectives, and an action plan identifying specific mitigation projects and
costs.
   (F)   The County Plan includes a maintenance or implementation process
including plan updates, integration of the plan into other planning documents,
and how the county will maintain public participation and coordination.
   (G)   The County Multi-Hazard Mitigation Plan will make the county and
participating jurisdictions eligible to receive FEMA hazard mitigation
assistance grants.
   (H)   The county supports the hazard mitigation planning efforts and wishes
to adopt the County Multi-Hazard Mitigation Plan.
(Res. 2019-09, passed 7-15-2019)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WATER
      
51.   SEWAGE
CHAPTER 50:  WATER
Section
Private Water Wells
   
50.01   Private water wells
   
50.02   Definitions
   
50.03   Permits and inspections
   
50.04   Powers for inspection
   
50.05   Notices
   
50.06   Disclaimer
   
50.07   Appeals
 
   
50.99   Penalty
PRIVATE WATER WELLS
§ 50.01  PRIVATE WATER WELLS.
   (A)   No person shall place, install, or permit the installation of a
private water well in an unsanitary or unsafe manner within the county.
   (B)   No private water well shall be installed which does not conform to all
rulings of the Health Officer issued under this subchapter.
   (C)   If any defect exists or occurs in any private water well which could
cause that private water well to contaminate an existing aquifer or the
groundwater, the owner or occupant shall correct the violation immediately.
   (D)   If the owner or occupant of any property, or his or her agent,
receives a written order from the County Board of Health or Health Officer, he
or she shall comply with the provisions of the order and perform all acts
required by the order within the time limit set forth in that order. The order
shall be served on the owner or occupant of the property, or his or her agent,
but may be served on any person who, by contract with the owner, has assumed
the duty of complying with the provisions of this subchapter and any order
issued under this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 2-7-1994)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   ANNULAR SPACE. The space between the exterior of the well casing and the
natural formation in a drilled well.
   AQUIFER. Any underground geologic formation (consolidated or unconsolidated)
that has the ability to receive, store, and transmit water in amounts
sufficient for the satisfaction of any beneficial use.
   CASING. A pipe installed to prevent unwanted solids, liquids, or gases from
entering the interior of a well.
   COUNTY. Those unincorporated areas which are under the jurisdiction of the
Health Officer and not incorporated cities or towns, except as provided for
under authority of I.C. 16-20.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The County Health Officer, or a duly authorized
representative.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint-stock company, trust, estate, or municipality
of his, her, or its legal representative or agent.
   PRIVATE WATER WELLS. Any water well, including those serving geothermal heat
pump systems, constructed to provide water to one- or two-family dwellings,
totally or in part. Among those wells specifically excluded from this
definition are those which serve commercial, public, or agricultural needs.
Also excluded from this definition are all wells constructed, installed,
maintained, operated, and owned by a municipality or a taxing district
established for the purpose of providing water.
(Ord. passed 2-7-1994)
§ 50.03  PERMITS AND INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Private water wells shall be located in accordance with the distances
shown in the table below (minimum horizontal separation distances from private
water wells):
Location Distance
Location                                                               Distance
Concrete agricultural waste pits                                       50 ft.
Dwelling, or other structure                                           5 ft.
Earthen agricultural waste pits                                        200 ft.
Lake, pond, river, stream, or open public ditches                      25 ft.
Landfills (presently or previously licensed or permitted by the state) 600 ft.
Permanently fixed above-ground storage tanks for fuel or chemicals 300 25 ft.
gallons or more
Sanitary sewage lagoons                                                300 ft.
Septic tanks                                                           50 ft.
Sewage absorption systems in soils where aquifers are in danger of     100 ft.
contamination
Sewage absorption systems in soils where aquifers are not in danger of 50 ft.
contamination
Side, rear, or front lot lines                                         5 ft.
Underground storage tanks for fuel or chemicals                        50 ft.
 
   (B)   Private water well casings shall be a minimum of two inches in
diameter.
   (C)   Private water wells shall not be placed in below grade well pits.
   (D)   The cap of the private water well shall be visible and securely
attached. Minimum well depth shall be not less than is necessary to enter a
satisfactory aquifer, in the discretion of the Health Officer. Single suction
lines must be 50 feet from septic tanks and sewage absorption systems.
   (E)   No annular space may exist. Materials and designs for sealing must
conform to the standards of the State Department of Natural Resources.
   (F)   Pitless adaptors shall be required on each new private water well as
in accordance with the requirement of the State Department of Natural
Resources.
   (G)   All new water wells shall be properly disinfected at the time of
installation.
   (H)   The owner of any building or private residence where a private water
well is to be installed, or the replacement of an existing private water well
is planned, shall obtain a temporary permit signed by the County Health Officer
before any construction begins. The owner shall apply for a permit on a form
provided by the county. The applicant shall supplement the application with
plans, specifications, and other information deemed necessary by the Health
Officer. The applicant shall pay a permit and inspection fee as set by the
County Board of Commissioners from time to time, and as established under I.C.
16-46, to the County Health Department at the time the application is filed.
The fee shall be accounted for and paid into the County Health Fund. The
installation or repair of well lines, screens, pump, pressure tanks, and the
like are exempted unless a new well is also installed.
   (I)   The Health Officer shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage
of construction. The applicant for the permit shall notify the Health Officer
when the work is ready for final inspection. The Health Officer shall make the
inspection within two working days of the receipt of notice from the applicant.
Upon approval, a final permit for a private water well shall become effective
after an the inspection is completed to the satisfaction of the Health Officer.
This permit is to be retained by the owner.
   (J)   A copy of any well log, as required by the State Department of Natural
Resources for licensed well drillers, shall be submitted to the County Board of
Health within 45 days from the date that the private water well was installed.
   (K)   The Health Officer shall, upon the request of the applicant, sample
and test the new private water well for total coliform, nitrate/nitrogen, and
any other substances as deemed necessary by the Health Officer. The applicant
may employ private water laboratory personnel to conduct the required test
under the direction of the County Health Department. The Health Officer may, in
any event, conduct tests deemed necessary by the Health Officer. All final
sample results must be within acceptable primary standards, as established by
the United States Environmental Protection Agency for Public Drinking Water
Sources. If necessary, additional water testing shall be the responsibility of
the individual property owner.
   (L)   All water tests shall be run according to the most recent standard
methods for the examination of water and wastewater, as established by the
State Department of Health. These test results will be provided, in writing, to
the County Health Department within 45 days from the date of well completion.
The failure of a private water well to meet any of these primary water quality
standards will constitute grounds for rejection of the private water well by
the Health Officer.
   (M)   The applicant will post the permit in a conspicuous place at, or near,
the building where the private water well is under construction. The notice
shall be plainly visible from the public thoroughfare nearest this building.
   (N)   Where the installation of a private water well is required for a
dwelling constructed before the enactment of this subchapter, the owner, or
agent of the owner, must first obtain a written permit signed by the Health
Officer. The provisions of this subchapter relating to private water well
design, installation, and location shall not apply to existing dwellings. Such
installations shall be made in accordance with the best judgment of the Health
Officer.
   (O)   Subdivisions designed to utilize private water wells, the plans for
which were duly recorded in the Office of the County Recorder prior to the date
of this subchapter, are exempt from the provisions of this subchapter regarding
location, and may be located in accordance with the best judgment of the Health
Officer.
   (P)   The private well permit is valid for a term of one year from the date
of issue, unless otherwise voided by the Health Officer.
   (Q)   In cases of extreme emergency, and when the County Board of Health is
not open for public business, a private water well may be installed without
first obtaining a local permit; provided, that the property owner, or his or
her agent, obtains a local private well permit within the next two business
days.
   (R)   The private water well must meet all other requirements of this
subchapter.
(Ord. passed 2-7-1994)
§ 50.04  POWERS FOR INSPECTION.
   The Health Officer will be permitted to enter upon all properties at any
reasonable and proper time to inspect, observe, measure, sample and test to
carry out the provisions of this subchapter. The Health Officer shall, upon
request, produce and display identification. The permitee will furnish the
Health Officer with copies of documents and reports of the well upon request.
(Ord. passed 2-7-1994)
§ 50.05  NOTICES.
   The Health Officer will serve any person found to be violating any provision
of this subchapter with a written order stating the nature of the violation,
and providing a time limit for its satisfactory correction.
(Ord. passed 2-7-1994)
§ 50.06  DISCLAIMER.
   Because of many interrelating factors contributing to the failure of a
private water well, acceptance of a private water well does not imply approval,
and it cannot be considered as a guarantee by the Board of Health of successful
potability or operation. The Health Officer’s signature merely signifies that,
as of the date of signing, the private water well meets the County Board of
Health’s minimum standards. The Health Officer’s signature makes no other
representations.
(Ord. passed 2-7-1994)
§ 50.07  APPEALS.
   Any directive or order issued by the County Health Officer which either
denies or revokes the issuance of a private water well permit, or which rejects
the final approval of a permitted well, shall be in writing and certified by
the Health Officer. A person who receives such a directive may, within ten days
after its receipt, appeal the directive, or order, to the County Board of
Health. If the decision of the County Board of Health is adverse to the
property owner, or his or her agent, he or she may appeal that decision to the
County Circuit or Superior Court as provided by law in other civil actions.
(Ord. passed 2-7-1994)
§ 50.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this subchapter will be
deemed to have committed a subchapter violation, and upon conviction shall be
fined up to $500. The Health Officer shall assess the fines, and the County
Attorney shall assist the Health Officer with all legal procedures under this
subchapter. Each day a violation continues after the expiration of the time set
forth in any order issued under this subchapter for abating unsafe conditions
and completing improvements, as ordered by the Health Officer, constitutes a
separate violation.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of this subchapter will be liable
to the county for any expense, including attorney fees, loss, or damage
suffered by the county due to that violation.
   (C)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be deemed or construed to bar,
abridge, or limit in any way any existing legal or equitable remedies for the
abatement, or injunction, of a private or public nuisance.
(Ord. passed 2-7-1994)
CHAPTER 51:  SEWAGE
Section
Private Sewage Disposal Systems
   
51.01   Private sewage disposal systems
   
51.02   Definitions
   
51.03   Permits and inspections
   
51.04   Powers for inspection
   
51.05   Notices
 
   
51.99   Penalty
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS
§ 51.01  PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available, all
persons owning or leasing property on closely built-up areas shall comply with
the following provisions of this subchapter for private sewage disposal
systems.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in an unsanitary manner upon public or private property within the
county, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said county, any human
excrement or sewage.
   (C)   At any business situated within the county where there is installed a
sewage disposal system which is not connected to a public sewer system, and no
public sewer system is available, there shall be established, installed, or
constructed and maintained a private sewage disposal system, which shall comply
with the standards of the State Department of Health as contained in Bulletin
SE 13, or in such other manner as approved by the State Department of Health.
Copies of said Bulletin SE 13 are herewith incorporated by reference as part of
this subchapter, and two copies filed in the Office of the County Auditor and
Health Officer for public inspection.
   (D)   Any privy situated within the county shall be of the sanitary type,
and shall be constructed and maintained in a clean condition so that insects,
reptiles, and animals cannot enter the vault. Any privy shall be located
properly to protect water supplies from contamination.
   (E)   Every private residential disposal system and privy shall be
installed, constructed, and maintained in accordance with 410 I.A.C. 6-8.3. Two
copies of 410 I.A.C. 6-8.3 are on file at the County Auditor’s office for
public inspection, and are incorporated by reference into this subchapter. The
Health Officer may establish the minimum capacity of any septic tank to be
installed in a closely built-up area, and the minimum number of square feet of
any absorption field, or trench, to be constructed in a closely built-up area.
The Health Officer’s ruling shall be based upon the size of the building to
which the septic tank is to be attached, the size of the lot to which the
absorption field or trench is to be constructed, and the percolation rate,
seasonal high water table, and other soils information about that lot. No
septic system shall be installed which does not conform to all the rulings of
the Health Officer issued under this subchapter.
   (F)   The installation of any other private residential sewage disposal
systems not described in the State Department of Health Bulletins SE 8 and 11
of mechanical, chemical, or other means may be approved by the County Health
Officer after the County Board of Commissioners has filed the requirements,
plans, and specifications of such device, or system, in the office of the
County Auditor and County Health Officer. Said requirements, plans, and
specifications must bear the written approval of the State Department of
Health.
   (G)   Should any defect exist or occur in any private sewage disposal system
or privy which would cause said sewage system to fail to meet the requirements
in divisions (B), (C), (D), and (E) above, and cause an unsanitary condition,
the defect shall be corrected immediately by the owner. Failure to do so shall
be a violation of this subchapter, and the violator shall be subject to the
penalties prescribed in §
51.99.
   (H)   Wherever a public combined sewer, or sanitary sewer, becomes
available, and is within 200 feet of the property line of the residential or
business property served by a private sewage disposal system or privy situated
within the county, a direct connection shall be made to said sewer, and any
septic tanks, seepage pits, outhouses, privy pits, and similar sewage disposal
and treatment facilities shall be abandoned and filled in a safe and sanitary
manner.
   (I)   Whenever a new business building or subdivision is developed in an
area where a public combined, or sanitary, sewer is available, a connection
shall be made to said sewer if such connection can be made at a cost as deemed
reasonable by the Health Officer.
   (J)   After receiving an order in writing from the County Board of Health or
the duly appointed Health Officer, the owner of the property shall comply with
the provisions of this subchapter as set forth in said order, and within the
time limit included therein. Said order shall be served on the owner.
(Ord. passed 2-7-1994)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   BUILDER, CONTRACTOR, OR SUB-CONTRACTOR. Any individual holding a valid
contractor’s permit, and being compensated for such services by the applicant.
This contractor’s permit is to be issued by the Health Officer.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface water run off and sewage.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The County Health Officer, or his or her authorized
representative.
   JURISDICTION. This subchapter shall apply to all private sewage disposal
systems which are not connected to a public sewer within the county.
   OCCUPANT. Owner, leasee, sub-leasee, tenant, sub-tenant, life-tenant, and
guardian or trustee for the aforementioned. This term shall not include a guest
or any minor children who reside on the premises.
   OWNER. The person, or persons, who hold the fee simple estate in the land,
the trustees of the land in trust, the life tenant of land under life estates,
the contract seller under sales contracts, and other persons who have a legal
or equitable interest in the land.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint-stock company, trust, estate, or municipality,
or his, her, or its legal representative or agent.
   PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. Any sewage disposal system not constructed,
installed, maintained, operated, and owned by a municipality or a taxing
district established for that purpose. Examples of common PRIVATE SEWAGE
DISPOSAL SYSTEMS shall include, but not be limited to, the following: Sewer;
combined sewer; sanitary sewer; privy; commode; septic tank; septic feeder
system; seepage pits, and the like.
   PUBLIC SEWER. Any sewer constructed, installed, maintained, operated, and
owned by a municipality or a taxing district established for that purpose. A
county sewer installed for the purpose of carrying surface water run off and
sub-soil drainage shall not be considered a PUBLIC SEWER under this definition.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface,
and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEPTIC TANK CLEANER. Any person who, for hire or not, is engaged in the
business of cleaning out septic tanks, dry wells, or other sewage disposal
systems and disposing of their contents. This person must be licensed by the
State Department of Health.
   SEWAGE. Any combination of human excreta and wastewater from water closets,
laundries, sinks, bathing facilities, and other non-purified wastewaters.
   SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
receiving, treating, and disposing of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe conduit for carrying sewage.
   UNSANITARY MANNER OF SEWAGE DISPOSAL or UNSANITARY CONDITION. Shall mean,
but not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   The seepage of sewage from a septic tank, sewer, or tile into a
culvert, creek, stream, ditch, or river;
      (2)   Allowing sewage to be stored in an insecure septic tank that allows
insects, reptiles, or animals access; or
      (3)   The installation of a septic system in ground that is unsuited for
sewage protection.
(Ord. passed 2-7-1994)
§ 51.03  PERMITS AND INSPECTIONS.
   (A)    Before commencement of construction of any building or private
residence where a private sewage disposal system or privy is to be installed,
or where any alteration, repair, or addition of any existing private sewage
disposal systems is planned, the owner or occupant shall first obtain a written
permit signed by the Health Officer. On all new septic systems, a soil survey
must be done by an ARCPAC Soil Scientist registered by the State Department of
Health and must accompany the application.
      (1)   This application for a septic permit shall be made on a form
provided by the County Health Department, which application must be
supplemented by any plans, specifications, and other information as is deemed
necessary by the Health Officer. A permit and inspection fee, as set by the
County Board of Commissioners, is paid to the County Health Department at the
time the application is filed. Failure by the owner to obtain the necessary
permit shall be a violation of this subchapter, and the violator shall be
subject to the penalties prescribed in §
51.99.
      (2)   In addition, it shall be the duty of all builders, contractors, or
sub-contractors who are to install, alter, or make additions to any new, or
existing, private sewage disposal systems to ascertain by a verbal inquiry and
visual inspection that the owner or occupant has acquired the necessary permit
before construction or alteration has begun. If the builder, contractor, or
sub-contractor fails to ascertain that the owner has the necessary permit, and
the owner in fact does not have the necessary permit, then the builder,
contractor, or sub-contractor shall be subject to the penalties set out in §
51.99.
   (B)   (1)   A permit for a private sewage disposal system or privy shall not
become effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
Health Officer.
      (2)   He or she, or his or her agent, shall be allowed to inspect the
work at any stage of construction; and in any event, the applicant for the
permit shall notify the Health Officer when the work is ready for final
inspection, and before any underground portions are covered.
      (3)   The inspection shall be made within two working days of the receipt
of notice by the Health Officer.
   (C)   (1)   The application for a permit shall be posted in a conspicuous
place at or near the building where the sewage disposal system is under
construction.
      (2)   The notice shall be plainly visible from the public thoroughfare
serving the building.
   (D)   The application permit for the installation of a private sewage
disposal system, whether issued prior to, or after, the adoption of this
subchapter, shall lapse and be void if work has not been started within a year
and completed within 60 days.
   (E)   All abandoned septic and dry well tanks shall be removed from the
ground, or shall be opened and filled with an inert material approved by the
Health Officer.
(Ord. passed 2-7-1994)
§ 51.04  POWERS FOR INSPECTION.
   (A)   The Health Officer, or his or her agent, bearing identification shall
request permission to enter upon all property at reasonable time for
inspection, observation, measurements, sampling, and testing necessary to carry
out the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   If entry permission is not granted, or is not granted in a timely
manner, the owner’s, or occupant’s, permit shall be deemed to be ineffective,
and the owner will be in violation of §
51.03(A) and subject to the penalties of §
51.99.
(Ord. passed 2-7-1994)
§ 51.05  NOTICES.
   Any person violating any provisions of this subchapter may be served by the
County Board of Health, or the duly appointed Health Officer, with a written
order stating the nature of the violation, and providing a time limit for
satisfactory correction thereof.
(Ord. passed 2-7-1994)
§ 51.99  PENALTY.
   Any person found to be violating any provision of this subchapter shall be
punished for the first offense by a fine of not more than $500; for the second
offense, by a fine of not more than $1,000; and for the third and each
subsequent offense, by a fine of not more than $2,500. Each day after the
expiration of the time limit for abating unsanitary conditions and completing
improvements to abate such conditions as ordered by the County Board of Health,
or by the duly appointed Health Officer of the county, shall constitute a
distinct and separate offense.
(Ord. passed 2-7-1994)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
72.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Traffic on county roadways
   
70.02   Privately developed roads for adoption; standards
§ 70.01  TRAFFIC ON COUNTY ROADWAYS.
   (A)   A variety of traffic control signs regulating the use of roadways and
rights-of-way under the authority of the county have been placed since the
joint ordinance of June 14, 1993, and have been placed, designated, and
maintained by oral authority for which no specific county ordinance was
enacted, and the County Council, as the legislative body, desires to ratify and
affirm the placement, legal effect, and enforceability of all such county
signs.
   (B)   In the future after the enactment of this section, additional traffic
control devices may be needed to be placed and maintained to regulate traffic
on county highways, roadways, rights-of-way, and public easements.
   (C)   From and after the passage of this section, all existing traffic
control signs previously placed, or maintained, by the County Highway
Department throughout the county regulating traffic speed, parking,
intersections, vehicle weight, entry and exit, stopping, yielding, direction
(one-way, two-way), and the like, are hereby given full force and legal effect.
This section includes all previously placed traffic control signs not covered
by the June 14, 1993 joint ordinance, and hereby ratifies and affirms their
legality.
   (D)   This section is created to approve the placement of any other future
traffic control devices which the county hereby orally authorizes the County
Highway Department to place. Said authorization shall be noted in the minutes
of the County Board of Commissioners and County Council.
   (E)   It shall be a Class C infraction for any person to operate a motor
vehicle in the county in violation of the traffic control signs and devices
covered by this section. It shall not be a defense that there was no specific
ordinance previously adopted at the time the traffic control sign or device was
placed. The prosecuting attorney or the County Attorney may prosecute such
actions on behalf of the county. Any judgment entered against a person shall be
payable to the county, together with costs of the action.
(Ord. passed 8-22-1994)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.02  PRIVATELY DEVELOPED ROADS FOR ADOPTION; STANDARDS.
   (A)   Approval. All stages of development must be seen and approved by the
County Highway Supervisor.
   (B)   Right-of-way minimum.
      (1)   Fifty feet right-of-way (20 feet of blacktop and 15 feet right-of-
way on each side).
      (2)   A cul-de-sac or dead end shall have at least five feet of right-of-
way on the outside edge of the asphalt of the cul-de-sac radius.
      (3)   The radius of a cul-de-sac shall be 60 feet to the outside edge of
the asphalt roadway (asphalt roadway width to be 20 feet around the cul-de-sac)
and/or all of the radius may be asphalted, if not, there shall be a berm of
five feet around the inside and outside edge of asphalt in the cul-de-sac.
   (C)   Drainage of roadway and cul-de-sac, if applicable.
      (1)   A suitable side ditch on each side of the road for drainage six
feet out from edge of blacktop surface.
      (2)   Culverts under road where needed.
      (3)   Divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2) above must be approved by the County
Highway Supervisor before the road base is started.
      (4)   The roadbed shall be filled to minimum of three feet above an
existing water table.
   (D)   Base of roadway.
      (1)   Six inches of 53’s or 73’s (stone) in a good, drained area.
      (2)   Poorly drained ground, or muck ground, may need #2 stone under the
six inches of 53’s or 73’s. It must meet the approval of the County Highway
Supervisor.
      (3)   The final grade of the base (from the center to the outside edges)
must be a two-inch slope.
   (E)   Pavement specifications.
      (1)   All roads shall be paved according to specifications listed below:
         (a)   Sixty percent traffic of more than 40,000 pounds:
            1.   H.A.C., five base: Three inches thick.
            2.   H.A.C., eight binder: Two inches thick.
            3.   H.A.C., 11 surface: One inch thick.
            4.   Tack AE.T to INDOT specifications.
         (b)   Twenty percent traffic of more than 40,000 pounds:
            1.   H.A.C., eight binder: Two and a half inches thick.
            2.   H.A.C., 11 surface: One inch thick.
            3.   Tack AE.T to INDOT specifications.
         (c)   Ninety percent car and light truck traffic, or residential:
            1.   H.A.C., eight binder: Two inches thick.
            2.   H.A.C., 11 surface: One inch thick.
            3.   Tack AE.T to INDOT specifications.
            4.   H.A.C. mix design must meet specifications designed by the
County Highway Supervisor.
      (2)   Hot asphalt concrete materials and application must meet the State
Department of Transportation specifications. All roads shall be paved.
      (3)   All hot asphalt concrete mixing and application shall be performed
under proper weather conditions, and be in the time period of April 15 to
October 15.
      (4)   H.A.C. road surface to have a two-inch slope from the center to
both edges.
   (F)   Section standards. The standards set forth in this section are minimum
standards, and may be set higher if the County Highway Supervisor deems it
necessary.
(Ord. 99-5, passed 10-18-1999)
CHAPTER 71:  RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
   
71.01   Operation of snowmobiles
   
71.02   Off-road vehicles
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01  OPERATION OF SNOWMOBILES.
   (A)   Passage. After the passage of this section, it shall be legal to
operate a snowmobile upon the right-of-way and traveled portion of county
highways subject to restrictions contained herein.
   (B)   Jurisdiction. All county roads under the jurisdiction of the County
Board of Commissioners, including the right-of-way and traveled portion, are
opened to use by snowmobiles.
   (C)   Regulations.
      (1)   No vehicle may be operated at a speed other than one that is safe,
reasonable, and proper, having due regard for existing conditions.
      (2)   No operator may operate such a vehicle under the influence of
liquor, unlawful narcotic, or other habit forming drug, or dangerous stimulant
or depressant drug.
      (3)   No vehicle may be operated unless it shows its lights at all times
during the periods of operation.
      (4)   No vehicle may be operated unless it is equipped with a muffler in
good working order and in constant operation to prevent excessive, or unusual,
noise and annoying smoke.
      (5)   No vehicle may be operated within 100 feet of a dwelling between
12:00 a.m. midnight and 6:00 a.m., except on the owner’s property or as an
invited guest.
      (6)   No vehicle may be operated on the streets of any unincorporated
community, recognized and demarcated as such, under the jurisdiction of the
County Board of Commissioners.
      (7)   Operators must, when traveling together, whether by intention or
otherwise, travel single file and so that there are no more than five vehicles
within 300 feet of traveled road.
(Ord. passed 12-19-1977)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02  OFF-ROAD VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a
different meaning.
      AGRICULTURE PURPOSE. Farming, dairying, pasturage, agriculture,
horticulture, viticulture, ornamental horticulture, olericulture, pomiculture,
animal husbandry, and poultry husbandry, consistent with the definition of
AGRICULTURAL PURPOSE set forth in I.C. 14-21-1-24 as now in force and effect,
and to include any subsequent alterations or amendments to I.C. 14-21-1-24
dealing with the definitions of AGRICULTURAL PURPOSE.
      BUSINESS PURPOSE. Buying, selling, manufacturing, assembling, developing,
hauling or processing of products, supplies, or materials or undertaking, and
activities associated therewith in furtherance of a business undertaking,
enterprise, or other commercial activity.
      COUNTY NUMBERED ROADS. Roads, rights-of-way, and/or highways owned,
controlled, and maintained by the County Board of Commissioners in the
unincorporated areas of the county for motor vehicular and other traffic uses
which COUNTY NUMBERED ROADS bear an Arabic number or comparable designation,
and which COUNTY NUMBERED ROADS were established and/or platted as part of the
original platting and/or formation of the county, or subsequent activities
related or associated thereto; COUNTY NUMBERED ROADS shall not include roads or
streets in platted subdivisions, bicycle or pedestrian paths, recreational
trails, or any other rights-of-way, dedicated roadways, or transportation
corridors not part of such original platting and formation of the county or
activities related thereto.
      DEVELOPMENT PURPOSE. Activities associated with the grading, subdividing,
or development of real estate parcels, and the installation of water, sewer,
and other utilities, roads, or infrastructure for the benefit of land
development.
      GOVERNMENT PURPOSE. The activities of elected officials, government
employees, governmental agents, independent contractors serving governmental
units, and other persons in furtherance of defined governmental purposes and
undertakings.
      OFF-ROAD VEHICLE. As such is defined in I.C. 14-8-2-185, as currently in
force and effect, or as from time to time hereafter modified or amended.
      PROFESSIONAL PURPOSE. Activities associated with surveying, soil testing,
water testing, or other scientific, architectural, engineering, or
environmental undertakings or enterprises.
      TRAVEL PART. The portion of a numbered county road upon which are
operated conventional motor vehicles, properly licensed and authorized for such
undertakings, which TRAVEL PART shall include traveled areas with paved or
concrete surfaces, and conventional graded lanes for gravel roads, in or upon
which conventional motor vehicle travel is routinely contemplated and allowed;
TRAVEL PART does not include additional portions of the public right-of-way
applicable to a numbered county road adjacent to the TRAVEL PART, within which
an adjacent portion of the public right-of-way the operation of off-road
vehicles is otherwise (as of the date of adoption of this section) governed by
the standards and provisions of I.C. 14-16-1-1, et seq.
   (B)   Designation of traveled portion of certain highways for operation of
off-road vehicles. Consistent with I.C. 14-16-1-20(a)(3), the County Board of
Commissioners hereby specifically designates the traveled part of all county
numbered roads in the county highway system outside the corporate limits of a
city or town, as permitted, areas upon which an otherwise eligible operator may
operate an off-road vehicle, subject to the following limitations.
      (1)   The operation of an off-road vehicle shall be for an agricultural
purpose, a business purpose, a professional purpose, a governmental purpose, or
a development purpose, or otherwise such operation on a traveled part of a
county numbered road is not authorized or permitted by this section.
      (2)   The operation of an off-road vehicle shall only be permitted on the
traveled part of the county numbered road if the operator has a designated, or
defined, destination point established, and to which such operator shall be
proceeding, or from which such operator shall be returning, for such operation
to be authorized or permitted by this section.
   (C)   Other standards to apply. All other terms, provisions, standards, and
requirements of I.C. 14-16-1-1 through 30, pertaining to the operation of an
off-road vehicle, shall, in all respects, apply as, and to the operation of, an
off-road vehicle on a traveled part of a county numbered road designated by
division (B)(2) above.
   (D)   Registration. All off-road vehicles must be registered with the BMV,
pursuant to I.C. 9-18.1-14.
   (E)   Violations. Violation of the provisions of I.C. 14-16-1-1 through 30,
or violation of the provisions of this section, by any person operating an off-
road vehicle upon the county highway system outside the corporate limits of any
city or town within the county, shall be subject to the sanctions and penalties
set forth in I.C. 14-16-1-29.
(Ord. passed 9-6-2016)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, for which no
specific penalty is prescribed, shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person found to be in violation of §
71.01 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction shall be fined not
more than $1,000.
(Ord. passed 12-19-1977)
CHAPTER 72:  TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedules
   
I.   Stop signs
   
II.   Speed limits
SCHEDULE I. STOP SIGNS.
   (A)   Current stop sign locations.
 
Intersection                     Location of Stop Sign(s)
Co. Rd. 200 N and Co. Rd. 300 W  Any direction from intersection
Co. Rd. 400 N and Co. Rd. 1400 W Any direction from intersection
Co. Rd. 500 N and Co. Rd. 300 W  Any direction from intersection
 
   (B)   Violations. Any person who violates any portion of this schedule shall
be guilty of a Class C infraction pursuant to I.C. 9-21-8-32 and 9-21-8-49.
(Ord. 2014-04, passed 3-17-2014; Ord. 2019-07, passed 11-18-2019)
SCHEDULE II. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   Current speed limits.
Preferential Highway Location Speed Limit
Preferential Highway Location                                       Speed Limit
                     Running north and south from U.S. Highway 35
Co. Rd. 50 E         to intersection with Co. Rd. 100 S at          30 mph
                     northwest corner of Woodlawn Forest
                     Subdivision.
                     Running south and west until it crosses
Co. Rd. 50 E         corporate boundary of the Town of Winamac;     30 mph
                     four-way stop at corners of Washington Street
                     and Riverside Drive.
Co. Rd. 50 S         Between junction of south S.R. 14.             30 mph
Co. Rd. 50 S         To junction of Co. Rd. 50 S and east of Co.    30 mph
                     Rd. 200 S.
                     Running south and west from where it
Co. Rd. 90 E         intersects with S.R. 14 until becoming Co. Rd. 30 mph
                     50 E.
                     Running east and west from U.S. Highway 35,
Co. Rd. 100 S        0.75 mile to northwest corner of Woodlawn      30 mph
                     Forest Subdivision.
                     Easterly direction until it crosses county
Co. Rd. 150 N        lines into Fulton County, Harrison Township,   30 mph
                     adjacent to Bruce Lake.
Co. Rd. 200 N        Running south and west to where it intersects  30 mph
                     with, and becomes, Co. Rd. 675 E.
Co. Rd. 250 N        East of intersection of Co. Rd. 125 E until    45 mph
                     the intersection of Co. Rd. 350 N.
Co. Rd. 400 N        Between S.R. 421 and Co. Rd. 1400 W.           35 mph
Co. Rd. 675 E        Intersection with Co. Rd. 150 N.               30 mph
 
   (B)   Violation. Any person who violates any portion of this schedule shall
be guilty of a Class C infraction, and may be fined accordingly.
(Ord. passed 7-3-1978; Ord. passed 9-18-1978; Ord. passed 7-6-1982; Ord. passed
4-13-2015; Ord. passed 12- -2016; Ord. 2019-08, passed 10-14-2019)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   HEALTH AND SANITATION
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   FAIR HOUSING
CHAPTER 90:  HEALTH AND SANITATION
Section
   
90.01   Leaf burning, building materials on county roads
   
90.02   Accumulation of garbage, rubbish
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01  LEAF BURNING, BUILDING MATERIALS ON COUNTY ROADS.
   The County Highway Superintendent has determined the burning of leaves and
building materials on asphalt pavement causes severe damage to the pavement
surface, and is also a safety hazard to vehicular traffic that may accidentally
travel into the open fire. Now, therefore:
   (A)   Any open fires within five feet of a road pavement edge is prohibited;
   (B)   Violators are subject to a maximum fine of $750 for each incident; and
   (C)   Violators shall be required to pay the county for all costs involved
to make the pavement repairs, including reasonable attorney’s fees.
(Ord. 2014-005, passed 6-16-2014)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02  ACCUMULATION OF GARBAGE, RUBBISH.
   (A)   Regulations. It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, or to allow
to be caused, unsightly, unsafe, or unhealthy accumulation, or scattering, of
garbage or rubbish upon his or her property, or property occupied by said
person, within the county. Any such accumulation, or scattering, of garbage or
trash is, and hereby declared to be, a public health nuisance.
      (1)   All garbage and receptacles for the collection of garbage shall be
kept enclosed and shall be removed from the premises in a timely fashion.
      (2)   If so ordered by the Health Officer, the trash and rubbish may be
covered at the site with sanitary fill. Otherwise, all garbage and rubbish must
be hauled to a sanitary landfill in accordance with I.C. 13-30-2-1.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a
different meaning.
      COUNTY. The County of Pulaski, Indiana, and those unincorporated areas
which are under the jurisdiction of the County Health Officer and not
incorporated cities or towns, except as provided for under authority of I.C.
16-20.
      GARBAGE. Rejected food wastes, including every waste accumulation of
animal, fruit, or vegetable matter used, or intended, for food, or that attends
the preparation, use, cooking, dealing in, or storing of meat, fish, fowl,
fruit, or vegetables, but specifically excludes livestock waste.
      HEALTH OFFICER. The County Health Officer, or his or her authorized
representative.
      PERSONS. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company
corporation, association, joint-stock company, trust, estate, or municipality,
or his, her, or its legal representative or agent.
      RUBBISH. Ashes, cans, metalware, broken glass, crockery, sweepings,
boxes, furniture, appliances, cardboard, paper cartons, containers, or litter
of any kind, and all similar matter.
      SANITARY FILL. The placement of garbage and rubbish in an especially
prepared trench, or its equivalent, with the material being thoroughly
compacted and covered with at least two feet of compacted fresh earth.
      VECTOR. Any living animal capable of harboring and transmitting
microorganisms from one animal to another animal or human, specifically
including in said definition rats, mice, rodents, mosquitoes, and flies.
   (C)   Enforcement. The Health Officer shall enforce this section, shall
exercise all discretion granted under this section, and shall access penalties
under §
90.99 hereof.
   (D)   Powers of inspection.
      (1)   The Health Officer shall be permitted to enter upon all properties
at any reasonable time to inspect, observe, measure, sample, and test to carry
out the provisions of this section.
      (2)   The Health Officer shall, upon request, produce and display
identification.
   (E)   Notices. The Health Officer shall serve any person found to be
violating any provisions of this section with a written order stating the
nature of the violation, and providing a time limit for its satisfactory
correction.
(Ord. passed 2-7-1994)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of §
90.01 shall be deemed to have committed a section violation, and shall be fined
$300 for a first offense; all subsequent violations by the same violator will
be fined $750.
   (B)   Any person who violated any provision of §
90.02 shall be deemed to have committed a section violation and, upon
conviction, shall be fined not more than $100 for the first violation, and not
more than $200 for the second, and each subsequent violation up to $2,500. Each
day a violation continues after the expiration of the time set forth in any
order issued under §
90.02(E) for abating unsanitary conditions and completing improvements, as
ordered by the Health Officer, constitutes a separate violation. The County
Attorney shall assist the Health Officer with all necessary legal procedures
under §
90.02.
      (1)   Any person violating any provision of §
90.02 shall be liable to the county for any expense, including attorney’s fees,
loss, or damage suffered by the county due to that violation.
      (2)   Nothing in §
90.02 shall be deemed, or construed, to bar, abridge, or limit in any way any
existing legal or equitable remedies for the abatement of a private, or public,
nuisance.
(Ord. passed 2-7-1994; Ord. 2014-005, passed 6-16-2014)
CHAPTER 91:  ANIMALS
Section
   
91.01   Animal control and care
   
91.02   Definitions
   
91.03   Seizure policy
   
91.04   Reclaim policy
   
91.05   Quarantine
   
91.06   Dog permits
   
91.07   Fees
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01  ANIMAL CONTROL AND CARE.
   (A)   Owners shall keep animals under restraint at all times. Owners whose
animals constitute a public nuisance are in violation of this chapter. Owners
of female dogs in heat, which are not restrained to prevent unplanned breeding,
are also in violation of this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Every owner of an animal shall keep such animal in a clean,
sanitary, and healthy area of sufficient size for the animal.
      (2)   No animal shall be confined in an area so as to be forced to stand,
sit, or lie in its own excreta.
   (C)   Every owner of an animal shall not confine an animal in an area
littered with debris or any other obstacles which would impair, prohibit, or
reduce the animal’s movement, or cause injury within such area of confinement.
   (D)   Every owner of an animal shall provide proper shelter.
   (E)   Every owner of an animal shall not tether an animal by choker collar,
or on a chain or similar means of restraint less than ten feet in length, or of
such weight as to prevent an animal from moving about or causing injury to such
animal.
   (F)   Every owner of an animal shall provide said animal with sufficient,
wholesome food and clean water.
   (G)   Every owner of an animal shall provide humane and veterinary care and
counsel for sick, injured, or diseased animals, and shall segregate such
animals from the healthy so as to prevent transmittal of any sickness or
disease.
   (H)   No person shall beat, cruelly ill treat, torment/overload, overwork,
or otherwise abuse or mistreat any animal.
   (I)   No person shall abandon any animal on any place public or private,
including any public or private highway, or road, or upon the property of
another.
(Ord. 1995-01, passed 1-9-1995)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. All domestic animals.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. The person employed for the position is under the
supervision of the County Sheriff. The duties of the ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER
shall be the enforcement of this chapter and such state statutes concerning
animal control as the Officer is permitted.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. The shelter approved for animal control, as established by
the County Board of Commissioners from time to time.
   BARKING DOGS. No person shall allow the barking, yelping, whining, or
howling of a dog for a continuing period of more than 15 minutes. The Animal
Control Officer, and any law enforcement officer, may take steps to immediately
correct the situation and cause the noise to be abated, either through the
issuance of a citation, or impounding the animal if no owner or agent can be
found at the time of disturbance. This definition is to be enforced from the
period of 10:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m. prevailing time. However, this definition is
not intended to be enforced during hunting activities where the dogs are
engaged in lawful hunting activities, or at any other lawful activity that may
occur, and also exempts any police dog activities being conducted under the
supervision of any law enforcement agency.
   DISPOSAL OF ANIMALS. Euthanasia, release for adoption, release to
environment, or sale to licensed kennel; all shall be proper forms of disposal
for animals received by the animal shelter.
   NEGLECT. An animal that is not fed or watered such as to keep the animal
healthy, if deprived of shelter from extreme weather conditions, or if the
animal is tortured or abused.
   PRESUMED ABANDONED. Animals which are not reclaimed by the end of the third
working day after pick up by the animal shelter or authorities are hereby
PRESUMED ABANDONED and without ownership. Animals which are wearing a current
dog license tag shall not be PRESUMED ABANDONED if, during the reclaim period,
the owner requests up to three additional days to make the reclaim, and assures
the Animal Control Officer, or the shelter operator, that the boarding fees
will be paid.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Acts which constitute a public nuisance that include:
Attacking or chasing persons or other animals; trespassing on school grounds;
damaging property of one other than the owner; roaming at large; or running
with other animals so as to constitute a pack of animals, such as dogs.
(Ord. 1995-01, passed 1-9-1995; Ord. passed 7-7-2008)
§ 91.03  SEIZURE POLICY.
   (A)   Unrestrained animals, animals causing a public nuisance, and abandoned
or neglected animals may be seized by the Animal Control Officer, or any other
law enforcement officer, within the county.
   (B)   Seized animals shall be impounded by the Animal Control Officer and
held for the approved time at the animal shelter.
   (C)   When seized animals are identified by current dog license tag or any
other method, the Animal Control Officer shall attempt to contact the owner to
permit reclaiming of the animal. Seized animals which are not identified shall
be held until reclaimed or abandoned.
(Ord. 1995-01, passed 1-9-1995)
§ 91.04  RECLAIM POLICY.
   (A)   To reclaim an animal from the County Animal Shelter, a person shall
provide or show proof of:
      (1)   Affidavit of ownership;
      (2)   Current dog license;
      (3)   Current rabies certificate;
      (4)   Payment of impoundment fee; and
      (5)   Payment of shelter boarding fee.
   (B)   Reclaims must be made by 5:00 p.m. of the third working day after the
animal is seized. Any animal not reclaimed within this period shall be presumed
abandoned and may be disposed of.
(Ord. 1995-01, passed 1-9-1995)
§ 91.05  QUARANTINE.
   (A)   Any animal which bites a person shall be seized by the Animal Control
Officer or owner, and quarantined under the Animal Control Officer’s
supervision either at the animal shelter, if the owner agrees to pay boarding,
or at the owner’s residence, if the owner properly reclaims the animal and
provides adequate assurance to the Animal Control Officer that a proper
quarantine will be maintained for a minimum of ten days.
   (B)   Any quarantined animal which is then reclaimed by its owner shall be
reclaimed under the provisions of §
91.04.
   (C)   If any pathological examination of an animal is required as a result
of quarantine, the owner shall be responsible for any expense which may be
recovered by any means, including litigation.
(Ord. 1995-01, passed 1-9-1995)
§ 91.06  DOG PERMITS.
   (A)   Every dog owned or kept in the county shall have a current dog
license, which shall be made available upon request.
   (B)   Dog permits shall be purchased from the township trustee of the
owner’s residence, or any person authorized to issue the permit by the township
trustee.
(Ord. 1995-01, passed 1-9-1995)
§ 91.07  FEES.
   (A)   Reclaim fees for animals reclaimed, pursuant to this chapter, shall be
as follows:
      (1)   The person owning any animal shall pay a $15 fee for the first
reclaim of any animal from the animal shelter. This would be a stray, non-
biter;
      (2)   The person owning any animal shall pay a $20 fee for each
subsequent reclaim of any animal within one year from the animal shelter. This
would be a stray, non-biter;
      (3)   The County Board of Commissioners shall pay a $10 fee for each
abandoned animal taken to the animal control shelter. This would be a stray,
non-biter;
      (4)   Only county residents can drop off an animal;
      (5)   There will be a flat fee of $50 for quarantine and boarding of an
animal that has bitten someone; and
      (6)   There will be a fee of $15 for the first adult stray to be brought
into the shelter. For each additional adult stray brought in by said person,
there will be a $5 charge. Litters under eight weeks will have a $15 fee per
litter.
   (B)   All fees are to be paid at the animal shelter. This is to be done when
the animal, or animals, are dropped off.
(Ord. 1995-02, passed 1-9-1995)
§ 91.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any owner who violates this chapter shall commit a county chapter
violation (Class C infraction).
   (B)   A violation of the animal control ordinance is punishable by a
judgment of not more than $500.
   (C)   Violations of this chapter for barking dogs shall result in the
following:
      (1)   First offense: Verbal or written warning by the County Sheriff’s
Department, the County Animal Control Officer, or other authorized law
enforcement agency;
      (2)   Second offense: $25 fine; and
      (3)   Third offense: $50 fine.
(Ord. 1995-01, passed 1-9-1995; Council Ord. passed 7-14-2008)
CHAPTER 92:  FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
92.01   Policy statement
   
92.02   Definitions
   
92.03   Unlawful practice
   
92.04   Discrimination; sale or rental; residential real estate
   
92.05   Discrimination; brokerage service
   
92.06   Interference, coercion, intimidation
   
92.07   Prevention of intimidation
   
92.08   Equal access to housing; HUD programs
   
92.09   Exemptions
   
92.10   Enforcement
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01  POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the county to provide, within constitutional
limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for
under the federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 3601 et seq., as
amended, the federal Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 5301 et seq., as amended, and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(Ord. 2019-07, passed 10-7-2019)
§ 92.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who (I.C. 22-9.5-2-2):
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
   COMMISSION. I.C. 22-9.5-2-3; the State Civil Rights Commission created
pursuant to I.C. 22-9-1-4, et seq.
   COMPLAINANT. I.C. 22-9.5-2-4; a person, including the State Civil Rights
Commission, who files a complaint under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
92.04 to 92.06, or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or part of a building or structure that
is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction, or location, of a building, structure, or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a
residence by one or more families (I.C. 22-9.5-2-8).
   FAMILIAL STATUS.
      (1)   One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18 years
being domiciled with a parent, or another person having legal custody of such
individual, or the written permission of such parent, or other person.
      (2)   The protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of
FAMILIAL STATUS shall apply to any person who is pregnant, or is in the process
of securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18
years.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual (I.C. 22-9.5-2-9) with the status of
such family being further defined in FAMILIAL STATUS above.
   HANDICAP.
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person’s major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment;
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq.; or
         (e)   Any other impairment defined in 910 I.A.C. 2-3.
      (2)   The term HANDICAP shall not include current illegal use of, or
addictions to, a controlled substance as defined in 21 U.S.C. § 802 (910 I.A.C.
2-3-2(14)); nor does the term HANDICAP include an individual solely because
that individual is a transvestite (910 I.A.C. 2-3-2(14)).
   PERSON. I.C. 22-9.5-2-11; includes one or more individuals, corporations,
partnerships, associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual
companies, joint-stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations,
trustees, trustees in cases under U.S.C. Title 11, receivers, and fiduciaries.
   TO RENT. I.C. 22-9.5-2-13; includes to lease, to sublease, to let, and
otherwise to grant for a consideration the rights to occupy the premises owned
by the occupant.
(Ord. 2019-07, passed 10-7-2019)
§ 92.03  UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below, §
92.08, and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale
or rental of housing set forth in I.C. 22-9.5-5-1 and in §
92.04(A) shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings, except as exempted by division (B) below and I.C. 22-
9.5-3;
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) below, nothing in §
92.04(A) shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided, that in the sale of such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24-month period. The
private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or
reserved on his or her behalf, title to or any right to all, or a portion of,
the proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family
houses at any one time;
      (2)   The sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be
exempted from application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities,
or services, of any real estate broker, agent, or salesperson, or any person in
the business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of
any such broker, agent, or salesperson, or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting, or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
92.04(A)(3), but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstracters, title companies, and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title.
      (3)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied, or
intended to be occupied, by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B), a person shall be deemed to be in
the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale, or rental, of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
agent, other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in
providing sales or rental facilities, or services, in two or more transactions
involving the sale, or rental, of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling unit designed, or intended,
for occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 2019-07, passed 10-7-2019)
§ 92.04  DISCRIMINATION; SALE OR RENTAL; RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE.
   (A)   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing. As made applicable by
§
92.03, and except as exempted by §§
92.03(B) and
92.08, it shall be unlawful:
      (1)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or
to refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable
or deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status, or national origin;
      (2)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services of
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status, or national origin;
      (3)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or
published any notice, statement, or advertisement with respect to the sale or
rental of a dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or
discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status,
or national origin, or an intention to make any such preference, limitation, or
discrimination;
      (4)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status, or national origin that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale, or rental when such dwelling is in fact so
available;
      (5)   For profit, to induce, or attempt to induct, any person to sell or
rent any dwelling by representations regarding the entry, or perspective entry,
into the neighborhood of a person, or persons, of a particular race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin;
      (6)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap
of:
         (a)   That buyer or renter;
         (b)   A person residing in, or intending to reside in, that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (7)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a handicap of:
         (a)   That buyer or renter;
         (b)   A person residing in, or intending to reside in, that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (8)   For purposes of this subsection, DISCRIMINATION includes:
         (a)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied, or to be occupied, by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises, except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may, where it is reasonable to do so, condition permission for a modification
on the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
         (b)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person equal opportunity to use, and enjoy, a dwelling; or
         (c)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13, 1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that:
            1.   The public use, and common use, portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to, and usable by, handicapped persons;
            2.   All the doors designed to allow passage into, and within, all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
            3.   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
               a.   An accessible route into, and through, the dwelling;
               b.   Light switches, electrical outlets, thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations; and
               c.   Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
      (9)   Compliance with the appropriate requirements of the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq., and of the American
National Standard for Buildings and Facilities, providing accessibility and
usability for physically handicapped people (commonly cited as “ANSI A117.1”)
suffices to satisfy the requirements of division (A)(8)(c)3.c; and
      (10)   Nothing in this division (A) requires that a dwelling be made
available to an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to
the health or safety of other individuals of whose tenancy would result in
substantial physical damage to the property of others.
   (B)   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions, to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
      (2)   As used in this division (B), the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-
RELATED TRANSACTION means any of the following:
         (a)   The making or purchasing of loans, or providing other financial
assistance:
            1.   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
            2.   Secured by residential real estate.
         (b)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real
property.
      (3)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business
of furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors
other than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap, or familial
status.
(Ord. 2019-07, passed 10-7-2019)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05  DISCRIMINATION; BROKERAGE SERVICE.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to, or membership or
participation in, any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers’
organization, or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her
in the terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation, on
account of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national
origin.
(Ord. 2019-07, passed 10-7-2019)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06  INTERFERENCE, COERCION, INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
92.03, 92.04, or 92.05.
(Ord. 2019-07, passed 10-7-2019)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.07  PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under code or law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates, or interferes with, or attempt to injure,
intimidate, or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status, or national origin, and because he or she is, or has been,
selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting, or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing, or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for, or participating in, any service, organization, or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings; or
   (B)   Any person because he or she is, or has been, or in order to
intimidate such person, or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations, or facilities described in division (A)
above; or
      (2)   Affording another person, or class of persons, opportunity or
protection so to participate.
(Ord. 2019-07, passed 10-7-2019)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.08  EQUAL ACCESS TO HOUSING; HUD PROGRAMS.
   Pursuant to 24 C.F.R. part 5.403 and 24 C.F.R. part 574.3, the definition of
FAMILY is revised to include families regardless of the actual or perceived
sexual orientation, gender identity, or marital status of its members.
(Ord. 2019-07, passed 10-7-2019)
§ 92.09  EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq., shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised, or controlled by, or in conjunction with, a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental, or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color, or
national origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not
in fact open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose, or
purposes, provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a
commercial purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to
its members, or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons. As used in this section, HOUSING FOR
OLDER PERSONS means housing:
      (1)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary of
the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development, or the State Civil
Rights Commission, determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly persons (as defined in the state or federal program);
      (2)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, persons 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years
of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 2019-07, passed 10-7-2019)
§ 92.10  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the State Civil Rights
Commission, as set forth in division (B) below, shall be vested in the Chief
Elected Official of the county.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the county, because
of lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under this chapter, herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of the articles of this
chapter by complainants to the State Civil Rights Commission for administrative
enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6, and the Chief Elected Official
of the county shall refer all said complaints to the Commission as provided for
under division (A) above for purposes of investigation, resolution, and
appropriate relief as provided for under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the county shall administer
their departments, programs, and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter,
and shall cooperate with the Chief Elected Official and the State Civil Rights
Commission to further such purposes.
   (D)   The Chief Elected Official of the county, or the Chief Elected
Official’s designee, shall provide information on remedies available to any
aggrieved person or complainant requesting such information.
(Ord. 2019-07, passed 10-7-2019)
§ 92.99  PENALTY.
   Any citizen because he or she is, or has been, or in order to discourage
such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding, or encouraging other
persons to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations, or facilities described in §
92.07(A), or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any
denial of the opportunity to participate, shall be fined according to local,
state, and federal law; and if bodily injury results, shall be fined not more
than $10,000 or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both; and if death
results, shall be subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for life.
(Ord. 2019-07, passed 10-7-2019)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BED AND BREAKFAST, RETAIL FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS
CHAPTER 110:  BED AND BREAKFAST, RETAIL FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
110.01   Purpose
   
110.02   Definitions
   
110.03   Permits
   
110.04   Permit fees
   
110.05   Inspection
   
110.06   Compliance and enforcement
   
110.07   Appeals
   
110.08   Conflict of interest
§ 110.01  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to safeguard public health and assure that
food provided to consumers is safe, unadulterated, and honestly presented. It
establishes definitions; sets standards for management and personnel, food
operations, and equipment and facilities; and provides for retail food
establishment and/or bed and breakfast establishment plan reviews, permits,
inspections, and employee restrictions.
(Ord. 2006-1, passed 5-1-2006)
§ 110.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT. As defined in 410 I.A.C. 7-15.5-2, means an
operator occupied residence that:
      (1)   Provides sleeping accommodations to the public for a fee;
      (2)   Has no more than 14 guest rooms;
      (3)   Provides breakfast to its guests as part of the fee; and
      (4)   Provides sleeping accommodations for no more than 30 consecutive
days to a particular guest.
   CONFLICT OF INTEREST. Derived from 68 I.A.C. 9-5-9, means a situation in
which the private financial interest of a county official, a county official’s
spouse, ex-spouse, siblings, in-laws, children, and/or unemancipated child may
influence the county official’s judgment in the performance of a public duty.
   COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The local health department in the county, or
authorized representative, having jurisdiction over a bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment, and/or temporary food establishment.
   COUNTY OFFICIAL. Any official of the county.
   HAZARD ANALYSIS CRITICAL CONTROL POINT (HACCP) PLAN. As defined in 410
I.A.C. 7-24, means a written document that delineates the formal procedures for
following the Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point Principles developed by
the National Advisory Committee on Microbiological Criteria for Foods.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The Health Officer having jurisdiction in the county, or his
or her duly authorized representative.
   HEARING OFFICER. An individual, or panel of individuals, acting in the
capacity of a HEARING OFFICER in proceedings. The HEARING OFFICER is not the
Health Officer or any other employee of the County Health Department (examples
of the HEARING OFFICER could be the County Health Board, a subcommittee of the
County Health Board, a subcommittee of health professionals from the community,
or other non-biased third party appointed by the Health Board).
   IMMINENT HEALTH HAZARD. Any circumstance or situation which, in the opinion
of the Health Officer, presents a serious health risk to the public.
   INSPECTION REPORT. The document prepared by the County Health Department
that is completed as the result of the inspection and provided to the operator.
   OPERATOR. The person who has a primary oversight responsibility for the
operation of the establishment through ownership or lease, or contractual
agreement, and who is responsible for the storage, preparation, display,
transportation, or serving of food to the public.
   ORDER. Derived from I.C. 4-21.5-1-9, a County Health Department action of
particular applicability that determines the legal rights, duties, privileges,
immunities, or other legal interests of one, or more, specific persons. The
term includes a permit.
   PERMIT. The document issued by the County Health Department that authorizes
a person to operate a bed and breakfast establishment, retail food
establishment, and/or temporary food establishment.
   PERSON. An association, a corporation, an individual, partnership, or other
legal entity, government, or governmental subdivision or agency.
   RETAIL FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. As derived from 410 I.A.C. 7-24, means:
      (1)   An operation that stores, prepares, packages, serves, vends, or
otherwise provides food for human consumption, such as:
         (a)   A restaurant;
         (b)   Satellite or catered feeding location;
         (c)   A catering operation if the operation provides food directly to
a consumer, or to a conveyance used to transport people;
         (d)   A market;
         (e)   A grocery store;
         (f)   A convenience store;
         (g)   A vending location;
         (h)   A conveyance used to transport people;
         (i)   An institution;
         (j)   A food bank; and
         (k)   That relinquishes possession of food to a consumer directly, or
indirectly, through a delivery service, such as home delivery of grocery orders
or restaurant takeout orders, or delivery service that is provided by common
carriers.
      (2)   The term includes the following:
         (a)   An element of the operation, such as a transportation vehicle or
a central preparation facility, that supplies a vending location or satellite
feeding location, unless the vending or feeding location is permitted by the
regulatory authority.
         (b)   An operation that is conducted in a mobile, stationary,
temporary, or permanent facility or location, where consumption is on or off
the premises, and regardless of whether there is a charge for the food.
   TEMPORARY FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. As defined in 410 I.A.C. 7-24, a retail food
establishment that operates for a period of no more than 14 consecutive days in
conjunction with a single event or celebration. This definition does not
include an organization that is exempt from the state gross income tax under
I.C. 6-3-4 et seq., and offers food for sale to the final consumer at an event
held for the benefit of the organization, and is exempt from the payment of
fees. This exemption only applies to organization(s) that meet the criteria
addressed in I.C. 16-42-5-30. The Health Officer shall be provided, upon
request, proof of an organization’s tax exemption.
(Ord. 2006-1, passed 5-1-2006)
§ 110.03  PERMITS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   It is unlawful for a person to operate any bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment, and/or temporary food establishment
in the county without first obtaining a valid permit from the Health Officer.
The valid permit must be posted in a conspicuous location in the bed and
breakfast establishment, retail food establishment, and/or temporary food
establishment.
      (2)   Only persons who comply with the applicable requirements of 410
I.A.C. 7-15.5 and/or 410 I.A.C. 7-24 will be entitled to obtain, and keep, a
permit.
      (3)   A separate permit shall be required for each bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment, and/or temporary food establishment
operated, or to be operated, by any person.
      (4)   A permit issued under this chapter is not transferable.
      (5)   A bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment
permitted by the County Health Department shall be considered registered, as
required in I.C. 16-42-1-6.
   (B)   Permit period.
      (1)   A permit for a bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food
establishment shall be issued for a term beginning January 1, and/or before
commencement of operation, and expiring December 31 of the same year, and shall
be applied for by the person and/or operator annually.
      (2)   A permit for a temporary food establishment shall be for the term
of one continuous operation.
   (C)   Permit content. Any permit issued by the Health Officer shall contain:
      (1)   The name and address of the person and/or owner to whom the permit
is granted;
      (2)   The location of the establishment for which the permit is issued;
      (3)   The issuance and expiration date(s); and
      (4)   Other such pertinent data as may be required by the County Health
Officer.
   (D)   Application. A person desiring to operate a bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment, and/or temporary food establishment
shall submit to the County Health Department a written application for a permit
on a form provided by the County Health Department.
   (E)   Content of the application. The application shall include:
      (1)   The name, mailing address, telephone number, and original signature
of the person and/or operator applying for the permit and the name, mailing
address, and location of the bed and breakfast establishment, retail food
establishment, and/or temporary food establishment;
      (2)   Information specifying whether the bed and breakfast establishment,
retail food establishment, and/or temporary food establishment is owned by an
association, corporation, individual, partnership, or other legal entity;
      (3)   A statement specifying whether the bed and breakfast establishment,
retail food establishment, and/or temporary food establishment:
         (a)   If not permanent, is mobile and/or temporary; and
         (b)   The operation includes one, or more, of the following:
            1.   Prepares, offers for sale, or serves potentially hazardous
food:
               a.   Only to order upon a consumer’s request;
               b.   In advance in quantities based on projected consumer
demand, and discards food that is not sold or served at an approved frequency;
               c.   Using time, rather than temperature, as the public health
control, as specified under 410 I.A.C. 7-24; and/or
               d.   Prepares acidified foods, as defined in 410 I.A.C. 7-21-3;
            2.   Prepares potentially hazardous food in advance using a food
preparation method that involves two or more steps which may include combining
potentially hazardous ingredients, cooking, cooling, reheating, hot or cold
holding, freezing, or thawing;
            3.   Prepares food, as specified under division (E)(3)(b)2. of this
section, for delivery to, and consumption at, a location off the premises of
the bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment where it
is prepared;
            4.   Prepares food, as specified under division (E)(3)(b)2. of this
section, for service to a highly susceptible population, as defined in 410
I.A.C. 7-24;
            5.   Prepares only food that is not potentially hazardous; or
            6.   Does not prepare, but offers for sale only prepackaged food
that is not potentially hazardous.
      (4)   The name, title, address, and telephone number of the operator
directly responsible for the bed and breakfast establishment, retail food
establishment, and/or temporary food establishment;
      (5)   The name, title, address, and telephone number of the person who
functions as the immediate supervisor of the person, specified under division
(E)(4) of this section, such as the zone, district, or regional supervisor;
      (6)   The names, titles, and addresses of:
         (a)   The persons comprising the legal ownership, as specified under
division (E)(2) of this section, including the owners and operators; and
         (b)   The local resident agent if one is required based on the type of
legal ownership;
      (7)   A statement signed by the applicant that:
         (a)   Attests to the accuracy of the information provided in the
application; and
         (b)   Affirms that the applicant will:
            1.   Comply with this chapter; and
            2.   Allow the County Health Department access to the bed and
breakfast establishment, retail food establishment, and/ or temporary food
establishment, and records as specified in 410 I.A.C. 7-15.5 and 410 I.A.C. 7-
24; and
      (8)   Other information required by the County Health Department.
   (F)   Qualification. To qualify for a permit, an applicant must:
      (1)   Be an owner and/or operator of the bed and breakfast establishment,
retail food establishment, and/or temporary food establishment;
      (2)   Comply with the requirements of this chapter;
      (3)   Agree to allow access to the bed and breakfast establishment,
retail food establishment, and/or temporary food establishment, and provide
required information; and
      (4)   Pay the applicable permit fees at the time the application is
submitted.
   (G)   Plans requirements.
      (1)   The owner, or other authorized agent, of an existing, or proposed,
bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment shall submit
to the County Health Department properly prepared plans and specifications for
review, and approval, before:
         (a)   The construction of a bed and breakfast establishment and/or
retail food establishment;
         (b)   The conversion of an existing structure for use as a bed and
breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment; or
         (c)   The remodeling of a bed and breakfast establishment and/or
retail food establishment, or a change of type of bed and breakfast
establishment and/or retail food establishment, or food operation if the County
Health Department determines that plans and specifications are necessary to
ensure compliance with this section.
      (2)   The plans and specifications for a bed and breakfast establishment
and/or retail food establishment shall include the type of operation, type of
food preparation (as specified in Appendix B of the published version of 410
I.A.C. 7-24), and the menu.
      (3)   The plans and specifications shall be deemed satisfactory and
approved by the County Health Department before a permit can be issued.
      (4)   A pre-operational inspection shows that the bed and breakfast
establishment and/or retail food establishment is built, or remodeled, in
accordance with the approved plans and specifications, and that the
establishment is in compliance with this chapter, 410 I.A.C. 7-24, and/or 410
I.A.C. 7-15.5.
   (H)   Change of ownership. The County Health Department may renew a permit
for an existing bed and breakfast establishment, and/or retail food
establishment, or may issue a permit to a new owner of an existing bed and
breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment, after a properly
completed application is submitted, reviewed, and approved, the fees are paid,
and an inspection shows that the establishment is in compliance with this
chapter.
   (I)   Responsibilities of the operator. Upon acceptance of the permit issued
by the County Health Department, the operator, in order to retain the permit,
shall:
      (1)   Comply with the provisions of this chapter and all laws and rules
adopted by reference herein, and the conditions of any variances granted by the
State Department of Health;
      (2)   Immediately discontinue affected operations and notify the County
Health Department if an imminent health hazard may exist;
      (3)   Allow representatives of the County Health Department access to the
bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment at all
reasonable times;
      (4)   Comply with directives of the County Health Department including
timeframes for corrective actions specified in inspection reports, notices,
orders, warnings, and other directives issued by the County Health Department
in regard to the operator’s bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food
establishment, or in response to community emergencies;
      (5)   Accept notices issued and served by the County Health Department;
      (6)   Be subject to the administrative, civil, injunctive, and criminal
remedies authorized in law for failure to comply with this chapter, or a
directive of the County Health Department; and
      (7)   Post the permit in a location in the bed and breakfast
establishment and/or retail food establishment that is conspicuous to
consumers.
(Ord. 2006-1, passed 5-1-2006)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.04  PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment, and/or temporary food establishment
in the county who has not paid the permit fee required to be paid for the
operation of such establishment.
   (B)   The fee shall be paid for a term beginning January 1, and/or before
commencement of operation, and expiring December 31 of the same year, and shall
be applied for by the person and/or operator annually.
   (C)   Permit fees for the issuance of a permit under this chapter to a bed
and breakfast establishment, a retail food establishment, and/or a temporary
food establishment shall be set by the County Health Board, as provided by the
statutes of the state (see I.C. 16-20-1-27).
   (D)   A receipt for the payment of such fee shall be provided by the County
Health Department.
   (E)   The payment of such fees shall be required for each bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment, and/or temporary food establishment
operated, or to be operated, by any person.
   (F)   A late fee for failure to pay the permit fee prior to the operation of
the bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment, or the
late fee for failure to renew a permit after the expiration of the permit to
operate a bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment,
shall be assessed at three times the amount of the permit fee as set by the
County Health Board.
   (G)   The payment of fees under this chapter is not transferable or
refundable.
(Ord. 2006-1, passed 5-1-2006)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.05  INSPECTION.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   The County Health Department shall inspect a bed and breakfast
establishment and/or retail food establishment at least once every six months.
      (2)   The County Health Department may increase the interval between
inspections beyond six months if:
         (a)   The bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food
establishment is fully operating under an approved and validated hazard
analysis critical control point (HACCP) plan(s);
         (b)   The bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food
establishment is assigned a less frequent inspection frequency based on a
written risk-based inspection schedule that is being uniformly applied
throughout the jurisdiction; and/or
         (c)   The County Health Department may contact the operator to
determine that the nature of the food operation has not changed.
   (B)   Temporary food establishment. The County Health Department shall
periodically inspect, throughout its permit period a temporary food
establishment that prepares, sells, or serves unpackaged, potentially hazardous
food, and may inspect a temporary food establishment that prepares, sells, or
serves unpackaged, non-potentially hazardous food that:
      (1)   Has improvised rather than permanent facilities or equipment for
accomplishing functions such as handwashing, food preparation and protection,
food temperature control, ware washing, providing drinking water, waste
retention and disposal, and insect and rodent control; or
      (2)   Has untrained food employees.
   (C)   Performance and risk based inspections. Within the parameters
specified in divisions (A) and (B) above, the County Health Department shall
prioritize, and conduct, more frequent inspections based upon its assessment of
a bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment’s history of
compliance with this chapter, and the bed and breakfast establishment and/or
retail food establishment’s potential as a vector of foodborne illness by
evaluating:
      (1)   Past performance for violations of 410 I.A.C. 7-15.5, 410 I.A.C. 7-
24, and/or 410 I.A.C. 7-22, and/or HACCP plan requirements that are critical or
non-critical;
      (2)   Past performance for numerous or repeat violations of 410 I.A.C. 7-
15.5 and/or 410 I.A.C. 7-24, and/or HACCP plan requirements that are non-
critical;
      (3)   Past performance for complaints investigated and found to be valid;
      (4)   The hazards associated with the particular foods that are prepared,
stored, or served;
      (5)   The type of operation, including the methods and extent of food
storage, preparation, and service;
      (6)   The number of people served; and
      (7)   Whether the population served is a highly susceptible population.
   (D)   Access allowed at reasonable times after due notice.
      (1)   (a)   After the County Health Department presents official
credentials and provides notice of the purpose of, and the intent to, conduct
an inspection, the operator shall allow the County Health Department to
determine if the bed and breakfast establishment, retail food establishment,
and/or temporary food establishment is in compliance with this chapter by
allowing access to the establishment, allowing inspection, and providing
information and records specified in this chapter.
         (b)   The County Health Department is entitled to the information and
records according to I.C. 16-42-1-13 and I.C. 16-42-5-23 during the bed and
breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment’s hours of operation
and other reasonable times.
      (2)   Access is a condition of the acceptance and retention of a food
establishment permit to operate.
      (3)   If access is denied, an order issued by the appropriate authority
allowing access may be obtained according to law (see I.C. 16-20-1-26).
   (E)   Inspection reports. At the conclusion of the inspection, the County
Health Department shall provide a copy of the completed inspection report and
the notice to correct violations to the operator or to the person-in-charge, as
required under I.C. 16-20-8-5.
   (F)   Timely correction of critical violations.
      (1)   Except as specified in division (F)(2) below, an operator shall, at
the time of inspection, correct a critical violation of 410 I.A.C. 7-15.5, 410
I.A.C. 7-24, and/or 410 I.A.C. 7-22, and implement corrective actions for a
HACCP plan provision that is not in compliance with its critical limit.
      (2)   Considering the nature of the potential hazard involved and the
complexity of the corrective action needed, the County Health Department may
agree to, or specify, a longer timeframe after the inspection for the operator
to correct critical code violations or HACCP plan deviations.
      (3)   After receiving notification that the operator has corrected a
critical violation or HACCP plan deviation, or at the end of the specified
period of time, the County Health Department shall verify correction of the
violation, document the information on an inspection report, and enter the
report in the County Health Department’s records.
   (G)   Refusal to sign acknowledgment.
      (1)   Refusal to sign an acknowledgment of receipt will not affect the
operator’s obligation to correct the violations noted in the inspection report
within the timeframes specified.
      (2)   A refusal to sign an acknowledgment of receipt is noted in the
inspection report and conveyed to the County Health Department historical
record for the bed and breakfast establishment, retail food establishment, and/
or temporary food establishment.
      (3)   The operator is not necessarily in agreement with the findings of
the County Health Department inspection by acknowledgment of receipt.
   (H)   Public information. Except as specified in § 176 (“Trade Secrets”) of
410 I.A.C. 7-24, the County Health Department shall treat the inspection report
as a public document, and shall make it available for disclosure to a person
who requests it as provided in law (see I.C. 16-20-8-6).
(Ord. 2006-1, passed 5-1-2006)
§ 110.06  COMPLIANCE AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Application denial. If an application for a plan review and/or permit
to operate a bed and breakfast establishment, retail food establishment, and/or
temporary food establishment is denied, the County Health Department shall
provide the applicant with a notice that includes:
      (1)   The specific reasons and rule citations for the application and/or
permit denial;
      (2)   The actions, if any, that the applicant must take to qualify for
the application and/or permit; and
      (3)   Advisement of the applicant’s right of appeal, and the process and
timeframes for appeal that are provided in law.
   (B)   Permit suspension. The County Health Department may suspend a permit
to operate a bed and breakfast establishment, retail food establishment, and/or
temporary food establishment if it determines through inspection, or
examination, of employees, food, records, or other means as specified in this
chapter, that an imminent health hazard exists.
   (C)   Ceasing operation and contacting the County Health Department.
      (1)   An operator of a bed and breakfast establishment, retail food
establishment, and/or temporary food establishment shall immediately
discontinue operations and notify the County Health Department if an imminent
health hazard may exist because of an emergency such as a fire, flood, extended
interruption of electrical or water service, sewage backup, misuse of poisonous
or toxic materials, onset of an apparent foodborne illness outbreak, gross
insanitary occurrence or condition, or other circumstance that may endanger
public health.
      (2)   An operator need not discontinue operations in an area of an
establishment that is unaffected by the imminent health hazard.
   (D)   Resuming operation. If a bed and breakfast establishment, retail food
establishment, and/or temporary food establishment has discontinued operations
for the reasons stated above, or otherwise according to law, the operator must
obtain approval from the County Health Department before resuming operations.
   (E)   Outstanding fees. Any outstanding fees may be a condition upon which a
permit may not be issued.
   (F)   Enforcement options. The County Health Board has available to it the
remedies as set forward, and shall determine the method of enforcement from the
following alternatives (see I.C.16-42-5-28(g)).
      (1)   The County Health Officer, or designee, may issue a ticket or
tickets based on violation of the retail food establishment and/or bed and
breakfast establishment requirements (see I.C. 16-42-5-28(g) and I.C. 33-33-36
for guidance; see also §
110.07 to ensure that due process is followed).
      (2)   Conduct administrative proceeding for suspension and/or revocation
of the bed and breakfast establishment, retail food establishment, and/or
temporary food establishment permit in front of a hearing officer (see § 110.07
to ensure that due process is followed).
      (3)   The County Health Officer may issue an order to abate based on a
condition that may transmit, generate, or promote disease. Failure on the part
of the operator to comply with the order could result in the enforcement of the
order in the court of jurisdiction by the initiation of an action by the County
Attorney or County Prosecuting Attorney (see I.C. 16-20-1-25; see also § 110.07
to ensure that due process is followed).
      (4)   If the action concerning public health is a chapter violation,
requests to the County Attorney or County Prosecuting Attorney to institute a
proceeding in the courts for the enforcement of the chapter violation (see I.C.
34-28-5-1).
      (5)   If the action concerning public health is a criminal offense,
request the County Attorney or County Prosecuting Attorney to institute a
proceeding in the courts for enforcement (see I.C. 16-20-1-25(c)).
(Ord. 2006-1, passed 5-1-2006)
§ 110.07  APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person(s) aggrieved by orders issued under the enforcement options
in divisions (F)(1) through (F)(2) in §
110.06 above shall be entitled to a review of the final order before a hearing
officer by filing a written request therefore with the Health Officer
(Secretary of the County Board of Health, see I.C. 16-20-1-10). The written
request must be mailed or hand delivered to the County Health Board, 125 South
Riverside Drive, Winamac, IN 46996, and must be received within 15 days after
such final order is issued.
   (B)   Upon receipt of such request, the Health Officer shall appoint a
hearing officer, and the hearing officer shall hear the matter again in an open
hearing after at least five days written notice of the time, place, and nature
thereof. The time shall be measured pursuant to the rules of court of the
jurisdiction. A shorter period of time may be granted, if requested, by either
party and agreed upon.
   (C)   The notice of the hearing shall be served upon the person requesting
the review by hand delivering or mailing by certified mail the notice to the
address listed on the permit application as the person’s mailing address, or
such other address as the person shall designate in the letter of request to
the County Health Board.
   (D)   The hearing officer establishes the rules of procedure and advises the
parties prior to the start of the proceedings.
   (E)   The hearing officer shall make written findings of facts, and shall
enter his or her final order or determination of this matter in writing.
   (F)   The order completes the administrative appeals procedure.
(Ord. 2006-1, passed 5-1-2006)
§ 110.08  CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   No County Health Department Official shall conduct himself or herself in a
manner that is, or could have the appearance of, a conflict of interest.
(Ord. 2006-1, passed 5-1-2006)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Deadly weapons on county property
§ 130.01  DEADLY WEAPONS ON COUNTY PROPERTY.
   (A)   The Board has ordained that it is in the best interest of the
employees, Board members, and the public to restrict the possession of deadly
weapons in county facilities as set forth herein.
   (B)   A DEADLY WEAPON is defined, for the purpose of this section, as:
      (1)   A loaded or unloaded firearm (defined as any weapon which is
capable of or designed to or that may be readily converted to expel a
projectile); or
      (2)   Weapon, device, taser (as defined by I.C. 35-47-8-3), or electronic
stun weapon (as defined by I.C. 35-47-8-1) equipment, chemical substance, knife
or explosives or other material that could be used or is intended by design to
be used, or capable of causing bodily injury.
   (C)   A person shall not, at any time, possess on or about his or her
person, or bring into or store upon the following county buildings, a deadly
weapon or firearm:
      (1)   Pulaski County Justice Center and its curtilage; and
      (2)   Pulaski County Courthouse and its curtilage.
   (D)   A person shall not possess on or about his or her person, or bring
into or store upon any county building or its curtilage, a firearm or deadly
weapon when the following conditions are in place:
      (1)   The Sheriff or at least one of his or her deputies is stationed at
the public entrance to the building; and/or
      (2)   Metal detection equipment is being utilized by the Sheriff or
deputies who have been adequately trained to conduct inspections of persons
entering the building by use of metal detection equipment and physical pat down
searches and anyone who enters the building and any bag, package, and or other
container in their possession is inspected by the Sheriff or his or her
deputies.
   (E)   The only exceptions to this section are qualifying law enforcement
officers under I.C. 35-31.5-2-185, a judicial officer under I.C. 35-47-16-1, or
other qualifying exceptions under I.C. 35-47-11.1-4.
(Ord. 2020-06, passed 4-20-2020)  Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS, CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   HOUSING AND STREET NUMBERING
      
152.   STREETS AND PUBLIC PROPERTIES
      
153.   FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
      
154.   LAND USE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 150:  BUILDING REGULATIONS, CONSTRUCTION
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Unsafe buildings
   
150.02   Building permit fees
Building Construction
   
150.15   Title, purpose
   
150.16   Scope
   
150.17   Definitions
   
150.18   Authority
   
150.19   Building permit required
   
150.20   Application for building permits
   
150.21   Issuance of building permit
   
150.22   Certificate of occupancy
   
150.23   General authority; inspections, investigations
   
150.24   Inspections by fire department
   
150.25   Withhold issuance of permits
   
150.26   Permit revocation
   
150.27   Stop-work order
   
150.28   Civil action
   
150.29   Right of appeal
   
150.30   Adoption of rules by reference
   
150.31   Lifting devices located within a private residence
 
   
150.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   
Chapter 34, Finances and Revenue; Taxation
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01  UNSAFE BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Adoption. The county hereby adopts I.C. 36-7-9, which establishes the
State Unsafe Building Law, and explicitly incorporates by reference the
definition of “substantial property interest” found in I.C. 36-7-9-2.
   (B)   Appointment of department. The County Building Commissioner shall be
the executive department authorized to administer this section.
   (C)   Construction. Any reference to a state statute shall mean the statute
as amended from time to time, or any similar statutory provision that may
supercede it relating to the same or similar subject matter.
   (D)   Violation. Violations of this section shall be addressed as
established in I.C. 36-7-9, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 2006-3, passed 5-1-2006)
§ 150.02  BUILDING PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Permit fees; general.
      (1)   Permit fees apply to all new construction and all alterations,
repairs, and remodeling.
      (2)   No person, company, or corporation shall perform, or cause to be
performed, any work on, or in, the unincorporated areas of the county without
obtaining, in advance, a permit from the Building Department.
      (3)   Where a person shall unlawfully proceed to do any work or
construction without a required permit, the permit fees shall be tripled as a
penalty. The payment of such penalty shall not release the person in default
from any other penalties hereafter provided.
   (B)   Single-family homes. Fees include attached garage and open deck when
constructed with the new residence.
 
Service/Work to be Done                  Fee
First 960 sq. ft. to 2,500 sq. ft.       $0.25 per sq. ft. ($625 maximum)
Over 2,501 sq. ft. through 5,000 sq. ft. $0.35 per sq. ft. ($1,750 maximum)
Over 5,000 sq. ft.                       $0.50 per sq. ft.
 
   (C)   Multi-family units. Same as single-family homes on total square
footage, plus $50 per unit for all units over one.
   (D)   Addition to living quarters. The fee shall be $0.35 per square foot
($25 minimum).
   (E)   Alterations, repairs, remodeling. Fire damage, storm related, kitchen
or bathroom remodeling, total house renovation, changing garage or pole barns
into living quarters, and other related repairs (if an attached deck is added
at this time, no charge): Under $2,000, no permit; between $2,001 to $10,000,
$50 fee; and over $10,000 requires a regular permit.
   (F)   Commercial/industrial.
 
Service/Work to be Done Fee
Additions/remodel       $150 per unit, plus $0.15 per sq. ft.
Hotel/motel             $25 per unit, plus $0.15 per sq. ft.
New construction        $300, plus $0.15 per sq. ft.
 
   (G)   Attached/detached garage or accessory buildings, or additions to
garages.
 
Service/Work to be Done             Fee
From 145 sq. ft. to 800 sq. ft.     $30
From 801 sq. ft. to 3,000 sq. ft.   $45
From 3,001 sq. ft. to 5,000 sq. ft. $70
From 5,001 sq. ft. and over         $100
 
   (H)   Other inspections required for post-frame buildings (pole barns).
      (1)   Other inspections may be required at the discretion of the Building
Inspector.
      (2)   Any wiring or plumbing that is installed, prior to the covering of
walls or floors.
      (3)   Any post-frame or detached garage used for living quarters will
require a single-family home permit, and be inspected as such.
   (I)   Electrical alterations, upgrade, or meter installation. Access to any
panels inside the building would be required.
 
Service/Work to be Done      Fees
201 amps to 400 amps         $45
401 amps and over            $60
Temporary electrical service $15
Up to 200 amps               $30
 
   (J)   Other fees.
Service/Work to be Done Fee
Service/Work to be Done             Fee
Decks                               $30
Enclosed decks or porches           $50
Inground pools*                     $25
Mobile home placement               $150
Second and additional re-inspection $50
Re-roof or re-side                  $20
Notes to Table
*   Must be fenced with five-foot security fence.
 
   (K)   No permit needed. The following services require no permit:
      (1)   Billboards;
      (2)   Towns and site improvement;
      (3)   New driveways;
      (4)   Door replacement;
      (5)   Storm doors;
      (6)   Windows (same size only);
      (7)   Garage door replacement;
      (8)   Porch steps;
      (9)   Painting and decorating, inside and outside;
      (10)   Gutter replacement;
      (11)   Concrete work (driveways, walks, steps, and patios); and
      (12)   All types of fences (except inground pool fencing).
   (L)   Other inspections, not enumerated. Any other inspection required not
enumerated above is $25.
   (M)   Re-inspections. After the issuance of any building permit, the
Building Commissioner shall make, or shall cause to be made, inspection of the
work being done as is necessary to ensure full compliance with the provision of
this section and the terms of the permit. Re-inspections of work found to be
incomplete or not ready for inspection are subject to assessment of re-
inspection fees as prescribed in this section. The Building Commissioner shall
adopt rules regarding the number and periods for which inspections should
occur.
   (N)   Stop order. Whenever any construction work is being done, and contrary
to the provisions of this section, the Building Commissioner, or his or her
designated representative, shall order the work stopped by notice, in writing,
by serving the same on any person engaged in doing, or causing, work to be done
on such construction site or, if a person is not available, by leaving a copy
of the stop order attached to the prominent entrance to such building or
structure. All work shall cease until further authorized by the Building
Commissioner to proceed. Failure to stop work as ordered by the Building
Commissioner shall be subject to the individual responsible, general and/or
subcontractor, and property owner, to fines and/or penalties as provided by the
county code.
   (O)   Certificate of occupancy. No certificate of occupancy for any building
or structure erected, altered, or repaired after the effective date of this
section shall be issued unless such building or structure was erected, altered,
or repaired in compliance with this section. In the event of any building which
has already begun construction at the adoption of this section, all inspections
shall begin according to the inspection schedule to be adopted by the Building
Commissioner, depending on the phase that such building is in at the time of
the adoption of this section.
   (P)   Workmanship standards. All work under construction, alteration, and/or
repair of buildings, or other structures, shall be performed in a good and
workmanlike manner according to the accepted standards and practices in the
trade.
   (Q)   Violations; schedule of fines.
      (1)   The County Board of Commissioners shall adopt a schedule of fines
and penalties for violations of this section. Such fines and penalties shall
serve as a standardized method for assessments based on violations as
determined by the Building Commissioner, or his or her representative. The
assessment of such fines and penalties will be utilized in lieu of court action
for any violation of this section. In the event that court action is necessary
for the enforcement of any provision of this section, the fines and penalties,
as prescribed herein, shall apply. Any payment of fines shall be paid to the
County Unsafe Building Fund through the County Building Commissioner.
Violation Fine
Violation                           Fine
Failure to obtain a building permit Triple the cost of a building permit
Failure to obtain a certificate of  Double the cost of the permit
occupancy
Failure to obtain inspection        $250
Failure to obtain registration      $500
Expired registration                $50, plus registration fee
Inaccurate permit                   Double the cost of a new permit
Violation of stop order             $1,000
 
      (2)   In addition to the fines assessed in division (Q)(1) above, when
there is a failure to pay or there is a continued violation, the individual
will be subject to the provisions of this section which allows the assessment
of fines not to exceed $2,500, plus attorney’s fees and costs of enforcement,
should such legal action be necessary for enforcement.
   (R)   Effective date. The grandfather provision has the intent that all
inspections will take place at the level in which construction is currently in
effect based on the inspection procedures adopted by the Building Commission,
concerning the stage of construction.
   (S)   Contractor registration.
      (1)   Any person who engages in the business of general roof, insulation,
electrical, plumbing, masonry, well installation, heating, ventilation, air
conditioning, excavating, or other ancillary work related to construction in
the county shall first procure a contractor’s registration permit. There shall
be only one registration permit per contractor. Such contractor will list the
specified fields of work in which such contractor will perform such
construction work. The registration permit shall be on a form prescribed by the
Building Commissioner. In the case of applications by corporations,
partnerships, or other forms of business associations, the application for a
contractor’s registration permit may be made by an officer, or other designated
employee, of such business association, corporation, or partnership.
      (2)   The Building Commissioner shall have the power and duty to receive
all applications for registration for all crafts and trades. He or she shall
review the application, and approve or disapprove the application for
registration.
      (3)   The Building Commissioner shall have the right to revoke, or
suspend, any registration issued upon his or her investigation, upon
satisfactory proof that the holder of the registration permit has willfully,
intentionally, or repeatedly violated any provisions of this section or laws of
the state pertaining to his or her business, for incompetence, or misconduct,
in the practice of his or her business, for deceit or fraud in obtaining the
registration, for irresponsible financial practices, or for any other reason or
ground specified in this section.
      (4)   A general contractor must ensure all subcontractors are registered
pursuant to this section.
      (5)   The Building Commissioner shall not issue a building permit if such
contractors, general contractors, or subcontractors are not registered as
provided herein.
      (6)   For the application, the Building Commissioner shall require all
applicants to furnish the following information:
         (a)   A statement of the applicant’s proposed contracting business;
         (b)   The type of contractor’s registration applied for;
         (c)   Name, residence, and business address of the applicant;
         (d)   If the applicant is a partnership, joint venture, corporation,
or other type of business association or firm, the name and business address of
such organization, the name and residence of all officers, directors, and
partners, as the case may be, and their interest in such organization;
         (e)   A list of all businesses owned, operated, and managed by the
applicant, or in which the applicant has had an interest of any kind during the
last five years, and the addresses of these businesses; and
         (f)   Three references from reputable business and professional
people, not related by blood or marriage to the applicant, from the county of
the applicant, attesting to the applicant’s reputation as to honesty,
integrity, and good character.
      (7)   (a)   The Building Commissioner shall reject the application if he
or she finds:
            1.   The applicant has committed an act within the past three years
which, if committed or done by a registered contractor, would be grounds for
suspension or revocation of a registration permit; or
            2.   The applicant has been convicted of a crime within the past
five years involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or lack of integrity, whereby
the applicant has benefitted, or whereby some injury has been sustained by
another.
         (b)   The decision of the Building Commissioner to reject an
application shall be subject to review by the County Board of Commissioners,
which shall affirm or reverse the decision upon a majority vote at a public
hearing. All decisions of the Building Commissioner shall be final subject to
the appeal procedure to the County Board of Commissioners.
      (8)   Before being granted a contractor’s permit, each applicant shall
show the following proof of insurance, and file the same with the Building
Commissioner.
         (a)   Public liability and property damage insurance in the amount not
less than $300,000; in the case of damage or injury to one person, and not less
than $500,000; in the case of damage or injury to more than one person and
$50,000 property damage; or $500,000 bodily injury and property damage combined
single limit.
         (b)   Workmans’ compensation insurance coverage, as required by state
law.
         (c)   Each contractor shall show proof of a $5,000 annual bond payable
to the county.
         (d)   All insurance and bond shall be issued by an insurance company
authorized to do business in the state. Failure to provide such certificate of
insurance and bonding, or to allow the same to lapse, shall be grounds for
denial of the application or revocation of the contractor’s registration
permit.
      (9)   (a)   After proper application, the Building Commissioner will
issue a contractor’s registration permit.
         (b)   The applicant will pay a fee of $50 for the issuance of a first
permit which shall be granted for a 12-month period.
         (c)   Once a contractor has had a registration permit issued, renewal
of such permit will be automatic from year to year, on each anniversary date,
with the payment of a $25 fee.
         (d)   Failure to renew a permit within ten days after notice of
expiration will constitute a need for a re-application of such registration
permit.
         (e)   The registration permit issued by the Building Commissioner
shall not be transferable to any other firm, name, or business other than the
name to which it was issued.
(Ord. 2006-4, passed 5-15-2006)
BUILDING CONSTRUCTION
§ 150.15  TITLE, PURPOSE.
   (A)   Title. This subchapter, and all material included herein by reference,
shall be known as the “Building Code of the County”.
   (B)   Purpose. The purpose of this subchapter is to protect the life, public
safety, health, and general welfare of the citizens of the county, and shall be
construed in such a manner to effectuate this purpose.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 5-1-2006)
§ 150.16  SCOPE.
   (A)   All construction shall be accomplished in compliance with the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-6, this subchapter shall not apply to
industrialized building systems or mobile structures certified under I.C. 22-
15-4; however, the provisions of this subchapter, and the rules promulgated by
the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission, do apply to any
construction related to an industrialized building system or mobile structure
not certified under I.C. 22-15-4.
   (C)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-9, this subchapter is not applicable to
regulated amusement devices, regulated boilers, regulated pressure vessels, or
regulated lifting devices.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 5-1-2006)
§ 150.17  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   BUILDING COMMISSIONER. As used in this subchapter, includes individuals
employed by the Building Department that are authorized to represent the
Building Commissioner.
   CLASS 1 STRUCTURE. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-4, has the following meaning:
      (1)   Any part of the following:
         (a)   A building, or structure, that is intended to be, or is,
occupied or otherwise used in any part, by any of the following:
            1.   The public;
            2.   Three or more tenants; or
            3.   One or more persons who act as the employees of another.
         (b)   A site improvement affecting access by persons with physical
disabilities to a building or structure described in division (1)(a) above.
         (c)   Any class of buildings, or structures, that the Fire Prevention
and Building Safety Commission determines by rules to affect a building, or
structure, described in subdivision (1)(a) above, except buildings or
structures described in divisions (3) through (6) below.
      (2)   Division (1)(a) above includes a structure that contains three or
more condominium units (as defined in I.C. 32-25-2-9), or other units that:
         (a)   Are intended to be, or are, used or leased by the owner of the
unit; and
         (b)   Are not completely separated from each other by an unimproved
space.
      (3)   Division (1)(a) above does not include a building, or structure,
that:
         (a)   Is intended to be, or is, used only for an agricultural purpose
on the land where it is located; and
         (b)   Is not used for retail trade, or is a stand used for retail
sales of farm produce for eight or less consecutive months in a calendar year.
      (4)   Division (1)(a) above does not include a Class 2 structure.
      (5)   Division (1)(a) above does not include a vehicular bridge.
      (6)   Division (1)(a) above does not include a structure that is intended
to be, or is occupied solely to provide, periodic maintenance or repair of:
         (a)   The structure; or
         (b)   Mechanical or electrical equipment located within, and affixed
to, the structure.
      (7)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-24, STRUCTURE includes swimming pool.
   CLASS 2 STRUCTURE. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-5, has the following meaning:
      (1)   Any part of the following:
         (a)   A building, or structure, that is intended to contain, or
contains, only one dwelling unit or two dwelling units, unless any part of the
building, or structure, is regularly used as a Class 1 structure; or
         (b)   An outbuilding for a structure described in division (1)(a)
above, such as a garage, barn, or family swimming pool, unless any part of the
outbuilding is regularly used as a Class 1 structure.
      (2)   Division (1)(a) above does not include a vehicular bridge.
      (3)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-24, STRUCTURE includes swimming pools.
   CONSTRUCTION. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-7, means any of the following:
      (1)   Fabrication of any part of an industrialized building system, or
mobile structure, for use at another site;
      (2)   Erection, or assembly, of any part of a Class 1 or Class 2
structure at the site where it will be used;
      (3)   Installation of any part of the permanent heating, ventilating, air
conditioning, electrical, plumbing, sanitary, emergency detection, emergency
communication, or fire or explosion suppression systems for a Class 1 or Class
2 structure at the site where it will be used;
      (4)   Work undertaken to alter, remodel, rehabilitate, or add to any part
of a Class 1 or Class 2 structure; or
      (5)   Work undertaken to relocate any part of a Class 1 or Class 2
structure, except a mobile structure.
   INDUSTRIALIZED BUILDING SYSTEM. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-14, means any part
of a building, or other structure, that is in whole, or in substantial part,
fabricated in an off-site manufacturing facility for installation or assembly
at the building site of a Class 1 structure, a Class 2 structure, or another
building or structure. However, the term does not include a mobile structure,
or a system that is capable of inspection at the building site.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-16, has the meaning set forth in
42 U.S.C. 5402 as it existed on January 1, 2003. The meaning is as follows: A
structure, transportable in one or more sections, which, in the traveling mode,
is eight body feet or more, in width, or 40 body feet or more, in length, or,
when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet, and which is built on a
permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with, or without, a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities, and includes the
plumbing, heating, air-conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein;
except, that such term shall include any structure which meets all the
requirements of this subchapter except the size requirements, and with respect
to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification required by the
Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, and complies with the standards
established under 42 U.S.C. 5042; and except, that such term shall not include
any self-propelled recreational vehicle.
   MOBILE STRUCTURE. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-17, has the following meaning:
      (1)   Any part of a fabricated unit that is designed to be:
         (a)   Towed on its own chassis; and
         (b)   Connected to utilities for year-round occupancy, or use, as a
Class 1 structure or a Class 2 structure, or another structure.
      (2)   The term includes the following:
         (a)   Two or more components that can be retracted for towing
purposes, and subsequently expanded for additional capacity; and
         (b)   Two or more units that are separately towable, but designed to
be joined into one integral unit.
   PERSON. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-18, an individual, corporation, limited
liability company,
partnership, unincorporated association, or governmental entity.
   STRUCTURE. Both Class 1 and Class 2 structures, unless specifically stated
otherwise.
   VEHICULAR BRIDGE. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-26, means any bridge that is
neither:
      (1)   A pedestrian walkway; or
      (2)   A passage way for light vehicles suspended between two, or more,
parts of a building, or between two or more buildings.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 5-1-2006)
§ 150.18  AUTHORITY.
   The Building Commissioner is hereby authorized, and directed, to administer
and enforce the following:
   (A)   All of the provisions of this subchapter;
   (B)   Variances granted in accordance with I.C. 22-13-2-11; and
   (C)   Orders issued under I.C. 22-12-7.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 5-1-2006)
§ 150.19  BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Construction is prohibited unless in conformity with a valid building permit
obtained from the Building Commissioner prior to commencement of construction.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 5-1-2006)
§ 150.20  APPLICATION FOR BUILDING PERMITS.
   (A)   Any person required to have a building permit shall submit a complete
application to the Building Commissioner.
   (B)   This application shall be submitted on a form prepared by the Building
Commissioner, and shall contain the following:
      (1)   Information that the Building Commissioner determines to be
necessary to locate and contact the applicant;
      (2)   A clear and understandable copy of detailed plans and
specifications drawn to scale which
indicate, in a precise manner, the nature and location of all work to be
accomplished;
      (3)   A plot plan drawn to scale; provided, however, such plot plan shall
not be required in the instance where all such construction is to occur
entirely within an existing structure. This plot plan shall reflect the
location of the structure in relation to existing property lines, and show
streets, curbs, and sidewalks, and proposed changes or additions to such
streets, curbs, and sidewalks;
      (4)   If required by state law, or any rule of the Fire Prevention and
Building Safety Commission, a copy of a design release for the work to be done
that has been issued by the Building Law Compliance Officer, pursuant to I.C.
22-15-3;
      (5)   Any additional information that the Building Commissioner finds to
be necessary to determine that the construction will conform to all applicable
building laws, and will not violate any other applicable ordinances or laws;
and
      (6)   The fee established by separate ordinance.
   (C)   Application for a building permit shall be made by the person entitled
to obtain the permit, or by an employee or agent of that person. The Building
Commissioner may require that such an employee, or agent, provide written
authority to apply for a permit.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 5-1-2006)
§ 150.21  ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMIT.
   The Building Commissioner shall issue a building permit to a person after
the person has submitted a complete application, including any applicable fee;
provided, that the proposed construction will conform to all applicable
building laws, and will not violate any other applicable ordinances or laws.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 5-1-2006)
§ 150.22  CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   No certificate of occupancy for any building, or structure, shall be issued
unless such building, or structure, was constructed in compliance with the
provisions of this subchapter. It shall be unlawful to occupy any such
building, or structure, unless a full, partial, or temporary certificate of
occupancy has been issued by the Building Commissioner.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 5-1-2006)  Penalty, §
150.99
§ 150.23  GENERAL AUTHORITY; INSPECTIONS, INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   All construction shall be subject to periodic inspections by the
Building Commissioner irrespective of whether a building permit has been, or is
required to be, obtained.
   (B)   The Building Commissioner may, at any reasonable time, go in, upon,
around, or about the premises where any structure, subject to the provisions of
this subchapter or to the rules of the Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission, is located for the purposes of inspection and investigation of such
structure. Such inspection and investigation may be made before and/or after
construction on the project is completed for the purposes of determining
whether the structure meets building standards and procedures, and ascertaining
whether the construction and procedures have been accomplished in a manner
consistent with this subchapter and the rules of the Fire Prevention and
Building Safety Commission.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 5-1-2006)
§ 150.24  INSPECTIONS BY FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The Building Commissioner and the Fire Department shall work
cooperatively to conduct inspections and investigations to promote compliance
with fire safety laws.
   (B)   The Fire Department has independent authority to conduct inspections
and take enforcement actions under I.C. 36-8-17.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 5-1-2006)
§ 150.25  WITHHOLD ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Whenever a person, which is either an applicant for a building permit
or an obtainer of a building permit, owes fees (including checks returned for
insufficient funds, permit fees owed pursuant to county ordinance, or
inspection fees owed pursuant to county ordinance) to the Building
Commissioner, the Building Commissioner may withhold the issuance of
subsequently requested permits until such time that the debt is satisfied.
   (B)   Whenever a person applies for a building permit for a structure that
is not being used or constructed in conformance with applicable provisions of
an applicable zoning ordinance, or other ordinance relating to land use, the
Building Commissioner is authorized to withhold the issuance of requested
permits until such time that the property is brought into conformance with
applicable ordinances.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 5-1-2006)
§ 150.26  PERMIT REVOCATION.
   The Building Commissioner may revoke a building permit when any of the
following are applicable:
   (A)   The application, plans, or supporting documents contain a false
statement or misrepresentation as to a material fact;
   (B)   The application, plans, or supporting documents reflect a lack of
compliance with building standards and procedures;
   (C)   There is failure to comply with this subchapter; and/or
   (D)   The structure for which the building permit has been issued is not
being used or constructed in conformance with an applicable zoning ordinance,
or other ordinance relating to land use.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 5-1-2006)
§ 150.27  STOP-WORK ORDER.
   (A)   The Building Commissioner may issue an order requiring suspension of
the pertinent construction (stop-work order) in accordance with this section.
   (B)   The stop-work order shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   State, with specificity, the construction to which it is
applicable, and the reason for its issuance;
      (3)   Be posted on the property in a conspicuous place;
      (4)   If practicable, be given to:
         (a)   The person doing the construction; and
         (b)   The owner of the property, or the owner’s agent.
      (5)   The stop-work order shall state the conditions under which
construction may be resumed.
   (C)   The Building Commissioner may issue a stop-work order if:
      (1)   Construction is proceeding in an unsafe manner, including, but not
limited to, in violation of any standard set forth in this subchapter, or any
state law pertaining to safety during construction;
      (2)   Construction is occurring in violation of this subchapter, or in
such a manner that if construction is allowed to proceed, there is a reasonable
probability that it will be substantially difficult to correct the violation;
or
      (3)   Construction for which a building permit is required is proceeding
without a building permit being in force.
   (D)   The issuance of a stop-work order shall in no way limit the operation
of penalties provided elsewhere in this subchapter.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 5-1-2006)
§ 150.28  CIVIL ACTION.
   Pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-4, the county may initiate a civil action in a court
of competent jurisdiction to restrain any person from violating a provision of
this subchapter.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 5-1-2006)
§ 150.29  RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   Any person aggrieved by an order issued under this subchapter shall have the
right to petition for review of any order of the Building Commissioner. Such a
person may file a petition using either, or both, of the following procedures:
   (A)   Appeal to the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission.
      (1)   A person aggrieved by an order issued under this subchapter may
appeal to the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission, in accordance
with I.C. 22-13-2-7.
      (2)   The Commission may modify or reverse any order issued by the county
that covers a subject governed by I.C. 22-12, I.C. 22-13, I.C. 22-14, I.C. 22-
15, a fire safety rule, or a building rule.
      (3)   The Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission must review
orders that concern a Class 2 structure if the person aggrieved by the order
petitions for review, under I.C. 4-21.5-3-7, within 30 days after the issuance
of the order.
      (4)   The Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission may review all
other orders issued under this subchapter.
      (5)   The review of an order by the Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission does not suspend the running of the time period under any statute in
which a person must petition a court for judicial review of the order.
   (B)   Appeal to an established local administrative body or court. Pursuant
to I.C. 36-7-8-9, a person aggrieved by a decision of the Building Department
may appeal as in other civil actions. The appellant must, by registered mail,
give the County Executive a 15-day written notice of his or her intention to
appeal. This notice must concisely state the appellant’s grievance. If,
pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-9, the county has established by ordinance to hear
appeals of orders issued under ordinances, then a person aggrieved by an order
may petition for review with this administrative body in accordance with said
ordinance. If no such administrative body exists, then the person may petition
a court for judicial review of the order.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 5-1-2006)
§ 150.30  ADOPTION OF RULES BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-3(b), the rules of the State Fire Prevention
and Building Safety Commission, as set out in the following articles of 675
I.A.C. 13 et seq., are hereby incorporated by reference in this code, and shall
include any later amendments to those rules:
      (1)   Article 13, Building Codes:
         (a)   Fire and Building Safety Standards; and
         (b)   The State Building Code.
      (2)   Article 14, State Residential Code;
      (3)   Article 16, State Plumbing Code;
      (4)   Article 17, State Electrical Code;
      (5)   Article 18, State Mechanical Code;
      (6)   Article 19, State Energy Conservation Code;
      (7)   Article 20, State Swimming Pool Code;
      (8)   Article 22, State Fire Code;
      (9)   Article 24, Migrant Day Care Nursery Fire Safety Code; and
      (10)   Article 25, State Fuel Gas Code.
   (B)   Two copies of the above building rules incorporated by reference are
on file in the office of the clerk for the legislative body for public
inspection, as required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
   (C)   (1)   The Building Commissioner and the Fire Prevention and Building
Safety Commission may grant a variance to the fire safety laws and building
laws adopted in this subchapter.
      (2)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-7(b), a variance granted by the Building
Commissioner is not effective until it has been approved by the Fire Prevention
and Building Safety Commission.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 5-1-2006)
§ 150.31  LIFTING DEVICES LOCATED WITHIN A PRIVATE RESIDENCE.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-22(b)(12), lifting devices, such as elevators
and wheelchair lifts, located within a private residence, are not regulated
lifting devices. Therefore, the following standards applicable to lifting
devices located within a private residence are incorporated by reference:
      (1)   Part 5.3, Private Residence Elevators, ANSI/ASME A 17.1-2000,
Safety Code for Elevators and Escalators, published by the American Society of
Mechanical Engineers, Three Park Avenue, New York, New York 10016;
      (2)   Part 5.4, Private Residence Inclined Elevators, ANSI/ASME A 17.1-
2000, Safety Code for Elevators and Escalators, published by the American
Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three Park Avenue, New York, New York 10016;
      (3)   Section 5, Private Residence Vertical Platform Lifts, ASME A 18.1a,
2001 (Addenda to ASME 18.1-1999), Safety Standard for Platform and Stairway
Chair Lifts, published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three
Park Avenue, New York, New York 10016;
      (4)   Section 6, Private Residence Inclined Platform Lifts, ASME A 18.1a,
2001 (Addenda to ASME 18.1-1999), Safety Standard for Platform and Stairway
Chair Lifts, published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three
Park Avenue, New York, New York 10016; and
      (5)   Section 7, Private Inclined Stairway Lifts, ASME A 18.1a, 2001
(Addenda to ASME 18.2-1999), Safety Standard for Platform and Stairway Chair
Lifts, published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three Park
Avenue, New York, New York 10016.
   (B)   Two copies of the above lifting device standards incorporated by
reference are on file in the office of the clerk for the legislative body for
public inspection, as required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 5-1-2006)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, for which no
specific penalty is prescribed, shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §§
150.15 through
150.31 may be subject to a fine in any sum not exceeding $2,500. The assessment
of a monetary penalty shall, in no way, limit the operation of the penalties
provided elsewhere in this subchapter.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 5-1-2006)
CHAPTER 151:  HOUSING AND STREET NUMBERING
Section
Housing Regulations
   
151.01   Purpose
   
151.02   Definitions
   
151.03   Inspector of dwellings
   
151.04   Dwelling conditions prohibited
   
151.05   Order to vacate
   
151.06   Liability; flooding
   
151.07   Aggrieved persons
   
151.08   Appeals
   
151.09   Permits
   
151.10   Fees
 
   
151.99   Penalty
HOUSING REGULATIONS
§ 151.01  PURPOSE.
   This subchapter governing residential housing is promulgated, pursuant to
the authority vested in the County Board of Commissioners and the State
Building Code.
(Ord. passed 1-15-1996)
§ 151.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   BOARD. The County Board of Commissioners. The County Board of Commissioners
may create a Board of Review having jurisdiction to hear, and determine,
petitions that are filed after the petitioner has received a written letter of
denial from the County Building Inspector. Said Board of Review shall consist
of between five and nine persons who are residents of the county and have an
interest in real estate located in the county. The Board of Review shall hear
petitions for review pursuant to procedures established by the BOARD, and also
as set forth in this subchapter, and determinations made by the BOARD shall be
by a majority vote of the BOARD members. A quorum of the BOARD shall consist of
at least 60% of the appointed BOARD members being present at a public hearing,
and after proper notice has been given as provided by the State Open Door Law,
being I.C. 5-14.
   BUILDING INSPECTOR. The duly appointed representative of the County Board of
Commissioners to administer, and enforce, this subchapter.
   COUNTY. Any and all residential properties located in part, or in whole,
within the boundaries of the county, including, but not limited to, any and all
property situated in cities, towns, incorporated, and unincorporated areas, and
including any and all areas within, and under, the jurisdiction of the County
Board of Commissioners.
   DWELLING. Any part of any dwelling, or its premises, used as a place of
residence or habitation, or for sleeping by any person.
   MANUFACTURED OR MOBILE HOME. A dwelling unit built since January 1, 1985 in
an off-site manufacturing facility for installation or assembly at the building
site, bearing a seal certifying that it is built in compliance with the Federal
Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Code, or I.C. 22-8-1.1,
as promulgated by the State Department of Fire Prevention and Building Safety.
   NUISANCE. Whatever may be injurious to health.
   ORDER. Any written directive issued by the County Board of Commissioners in
accordance with §
151.05(C).
   OWNER. Any one, or more, of the following:
      (1)   The owner, or owners, in fee simple of a parcel of real estate
including the life tenant, or tenants, if any;
      (2)   The record owner, or owners, as reflected by the County Recorder’s
Office;
      (3)   The purchaser, or purchasers, of such real estate under any
contract for the conditional sale thereof; and/or
      (4)   The person, or persons, in control of the property as executor,
executrix, trustee, receiver, or guardian of the owner.
   PERMIT. The building permit received from the Building Inspector to build or
remodel a dwelling, or to move a mobile dwelling into the county.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, trust, estate, or any other legal entity, its or
their successors or assigns, or agents of the aforesaid.
   PLUMBING. All of the following supplied facilities and equipment: Gas pipes;
gas burning equipment; water pipes; garbage disposal units; waste pipes; water
closets; sinks; installed dishwashers; lavatories; bathtubs; shower baths;
installed clothes washing machines; catch basins; drains; vents; and any other
similar supplied fixtures, and the installation thereof, together with all
connections to water, gas, or sewer lines.
   PREMISES. A platted lot, or part thereof, or unplatted lot or parcel of
land, or plot of land, either occupied or unoccupied by any dwelling or non-
dwelling structure, and includes any such dwelling, accessory structure,
adjoining alley, easement, or drainage way. Lot coverage shall be no more than
35% of the entire premises.
   UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION. A condition of a dwelling which is dangerous or
detrimental to life or health because of want of repair, defects in drainage,
plumbing, lighting, ventilation, or its construction, infection with contagious
disease, or the existence on the premises of an unsanitary condition likely to
cause sickness among occupants of the dwelling.
(Ord. passed 1-15-1996; Ord. passed 11-4-1996)
§ 151.03  INSPECTOR OF DWELLINGS.
   The inspector of dwellings in any city or town may exercise all the powers
granted him in a city or town ordinance dealing with housing, and granted in
this subchapter to the County Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 1-15-1996)
§ 151.04  DWELLING CONDITIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No owner, or other person, shall occupy, or let another person occupy,
any dwelling or dwelling unit unless it, and the premises, are clean, sanitary,
and fit for human occupancy.
   (B)   Any dwelling, or its premises, which has any, or all, of the
conditions or defects hereinafter described shall be deemed to be an unsafe,
dangerous dwelling; provided, that such conditions or defects exist to the
extent that the life, property, or safety of the public, or its occupants, are
endangered:
      (1)   Any door, aisle, passageway, stairway, or other means of exit which
is blocked, or is not of sufficient width or size, or is not so arranged as to
provide safe and adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic;
      (2)   The walking surface of any aisle, passageway, stairway, or other
means of exit which is so warped, worn, decayed, loose, torn, or otherwise
unsafe as not to provide safe means of exit in case of fire or panic;
      (3)   The stress in any materials, member, or portion thereof, due to all
dead and live loads, which is more than one and one half times the working
stress, or stresses, allowed in the State Building Code for any new dwellings
of similar structure, purpose, or location;
      (4)   Any portion thereof that has been damaged by fire, earthquake,
wind, flood, or by any other cause to such an extent that the structural
strength, or stability thereof, is materially less than it was before such
catastrophe, and is less than the minimum requirements for new dwellings of
similar structure, purpose, or location;
      (5)   Any portion or member, or appurtenance thereof, is likely to fail,
or become detached or dislodged, or to collapse and thereby injure persons or
damage property;
      (6)   Any portion of a dwelling, or any member, appurtenance, or
ornamentation on the exterior thereof which is not of sufficient strength or
stability, or is not so anchored, attached, or fastened in place so as to be
capable of resisting a wind pressure of one-half of that specified for new
dwellings of similar structure, purpose, or location without exceeding the
working stresses permitted in the State Building Code for such structures;
      (7)   Any portion thereof has warped, buckled, or settled to such an
extent that walls or other structural portions have materially less resistance
to winds or earthquakes than is required in the case of similar new
construction;
      (8)   The dwelling, or structure, or any portion thereof, is likely to
partially, or completely, collapse because of:
         (a)   Dilapidation, deterioration, or decay;
         (b)   Faulty construction;
         (c)   The removal or instability of any portion of the ground
necessary for the purpose of supporting such dwelling;
         (d)   The deterioration, decay, or inadequacy of its foundation;
         (e)   Faulty electricity; or
         (f)   Any other reason.
      (9)   The dwelling, or structure, or any portion thereof, is manifestly
unsafe for the purpose for which it is being used;
      (10)   The exterior walls, or other vertical structural members, list,
lean, or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the center
of gravity does not fall inside of the middle one-third of the base;
      (11)   The dwelling, or structure, exclusive of the foundation, shows
33%, or more, damage or deterioration of its supporting member, or members, or
50% damage or deterioration of its non-supporting members, enclosing, or
outside walls or coverings;
      (12)   The dwelling, or structure, has been so damaged by fire, wind,
earthquake, or flood, or has become so dilapidated as to become:
         (a)   An attractive nuisance to children;
         (b)   A harbor for vagrants, criminals, or any other illegal persons;
         (c)   Enable persons to resort thereto for the purpose of committing
unlawful, illegal, or unsafe acts; or
         (d)   Incapable of maintaining a minimum temperature of 65°F.
      (13)   Any dwelling, or structure, which has been constructed, exists, or
is maintained in violation of any specific requirements or prohibition
applicable to such dwelling regulation of the county, as specified in the State
Building Code, or of any law, rule, or ordinance of the state or this county,
relating to the condition, location, or structure of dwellings which violation
constitutes a clear and present risk to human inhabitants;
      (14)   Any dwelling, or structure, which, whether or not erected in
accordance with applicable laws and ordinances, has in any non-supporting part,
member, or portion less than 50%, or in any supporting part, member, or portion
less than 60% of the:
         (a)   Strength; or
         (b)   Fire-resisting qualities, or characteristics, required by law in
the case of newly constructed dwellings of like area, height, and occupancy in
the same location.
      (15)   A dwelling, or structure, used or intended to be used for dwelling
purposes, which, because of inadequate maintenance, filth, dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction or arrangement, inadequate light, air, water
supply, sewage disposal, or other sanitary facilities, or otherwise, is
determined by the County Board of Commissioners or the County Health Officer to
be unsanitary, unfit for human habitation, or in such a conditions that is
likely to cause sickness or disease;
      (16)   Any dwelling, or structure, which, because of obsolescence,
dilapidated condition, deterioration, damage, inadequate exits, lack of
sufficient fire resistive construction, faulty electrical wiring or fixtures,
gas connections, or heating apparatus, or other causes, is determined by the
Fire Marshal to be a fire hazard;
      (17)   Any dwelling, or structure, which is in such a condition as to
constitute a public nuisance known to the common law or in equity
jurisprudence;
      (18)   Any portion of a dwelling, or structure, which remains on a site
after the demolition or destruction of the dwelling, or structure, is abandoned
for a period in excess of three months so as to constitute such dwellings, or
portion thereof, as an attractive nuisance or hazard to the public;
      (19)   Any dwelling which is provided with a heating system that is not
operable;
      (20)   Any dwelling which provides less than 40 square feet of sleeping
room for each inhabitant;
      (21)   Any dwelling which is provided with an electrical distribution
system which is not operable. A system is not operable if it presents a clear
and present health risk to human occupants when operating;
      (22)   Any dwelling for which there is not available safe and potable
water of sufficient pressure that all outlets may operate simultaneously;
      (23)   Any dwelling for which there is not safe potable running hot water
not less than 110°F;
      (24)   Any dwelling for which a residential sewage disposal system is not
operable and has not been approved by the County Health Department;
      (25)   Any mobile dwelling that does not have 960 square feet of living
space;
      (26)   Any mobile dwelling that is not situated and supported by a cement
slab or runner that is the recommended size for that mobile dwelling;
      (27)   Any mobile dwelling that does not have tightly fitted skirting
constructed of fire and weather resistant materials, such as aluminum, asbestos
board, treated pressed wood, or other approved materials enclosing the entire
undercarriage of the manufactured or mobile home;
      (28)   Any mobile dwelling that does not have safely secured front and
back steps into the home;
      (29)   Any mobile dwelling that is not anchored to the ground;
      (30)   Any mobile dwelling that has not had the wheels, axle, and hitch
mechanisms removed;
      (31)   Any dwelling that does not have a working well with satisfactory
water and a working water pump; and
      (32)   Any dwelling within which a smoke detector system is not operable.
A smoke detector system is deemed operable on the condition of the following:
         (a)   At least one unit is installed;
         (b)   At least one smoke detector unit must be on the ceiling not less
than six inches from any wall, or on any wall located six to 12 inches from the
ceiling and within 15 feet of all rooms used for sleeping purposes;
         (c)   If the unit consists of multiple levels, each unit shall have
not less than one installed smoke detector on the uppermost ceiling of each
level not less than six inches from any wall, or on a wall located from six to
12 inches from the uppermost ceiling of all interior stairwells;
         (d)   All approved smoke detectors required in this chapter shall be
the ionization or photoelectric type, either battery powered or 110-volt A.C.,
and shall comply with all of the requirements of the Underwriter’s
Laboratories, Inc. standard UL-217 (Standard for Smoke Alarms, 2020). Smoke
detectors shall bear the label of a nationally recognized standards testing
laboratory that indicates that the smoke detectors have been tested and listed
under the requirements of UL-217 (2020);
         (e)   These provisions shall not be required in buildings which
contain an approved automatic sprinkler system throughout;
         (f)   It shall be the responsibility, at every change of tenant in
every single or multiple dwelling, for the owner, manager, or agent to test and
ascertain that the approved smoke detectors are in operating condition; and
         (g)   No person shall, except in cases of fire, or for the purpose of
repair and maintenance, remove or tamper with fire extinguishers, fire escape,
fire hoses, nozzles, or other fire control or fire extinguishing equipment, or
fire reporting equipment, including a smoke detector in, or about, any of the
building or other premises.
(Ord. passed 1-15-1996)
§ 151.05  ORDER TO VACATE.
   (A)   Order to vacate.
      (1)   The County Board of Commissioners may issue an order relative to
any unsafe premises to require action, including, but not limited to, the
following:
         (a)   Vacating of an unsafe dwelling;
         (b)   SEALING AND/OR FENCING (defined as a wood or metal barrier
sufficient to block human entrance) an unsafe dwelling against intrusions by
unauthorized persons by boarding over each basement and ground floor level
door, window, or other opening;
         (c)   Extermination of vermin in, and about, the unsafe premises;
         (d)   Repair of an unsafe dwelling to bring it into compliance with
standards for dwelling condition, or maintenance, found in ordinances and rule
enacted by the county and the state;
         (e)   Removal of a portion of an unsafe dwelling;
         (f)   Removal of an unsafe dwelling, including unattached adjacent
structures; and/or
         (g)   Removal of all refuse, including all garbage, trash, excreta,
and the like, including disinfection and purification.
      (2)   The ordered action shall be reasonably related to the condition of
the unsafe premises and the nature and use of nearby properties. The order
shall take precedence over any municipally issued permit relating to the
dwelling, or land use, which is obtained either before or after the order is
issued.
      (3)   The force of an order shall expire three years from the day the
notice of the order is given, unless one or more of the following events occur
within such three-year period:
         (a)   A complaint requesting judicial review is filed in accordance
with division (C) below;
         (b)   Work is let out at public bid to a contractor to perform action
required by an order in accordance with this section; and/or
         (c)   A civil action is filed in the County Circuit Court or Superior
Court, in accordance with division (C) below.
   (B)   Details and requirements within the order.
      (1)   Any order shall contain the following information:
         (a)   The name of the person to whom the order is issued;
         (b)   The legal description, or address, of the unsafe premises that
is the subject of the order;
         (c)   PROPERTY means any dwelling on its premises, including
unattached buildings, used as a place of residence of habitation to which an
owner permits another individual, or individuals, to reside there for which the
owner receives consideration, including:
            1.   Rural Residential Districts, which are comprised of
residential areas in the county which are not of sufficient density or area to
warrant central sewage facilities now, or in the foreseeable future. Density
should not be greater than one dwelling unit per acre in these areas; and
            2.   Higher density development such as smaller, unincorporated
communities will be considered for smaller amounts of acreage;
         (d)   A statement of the conditions which make the premises in
noncompliance;
         (e)   The action which the order requires to be accomplished;
         (f)   The period of time in which the action is required to be
accomplished, measured from the time when the notice of the order is given;
         (g)   A statement indicating the exact time and place of the hearing
regarding the order, and indicating that the person to whom the order was
issued has a right to appear at the hearing with, or without, legal counsel and
present evidence, cross-examine opposing witnesses, and make argument;
         (h)   A statement briefly indicating what action can be taken by the
County Board of Commissioners if the order is not complied with; and
         (i)   A statement indicating the obligation of the owner to notify any
subsequent interest holders of the existence of this order, and to notify the
County Board of Commissioners of the owner’s intention to transfer the interest
to a subsequent interest holder. The owner shall be required to deliver said
notices, which notices shall be provided in writing by the owner, to said
subsequent interest holders and the Board.
      (2)   The order shall allow sufficient time in which to accomplish the
required action. In no case shall less than five calendar days from the day
when the notice of the order is given be allowed for compliance with the order.
In the instance where more than 60 calendar days are allowed by the order to
accomplish the action, the order may require that a substantial beginning be
made in accomplishing the action within a period of 15 calendar days.
   (C)   Rescinding an order.
      (1)   The County Board of Commissioners may, at any time, modify or
rescind an order.
      (2)   All persons who have been issued an order shall be notified of its
modification, or rescission, by means of a written statement which should
include the following information:
         (a)   The name of the person to whom the statement of modification, or
rescission, of order is issued;
         (b)   The legal description, or address of the premises, that is the
subject of the order being modified or rescinded;
         (c)   The substance of the order being modified or rescinded;
         (d)   A statement that the order is being modified or rescinded; and
         (e)   The name, address, and telephone number of the County Board of
Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 1-15-1996)
§ 151.06  LIABILITY; FLOODING.
   (A)   This subchapter does not create any liability on the part of the
county, the state, DNR, or any elected or appointed official, or employee
thereof, for any flood damages that result from reliance on this subchapter or
any administrative decision lawfully made thereafter.
   (B)   (1)   Special exception used may be permitted in the Floodplain
Overlay District; provided, they do not conflict with underlying regulations
and only after a permit, or letter of recommendation, has been granted by DNR.
      (2)   All terms and conditions imposed by DNR shall be included in any
approval granted by the County Board of Commissioners.
      (3)   The Board may impose greater restrictions. All buildings, or
additions to existing buildings, shall have flood protection grades at least
two feet above the regulatory flood profile.
   (C)   Residential sewage disposal system permits will not be issued by the
County Health Department for any dwelling in the floodplain. This decision is
in accordance with I.C. 6-8.1.
(Ord. passed 1-15-1996)
§ 151.07  AGGRIEVED PERSONS.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by any order of the County Board of Commissioners
under the provisions of this subchapter may, within ten days after the making
of the order, file with the Board a petition requesting the review of the
order.
   (B)   Any person aggrieved by a review of the order made by the County Board
of Commissioners under the provisions of this chapter may, within ten days
after the review of the order, file with the County Circuit or Superior Court a
petition requesting the judicial review of the order.
(Ord. passed 1-15-1996)
§ 151.08  APPEALS.
   The person appealing to the County Circuit or Superior Court shall file with
the court a bond in an amount to be fixed by the court with sureties to be
approved by the judge and conditioned to pay all the costs on the appeal in
case the person fails to sustain his or her appeal, or in case the appeal is
dismissed.
(Ord. passed 1-15-1996)
§ 151.09  PERMITS.
   (A)   The permit for a home occupation is not transferable, and a new
occupancy permit must be applied for whenever there is a change in the
occupation, ownership, or the property or tenants in the house.
   (B)   All permits requiring new or additional sanitary facilities shall not
be finally approved for housing clearance prior to application and approval by
the County Health Department or the State Department of Health.
(Ord. passed 1-15-1996)
§ 151.10  FEES.
 
Work to be Done        Fee
New home construction* $45
Remodeling**           $35
Trailer or mobile      $20
home***
Notes to Table
*   Including modular home with foundation or basement
**   Adding square footage to foundation
***   Moving into the county from another county, or moving to a new location
within the county
 
(Ord. passed 1-15-1996)
§ 151.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this subchapter, or failing to
comply with any order of the County Board of Commissioners, shall be liable for
all costs and expenses paid, or incurred, by the Board in the execution of this
order, including, but not limited to reasonable attorney fees and court costs.
   (B)   Any person shall be liable for a fine between $10 and $100 per day for
each day a violation occurs. Each fine pursuant to this section shall be placed
in the current operating budget of the County Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 1-15-1996)
CHAPTER 152:  STREETS AND PUBLIC PROPERTIES
Section
Street Address Regulations
   
152.01   Purpose
   
152.02   Definitions
   
152.03   Minimum requirements
   
152.04   Administrative Officer
   
152.05   Enforcement
Standards, Conditions; Right-of-Way, Highway Work
   
152.20   Purpose
   
152.21   Definitions
   
152.22   Permit charges
   
152.23   Boring requirements
   
152.24   Application procedure
   
152.25   Utility work
   
152.26   Pole work
   
152.27   Driveway
   
152.28   Right-of-way work
   
152.29   Surveying work
   
152.30   Emergency work
   
152.31   Standard of performance
   
152.32   Bond requirement
   
152.33   Violation
 
   
152.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Building Regulations, Construction, see
Ch. 150
   Privately developed roads for adoption, see §
70.02
   Traffic Code, see Title VII
STREET ADDRESS REGULATIONS
§ 152.01  PURPOSE.
   (A)   The County Board of Commissioners has determined that, to ensure the
continued health and safety of the general public, a set of rules is required
for prescribing street address numbering locations and number size.
   (B)   The County Board of Commissioners have received concerns from police,
fire, and emergency medical services that it is difficult to locate some
residences or businesses in the county because there are no street address
numbers or, if present, they are inadequate for proper identification.
   (C)   The County Board of Commissioners have determined that, without
adequate street address numbers, the fire, police, or emergency ambulance
service response could be slower, thus potentially aggravating emergency
situations.
(Ord. 99-1, passed 3-15-1999)
§ 152.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   APARTMENTS. Structures which may include one, or more, residences.
   BUSINESS. An establishment located in some structure that is a purveyor of
goods or services, or a place where people are present and could include, but
not limited to, meeting houses, buildings for religious purposes, social
activities, workshops, not for profit organizations, educational facilities,
medical offices, and the like.
   HOUSE. A residence which may contain one, or more, residences (such as a
duplex).
   RESIDENCE. Any structure wherein persons reside as distinguished from
businesses.
   STREET ADDRESS NUMBERS. Identifying numerals and letters which are
consistent with identification as recognized by the United States Postal
Services.
(Ord. 99-1, passed 3-15-1999)
§ 152.03  MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Every house, residence, apartment, or business within the boundaries
of the county shall have numbers identifying the location. These numbers are
herein referred to as street address numbers for all structures subject to this
subchapter.
   (B)   (1)   All street address numbers shall be a minimum of three and one-
half feet above the ground, sidewalk, driveway, or any other surface reasonably
presumed to be a reference point, and not obstructed by shrubs or bushes so
that they may be viewed from the street by public safety vehicles or persons.
In the event the residence or structure is located on a private drive or
roadway, and is set back well away from the public roadway, then the numbers
should be placed upon a mailbox, or any permanent sign or post so that it can
be viewed from vehicles located on the public right-of-way. Also, the numbers
should be posted on both sides of said mailbox, or post or sign, so that the
public vehicle can see them coming from either direction on the public right-
of-way (numbers should include all of the official street address, for example,
“555 W 100 S” or “666 Jones Lane”; although the United States Post Office only
requires a rural mailbox to have an address on one side, that is not sufficient
for public safety and the street addresses should be posted so that they are
shown on both sides of any mailbox or sign).
      (2)   If you do not have a mailbox in front of the structure, you must
display your address with at least three-inch high letters on a post in front
of your property, and/or on the house or business, that will identify your
drive to the home or business.
      (3)   In short, please place your new numbers on your house and mailbox,
or on a signpost at the end of your drive if your mailbox is not in front of
your home, so that the address can be clearly visible from the roadway.
   (C)   All street address numbers shall be of a color which, when viewed from
the street in a vehicle, can be easily seen. It shall be required that the
numbers are to be of a color contrasting, or nearly contrasting, with the
background surface color upon which they are mounted so that they can be easily
seen both in the daytime and at night.
   (D)   There shall be no obstruction to preclude the street address numbers
from being seen from the street.
   (E)   All street address numbers shall be a minimum of at least one inch
high, and recommended three inches in height, and at least one and one-half
inches in width.
(Ord. 99-1, passed 3-15-1999)
§ 152.04  ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER.
   (A)   The County Board of Commissioners, or its designated agent or
employees, shall act as the Administrative Officer (hereinafter “Administrative
Officer”), who is the 911 Coordinator, in charge of issuing numbers to houses
or businesses, or other structures, in compliance with the provision of this
subchapter. The Administrative Officer shall issue numbers to all new houses,
businesses, or structures, including renumbering whenever it becomes necessary
to do so in the implementation of a uniform system, and cause the numbering of
all existing homes, businesses, or structures not numbered to be numbered in
accordance with the provisions of this subchapter. Barns, sheds, and
outbuildings that are not used for habitation or shop, or business, shall not
be required to be numbered unless, in the discretion of the Administrative
Officer, a number needs to be assigned because of circumstances which require
that the structure be given a number, and it is necessary for public safety
personnel to be able to locate that structure in the performance of their
duties.
   (B)   The Administrative Officer may establish written guidelines to use in
implementing this subchapter, and may amend such guidelines from time to time.
(Ord. 99-1, passed 3-15-1999)
§ 152.05  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Enforcement.
      (1)   It shall be the responsibility of the County Sheriff’s Department
and the County Administrative Officer to enforce this subchapter.
      (2)   Enforcement will be accomplished as follows.
         (a)   Upon notice of violation of §
152.02, an initial letter will be sent to the offending party advising of the
violation.
         (b)   The violator will be allowed four days in which to correct, or
cure, the violation.
         (c)   If the violation is not cured, or corrected, within the four-day
period, a notice of imposition of penalty shall be delivered to the responsible
violator or owner of the property.
         (d)   Normally, the owner of the property shall be responsible to
install numbers; however, if the owner does not reside in the area, or is
incapable of performing these duties, then the lessee or tenant of the
structure could be required to install numbers as required herein, all in the
discretion of the Administrative Officer.
      (3)   The County Auditor, or designee, shall collect all said penalties
through the County Auditor’s Office;
      (4)   (a)   The County Auditor or the Administrative Officer shall have
the authority to initiate complaint for compliance and collection in either the
County Circuit Court or Superior Court, small claims division, for all
penalties that are assessed but unpaid.
         (b)   Further, the petition for compliance may request that the County
Court order that compliance with the numbering system be enforced.
         (c)   Further still, the County Court shall have authority to
determine that the violator shall pay reasonable attorney fees for enforcing
the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Enforceability. If it is determined that any portion of this
subchapter is unenforceable, the other parts of said subchapter shall continue
to remain in full force and effect, and shall be subject to the provisions of
state statutes and laws regarding enforceability of such subchapter.
(Ord. 99-1, passed 3-15-1999)
STANDARDS, CONDITIONS; RIGHT-OF-WAY, HIGHWAY WORK
§ 152.20  PURPOSE.
   The County Board of Commissioners has determined that it is desirable to
regulate the working on county roads and the working within the county road
right-of-way through the establishment of standards and through requiring
permits and utilizing county services in the inspection of cuts made once a
permit has been granted.
(Ord. 05-2010, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 152.21  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   COUNTY HIGHWAY ENGINEER. The County Engineer/Superintendent.
   PAVEMENT. Any hard surface treatment on the road, such as chip and seal,
asphalt, or concrete.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The land under the driving surface and beyond the edges of the
driving surface that the public has the right to use, and the County Board of
Commissioners has the right to control.
   ROAD. The driving surface, and refers to any type of surface such as
asphalt, concrete, or gravel.
   WORK. Any activity such as, but not limited to, excavating, cutting,
digging, tearing, boring, installing, filling, and placing.
(Ord. 05-2010, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 152.22  PERMIT CHARGES.
   Prior to the commencement of any work in the right-of-way, a permit
application shall be approved by the County Highway Engineer. There will be no
charge for the permit.
(Ord. 05-2010, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 152.23  BORING REQUIREMENTS.
   In all instances where it is necessary to cross a county roadway with tile,
utilities, culverts, or any other like item, the applicants shall first explore
all options for boring under the existing pavement. If it is determined by the
entity performing the work that boring under the road is not practical given
the circumstances and conditions, then the entity must bring a request for the
right to cut the existing road to the County Highway Engineer. If it is
determined by the County Highway Engineer that it is not possible to bore under
the pavement, the County Highway Engineer is authorized to approved cutting the
pavement. A deposit of $500 is required in order to obtain the authorization to
cut the road. The $500 shall be placed in the County Auditor’s Office and will
be used to reimburse the county for the cost of the repair work after the road
is cut. If the County Highway Engineer determines that the cost of the repair,
including materials, equipment use, manpower, and any other reasonable cost,
was less than $500, then the unused portion of the deposit shall be refunded to
the applicant. If the County Highway Engineer determines that the repairs
exceed the $500 deposit, then a bill for the repairs over, and above, the
deposit shall be submitted to the applicant, and shall be due within 30 days of
receipt. The County Highway Engineer shall have the discretion to allow road
repair work to be performed by the entity performing the work. In said
instances, the deposit is required, and all work will be supervised, and
approved, by the County Highway Engineer. The requirement to bore first is
applicable to gravel roads, but the requirement for the $500 deposit will not
apply to gravel roads.
(Ord. 05-2010, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 152.24  APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Unless the County Highway Engineer determines that the permit
application is for an entire project, a separate permit is required for each
road.
   (B)   Applicants shall convenant and agree faithfully to perform and
discharge duties and responsibilities required in the application. The County
Highway Engineer shall have the authority to act upon the application and issue
the permit, unless some fact of circumstance known to him or her raising a
question as to whether or not such permit should be issued, in which event he
or she shall refer the application to the County Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 05-2010, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 152.25  UTILITY WORK.
   (A)   In all instances where it is necessary to install an underground
utility line across a paved road, the applicant shall bore under the existing
pavement.
   (B)   If it is determined by the County Highway Engineer that it is not
possible to bore under the pavement, the County Highway Engineer is authorized
to approve cutting the pavement, as set forth in §
152.23.
(Ord. 05-2010, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 152.26  POLE WORK.
   (A)   In all instances where it is necessary to install, or replace, utility
poles in the right-of-way, no permit is required.
   (B)   The poles must be placed as far away as possible from the edge of the
road pavement.
   (C)   The person, firm, or corporation that owns the pole is responsible to
repair, to the satisfaction of the County Highway Engineer, any and all damages
to the road pavement, the right-of-way, drainage, swales, tiles, culverts, or
private property.
(Ord. 05-2010, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 152.27  DRIVEWAY.
   (A)   In all instances where it is necessary to install a new driveway in
any county right-of-way, a permit is required.
   (B)   New drives that are installed in subdivisions with curb and gutters
shall have the back of the curb removed in accordance with the standards
established by the County Highway Engineer. In no instance may the gutter be
filled with concrete or asphalt.
   (C)   No permit is required for improvements made to an existing drive.
Drive improvements include, but are not necessarily limited to:
      (1)   Replacement of existing culverts with a new, but same size,
culvert; and
      (2)   Paving of existing drives in accordance with the County Road
Standards.
(Ord. 05-2010, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 152.28  RIGHT-OF-WAY WORK.
   In all instances where a property owner desires to perform any work in the
right-of-way, a permit is required. Right-of-way work includes, but is not
necessarily limited to, the following:
   (A)   Any excavation in the right-of-way;
   (B)   Any filling, regarding, and/or contouring of the roadside ditch or
drainage swale;
   (C)   Any installing of tile in a roadside ditch or drainage swale; and
   (D)   Any installing, repairing, or replacing of private tiles across, or
through, the right-of-way.
(Ord. 05-2010, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 152.29  SURVEYING WORK.
   (A)   In all instances where it is necessary for a registered land surveyor,
or his or her appointee, to dig in the pavement and/or right-of-way for the
purpose of conducting a survey, no permit is required.
   (B)   The person, firm, or corporation that is conducting the survey is
responsible to repair, to the satisfaction of the County Highway Engineer, any
and all damages to the road pavement, the right-of-way, drainage swales, tiles,
culverts, or private property.
   (C)   Provided, that the request is for ten gallons or less of patch
material, the County Highway Engineer is authorized to provide patch material
to the person, firm, or corporation that is repairing any hole in the pavement
as a result of a legal survey. However, under no circumstances is the County
Highway Engineer obligated to provide patch material.
(Ord. 05-2010, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 152.30  EMERGENCY WORK.
   Emergency work may be made without a permit any time human life may be
endangered. Subsequent to the emergency work, and within one working day, the
County Highway Engineer shall be notified. If required by the County Highway
Engineer, a proper permit must thereafter be obtained.
(Ord. 05-2010, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 152.31  STANDARD OF PERFORMANCE.
   (A)   All installations covered by this subchapter shall be performed in
accordance with standard practices currently in use, and recognized from time
to time, designed and followed to minimize inconvenience and danger to the
public at large. Whenever open cutting of an existing road is permitted, the
applicant shall, upon completing the installation, backfill the trench with
materials as specified by the County Highway Engineer. All pavement joints must
be saw cut to a nice finish. The road surface shall then be promptly replaced
with like materials in a condition that is at least equal to, or better than,
when cut. When any installation is commenced, the work shall be carried on
expeditiously and without any necessary delay. All work shall be supervised and
approved by the County Highway Engineer, or performed by the County Highway
Department as set forth in §
152.23.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of all holders of permits issued to this
subchapter to erect proper warning signs, barricades, and flares, and to
provide flag-men, or other appropriate warning devices commensurate with the
risks involved throughout the progress of work, and all holders of permits, or
entities performing work that does not require a permit, shall indemnify and
save the county harmless from any, and all, claims and causes of action, if
any, which may be asserted, or filed, against the county by any person, firm,
or corporation, if any, who have been injured or damaged, or claim to have been
injured or damaged, on account of any installations made pursuant to this
subchapter, or on account of any work done in the making of such installation.
(Ord. 05-2010, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 152.32  BOND REQUIREMENT.
   Public utilities operating under the jurisdiction of the State Public
Service Commission, and recognized as public utilities by the laws of the
state, and authorized to do business with the county, shall not be required to
give any bond as a condition precedent to receiving a permit, but the County
Board of Commissioners may require a performance bond from any other person,
firm, or corporation in an amount commensurate with the scope of the proposed
work, and with the surety to be approved by the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 05-2010, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 152.33  VIOLATION.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall be entitled to receive a permit
pursuant to the terms of this subchapter if such person, firm, or corporation
has violated any of the terms of provisions of this subchapter subsequent to
its effective date until, and after, such violation has been resolved to the
satisfaction of the County Highway Engineer.
(Ord. 05-2010, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 152.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, for which no
specific penalty is prescribed, shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Failure to meet the minimum requirements, as prescribed in §
152.02 of this chapter, will result in a fine of no more than $10. Each day
that a violation of §
152.02 exists is considered a new offense.
   (C)   Failure by any person, firm, or corporation to repair, within 30 days
of notification of any and all damages to the road pavement, the right-of-way,
drainage swales, tiles, culverts, or private property, or in violation of §§
152.20 to
152.33, may be fined $100 per calendar day with a maximum fine of $5,000 per
violation.
(Ord. 99-1, passed 3-15-1999; Ord. 05-2010, passed 4-19-2010)
CHAPTER 153:  FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
Section
   
153.01   Statutory authorization, findings of fact, purpose, objectives
   
153.02   Definitions
   
153.03   General provisions
   
153.04   Administration
   
153.05   Provisions for flood hazard reduction
   
153.06   Variance procedures
 
   
153.99   Penalty
§ 153.01  STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE, OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   Statutory authorization. The State Legislature has, in I.C. 36-7-4 and
I.C. 14-28-4, granted the power to local government units to control land use
within their jurisdictions. Therefore, the County Board of Commissioners does
hereby adopt the following floodplain management regulations found in §§
153.01 to 153.06.
   (B)   Findings of fact.
      (1)   The flood hazard areas of the county are subject to periodic
inundation which results in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
      (2)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities,
and by the occupancy in flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods, or
hazardous to other lands which are inadequately elevated, flood proofed, or
otherwise unprotected from flood damages.
   (C)   Statement of purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the
public health, safety, and general welfare, and to minimize public and private
losses due to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
      (1)   Restrict, or prohibit, uses which are dangerous to health, safety,
and property due to water or erosion hazards, which result in damaging
increases in erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
      (2)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      (3)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
      (4)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage;
      (5)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters, or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands; and
      (6)   Make federally subsidized flood insurance available for structures
and their contents in the county by fulfilling the requirements of the National
Flood Insurance Program.
   (D)   Objectives. The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To protect human life and health;
      (2)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      (3)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding, and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      (4)   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
      (5)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities, such as
water and gas mains, electric, telephone, and sewer lines, streets, and bridges
located in floodplains;
      (6)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use
and development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize flood
blight areas; and
      (7)   To ensure that potential home buyers are notified that the property
is in a flood area.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2007)
§ 153.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   A ZONE. Portions of the SFHA in which the principal source of flooding is
runoff from rainfall, snowmelt, or a combination of both. In A ZONES,
floodwaters may move slowly or rapidly, but waves are usually not a significant
threat to buildings. These areas are labeled as Zone A, Zone AE, Zones A1-A30,
Zone AO, Zone AH, Zone AR, and Zone A99 on a FIRM or FHBM. The definitions are
presented below:
      (1)   ZONE A. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood
event. Because detailed hydraulic analyses have not been performed, no base
flood elevation, or depths, are shown. Mandatory flood insurance purchase
requirements apply.
      (2)   ZONE A99. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood
event, but which will ultimately be protected upon completion of an under-
construction federal flood protection system. These are areas of special flood
hazard where enough progress has been made on the construction of a protection
system, such as dikes, dams, and levees, to consider it complete for insurance
rating purposes. ZONE A99 may only be used when the flood protection system has
reached specified statutory progress toward completion. No base flood
elevations, or depths, are shown. Mandatory flood insurance purchase
requirements apply.
      (3)   ZONE AE and A1-30. Areas subject to inundation by the one-percent
annual chance flood event determined by detailed methods. Base flood elevations
are shown within these zones. Mandatory flood insurance purchase requirements
apply (ZONE AE is on new and revised maps in place of ZONES A1-30).
      (4)   ZONE AH. Areas subject to inundation by the one-percent annual
chance flood event, and shallow flooding (usually areas of ponding) where
average depths are one to three feet. Average flood depths derived from
detailed hydraulic analyses are shown within this zone. Mandatory flood
insurance purchase requirements apply.
      (5)   ZONE AO. Areas subject to inundation by the one-percent annual
chance shallow flooding (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain) where average
depths are between one and three feet. Average flood depths derived from
detailed hydraulic analyses are shown within this zone. Mandatory flood
insurance purchase requirements apply.
      (6)   ZONE AR. Areas that result from the decertification of a previously
accredited flood protection system that is determined to be in the process of
being restored to provide base flood protection. Mandatory flood insurance
purchase requirements apply.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure that is located on
the same parcel of property as the principal structure, and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure. ACCESSORY STRUCTURES should
constitute a minimal initial investment, may not be used for human habitation,
and be designed to have minimal flood damage potential. Examples of ACCESSORY
STRUCTURES are detached garages, carports, storage sheds, pole bams, and hay
sheds.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a structure in which the addition is connected by a common load-
bearing wall, other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed ADDITION, which is
connected by a firewall, or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing
walls, is new construction.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter, or a request for a variance.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on the community’s
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), with base flood depths from one to three feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation of the 1% annual chance flood.
   BASEMENT. The portion of a structure having its floor sub-grade (below
ground level) on all sides.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   COMMUNITY. A political entity that has the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the area under its jurisdiction.
   COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS). A program developed by the Federal Insurance
Administration to provide incentives for those communities in the regular
program that have gone beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements to
develop extra measures to provide protection from flooding.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. A facility for which even a slight chance of flooding
might be too great CRITICAL FACILITIES include, but are not limited to,
schools, nursing homes, hospitals, police, fire, and emergency response
installations, and installations which produce, use, or store hazardous
materials or hazardous waste.
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   Any human-made change to improved, or unimproved, real estate
including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Construction, reconstruction, or placement of a structure, or
any addition to a structure;
         (b)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home, or installing a recreational vehicle on a site for more than
180 days;
         (c)   Installing utilities, erection of walls and fences, construction
of roads, or similar projects;
         (d)   Construction of flood control structures, such as levees, dikes,
dams, channel improvements, and the like;
         (e)   Mining, dredging, filling, grading, excavation, or drilling
operations;
         (f)   Construction and/or reconstruction of bridges or culverts;
         (g)   Storage of materials; or
         (h)   Any other activity that might change the direction, height, or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include activities such as the maintenance of
existing structures and facilities, such as painting, re-roofing, resurfacing
roads, or gardening, plowing, and similar agricultural practices that do not
involve filling, grading, excavation, or the construction of permanent
structures.
   ELEVATED STRUCTURE. A non-basement structure built to have the lowest floor
elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter
walls, pilings, or columns (posts and piers).
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A certified statement that verifies a structure’s
elevation information.
   EMERGENCY PROGRAM. The first phase under which a community participates in
the NFIP. It is intended to provide a first layer amount of insurance at
subsidized rates on all insurable structures in that community before the
effective date of the initial FIRM.
   ENCROACHMENT. The advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation,
buildings, permanent structures, or development into a floodplain which may
impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the start of construction
commenced before the effective date of the community’s first floodplain
ordinance.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FIVE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD (500-YEAR FLOOD). The flood that has a 0.2% chance
of being equated, or exceeded, in any year.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial, or complete, inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). An official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA)
has delineated the areas of flood hazards and regulatory floodway.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). An official map of a community, issued by
FEMA, where the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard have been
identified as Zone A.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community on which
FEMA has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the risk premium
zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official hydraulic and hydrologic report provided
by FEMA. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the FIRM, FBFM (where
applicable), and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOOD PROOFING (DRY FLOOD PROOFING). A method of protecting a structure that
ensures that the structure, together with attendant utilities and sanitary
facilities, is watertight to the flood proofed design elevation with walls that
are substantially impermeable to the passage of water. All structural
components of these walls are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy, and anticipated debris impact
forces.
   FLOOD PROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form used to certify compliance for non-
residential structures as an alternative to elevating structures to, or above,
the FPG. This certification must be by a registered professional engineer or
architect.
   FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE (FPG). The elevation of the regulatory flood, plus
two feet at any given location in the SFHA. See FREEBOARD.
   FLOODPLAIN. The channel proper and the areas adjoining any wetland, lake, or
watercourse which have been, or hereafter may be, covered by the regulatory
flood. The FLOODPLAIN includes both the floodway and the fringe districts.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including, but not limited
to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations, and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances, and other applications of police power which control development in
flood-prone areas. This term describes federal, state, or local regulations, in
any combination thereof, which provide standards for preventing and reducing
flood loss and damage. FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS are also referred to
as floodplain regulations, floodplain ordinance, flood damage prevention
ordinance, and floodplain management requirements.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream, and those portions of the
floodplains adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to efficiently
carry, and discharge, the peak flood flow of the regulatory flood of any river
or stream.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood.
   FRINGE. The portions of the floodplain lying outside the floodway.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY. A facility which cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located, or carried out, in close proximity to
water, such as a docking or port facility, necessary for the loading and
unloading of cargo or passengers, shipbuilding, ship repair, or seafood
processing facilities. The term does not include long-term storage,
manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
   HARDSHIP. The exceptional hardship that would result from a failure to grant
the requested variance. The County Board of Commissioners requires that the
variance is exceptional, unusual, and peculiar to the property involved. Mere
economic or financial HARDSHIP alone is not exceptional. Inconvenience,
aesthetic considerations, physical handicaps, personal preferences, or the
disapproval of one’s neighbors likewise cannot, as a rule, qualify as an
exceptional HARDSHIP. All of these problems can be resolved through other means
without granting a variance, even if the alternative is more expensive, or
requires the property owner to build elsewhere, or put the parcel to a
different use than originally intended.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to the start of construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure individually listed on the National
Register of Historic Places, or the State Register of Historic Sites and
Structures.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC). The cost to repair a substantially
damaged structure that exceeds the minimal repair cost, and that is required to
bring a substantially damaged structure into compliance with the local flood
damage prevention ordinance. Acceptable mitigation measures are elevation,
relocation, demolition, or any combination thereof. All renewal and new
business flood insurance policies with effective dates on, or after, June 1,
1997, will include ICC coverage.
   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). An amendment to the currently effective FEMA
map that establishes that a property is not located in a SFHA. A LOMA is only
issued by FEMA.
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). An official revision to the currently
effective FEMA map. It is issued by FEMA and changes flood zones, delineations,
and elevations.
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). An official revision by
letter to an effective NFIP map. A LOMR-F provides FEMA’s determination
concerning whether a structure or parcel has been elevated on fill above the
BFE and excluded from the SFHA.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The lowest elevation, after completion of
construction, of the ground, sidewalk, patio, deck support, or basement
entryway immediately next to the structure.
   LOWEST FLOOR.
      (1)   The top of the lowest level of the structure;
      (2)   The top of the basement floor;
      (3)   The top of the garage floor, if the garage is the lowest level of
the structure;
      (4)   The top of the first floor of a structure elevated on pilings or
pillars;
      (5)   The top of the first floor of a structure constructed with a crawl
space, provided that the lowest point of the interior grade is at, or above,
the BFE and construction meets requirements of division (6)(a) below; or
      (6)   The top of the floor level of any enclosure, other than a basement,
below an elevated structure where the walls of the enclosure provide any
resistance to the flow of floodwaters unless:
         (a)    The walls are designed to automatically equalize the
hydrostatic flood forces on the walls by allowing for the entry, and exit, of
floodwaters, by providing a minimum of two openings (in addition to doorways
and windows), and having a total net area of one square inch for every one
square foot of enclosed area. The bottom of all such openings shall be no
higher than one foot above grade; and
         (b)   Such enclosed space shall be usable solely for the parking of
vehicles and building access.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with, or without, a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MAP AMENDMENT. A change to an effective NFIP map that results in the
exclusion from the SFHA of an individual structure, or a legally described
parcel of land that has been inadvertently included in the SFHA (for example,
no alterations of topography have occurred since the date of the first NFIP map
that showed the structure or parcel to be within the SFHA).
   MAP PANEL NUMBER. The four-digit number followed by a letter suffix assigned
by FEMA on a flood map. The first four digits represent the map panel, and the
letter suffix represents the number of times the map panel has been revised
(the letter “A” is not used by FEMA, the letter “B” is the first revision).
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, excluding the land (as agreed to between a
willing buyer and seller), as established by what the local real estate market
will bear. MARKET VALUE can be established by independent certified appraisal,
replacement cost depreciated by the age of the building (actual cash value), or
adjusted assessed values.
   MITIGATION. Sustained actions taken to reduce, or eliminate, long-term risk
to people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of
MITIGATION is two fold: To protect people and structures, and to minimize the
cost of disaster response and recovery.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). The federal program that makes
flood insurance available to owners of property in participating communities
nationwide through the cooperative efforts of the federal government and the
private insurance industry.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM OF 1929 (NGVD). As corrected in 1929, is a
vertical control datum used as a reference for establishing varying elevations
within the floodplain.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the start of construction
commenced after the effective date of the community’s first floodplain
ordinance.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The construction of facilities
for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed on, or after, the effective date of the community’s first floodplain
ordinance.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM OF 1988 (NAVD 88). As adopted in 1993, is a
vertical control datum used as a reference for establishing varying elevations
within the floodplain.
   OBSTRUCTION. Shall include, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, wharf,
embankment levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, canalization,
bridge, conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation, or other material in, along, across, or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard, or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water, or due to its location, its propensity to snare
or collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being
carried downstream.
   ONE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD (100-YEAR FLOOD) and ONE-PERCENT ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD.
The flood that has a 1% chance of being equaled, or exceeded, in any given
year. Any flood zone that begins with the letter “A” is subject to the one-
percent annual chance flood. See REGULATORY FLOOD.
   PARTICIPATING COMMUNITY. Any community that voluntarily elects to
participate in the NFIP by adopting and enforcing floodplain management
regulations that are consistent with the standards of the NFIP.
   PHYSICAL MAP REVISION (PMR). An official republication of a community’s FEMA
map to effect changes to base (one-percent annual chance) flood elevations,
floodplain boundary delineations, regulatory floodways, and planimetric
features. These changes typically occur as a result of structural works or
improvements, annexations resulting in additional flood hazard areas, or
correction to base flood elevations or SFHAs.
   POST-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. Construction, or substantial improvement, that
started on, or after, the effective date of the initial FIRM of the community,
or after December 31, 1974, whichever is later.
   PRE-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. Construction, or substantial improvement, which
started on, or before, December 31, 1974, or before the effective date of the
initial FIRM of the community, whichever is later.
   PROBATION. Formally notifying participating communities of violations and
deficiencies in the administration and enforcement of the local floodplain
management regulations.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community, neighborhood, or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage, or use, in the customary
manner of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet, or less, when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled, or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
quarters for recreational camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULAR PROBLEM. The phase of the community’s participation in the NFIP
where more comprehensive floodplain management requirements are imposed, and
higher amounts of insurance are available based upon risk zones and elevations
determined in a FIS.
   REGULATORY FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled, or
exceeded, in any given year, as calculated by a method and procedure that is
acceptable to, and approved by, the State Department of Natural Resources and
the Federal Emergency Management Agency. The REGULATORY FLOOD elevation at any
location is as defined in §
153.03(B). The REGULATORY FLOOD is also known by the term BASE FLOOD, ONE-
PERCENT ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD, and 100-YEAR FLOOD.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period ending on the date of the event for
which the second claim is made, in which the cost of repairing the flood
damage, on the average equaled, or exceeded, 25% of the market value of the
structure at the time of each such flood event.
   SECTION 1316. The section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, being
42 U.S.C. §§ 4001 et seq., as amended, which states that no new flood insurance
coverage shall be provided for any property that the Flood Administrator finds
has been declared by a duly constituted state, or local, zoning authority, or
other authorized public body, to be in violation of state or local laws,
regulations, or ordinances that intended to discourage, or otherwise restrict,
land development or occupancy in flood-prone areas.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). The lands within the jurisdictions
(including extraterritorial jurisdictions) of the county subject to inundation
by the regulatory flood. The SFHAs are generally identified as such on the
flood insurance rate map of the county, and incorporated areas dated December
1, 1992, as well as any future updates, amendments, or revisions, prepared by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency with the most recent date (these areas
are shown on a FIRM as Zone A, AE, A1-A30, AH, AR, A99, or AO).
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Substantial improvement, and means the date the
building permit was issued; provided, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION, repair,
reconstruction, or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The
actual START means the first placement, or permanent construction, of a
structure (including a manufactured home) on a site, such as the pouring of
slabs or footing, installation of piles, construction of columns, or any work
beyond the stage of excavation for placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings,
piers, foundations, or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units, or not part of the main structure. For
substantial improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A structure that is principally above ground and is enclosed by
walls and a roof. The term includes a gas or liquid storage tank, a
manufactured home, or a prefabricated building. The term also includes
recreational vehicles to be installed on a site for more than 180 days.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would
equal, or exceed, 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals, or exceeds, 50% of
the market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures that have incurred substantial
damage or repetitive loss regardless of the actual repair work performed. The
term does not include improvements of structures to correct existing violations
of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code requirements, or any
alteration of a historic structure; provided, that the alteration will not
preclude the structure’s continued designation as a historic structure.
   SUSPENSION. The removal of a participating community from the NFIP because
the community has not enacted and/or enforced the proper floodplain management
regulations required for participation in the NFIP.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter, which
permits construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this chapter where
specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure, or other development, to be fully
compliant with this chapter. A structure, or other development, without the
elevation, other certification, or other evidence of compliance required in
this chapter is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel, or other
topographic feature on, or over, which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the North American
Vertical Datum of 1988 (NAVD 88), National Geodetic Vertical Datum of 1929
(NGVD), or other datum where specified, of floods of various magnitudes and
frequencies in the floodplains of riverine areas.
   X ZONE. The area where the flood hazard is less than that in the SFHA.
Shaded X ZONES shown on recent FIRMs (B Zones on older FIRMs) designate areas
subject to inundation by the flood with a 0.2% chance of being equaled, or
exceeded (the 500-year flood). Unshaded X ZONES (C Zones on older FIRMs)
designate areas where the annual exceedance probability of flooding is less
than 0.2%.
   ZONE. A geographical area shown on a FHBM or FIRM that reflects the
severity, or type, of flooding in the area.
   ZONE A. See A ZONE.
   ZONE B, C, AND X. Areas identified in the community as areas of moderate or
minimal hazard from the principal source of flood in the area. However,
buildings in these zones could be flooded by severe, concentrated rainfall,
coupled with inadequate local drainage systems. Flood insurance is available in
participating communities, but is not required by regulation in these zones
(Zone X is used on new and revised maps in place of Zones B and C).
(Ord. passed 5-7-2007)
§ 153.03  GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Lands to which this chapter applies. This chapter shall apply to all
SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the county.
   (B)   Basis for establishing regulatory flood data.
      (1)   This chapter’s protection standard is the regulatory flood. The
best available regulatory flood data is listed in division (B)(2) below.
Whenever a party disagrees with the best available data, the party submitting
the detailed engineering study needs to replace existing data with better data,
and submit it to the State Department of Natural Resources for review and
approval.
      (2)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for
each of the unstudied SFHAs of the county delineated as an “A Zone” on the FIRM
of the county, and incorporated areas, shall be according to the best data
available, as provided by the State Department of Natural Resources.
   (C)   Establishment of floodplain development permit. A floodplain
development permit shall be required in conformance with the provisions of this
chapter prior to the commencement of any development activities in areas of
special flood hazard.
   (D)   Compliance. No structure shall hereafter be located, extended,
converted, or structurally altered within the SFHA without full compliance with
the terms of this chapter, and other applicable regulations. No land or stream
within the SFHA shall hereafter be altered without full compliance with the
terms of this chapter, and other applicable regulations.
   (E)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. This chapter is not intended to
repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter and another conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
   (F)   Discrepancy between mapped floodplain and actual ground elevations.
      (1)   In cases where there is a discrepancy between the mapped floodplain
(SFHA) on the FIRM and the actual ground elevations, the elevation provided on
the profiles shall govern.
      (2)   If the elevation of the site in question is below the base flood
elevation, that site shall be included in the SFHA and regulated accordingly.
      (3)   If the elevation (natural grade) of the site in question is above
the base flood elevation, that site shall be considered outside the SFHA, and
the floodplain regulations will not be applied. The property owner should be
advised to apply for a LOMA.
   (G)   Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of this chapter,
all provisions shall be:
      (1)   Considered as minimum requirements;
      (2)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
      (3)   Deemed neither to limit, nor repeal, any other powers granted under
state statutes.
   (H)   Warning and disclaimer of liability. The degree of flood protection
required by this chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes, and
is based on available information derived from engineering and scientific
methods of study. Larger floods can, and will, occur on rare occasions.
Therefore, this chapter does not create any liability on the part of the
county, the State Department of Natural Resources, or the state, for any flood
damage that results from reliance on this chapter, or any administrative
decision made lawfully thereunder.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2007)
§ 153.04  ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Designation of administrator. The County Board of Commissioners hereby
appoints the Zoning Administrator to administer and implement the provisions of
this chapter, and is herein referred to as the Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   Permit procedures. Application for a floodplain development permit
shall be made to the Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her
prior to any development activities, and may include, but not be limited to,
the following plans in duplicate, drawn to scale, showing the nature, location,
dimensions, and elevations of the area in question, existing or proposed
structures, earthen fill, storage of materials or equipment, drainage
facilities, and the location of the foregoing. Specifically, the following
information is required:
      (1)   Application stage.
         (a)   A description of the proposed development.
         (b)   Location of the proposed development sufficient to accurately
locate property and structure in relation to existing roads and streams.
         (c)   A legal description of the property site.
         (d)   A site development plan showing existing and proposed
development locations, and existing and proposed land grades.
         (e)   Elevation of the top of the lowest floor (including basement) of
all proposed buildings. Elevation should be in NAVD 88 or NGVD.
         (f)   Elevation (in NAVD 88 or NGVD) to which any non-residential
structure will be flood proofed.
         (g)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be
altered, or related, as a result of the proposed development.
      (2)   Construction stage. Upon placement of the lowest floor, or flood
proofing, it shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain
Administrator a certification of the NAVD 88 or NGVD elevation of the lowest
floor, or flood proofed elevation, as built. Said certification shall be
prepared by, or under, the direct supervision of a registered land surveyor or
professional engineer, and certified by the same. When flood proofing is
utilized for a particular structure, said certification shall be prepared by,
or under, the direct supervision of a professional engineer or architect, and
certified by the same. Any work undertaken prior to submission of the
certification shall be at the permit holders’ risk (the Floodplain
Administrator shall review the lowest floor and flood proofing elevation survey
data submitted). The permit holder shall correct deficiencies detected by such
review before any further work is allowed to proceed. Failure to submit the
survey, or failure to make said corrections required hereby, shall be cause to
issue a stop work order for the project.
   (C)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator.
      (1)   Overview. The Floodplain Administrator, and/or designated staff, is
hereby authorized and directed to enforce the provisions of this chapter. The
Administrator is further authorized to render interpretations of this chapter
which are consistent with its spirit and purpose.
      (2)   Duties and responsibilities. Duties and responsibilities of the
Floodplain Administrator shall include, but not be limited to:
         (a)   Review all floodplain development permits to assure that the
permit requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
         (b)   Inspect and inventory damaged structures in SFHA, and complete
substantial damage determinations;
         (c)   Ensure that construction authorization has been granted by the
State Department of Natural Resources for all development projects subject to §
153.05(E) and (G)(1), and maintain a record of such authorization (either copy
of the actual permit or floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment);
         (d)   Ensure that all necessary federal or state permits have been
received prior to issuance of the local floodplain development permit. Copies
of such permits are to be maintained on file with the floodplain development
permit;
         (e)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Floodplain Coordinator
prior to any alteration, or relocation, of a watercourse, and submit copies of
such notifications to FEMA;
         (f)   Maintain for public inspection, and furnish upon request, local
permit documents, damaged structures, inventories, substantial damage
determinations, regulatory flood data, SFHA maps, letters of map amendment
(LOMA), letters of map revision (LOMR), copies of DNR permits and floodplain
analysis and regulatory assessments (letters of recommendation), federal permit
documents, and as-built elevation and flood proofing data for all buildings
constructed subject to this chapter;
         (g)   Utilize and enforce all letters of map revision (LOMR) or
physical map revisions (PMR) issued by FEMA for the currently effective SFHA
maps of the community;
         (h)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is
not diminished;
         (i)   Verify and record the actual elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new, or substantially improved, structures, in
accordance with division (B) above;
         (j)   Verify and record the actual elevation to which any new, or
substantially improved, structures have been flood proofed, in accordance with
division (B) above;
         (k)   Review certified plans and specifications for compliance;
         (l)   Issue stop work orders (optional):
            1.   Upon notice from the Floodplain Administrator, work on any
building, structure, or premises that is being done, contrary to the provisions
of this chapter, shall immediately cease; and
            2.   Such notice shall be in writing, and shall be given to the
owner of the property, or to his or her agent, or to the person doing the work,
and shall state the conditions under which work may be resumed; and/or
         (m)   Revocation of permits (optional).
            1.   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit or approval,
issued under the provisions of the chapter, in cases where there has been any
false statement, or misrepresentation, as to the material fact in the
application or plans on which the permit, or approval, was based.
            2.   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit upon
determination by the Floodplain Administrator that the construction, erection,
alteration, repair, moving, demolition, installation, or replacement of the
structure for which the permit was issued is in violation of, or not in
conformity with, the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2007)
§ 153.05  PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION.
   (A)   General standards. In all SFHAs, the following provisions are
required:
      (1)   New construction, and substantial improvements, shall be anchored
to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure;
      (2)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not
limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard
shall be in addition to, and consistent with, applicable state requirements for
resisting wind forces;
      (3)   New construction, and substantial improvements, shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage
below the FPG;
      (4)   New construction, and substantial improvements, shall be
constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
      (5)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, and other service facilities shall be designed, and/or located, so
as to prevent water from entering, or accumulating, within the components
during conditions of flooding;
      (6)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize, or eliminate, infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
      (7)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize, or eliminate, infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
      (8)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located, and constructed,
to avoid impairment to them, or contamination from them, during flooding;
      (9)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a
structure that is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall meet
the requirements of new construction, as contained in this chapter;
      (10)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvement to a
structure that is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall
be undertaken only if said nonconformity is not
further extended, or replaced; and
      (11)   Whenever any portion of the SFHA is authorized for use, the volume
of space which will be occupied by the authorized fill, or structure, below the
BFE shall be compensated for, and balanced by, an equivalent volume of
excavation taken below the BFE. The excavation volume shall be at least equal
to the volume of storage lost (replacement ratio of one to one) due to the
fill, or structure.
         (a)   The excavation shall take place in the floodplain, and in the
same immediate watershed in which the authorized fill, or structure, is
located.
         (b)   Under certain circumstances, the excavation may be allowed to
take place outside of, but adjacent to, the floodplain; provided, that the
excavated volume will be below the regulatory flood elevation, will be in the
same immediate watershed in which the authorized fill, or structure, is
located, will be accessible to the regulatory floodwater, will not be subject
to ponding when not inundated by floodwater, and that it shall not be refilled.
         (c)   The fill, or structure, shall not obstruct a drainage way
leading to the floodplain.
         (d)   The fill, or structure, shall be of a material deemed stable
enough to remain firm and in place during periods of flooding, and shall
include provisions to protect adjacent property owners against any increased
runoff or drainage resulting from its placement.
         (e)   Plans depicting the areas to be excavated, and filled, shall be
submitted prior to the actual start of construction or any site work; once site
work is complete, but before the actual start of construction, the applicant
shall provide to the Floodplain Administrator a certified survey of the
excavation and fill sites demonstrating the fill and excavation comply with
this section (optional).
   (B)   Specific standards. In all SFHAs, the following provisions are
required:
      (1)   In addition to the requirements of division (A) above, all
structures to be located in the SFHA shall be protected from flood damage below
the FPG. This building protection requirement applies to the following
situations:
         (a)   Construction or placement of any new structure having a floor
area greater than 400 square feet;
         (b)   Structural alterations made to:
            1.   An existing (previously unaltered) structure, the cost of
which equals, or exceeds, 50% of the value of the pre-altered structure
(excluding the value of the land); and
            2.   Any previously altered structure;
         (c)   Reconstruction, or repairs, made to a damaged structure that are
valued at more than 50% of the market value of the structure (excluding the
value of the land) before damage occurred;
         (d)   Installing a travel trailer, or recreational vehicle, on a site
for more than 180 days;
         (e)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site, or a new
manufactured home on an existing site. This chapter does not apply to returning
the existing manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it
was removed to avoid flood damage; and
         (f)   Reconstruction, or repairs, made to a repetitive loss structure
(optional).
      (2)   New construction, or substantial improvement, of any residential
structure (or manufactured home) shall have the lowest floor, including
basement, at, or above, the FPG (two feet above the base flood elevation).
Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a structure,
openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of floodwaters shall
be provided in accordance with the standards of division (B)(4) below.
      (3)   New construction, or substantial improvement, of any commercial,
industrial, or non-residential structure (or manufactured home) shall have the
lowest floor, including basement, elevated to, or above, the FPG (two feet
above the base flood elevation). Structures located in all “A Zones” may be
flood proofed in lieu of being elevated, if done in accordance with the
following:
         (a)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify
that the structure has been
designed so that below the FPG the structure and attendant utility facilities
are watertight and capable of resisting the effects of the regulatory flood.
The structure design shall take into account flood velocities, duration, rate
of rise, hydrostatic pressures, and impacts from debris or ice. Such
certification shall be provided to the official as set forth in §
153.04(C)(2)(k); and
         (b)   Flood proofing measures shall be operable without human
intervention and without an outside source of electricity.
      (4)   New construction, or substantial improvements, of elevated
structures that include fully enclosed areas formed by foundation, and other
exterior walls, below the flood protection grade shall be designed to preclude
finished living space, and designed to allow for the entry and exit of
floodwaters to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior
walls. Designs for complying with this requirement must either be certified by
a professional engineer or architect, or meet the following minimum criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings having a total net area of not
less than one square inch for every one square foot of enclosed area;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above the foundation interior grade (which must be equal to in elevation, or
higher than, the exterior foundation grade);
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices; provided, they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters
in both directions;
         (d)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to
allow for parking for vehicles (garage door), or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door), or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator);
         (e)   The interior portion of such enclosed area shall not be
partitioned, or finished, into separate rooms;
         (f)   Portions of the building below the flood protection grade must
be constructed with materials resistant to flood damage; and
         (g)   Where elevation requirements exceed six feet above the highest
adjacent grade, a copy of the legally recorded deed restriction prohibiting the
conversion of the area below the lowest floor to a use, or dimension, contrary
to the structure’s originally approved design, shall be presented as a
condition of issuance of the final certificate of occupancy (optional).
      (5)   A residential, or non-residential, structure may be constructed on
a permanent land fill in accordance with the following:
         (a)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot deep
before compacting to 95% of the maximum density obtainable with the standard
proctor test method;
         (b)   The fill should extend at least ten feet beyond the foundation
of the structure before sloping below the FPG;
         (c)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or bulkheading. If vegetative cover is
used, the slopes shall be no steeper than three horizontal to one vertical;
         (d)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from, or onto, neighboring properties; and
         (e)   The top of the lowest floor, including basements, shall be at,
or above, the FPG.
      (6)   A residential, or non-residential, structure may be constructed
with a crawlspace located below the flood protection grade; provided, that the
following conditions are met:
         (a)   The building must be designed, and adequately anchored, to
resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure resulting
from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy;
         (b)   Any enclosed area below the flood protection grade shall have
openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing for the automatic
entry, and exit, of floodwaters, and provide a minimum of two openings having a
total net area of not less than one square inch for every one square foot of
enclosed area. The bottom of the openings shall be no more than one foot above
grade;
         (c)   The interior height of the crawlspace measured from the interior
grade of the crawlspace to the top of the foundation wall must not exceed four
feet at any point;
         (d)   Utility systems within the crawlspace must be elevated above the
flood protection grade;
         (e)   An adequate drainage system must be installed to remove
floodwaters from the interior
area of the crawlspace within a reasonable period of time after a flood event;
         (f)   Portions of the building below the flood protection grade must
be constructed with materials resistant to flood damage; and
         (g)   The interior grade of the crawlspace must be at, or above, the
base flood elevation.
      (7)   Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles to be installed, or
substantially improved, on a site for more than 180 days must meet one of the
following requirements:
         (a)   The manufactured home shall be elevated on a permanent
foundation such that the lowest floor shall be at, or above, the FPG and
securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement. This requirement applies to all
manufactured homes to be placed on a site:
            1.   Outside a manufactured home park, or subdivision;
            2.   In a new manufactured home park, or subdivision;
            3.   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park, or
subdivision; or
            4.   In an existing manufactured home park, or subdivision, on
which a manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as a result of flood.
         (b)   The manufactured home shall be elevated so that the lowest floor
of the manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers, or other
foundation elevations, that are no less than 36 inches in height above grade,
and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement. This requirement applies to all
manufactured homes to be placed on a site in an existing manufactured home
park, or subdivision, that has not been substantially damaged by a flood.
         (c)   Recreational vehicles placed on a site shall either:
            1.   Be on site for less than 180 days;
            2.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use (defined as being
on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick
disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached
additions); or
            3.   Meet the requirements for manufactured homes as stated earlier
in this division (B)(7).
   (C)   Standards for subdivision proposals.
      (1)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
      (2)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and heater systems located, and
constructed, to minimize flood damage.
      (3)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage to reduce
exposure to flood hazards.
      (4)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision
proposals and other proposed development (including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions), which is greater than the lesser of 50 lots or five acres.
   (D)   Critical facility. Construction of new critical facilities shall be,
to the extent possible, located outside the limits of the SFHA. Construction of
new critical facilities shall be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible
alternative site is available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA
shall have the lowest floor elevated to, or above, the FPG at the site. Flood
proofing and sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic substances
will not be displaced by, or released into, floodwaters. Access routes elevated
to, or above, the FPG shall be provided to all critical facilities to the
extent possible.
   (E)   Standards for identified floodways.
      (1)   Located within SFHAs, established in §
153.03(B), are areas designated as floodways. The floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters, which carry debris,
potential projectiles, and has erosion potential. If the site is in an
identified floodway, the Floodplain Administrator shall require the applicant
to forward the application, along with all pertinent plans and specifications,
to the State Department of Natural Resources, and apply for a permit for
construction in a floodway. Under the provisions of I.C. 14-28-1, a permit for
construction in a floodway from the State Department of Natural Resources is
required prior to the issuance of a local building permit for any excavation,
deposit, construction, or obstruction activity located in the floodway. This
includes land preparation activities such as filling, grading, clearing and
paving, and the like, undertaken before the actual start of construction of the
structure. However, it does exclude non-substantial additions/improvements to
existing (lawful) residences in a non-boundary river floodway. (I.C. 14-28-1-26
allows construction of non-substantial additions/improvements to residences in
a non-boundary river floodway without obtaining a permit for construction in a
floodway from the State Department of Natural Resources. Please note that, if
fill is needed to elevate an addition above the existing grade, prior approval
(construction in a floodway permit) for the fill is required from the State
Department of Natural Resources).
      (2)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until a
permit (when applicable) has been issued by the State Department of Natural
Resources granting approval for construction in a floodway. Once a permit for
construction in a floodway has been issued by the State Department of Natural
Resources, the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local floodplain
development permit; provided, the provisions contained in this section have
been met. The floodplain development permit cannot be less restrictive than the
permit for construction in a floodway issued by the State Department of Natural
Resources. However, a community’s more restrictive regulations (if any) shall
take precedence.
      (3)   No development shall be allowed which, acting alone or in
combination with existing or future development, will increase the regulatory
flood more than 0.14 of one foot.
      (4)   For all projects involving channel modifications or fill (including
levees), the county shall submit the data and request that the Federal
Emergency Management Agency revise the regulatory flood data.
   (F)   Standards for identified fringe.
      (1)   If the site is located in an identified fringe, then the Floodpain
Administrator may issue the local floodplain development permit.
      (2)   Provided, the provisions contained in this section have been met.
The key provision is that the top of the lowest floor of any new, or
substantially improved, structure shall be at, or above, the FPG.
   (G)   Standards for SFHAs without established base flood elevation and/or
floodways/fringes.
      (1)   Drainage area upstream of the site is greater than one square mile
if:
         (a)   The site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined, and the drainage area
upstream of the site is greater than one square mile, the Floodplain
Administrator shall require the applicant to forward the application, along
with all pertinent plans and specifications, to the State Department of Natural
Resources for review and comment;
         (b)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
either a permit for construction in a floodway or a floodplain analysis/
regulatory assessment, citing the 100-year flood elevation and the recommended
flood protection grade, has been received from the State Department of Natural
Resources; and
         (c)   Once the Floodplain Administrator has received the proper permit
for construction in a floodway or floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment
approving the proposed development, a floodplain development permit may be
issued; provided, the conditions of the floodplain development permit are not
less restrictive than the conditions received from the State Department of
Natural Resources and the provisions contained in this section have been met.
      (2)   Drainage area upstream of the site is less than one square mile if:
         (a)   The site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined, and the drainage area
upstream of the site is less than one square mile, the Floodplain Administrator
shall require the applicant to provide an engineering analysis showing the
limits of the floodway, fringe, and 100-year flood elevation for the site; and
         (b)   Upon receipt, the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local
floodplain development permit, provided the provisions contained in this
section have been met.
      (3)   The total cumulative effect of the proposed development, when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development, will not increase
the regulatory flood more than 0.14 of one foot, and will not increase flood
damages or potential flood damages.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2007)
§ 153.06  VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Designation of Variance and Appeals Board. The Board of Zoning
Appeals, as established by the County Board of Commissioners, shall hear and
decide appeals and requests for variances from the requirements of this
chapter.
   (B)   Duties of Variance and Appeals Board. The Board shall hear, and
decide, appeals when it is alleged an error in any requirement, decision, or
determination is made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement, or
administration, of this chapter. Any person aggrieved by the decision of the
Board may appeal such decision to the appropriate court, as provided in
statute.
   (C)   Variance procedures. In passing upon such applications, the appointed
board shall consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all
standards specified in other sections of this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger of life and property due to flood or erosion damage;
      (2)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility, and its contents, to
flood damage, and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (3)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (4)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (5)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use
which are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
      (6)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (7)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (8)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (9)   The expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment
of transport of the floodwaters at the site; and
      (10)   The costs of providing governmental services during, and after,
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   (D)   Conditions for variances.
      (1)   Variances shall only be issued when there is:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud or victimization of the public,
or conflict with existing laws or ordinances.
      (2)   No variance for a residential use within a floodway, subject to §
153.05(E) or (G)(1), may be granted.
      (3)   Any variance granted in a floodway, subject to §
153.05(E) or (G)(1), will require a permit from the State Department of Natural
Resources.
      (4)   Variances to the provisions for flood hazard reduction of §
153.05(B) may be granted only when a new structure is to be located on a lot of
one-half acre or less in size, contiguous to, and surrounded by, lots with
existing structures constructed below the flood protection grade.
      (5)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (6)   Variances may be granted for the reconstruction, or restoration, of
any structure individually listed on the National Register of Historic Places
or the State Register of Historic Sites and Structures.
      (7)   Any application to whom a variance is granted shall be given
written notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation and
the elevation to which the lowest floor is to be built, and stating that the
cost of the flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk
resulting from the reduced lowest floor elevation (see division (E) below).
      (8)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of appeal
actions, and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency or
the State Department of Natural Resources upon request (see division (E)
below).
   (E)   Variance notification.
      (1)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice over the signature of a community official that:
         (a)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the
base flood elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood
insurance, up to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
         (b)   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to
life and property. A copy of the notice shall be recorded by the Floodplain
Administrator in the Office of the County Recorder, and shall be recorded in a
manner so that it appears in the chain of title of the affected parcel of land
(second sentence optional).
      (2)   The Floodplain Administrator will maintain a record of all variance
actions, including justification for their issuance, and report such variances
issued in the community’s biennial report submission to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
   (F)   Historic structure. Variances may be issued for the repair, or
rehabilitation, of historic structures upon a determination that the proposed
repair, or rehabilitation, will not preclude the structure’s continued
designation as a historic structure, and the variance is the minimum to
preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
   (G)   Special conditions. Upon the consideration of the factors listed in
this section, and the purposes of this chapter, the Board of Zoning Appeals may
attach such conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to
further the purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2007)
§ 153.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit in the SFHA, or
failure to comply with the requirements of a floodplain development permit, or
conditions of a variance, shall be deemed to be a violation of this chapter.
All violations shall be considered a common nuisance, and be treated as such in
accordance with the provisions of the zoning code for the county. All
violations shall be punishable by a fine not exceeding $500.
   (B)   A separate offense shall be deemed to occur for each day the violation
continues to exist.
   (C)   The County Planning Commission shall inform the owner that any such
violation is considered a willful act to increase flood damages, and therefore
may cause coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
   (D)   Nothing herein shall prevent the county from taking such other lawful
action to prevent, or remedy, any violations. All costs connected therewith
shall accrue to the person, or persons, responsible.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2007)
CHAPTER 154:  LAND USE REGULATIONS
Section
   
154.01   Regulations adopted by reference
§ 154.01  REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The county’s land use provisions, and any and all amendments, are hereby
adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 12-18-2017; Ord. 2020-02, passed 4-6-2020; Ord. passed 7-
20-2020; Ord. 2021-01, passed 1-19-2021; Ord. 2021-03, passed 4-5-2021)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES AND AGREEMENTS
      
II.   LAND VACATIONS
      
III.   VARIANCES
      
IV.   FUNDS
TABLE I:  FRANCHISES AND AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Passed Date Description
-        10-5-1987   Winamac, Inc.; granting easement to operate a community
                     television cable system.
2005-1   2-7-2005    Winamac, Inc.; granting easement to operate a community
                     television cable system.
                    
 
TABLE II:  LAND VACATIONS
 
Ord.  Passed Description
No.   Date
I-74  1-7-   Schlegelmilch & Associates; vacating Bridge #196, located 75 east and
      1974   210 south.
2014- 3-17-  Rex A. Manikowski and Vickie D. Manikowski; vacating a certain
03    2014   unimproved 16 foot platted road, as per Eden Subdivision Plat, as the
             same runs through the boundary of the petitioner’s real estate.
06-   11-21- Braun Land Development Corporation; vacating a certain roadway
2016  2016   located at Co. Rd. 60 W (Fitz Industrial Parkway), between S.R. 14
             and Co. Rd. 25 S.
007-  12-5-  Vacate a certain public right-of-way located on an unimproved road of
2016  2016   Co. Rd. 1150 W between Co. Rd. 900 S and Co. Rd. 1000 S.
            
 
TABLE III:  VARIANCES
 
Ord. No. Passed Date Description
                     Christine Woodard; variance from the County Housing
-        11-4-1996   Ordinance in order to install a 1975 FMT mobile home in
                     Cass Township.
                    
 
TABLE IV:  FUNDS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./   Date
Res.    Passed Description
No.
-       11-9-  Establishment of the non-reverting Dog Fund; County Sheriff’s
        1992   Department.
C. -    1-29-  Establishment of the Corrections Fund; County Jail.
        1996
2004-2  5-17-  Establishment of the County Medical Care for Inmate Fund;
        2004   County Jail.
2005-2  2-1-   Establishment of the Electronic Map Generation Fund;.
        2005
2007-   11-5-  Establishment of the Sex and Violent Offender Administration
11-5    2007   Fund; County Sheriff’s Department.
09-2009 9-21-  Establishment of the non-reverting County Prisoner
        2009   Reimbursement Fund; County Sheriff’s Department.
03-2011 7-5-   Establishment of the Plat Book Fund; County Auditor.
        2011
8-2013  11-18- Establishment of the DRMO Equipment Fund; County Auditor.
        2013
        9- -   Amends the DRMO Equipment Fund to include transfer of antennas
-       2018   and communication equipment from their existing location to the
               new Emergency Management Office.
C.      4-8-   Establishment of Law Enforcement Recording Fund; County
2019-3  2019   Sheriff’s
C.R.    3-9-   Surrendering custody of the County Congressional Township
2020-02 2020   School Fund to the state.
2020-08 10-12- Establishment of a Care Providers Relief Fund.
        2020
2021-05 4-19-  Establishment of American Rescue Plan Fund.
        2021
2021-06 5-3-   Establishment of a Capital Project Fund and Debt Service Fund.
        2021
              
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Cites Code Section
I.C. Cites           Code Section
1-1-1-5              10.04
1-1-1-7              10.12
1-1-1-8              10.06
1-1-4-5              10.05
1-1-5-1              10.11
1-1-6-1              10.08
4-21.5-1-9           110.02
4-21.5-3-7           150.29
5-2-6.1              32.36
5-3-1                34.46
5-11-1-27(e)         30.15
5-14                 151.02
5-14-1.5             33.05
5-14-1.5-5(d)        33.09
5-14-3-2             34.21
5-14-3-2(k)          32.01
5-14-3-3             34.21
5-14-3-3(e)          34.21
5-14-3-3.6           34.21
5-14-3-3.6(e)        34.21
5-14-3-4             34.21
5-14-3-5.2           32.01
5-14-3-6             34.21
5-14-3-8             32.01
5-14-3-8(g)(1)       32.01
5-14-3-8(j)          34.21
5-14-3-8(k)          34.21
5-22-8               34.02
6-1.1-12-26.2        34.44
6-1.1-20.6-7.5       34.46
6-1.1-22-8.1         30.01
6-1.1-22-9           30.01
6-3-4 et seq.        110.02
6-3.5-1.1-3          34.43
6-3.6-5              34.46
6-3.6-5-6            34.46
6-3.6-6              34.46
6-3.6-7-18           34.46
6-3.6-9-1 et seq.    34.40
9-18.1-14            71.02
9-21-8-32            Ch. 72 Schd. I
9-21-8-49            Ch. 72 Schd. I
10-8-2-1             33.04
                     33.04-
                     33.05;
10-14 et seq         33.07;
                     33.09;
                     33.14;
                     33.20
10-16-7 et seq.      33.03
11-8-8-21            34.25
11-12-5-5            34.06
13-30-2-1            90.02
14-8-2-185           71.02
14-16-1-1 et seq.    71.02
14-16-1-1 through 30 71.02
14-16-1-20(a)(3)     71.02
14-16-1-29           71.02
14-21-1-24           71.02
14-28-1              153.05
14-28-1-26           153.05
14-28-4              153.01
16-20                50.02;
                     90.02
16-20-1-10           110.07
16-20-1-25           110.06
16-20-1-25(c)        110.06
16-20-1-26           110.05
16-20-1-27           110.04
16-20-8-5            110.05
16-20-8-6            110.05
16-42-1-6            110.03
16-42-1-13           110.05
16-42-5-23           110.05
16-42-5-30           110.02
16-42-5-28(g)        110.06
16-46                34.20;
                     50.03
22-8-1.1             151.02
22-9-1-4 et seq.     92.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.     92.01
22-9.5-2-2           92.02
22-9.5-2-3           92.02
22-9.5-2-4           92.02
22-9.5-2-8           92.02
22-9.5-2-9           92.02
22-9.5-2-11          92.02
22-9.5-2-13          92.02
22-9.5-3             92.03
22-9.5-3 et seq.     92.09
22-9.5-4-8           92.10
22-9.5-5             92.02
22-9.5-5-1           92.03
22-9.5-6             92.02;
                     92.10
22-12                150.29
22-12-1-4            150.17
22-12-1-5            150.17
22-12-1-7            150.17
22-12-1-14           150.17
22-12-1-16           150.17
22-12-1-17           150.17
22-12-1-18           150.17
22-12-1-22(b)(12)    150.31
22-12-1-24           150.17
22-12-1-26           150.17
22-12-7              150.18
22-13                150.29
22-13-2-3(b)         150.30
22-13-2-6            150.16
22-13-2-7            150.29
22-13-2-7(b)         150.30
22-13-2-9            150.16
22-13-2-11           150.18
22-14                150.29
22-15                150.29
22-15-3              150.20
22-15-4              150.16
31-37-1-2            32.36
31-40                32.36
32-25-2-9            150.17
33-9-15-5            32.38
33-33-36             110.06
33-37                32.38;
                     32.40
33-40                32.36;
                     32.38
34-28-5-1            110.06
35-31.5-2-185        130.01
35-47-8-1            130.01
35-47-8-3            130.01
35-47-11.1-4         130.01
35-47-16-1           130.01
35-50-5-4(c)         34.07
36-1-2-6             32.01
36-1-3               35.02
36-1-3-8(a)(10)      10.99
36-1-5-4             150.30;
                     150.31
36-1-6-4             150.28
36-1-6-9             150.29
36-2-2               33.04
36-2-5-3(a)          33.06
36-2-6-4.5           34.05
36-2-9-18            34.23
36-2-13-15           34.07
36-2-13-15(d)        34.07
36-7-4               153.01
36-7-8-9             150.29
36-7-9               150.01
36-7-9-2             150.01
36-8-17              150.24
                     
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No.        Date Passed Code Section
-               - -         30.16
2014-006        6-16-2014   34.04
2019-09         7-15-2019   35.03
Council 2020-02 3-9-2020    TSO Table IV
Council 2020-07 8-10-2020   34.46
                           
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.        Date Passed Code Section
I-74            1-7-1974    TSO Table II
35              9-3-1974    TSO Table II
-               12-19-1977  71.01;
                            71.99
-               7-3-1978    Ch. 72 Schd. II
-               9-18-1978   Ch. 72 Schd. II
-               3-1-1982    35.02
-               7-6-1982    Ch. 72 Schd. II
-               5-2-1983    32.15-
                            32.21
-               10-3-1983   31.03
-               3-2-1987    30.01
-               10-5-1987   TSO Table I
-               4-15-1991   34.20
Council         3-23-1992   34.40
-               11-9-1992   TSO Table IV
-               6-21-1993   32.02
-               7-19-1993   34.20
-               1-4-1994    34.01
                            50.01-
-               2-7-1994    50.07;
                            50.99
                            51.01-
-               2-7-1994    51.05;
                            51.99
-               2-7-1994    90.02;
                            90.99
-               8-22-1994   70.01
                            91.01-
1995-01         1-9-1995    91.06;
                            91.99
1995-02         1-9-1995    91.07
                            151.01-
-               1-15-1996   151.10;
                            151.99
Council         1-29-1996   TSO Table IV
-               11-4-1996   151.02
-               11-4-1996   TSO Table III
Council 98-3    6-8-1998    34.41
98-4            6-15-1998   34.02
98-5            6-15-1998   34.03
                            152.01-
99-1            3-15-1999   152.05;
                            152.99
99-3            5-19-1999   32.35-
                            32.40
99-5            10-18-1999  70.02
2001-1          12-3-2001   35.01
2002-1          1-7-2002    33.01-
                            33.20
Council 2002-2  12-5-2002   34.42
2003-3          12-15-2003  31.01
2004-1          3-15-2004   34.05
2004-2          5-17-2004   34.06;
                            TSO Table IV
2005-2          2-1-2005    34.21;
                            TSO Table IV
2005-1          2-7-2005    TSO Table I
Council 2005-3  2-14-2005   34.24
2006-1          5-1-2006    110.01-
                            110.08
                            150.15-
2006-2          5-1-2006    150.31;
                            150.99
2006-3          5-1-2006    150.01
2006-4          5-15-2006   150.02
                            153.01-
-               5-7-2007    153.06;
                            153.99
2007-11-5       11-5-2007   34.25;
                            TSO Table IV
-               7-7-2008    91.02
Council         7-14-2008   91.99
09-2009         9-21-2009   34.07;
                            TSO Table IV
                            152.20-
05-2010         4-19-2010   152.33;
                            152.99
03-2011         7-5-2011    TSO Table IV
Council 06-2013 7-8-2013    34.43
8-2013          11-18-2013  32.03;
                            TSO Table IV
2014-03         3-17-2014   TSO Table II
2014-04         3-17-2014   Ch. 72 Schd. I
2014-005        6-16-2014   90.01;
                            90.99
01-2015         1-5-2015    30.02
2015-02         4-13-2015   Ch. 72 Schd. II
001-2016        6-20-2016   30.15
-               9-6-2016    34.44
-               9-6-2016    71.02
06-2016         9-19-2016   31.02
06-2016         11-21-2016  TSO Table II
-               12- -2016   Ch. 72 Schd. II
007-2016        12-5-2016   TSO Table II
2017-03         12-18-2017  154.01
2018-           8-6-2018    34.22
2018-           8-6-2018    34.22
2018-04         8-6-2018    34.22
2018-05         8-6-2018    34.22
-               9- -2018    TSO Table IV
Council 2019-3  4-8-2019    32.01,
                            TSO Table IV
Council 2019-04 6-17-2019   34.45
Council 2019-05 6-22-2019   34.23
                            92.01-
2019-07         10-7-2019   92.10;
                            92.99
Council         10-14-2019  34.46
2019-08         10-14-2019  Ch. 72 Schd. II
2019-07         11-18-2019  Ch. 72 Schd. I
2020-02         4-6-2020    154.01
-               7-20-2020   154.01
2020-05         8-10-2020   34.46
2020-06         8-20-2020   130.01
2020-08         10-12-2020  TSO Table IV
2021-01         1-19-2021   154.01
2021-03         4-5-2021    154.01
2021-05         4-19-2021   TSO Table IV
2021-06         5-3-2021    TSO Table IV
                           
 
