RICHMOND, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation curreent through Ord. 5-2023, passed 1-17-2023
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.001   Title of code
   
10.002   Interpretation
   
10.003   Application to future ordinances
   
10.004   Captions
   
10.005   Definitions
   
10.006   Rules of interpretation
   
10.007   Severability
   
10.008   Reference to other sections
   
10.009   Reference to offices
   
10.010   Errors and omissions
   
10.011   Official time
   
10.012   Reasonable time or notice
   
10.013   Ordinances repealed
   
10.014   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.015   Disclaimer of liability
   
10.016   Appropriation and payment of rewards
 
   
10.999   Enforcement and general penalty
§ 10.001 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the City of Richmond, Indiana,
shall be designated as the “Richmond Code” and may be cited in the form “§
10.01” or such other section number as is appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 10.01)
§ 10.002 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required,
the same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of the
Indiana Code.
   (B)   Where a section of this code is followed by a reference to the Indiana
Code, such reference indicates that the section is analogous or similar to the
cited sections in the Indiana Code. Footnotes, cross- references and other
comments are by way of explanation only and should not be deemed a part of the
text of any section.
   (C)   All provisions of this code are limited in application to the
territorial boundaries of the municipal corporation, although the same may not
be so limited, specifically Richmond, Indiana, except
Chapter 165 regarding the Unified Development Code, which chapters apply to the
unincorporated territorial jurisdiction of Richmond, Indiana, for planning
purposes.
(Prior Code, § 10.02) (Ord. ????-1995, passed - -1995)
§ 10.003 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of this chapter, not incompatible with future legislation,
shall apply to ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code
unless otherwise specifically provided.
(Prior Code, § 10.03)
§ 10.004 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section
(Prior Code, § 10.04)
§ 10.005 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. But technical words and phrases having a peculiar and
appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical
import.
(I.C. 1-1-4-1)
   (B)   Definitions. For the purposes of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. The City of Richmond,
Indiana.
      CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. The municipal code as modified by
amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or sections.
      COUNCIL. The Common Council of Richmond, Indiana.
      COUNTY. Wayne County, Indiana.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OWNER. Applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership or joint tenant of the whole or
a part of such building or land, either alone or with others.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as applied to
any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers thereof.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Every species of property, except real property.
      PROPERTY. Real and personal property.
      REAL PROPERTY. Lands, tenements and hereditaments and all chattels real.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curb lines of the lateral
lines of a roadway and the adjacent property lines intended for the use of
pedestrians.
      STATE. State of Indiana.
      STREET. Except as provided in the traffic code, the entire width between
property lines of every way or place of whatever nature when any part thereof
is open to the use of the public, as a matter of right.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed; equivalent to the
words “Year of Our Lord”.
(I.C. 1-1-4-1)
(Prior Code, § 10.05)
§ 10.006 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances provisions of the city code shall be by
the following rules, unless such construction is plainly repugnant to the
intent of the legislative body or of the context of the same actual ordinance
as adopted by Council.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or”, if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute provision requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, such
requisition requirement shall be satisfied by the performance of such act by an
authorized agent or deputy.
(I.C. 1-1-4-1)
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
   (E)   Joint authority. Words importing joint authority to three or more
persons shall be construed as authority to a majority of such persons, unless
otherwise declared in the law giving such authority.
(I.C. 1-1-41)
(Prior Code, § 10.06) (Ord. ????-1995, passed - -1995)
§ 10.007 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8) (Prior Code, § 10.07)
§ 10.008 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, such
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
(Prior Code, § 10.08)
§ 10.009 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the municipality exercising the powers, duties
or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
(Prior Code, § 10.09)
§ 10.010 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; or the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express such intent, such spelling shall be corrected and
such word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of such error.
(Prior Code, § 10.10)
§ 10.011 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal law, shall
be the official time within the city for the transaction of all city business.
(Prior Code, § 10.11)
§ 10.012 REASONABLE TIME OR NOTICE.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance provision requires an act to be done
in a reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME
OR NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of such act or the giving of such notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
(I.C. 34-7-5-1) (Prior Code, § 10.12) (Ord. ????-1995, passed - -1995)
§ 10.013 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
(Prior Code, § 10.13)
§ 10.014 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
(Prior Code, § 10.14)
§ 10.015 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The city code or any other ordinance shall not create liability on the part
of the city or its administering agency official for any damages that result
from reliance on the code or other ordinance or any administrative decision
lawfully made hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 10.80) (Ord. 38-1986, passed - -1986; Ord. ????-1995, passed - -
1995)
§ 10.016 APPROPRIATION AND PAYMENT OF REWARDS.
   (A)   The Common Council may appropriate money for a reward for information
leading to the apprehension, arrest and conviction of a person or persons for
any felony committed in the city.
   (B)   The reward may be offered in such a manner and method as deemed
appropriate by the Common Council or may be delegated to any board or
commission of the city.
(Prior Code, § 10.98)
§ 10.999 ENFORCEMENT AND GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person adjudged guilty of violating any provision of the
code that does not prescribe a different penalty shall be fined $50 and may
also be required to pay the costs of prosecution of such violation.
      (2)   Any person adjudged guilty of violating the following provisions of
this code shall be fined the sum of $100, and proper reference of this fine
shall also be made in the applicable section of the code, to wit:
        Operating as a private hauler of refuse without receiving approval from the
52.004  Board of Sanitary Commissioners or complying with both provisions of §
        52.008
52.008  Open burning of refuse without approval
77.001  Operating a train at a speed greater than 40 mph within the city limits
77.006  Failing to maintain a railroad crossing
77.009  Operating a railroad crossing without properly working flashers
        Offensive industries (stockyard, fertilizer plants, slaughterhouse) within
92.001  1/4 mile of a residence, church, factory, schoolhouse or other public place
        or within 500 feet of a public road
92.002  Possessing live swine within the city
92.004  Storage of machinery or junk vehicles on a premises or property
92.040  Creating a dense smoke nuisance
92.041  Interfering with Fire Chief in his or her efforts to enforce smoke nuisance
92.042  Constructing furnace without permit
92.044  Operating soft coal furnace in non-residential structure in a manner not
        designed to reduce black smoke emissions
92.045  Operating a stoking furnace in a manner not designed to reduce black smoke
        emission
93.017  Cruelty to animals in park, capturing animals in park, allowing animals to
        run at large in city park, unauthorized riding of a horse in city park
93.018  Bringing or landing an aviation device within a city park
93.020  Unauthorized construction work in a city park
93.021  Damaging park property or plants
93.024  Starting a fire in a city park other than in designated areas
        Operating a massage parlor in a manner not conforming with the provisions
        of §§
        114.001,
Ch. 114 114.002,
        114.015 through
        114.026 and
        114.040 through
        114.045
130.002 Falsely reporting a fire
130.003 Discharging fireworks within the city limits
130.006 Placing a refrigerator upright in a place accessible to children without
        removing the doors from the refrigerator prior to its placement
130.020 Obstructing a fire hydrant; opening a fire hydrant without authorization,
        tampering with fire equipment
150.016 Failing to maintain the exterior of a structure
151.015 Occupying (or causing to be occupied) a dwelling with improper sanitation
        facilities
151.016 Occupying (or causing to be occupied) a dwelling with insufficient heating
        facilities
151.017 Occupying (or causing to be occupied) a dwelling with insufficient
        lighting, ventilation or electrical facilities
151.018 Failing to otherwise maintain or care for a structure
151.019 Occupying (or causing to be occupied) a dwelling with insufficient living
        space and/or proper ingress and egress
151.031 Failing to maintain the neighborhood environment
151.064 Removal of a placard from a rooming house
Ch. 154 Operating a mobile home park or constructing a mobile home in a manner not
        conforming to the provisions of Ch. 154
156.037 Taxiing an aircraft in an improper manner
156.038 Improperly handling or operating an aircraft
156.039 Failing to remove an aircraft from the airport
156.040 Damaging a light or fixture at the airport
156.041 Improper use of flammable liquids at the airport
156.042 Improper fueling of an aircraft
156.043 Repair of an aircraft by a person other than a qualified mechanic
156.044 Interfering with an aircraft without permission of the owner
156.045 Failing to report an accident at the airport to the airport manager
156.048 Improper acts by lessees at the airport (i.e., altering structures, failing
        to maintain bulletin board for FAA notices)
157.015 Obstructing a city street
157.017 Selling of merchandise on a sidewalk without approval from Board of Works
157.018 Constructing an awning or other overhang without approval from the Board of
        Works
157.019 Constructing a gate that swings over the sidewalk
157.031 Driving on a street under repair
157.045 Constructing a barbed wire fence at a height in which pedestrians may come
        into contact with such fence (along street or sidewalk)
157.048 Discharging a downspout or conductor pipe upon an improved sidewalk
157.050 Damaging a city sidewalk
157.051 Operating a portable engine on a city street without obtaining a permit
        from the City Engineer
Ch. 158 Constructing a driveway or other highway access without obtaining approval
        from the Board of Works
Ch. 165 Transferring parcels in subdivision without receiving subdivision approval
 
      (3)   Each act of violation and every day upon which a violation occurs
constitutes a separate offense. In addition to any fines or other penalties,
that may be assessable, any person, corporation or entity violating any
provisions of the city code, other ordinances, contracts, rules or regulations
of the city, its boards, departments, agencies or commissions, shall become
liable to the city for any expenses, loss or damage caused to the city by
reason of such violation including, but not limited to, any corrective, clean-
up, evacuation, administrative or other expenses, including legal,
investigative and engineering expenses, and labor and overtime costs.
      (4)   The penalties provided by this section ($50 and $100) apply to the
amendment of any section of this code or any code adopted herein by reference
whether or not such penalty is reenacted in the amendatory ordinance.
      (5)   Reference to any section of this code shall be understood to also
refer to and include the penalty section relating thereto, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
      (6)   The failure of any officer or employee of the city to perform any
official duty imposed by this code shall not subject such officer or employee
to the penalty imposed for violation of this code, unless a penalty is
specifically provided.
      (7)   The following sections of the prior code shall be eliminated, with
summary reference to their topics shown included herein, to wit:
70.22     Propelling a pushcart or riding an animal in a manner not conforming with the
          provisions of the city’s Traffic Code
70.26     Failing to file a written report of accident involving more than $200 to
          person(s) or property
95.21     Playing a game or sport in an inadequate place within a city park
95.22     Using a kite in an unauthorized place within a city park
111.01— Operating a carnival, circus or shooting gallery without obtaining a business
111.03    license for such activity
111.13— Operating a dance hall in a manner not conforming with the provisions of §§
111.20    111.13 through 111.20
114.01— Conducting a jewelry auction in a manner not conforming with the provisions
114.05    of §§ 114.01 through 114.05
151.26    Failing to obtain a rooming house license
 
(Prior Code, § 10.98)
   (B)   (1)   An action to enforce this code shall be brought in the name of
the city. The city need not prove that it or the code provision is valid unless
validity is controverted by affidavit.
(I.C. 34-28-5-1(b))
      (2)   Actions shall be conducted in accordance with the Indiana Rules of
Trial Procedure and must be brought within two years after the alleged conduct
or violation occurred.
      (3)   The city must prove the commission of a code violation by a
preponderance of the evidence.
      (4)   Whenever a Code Enforcement Officer believes in good faith that a
person has committed a code violation, said officer may detain that person for
a time sufficient to:
         (a)   Inform the person of the allegation; and
         (b)   Obtain the person’s:
            1.   Name, address and date of birth; or
            2.   Driver’s license, if in his or her possession.
(I.C. 34-28-5-3)
      (5)   A person who knowingly or intentionally refuses to provide either
the following to a Code Enforcement Officer who has stopped the person for a
code violation commits a Class C misdemeanor:
         (a)   Name, address and date of birth; or
         (b)   Driver’s license, if in his or her possession.
(I.C. 34-28-5-3.5)
      (6)   A judgment, including the fine and costs incurred by the city in
obtaining compliance with this code up to the amount requested in the
complaint, but not exceeding $2,500, may be entered for violation of this code.
(I.C. 34-28-5-4)
      (7)   Any person who admits violating a provision of this code or who is
adjudged by a court to be in violation of this code shall be fined $50 unless
the code sets forth a lesser or larger fine for the specific violation.
      (8)   (a)   A fine is payable to the City Clerk, 50 North Fifth Street,
Richmond, Indiana, within 14 days of the date appearing on the notice of
violation.
         (b)   Failure to pay the fine or advise the City Law Department in
writing, 50 North Fifth Street, Richmond, Indiana, of one’s denial of the
violation and request for trial before the county’s Superior Court Number
Three, Small Claims Division, within 14 days of the date appearing on the
notice of violation shall result in a late fee of $10 being added to the fine.
      (9)   (a)   If a condition violating this code exists on real property,
enforcement officers of the city may enter onto that property and take
appropriate action to bring the property into compliance with this code.
However, before action to bring compliance may be taken, all persons holding a
substantial interest in the property must be given a reasonable opportunity to
bring the property into compliance.
         (b)   If action to bring compliance is taken by the city, the expense
involved may be made a lien against the property.
      (10)   The city may bring a civil action to enjoin any person from:
         (a)   Violating a provision of this code regulating or prohibiting a
condition or use of property; or
         (b)   Engaging in conduct without a license if a provision of this
code requires a license to engage in the conduct.
(I.C. 36-1-6-4)
      (11)   The city’s Advisory Plan Commission or any designated enforcement
officer may invoke any legal, equitable or special remedy for the enforcement
of Chapter 165 of this code of ordinances in addition to the other enforcement
provisions set forth in this division (B).
      (12)   The penalty provided by division (B)(7) above applies to the
amendment of any section of this code whether or not such penalty is reenacted
in the amendatory ordinance.
      (13)   Reference to any section of this code shall be understood also to
refer to and include the penalty section relating thereto unless otherwise
expressly provided.
      (14)   The failure of any officer or employee of the city to perform any
official duty imposed by this code shall not subject such officer or employee
to the penalty imposed by division (B)(7) above unless a penalty is
specifically provided elsewhere in this code.
(Prior Code, § 10.99)
(Ord. 89-1981, passed - -1981; Ord. ????-1995, passed - -1995)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   COMMON COUNCIL
      
31.   OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
      
32.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   PUBLIC SAFETY; LAW ENFORCEMENT
      
34.   EMERGENCIES
      
35.   FINANCE AND REVENUE; FUNDS
      
36.   PURCHASING POLICIES
      
37.   GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: COMMON COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
30.001   Council districts
   
30.002   Legislative branch
   
30.003   Meetings
   
30.004   Officers
   
30.005   City Clerk’s duties
   
30.006   Sergeant-at-Arms
Rules of Order
   
30.020   Rule I: general rules of order; quorum; committees
   
30.021   Rule II: ordinances
   
30.022   Rule III: motions
   
30.023   Rule IV: reconsideration
   
30.024   Rule V: previous question
   
30.025   Rule VI: order of business
   
30.026   Rule VII: committee of the whole
   
30.027   Rule VIII: decorum and debate
   
30.028   Rule IX: miscellaneous rules
   
30.029   Rule X: amending the rules
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.001 COUNCIL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The city shall be divided into six Council Districts, which shall be
numbered, bounded and defined as follows:
      (1)   First District. All that territory lying within the boundaries of
the precincts Wayne 4, 5, 6, 19 and 33 and all the territory that may be
subsequently assigned to said district by reason of an annexation ordinance
shall be known as the First District;
      (2)   Second District. All that territory lying within the boundaries of
the precincts Wayne 7, 8, 10 and 27 and all the territory that may be
subsequently assigned to said district by reason of an annexation ordinance
shall be known as the Second District;
      (3)   Third District. All that territory lying within the boundaries of
the precincts Wayne 11, 15, 24, 25, 26 and 32 and all the territory that may be
subsequently assigned to said district by reason of an annexation ordinance
shall be known as the Third District;
      (4)   Fourth District. All that territory lying within the boundaries of
the precincts Wayne 12, 13, 14, 23 and 30 and all territory that may be
subsequently assigned to said district by reason of an annexation ordinance
shall be known as the Fourth District;
      (5)   Fifth District. All that territory lying within the boundaries of
the precincts Wayne 9, 18, 17, 28, 29 and Center 6, and all the territory that
may be subsequently assigned to said district by reason of an annexation
ordinance shall be known as the Fifth District; and
      (6)   Sixth District. All that territory lying within the boundaries of
the precincts Wayne 16, 20, 21, 22 and 31 and all the territory that may be
subsequently assigned to said district by reason of an annexation ordinance,
shall be known as the Sixth District.
   (B)   The Council District Map shall become Exhibit A hereof and
incorporated herein by reference. Said map shall be on file in the office of
the GIS Coordinator for the Department of Infrastructure and Development and
shall be updated as required upon the adoption of an annexation ordinance.
   (C)   All questions concerning the exact location of precinct boundary lines
shall be determined by consulting the written precinct boundary descriptions
established and approved by the County Commissioners.
   (D)   Any subsequent changes made by the County Commissioners in
establishing precinct boundaries shall be reviewed by the Common Council to
determine the need to modify the Council Districts defined herein.
(Prior Code, § 30.01) (Ord. 61-1990, passed - -; Ord. 68-2002, passed - -; Ord.
70-2012, passed - -; Ord. 27-2022, passed 5-16-2022)
§ 30.002 LEGISLATIVE BRANCH.
   (A)   The legislative branch of the city is the Common Council. The Council
shall have exclusive authority to adopt ordinances and appropriate tax moneys
received by the city, and to perform other necessary and desirable legislative
functions.
(I.C. 36-4-6)
   (B)   The Clerk of the city shall be the Clerk of the Council and shall
perform the duties prescribed by I.C. 36-4-6-9 and such other duties as the
Council may direct.
   (C)   The meetings of the Council shall be conducted pursuant to the
applicable statutes (I.C. 36-4-6-10 through 17) and in accordance with the
Rules of the Common Council as adopted by Ord. 26-1986, which rules are hereby
re-affirmed and adopted as part of this chapter and made a part hereof by
reference.
(Prior Code, § 30.02)
Statutory reference:
   Council districts, see I.C. 36-4-6-3
§ 30.003 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The regular meetings of the Common Council shall be held on the first
and third Mondays of each month, at 7:30 p.m., or at the hour set by Council
except when such Monday is a city holiday, in which case such regular meeting
shall be held on the Tuesday following, at the same hour. Members shall be
seated as determined by the Council President.
   (B)   Special meetings of the Council may be held on call by the Mayor, the
President or the Vice- President, or by any five members of Council. In case of
a call for a special meeting, it shall be the duty of the person or persons
authorizing it to notify the City Clerk. It shall be the duty of the City Clerk
to notify each member personally or to leave a notice at his or her place of
residence. The notice must be served at least 48 hours prior to the time set
for the meeting.
   (C)   At any special meeting of Council, only such ordinances or resolutions
shall be considered or acted upon, or such communications received, as are
expressly stated in the call for the special meeting. However, consideration
and action may be taken on other matters by consent of two-thirds of the
members of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 30.03) (Ord. passed 2-6-1995; Ord. passed 8-7-1995)
§ 30.004 OFFICERS.
   (A)   The President, or the Vice-President in the absence of the President,
shall be the presiding officer of the Council. However, in the absence of both
the President and the Vice-President at any meeting of the Council, the Council
shall, on motion, appoint one of its members as presiding officer, who shall
hold the position for and during the meeting. He or she shall have all the
authority and power vested in the duly elected President or Vice-President.
   (B)   The President shall appoint all special or select committees of
Council unless Council shall, by a resolution or ordinance, prescribe another
method of appointment.
   (C)   The presiding officer shall be designated and addressed as
“President”.
(Prior Code, § 30.04)
§ 30.005 CITY CLERK’S DUTIES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the City Clerk to keep an accurate journal of
the proceedings of Council. He or she shall arrange a roll call of the members
in the order of their seating.
   (B)   He or she shall be responsible for the sending of an agenda and all
necessary papers to Council members at least two days preceding a Council
meeting.
(Prior Code, § 30.05) (Ord. passed 8-7-1995)
§ 30.006 SERGEANT-AT-ARMS.
   The Sergeant-at-Arms, who shall be a member of the City Police Department,
shall preserve order, and shall act pursuant to the directions of the presiding
officer. It shall be his or her duty to prohibit smoking in the Council Chamber
while Council is in session.
(Prior Code, § 30.06)
RULES OF ORDER
§ 30.020 RULE I: GENERAL RULES OF ORDER; QUORUM; COMMITTEES.
   (A)   The general rules of parliamentary law, according to Robert’s Rules of
Order, so far as applicable, are to be considered the rules of Council, unless
they conflict with any of the rules herein prescribed. The City Attorney shall
be deemed the parliamentarian of the Council.
   (B)   A quorum shall consist of a majority of all members, but no ordinance,
order or resolution shall be passed or ordinance engrossed which shall not have
received the votes of a majority of all members constituting the Council.
   (C)   No person, other than a duly elected member of Council, shall be
permitted to address the Council unless recognized by the presiding officer,
excepting however, when authorization is given by a two-thirds consent of the
members present. Any person addressing the Council shall rise, state his or her
name and address to the Clerk, and shall confine his or her remarks to the
subject matter under discussion.
   (D)   No smoking, eating or drinking shall be allowed in the Council Chamber
while Council is in session.
   (E)   The presiding officer shall designate whether any question is carried
by an affirmative or negative vote, but, if in doubt as to the result, he or
she shall have the right to have the vote taken again by a roll call vote. Any
member of Council may call for a division. As soon as a division is called for,
the presiding officer shall then proceed to take the vote by a roll call vote.
In the case of a roll call vote, the Clerk shall call the roll, and shall
announce to the presiding officer the number voting in the affirmative and the
number voting in the negative.
   (F)   (1)   The standing committees of the Council shall be appointed by the
President and shall consist of the following committees:
         (a)   Transportation Committee;
         (b)   Parks and Recreation Committee;
         (c)   Public Safety Committee;
         (d)   Community Development and Community Service Committee;
         (e)   Public Works and Sanitation Committee; and
         (f)   Finance Committee.
      (2)   The President shall appoint a member from Council to the following
organizations:
         (a)   Reid Hospital and Health Care Services Board of Trustees;
         (b)   City Board of Parks and Recreation;
         (c)   Wayne County Arts Consortium;
         (d)   Animal Welfare League;
         (e)   Board of Aviation Commissioners;
         (f)   Urban Enterprise Association (Enterprise Zone Board); and
         (g)   Community Services Council.
      (3)   A member of Council shall be elected by Council to the City Plan
Commission.
   (G)   The duties of the standing committees shall be the same as in
legislative bodies, except as herein modified or changed. The standing
committees shall make studies and recommendations concerning ordinances having
to do with matters in their general area.
   (H)   Ordinances making the annual budget and tax levy and those making
annual appropriations to meet the several items of expense that are
appropriately chargeable against the city, shall be considered by the Committee
of the Whole. All other matters relating to the raising of revenues or claims
may also be reported to the Council acting as the Committee of the Whole.
(Prior Code, § 30.07)
§ 30.021 RULE II: ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Classes of ordinances:
      (1)   Ordinances shall be of three distinct classes:
         (a)   First, appropriation ordinances;
         (b)   Second, special ordinances, pertaining to special matters; and
         (c)   Third, general ordinances, relating to the government of the
city.
      (2)   The Clerk shall keep each class of ordinances in distinct files,
according to the number of their reading, and shall give each ordinance of each
class a distinct number in the order of its introduction, and shall place the
files on the Clerk’s desk at the opening of each meeting. However, no ordinance
or resolution shall be presented to Council unless the ordinance or resolution
has been placed in the hands of the City Clerk no later than 12:00 noon on the
Wednesday preceding Council meeting.
   (B)   No ordinance shall be permitted to be introduced to the Council unless
it is presented to Council by a member of Council. All ordinances which require
action by Council by existing law or in exercising the administrative function
of government are considered to be sponsored by the President of Council.
   (C)   The City Clerk shall, on receipt of a proposed ordinance, send a copy
of the proposed ordinance to each member of Council for inspection at least two
days before the next Council meeting.
   (D)   The vote on an ordinance or resolution on suspension of the rules, and
motions to reconsider, must be by roll call vote. Any two members may call for
the ayes and nays on any question or motion. Any member may call for a division
of a question when the sense will admit of it.
   (E)   Each ordinance shall be read through by title and the sections on
introduction and the ordinance shall then be referred by the President to the
proper committee or to the Committee of the Whole. However, with the unanimous
consent of the members of Council in attendance, any ordinance may be read on
first reading by title only.
   (F)   After introduction of an ordinance, the ordinance shall not be
considered for a second reading until the next scheduled meeting, or at a
special meeting called pursuant to Rules of Council, unless this rule be
suspended by unanimous consent, and then only in case there are present and
voting at least two-thirds of all the members of the Council.
   (G)   Each ordinance shall be read by title only on second and final
reading, at which time it shall be open for amendments. The next question will
be on ordering it engrossed. No amendment, except to strike out, shall be in
order after the engrossment of an ordinance, unless by unanimous consent.
   (H)   After engrossment, any member of Council may make a motion to call the
vote for approval or other disposition of the ordinance.
   (I)   A two-thirds vote of all the elected members after unanimous consent
of the members present to consider the ordinance is required to pass an
ordinance of the legislative body on the same day or at the same meeting at
which it is introduced.
   (J)   An ordinance may be stricken from the files at any time by a vote of
two-thirds of all members of Council, or by a majority vote after the ordinance
shall have passed second and final reading.
   (K)   Any ordinance failing to receive a majority vote upon engrossment will
be considered as still in its second and final reading and awaiting
engrossment, unless stricken from the files or otherwise disposed of by order
or permission of the Council.
   (L)   An ordinance failing to receive a sufficient number of votes on final
passage will be considered as lost and stricken from the files, provided that
the vote is not reconsidered within the time limit and manner authorized by §
30.023.
   (M)   An amendment to an ordinance may be referred, delayed or otherwise
disposed of, without delay or prejudice to the ordinance itself.
   (N)   Ordinances reported back to the Council by Committees or officers will
take their proper place on first or second reading.
   (O)   Ordinances, resolutions and reports may be committed and recommitted
at the pleasure of the Council.
   (P)   When any subject is referred to a standing committee or special
committee, the member introducing it shall be a member of the committee during
its deliberations thereon, but shall have no power to vote. He or she shall be
notified by the Chairperson of the committee of the time and place of meeting
of the committee.
   (Q)   All reports from committees shall be made in writing and must be
signed by a majority of the members thereof. All committees, including the
Committee of the Whole, shall report on it to the Council not later than the
second regular meeting after the ordinance is introduced and referred,
provided, that the Council may, at is discretion, extend the time for making
the report.
   (R)   After an ordinance, order or resolution passed by the Council has been
signed by the presiding officer, the Clerk shall present it to the Mayor, and
record the time of the presentation (I.C. 36-4-6-15). Within ten days after an
ordinance, order or resolution is presented to him or her, the Mayor shall
either approve the ordinance, order or resolution by signing it and sending the
Council a message announcing his or her approval, or veto the ordinance, order
or resolution by returning it unsigned to the Council with a message announcing
his or her veto and stating his or her reasons for the veto. The Mayor may
approve or veto separate items of an ordinance appropriating money or levying a
tax. If the Mayor fails to act hereunder, the ordinance, order or resolution is
considered vetoed. Whenever an ordinance, order or resolution is vetoed by the
Mayor, it is considered defeated unless the Council, at its first regular or
special meeting after the ten-day period prescribed herein, passes the
ordinance, order or resolution over his or her veto by a two-thirds vote (I.C.
36-4-6-16). After an ordinance, order or resolution has been signed by the
Mayor, it shall be attested by the Clerk and placed in the official records of
the Common Council.
   (S)   After the call of ayes and nays has been answered to by any member, it
shall not be in order for any member to offer any remarks except in explanation
of his or her vote, and no explanation shall be in order under the operation of
the previous question, or motion to lay on the table.
   (T)   No ordinance which has failed to receive a sufficient number of votes
on final passage or which has been stricken from the files shall be permitted
to be reintroduced, nor shall it be considered again by this body for a period
of at least one year after the ordinance has been so stricken from the files.
However, any ordinance may be reintroduced or reconsidered at any time by a
two-thirds vote of the members of Council.
(Prior Code, § 30.08) (Ord. 38-2020, passed - -2020)
§ 30.022 RULE III: MOTIONS.
   (A)   When any motion is made and seconded, it shall be stated by the
presiding officer, or being in writing, it shall be handed to the Clerk and
read aloud before debate, and shall be entered on the journal with the name of
the member making it, unless it is withdrawn at the same meeting.
   (B)   Every motion shall be reduced to writing, except to adjourn, to
adjourn on a certain day, to lay on the table, to postpone to a certain day, to
postpone indefinitely, to commit, to amend, to suspend the rules, to concur.
Every other motion not so reduced to writing shall, upon the objection of any
member, be considered out of order.
   (C)   A motion to lay on the table or for the previous question shall not be
in order if prefaced by any speech or remarks.
   (D)   Any motion or resolution which in effect contemplates a violation of
law, or is in conflict with any ordinance, will be ruled out of order.
   (E)   A motion to adjourn which has been defeated, cannot be repeated unless
other business has intervened between the motions.
   (F)   A motion to adjourn cannot be reconsidered.
   (G)   Any matter laid on the table may be taken up by a vote of the Council
at any time. However, a motion to reconsider once laid on the table cannot be
again taken up.
   (H)   A motion to reconsider, and a motion that when the Council adjourns,
it adjourns to meet on a certain day, are privileged questions, and are not
debatable.
   (I)   A business, which by law or necessity, must, or should be, transacted
within or by a certain time, will be considered a privileged question.
   (J)   A motion to suspend the rules is a privileged question, not debatable,
and cannot be amended, except by acceptance of the mover.
(Prior Code, § 30.09)
§ 30.023 RULE IV: RECONSIDERATION.
   (A)   When a question has once been decided in the affirmative or negative,
any member voting with the majority may move a reconsideration thereof on the
same or the next regular meeting. However, no such resolution shall be
introduced at the next or subsequent meeting, unless the same member intending
to make it shall have given written notice of this intention at the meeting at
which the vote he or she desires to have reconsidered was taken.
   (B)   A resolution, once adopted, may be rescinded by subsequent resolution,
and ordinances passed may be repealed by subsequent ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 30.10)
§ 30.024 RULE V: PREVIOUS QUESTION.
   A motion calling for the previous question shall shut-off debate and
requires a two-thirds majority of the members present for passage. Until
decided, such motion precludes all other motions except separate motions for
the previous question on pending amendments to the main question.
(Prior Code, § 30.11)
§ 30.025 RULE VI: ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   The following order of business shall be observed by the Common
Council at its meetings:
      (1)   Call the meeting to order;
      (2)   Devotions;
      (3)   Call of the roll and note absentees;
      (4)   Reading and correction of the journal of the previous meeting;
      (5)   Time for presenting of petitions, memorials or remonstrances, or
complaints and introductions, motions and resolutions. These requests to speak
must be in writing and must be submitted to the City Clerk’s office before 12:
00 noon on the Wednesday prior to the meeting;
      (6)   Communication from the Mayor;
      (7)   Report of the Board of Public Works and Safety;
      (8)   Special reports from city departments if requested and placed upon
the agenda;
      (9)   Reports from standing committees;
      (10)   Reports from special committees;
      (11)   Introduction of miscellaneous business;
      (12)   Introduction of ordinances on first reading;
      (13)   Ordinances on second reading and public hearing (awaiting
engrossment);
      (14)   Ordinances awaiting engrossment (public hearing previously
closed);
      (15)   Ordinances engrossed (awaiting disposition);
      (16)   Unfinished business; and
      (17)   Call for adjournment.
   (B)   The reading of the journal may be dispensed with at any time by a
majority vote of Council.
   (C)   Special orders may be taken up immediately after reports from special
committees, if so ordered by Council.
   (D)   The Council may return to any order of business after the call of the
regular order of business, by a majority vote of Council or at the discretion
of the President.
(Prior Code, § 30.12) (Ord. 60-2018, passed 3-4- 2018; Ord. 38-2020, passed - -
2020)
§ 30.026 RULE VII: COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE.
   (A)   In forming a Committee of the Whole Council, the presiding officer, if
leaving the Chair, shall appoint a Chairperson to preside.
   (B)   When an ordinance is committed to the Committee of the Whole Council,
the ordinance shall be read by the Chairperson or the Clerk, and debated by
sections or clauses. The body of the ordinance shall not be defaced or
interlined, but all amendments, noting the line and page, shall be duly entered
by the Chairperson or Clerk on a separate paper as it shall be agreed on by the
Committee, and so reported to Council. After report, the ordinance shall again
be subject to debate and amended by clauses before a question to engross it is
taken.
   (C)   The rules of procedure in Council shall be observed, as well as
parliamentary law, in a Committee of the Whole Council, as far as they may be
applicable, except the rule limiting the time of speaking, but no member shall
speak more than twice on any question until every member choosing to speak has
spoken.
(Prior Code, § 30.13)
§ 30.027 RULE VIII: DECORUM AND DEBATE.
   (A)   When any member is about to speak or deliver any matter to the
Council, he or she shall request recognition by the Chair and shall confine
himself or herself to the question in debate, avoiding personalities. The Chair
shall not recognize any member as in order unless he or she shall be in his or
her assigned place.
   (B)   No member may speak more than twice on the same question without leave
of the Council, no more than once until every member choosing to speak has
spoken. All speeches shall be limited to five minutes unless further time is
granted by Council. Answering questions is not to be considered as part of the
speaker’s time.
   (C)   When two or more members request recognition at once, the presiding
officer shall decide which shall speak first.
   (D)   When the presiding officer is putting the question or addressing
speaking, no member shall engage in private discourse, or walk across or leave
the room unnecessarily.
   (E)   No member shall impugn the motive of another member of the Council.
   (F)   Any member may change his or her vote before the announcement of the
result by the Chair. Every member must vote on every question unless excused
from voting by a majority of the members present.
   (G)   If any member in any way transgresses the rules of Council, he or she
shall be subject to a point of order request by any other member, in which case
the alleged offender shall immediately take his or her seat unless permitted to
explain. If the question of order is decided against him or her, he or she
shall be liable, if the case requires it, to the censure of the Council. If the
decision be in his or her favor, he or she shall be at liberty to proceed.
(Prior Code, § 30.14)
§ 30.028 RULE IX: MISCELLANEOUS RULES.
   (A)   When the reading of any paper is called for, if objections are made,
it shall be decided by Council, and no paper shall be read if objected to
without the consent of the Council.
   (B)   No matter or proposition on a subject different from that under
consideration shall be admitted under color of an amendment.
   (C)   When any matter is postponed indefinitely, it shall not again be voted
on during that or the next two succeeding meetings.
   (D)   When the roll of members is called for the purpose, the members shall
have the privilege of presenting petitions, memorials, communications or
remonstrances, or of offering motions or resolutions. After the call has been
made it shall not be in order for any member to present any petition, memorial,
communication or remonstrance or offer any motion or resolution during the
evening until the call of unfinished business is reached. However, nothing
herein contained shall be construed to prohibit any member from offering any
motion on any pending matter at any time, if it is declared by the chair to be
in order.
   (E)   When any matter is left upon the table for more than 60 days, it shall
be considered at the first meeting following for action.
(Prior Code, § 30.15)
§ 30.029 RULE X: AMENDING THE RULES.
   These rules may be amended or annulled by a majority vote of all the members
of the Common Council. All proposed amendments to the rules shall be referred
to the Ordinance Committee without debate, and the Committee shall have the
right to report at any time, and may at any time report any change in the
rules, provided that no vote on any amendment or resolution to annul shall be
taken until at least two weeks’ notice shall be given of the intended action.
(Prior Code, § 30.16) (Ord. 26-1986, passed - -; Ord. passed 4-8-2013)
CHAPTER 31: OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
General Provisions
   
31.001   Compensation
   
31.002   Bond
   
31.003   Employee Fund provisions
   
31.004   Fact finding
   
31.005   Public Employees Retirement Fund
   
31.006   Expenses for municipal promotion
   
31.007   Credit card usage
Specific Officers and Employees
   
31.020   Mayor
   
31.021   Executive branch organizations
Affirmative Action Program
   
31.035   Purpose
   
31.036   Goals
   
31.037   Objectives
   
31.038   Policy
   
31.039   Implementation of policy; responsibility
   
31.040   Dissemination of policy
   
31.041   Grievance procedure
   
31.042   Recruitment
   
31.043   Training programs and advancement opportunities
   
31.044   City support
Cross-reference:
   Emergencies, see
Chapter 34
   Organizations, see
Chapter 32
   Purchasing Policies, see
Chapter 36
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.001 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Compensation for city officials and employees shall be as set,
annually, by legislative authority.
   (B)   The city, through its Mayor and respective boards, may adopt and
develop personnel policies to govern the actions and benefits accruing to city
employees under their control.
   (C)   Such personnel policies may establish fringe benefits, such as
insurance, holiday, vacation, sick leave, personal leave and bereavement
benefits, which shall not be considered as additional compensation beyond what
is set forth in the salary ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 33.01) (Ord. 40-1986, passed - -)
§ 31.002 BOND.
   (A)   The following city officers shall give bond in the amount indicated
before commencing their official duties:
      (1)   City Clerk: $30,000;
      (2)   City Controller: $30,000;
      (3)   Each clerk employed in the City Clerk’s or City Controller’s
offices shall give a bond which shall be payable to the Clerk or Controller, as
the case may be, in addition to the state: $1,000;
      (4)   City Engineer: $1,000;
      (5)   Weights and Measures Inspector: $1,000; and
      (6)   Superintendent of City Power and Light: $5,000.
   (B)   Bonds of other city officials shall be as fixed by the Board of Public
Works and Safety.
   (C)   All bonds shall be secured by a reliable surety company and approved
by the Mayor, and shall be payable to the city, except that of the City
Treasurer which shall be payable to the state.
   (D)   The bond of the City Controller shall include funds collected by him
or her under the Barrett Law, being I.C. Chapter 36-9-36.
(Prior Code, § 33.02) (Ord. passed 1-17-1916; Ord. 811-1925, passed - -; Ord.
1469-1952, passed - -)
§ 31.003 EMPLOYEE FUND PROVISIONS.
   (A)   For provisions governing Social Security coverage for public
employees, see I.C. 5-10.1 et seq.
   (B)   For provisions governing public retirement and disability benefits,
see I.C. 5-10.2 et seq.
   (C)   For provisions governing the public employees retirement fund, see
I.C. 5-10.3 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 33.03)
§ 31.004 FACT FINDING.
   (A)   General. The city shall adhere to state law and engage in permissive
collective bargaining. Specifically, each city administration, through its
Mayor and/or respective boards, may or may not elect to recognize collective
bargaining for employees within any city department. (It is acknowledged that
as of the date of this code section revision, such recognition has been
provided to the Police Department, Fire Department, American Federation of
State, County and Municipal Employees, and Public Transportation division of
the Roseview Transit.) In conjunction with this recognition of state law, the
city also recognizes that for the protection of the public health, safety and
welfare, state law does not allow for the right of any city employee to strike
or engage in any work stoppage or slow down.
   (B)   Procedures to establish collective bargaining. In order to request
collective bargaining or appoint an agent to serve as their exclusive
bargaining agent, the following procedures shall be used by the employees of
any city department.
      (1)   Request for bargaining agent. 
         (a)   A request for an exclusive bargaining agent may be commenced by
the employees of any city department through a petition to initiate collective
bargaining presented to the Mayor and signed by at least 30% of the projected
covered employees within that department.
         (b)   Such petition shall identify the requested bargaining agent
(i.e., union) and shall describe the type of employees to be covered by the
representation. It is recognized and acknowledged that no “supervisory” or
“managerial” employee shall be eligible for representation. (For purposes of
this division (B) and the definitions of “supervisory” or “managerial”
employee, the city shall adopt those definitions set forth by the National
Labor Relation Act, being 29 U.S.C. § 151 - 169, and federal law; provided, for
purposes of recognition within the Fire and Police Departments, the current
contract terms for applicability shall apply.)
      (2)   Oversight Panel. 
         (a)   Upon receipt of the petition to initiate collective bargaining,
a three-member Oversight Panel shall be appointed to oversee the agent
selection process and the election which shall take place to determine whether
an exclusive bargaining agent is desired and, if so, who is the desired agent.
The Panel shall consist of one member appointed by the Mayor to represent the
city administration; one member appointed by the proposed bargaining agent
(i.e., union); and a potentially affected employee from the subject department,
who shall be selected by Common Council. All appointments shall be residents of
the city and shall serve without compensation, except for any reimbursement of
expenses. All appointments shall be made within 15 days from receipt of the
original petition. (If more than one union is attempting to be chosen as the
bargaining agent, the selection of the union representative to the Panel must
be agreed upon by all proposed union organizations.)
         (b)   Upon its appointment, the Oversight Panel shall attempt to
monitor all presentation of material provided to the affected employees either
from the proposed bargaining agent and/or the city officials. It is the intent
of this section and process that all discussion be open and fair; that no
pressure tactics be taken by either an agent or the city to affect any vote on
collective bargaining; and that absolutely no retaliation be taken or
threatened by either the proposed agent, the city or other employees regarding
the selection process.
      (3)   Election.
         (a)   Within 45 days after receipt of the initial petition, an
election shall take place among the eligible department employees to determine
if an exclusive bargaining agent is desired and if so, who shall serve as such
agent. The specific date, place and method of voting, subject to the provisions
herein shall be determined by the Oversight Panel. At least 15 days prior to
the election, the city shall provide to the proposed agent and to all members
of the Panel a list of the names of the eligible employees. In order to be
eligible, the employee must be a full-time employee within the subject
department as of the date of the elections.
         (b)   The final list of the employees which would be eligible and
affected by the vote shall be determined by the Oversight Panel prior to the
election.
         (c)   The election shall be conducted by secret, written ballot and
the choices thereon shall include the names of the proposed bargaining agents
(unions) and the choice not to be represented by any exclusive agent. The
election and counting of ballots shall be conducted by the Oversight Panel.
         (d)   In order to be presented as an exclusive bargaining agent, a
union organization must receive a majority vote of all eligible employees. If
more than one union is involved in a vote and no one union receives such
majority vote, but when taken together, a majority of eligible employees have
requested to be represented by a union, a second vote shall be taken pursuant
to the same provisions herein and the name of any union receiving a vote by a
majority of the eligible employees shall be presented to the city
administration.
      (4)   Recognition. Upon an affirmative majority vote to have an exclusive
bargaining agent, the Mayor (or statutory board which controls the hiring and
selection of the employees within the subject department) shall determine if
recognition is to be given to the successful agent to serve as the bargaining
agent. This decision shall be made within 20 days after the election. Such
recognition shall continue until a decertification vote taken pursuant to the
terms herein establishes that the affected employees no longer wish to be
represented by the named bargaining agent, or until such time Common Council,
through normal ordinance procedure, elects not to recognize an exclusive
bargaining agent for the subject affected employees; provided, any future non-
recognition shall have no effect on any contract entered into during the period
of recognition. (It is acknowledged that as of the date of this section
revision, such recognition has been provided to the Police Department, Fire
Department, American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, and
Public Transportation division of the Roseview Transit.)
      (5)   Decertification. Upon a petition signed by at least 30% of the
affected employees, a decertification of a previously selected bargaining agent
may be initiated at any time and the same process as described above shall be
utilized. In order to decertify or remove a previously selected bargaining
agent, an affirmative vote of at least the majority of all eligible employees
shall be required. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, a
petition to initiate collective bargaining or to decertify a bargaining agent
bay not be made more than one time in any calendar year.
      (6)   “Union shop” agreement. Notwith- standing the terms of this
section, no provisions of any contract to be entered into between the city and
any city employees or their bargaining agent shall include the requirement that
all affected employees within the subject department must be a member of the
selected union in order to be employed by the city.
   (C)   Negotiation/fact-finding. In the event a bargaining agent has been
chosen to represent certain employees and such agent has been recognized, this
division (C) shall apply.
      (1)   For the purposes of this division (C), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         CORPORATE AUTHORITIES. The proper officials within the City
Administration whose duty it is to establish the wages, salaries, rates of pay,
hours, working conditions and other terms and conditions of employment of
members of its various departments, who shall consist of three members
appointed by the Mayor of the city.
         FACT-FINDING PANEL. A panel of five persons, all of whom shall be
residents of the city, two selected by the corporate authorities, with approval
of Common Council, and two selected by the bargaining agent. The fifth member
shall be selected by majority vote of the other four members. The panel members
shall not be employees of the city or members of any of its departments, boards
or commissions. Additionally, no panel member shall be a relative of any active
employee of any department associated with or covered by the collective
bargaining unit engaging in the fact-finding process. Further, no panel member
shall be a relative of any member of the corporate authority as defined above.
For purposes of this section, RELATIVE means any of the following: spouse;
parent or step-parent; child or step-child; brother, sister, step-brother or
step-sister; niece or nephew; aunt or uncle; or daughter-in-law or son-in-law.
For purposes of this section, an adopted child of an individual is treated as a
natural child of the individual. Additionally, the terms “brother” and “sister”
includes half-brothers and half-sisters. Finally, no panel member shall have
previously worked directly for any department associated with or covered by the
collective bargaining unit.
         RECOGNIZED BARGAINING AGENT. Any bargaining agent which has been
established and recognized pursuant to the terms of this code.
      (2)   It shall be the obligation of the corporate authorities and the
bargaining agent to meet and bargain in good faith beginning June 1 prior to
the year in which the contract shall become effective.
      (3)   In the event that the bargaining agent and the corporate
authorities are unable within 60 days from and including the date of their
first meeting, to reach an agreement on wages, salaries, hours, working
conditions, any and all unresolved issues shall, upon request of the corporate
authorities or the bargaining agent, be submitted to the fact-finding panel.
      (4)   The fact-finding panel shall be selected within 15 days from the
date of request referred to in division (C)(3) above. The bargaining agent and
the corporate authorities shall each select and name two fact-finders and shall
immediately thereafter notify each other in writing of the names and addresses
of the persons so selected. The four fact-finders so selected and named, shall,
within five days from and after the expiration of the 15-day period
hereinbefore mentioned, select and name a fifth person. This person shall serve
as Chairperson of the fact-finding panel. Reasonable fees and necessary
expenses of arbitration shall be borne equally by the bargaining agent and the
city.
      (5)   The fact-finding panel shall, acting through its Chairperson, call
a hearing within five days after the date of the appointment of the
Chairperson, and shall, acting through its Chairperson, give at least seven
days’ notice in writing to each of the other four fact-finders, the bargaining
agent, and the corporate authorities of the time and place of the hearing. The
hearing shall be informal and the rules of evidence prevailing in judicial
proceedings shall not be binding. Any and all documentary evidence and other
data deemed relevant by the fact-finders may be received in evidence. The fact-
finding panel shall have access to all books, records and other evidence
relative or pertinent to the issues presented to them for the purpose of
determining the facts and the submitting of recommendations. The hearing
conducted by the fact-finding panel shall have access to all books, records and
other evidence relative or pertinent to the issues presented to them for the
purpose of determining the facts and the submitting of recommendations. The
hearing conducted by the fact-finding panel shall be concluded within ten days
of the time of commencement, and within five days after the conclusions of the
hearings, the panel shall make written findings and written recommendations
upon the issues presented, a copy of which shall be presented to the bargaining
agent and the corporate authorities at a public meeting. Any hearings held by
the fact-finding panel must be open at all times for the purpose of permitting
members of the public to observe and record them. Any findings and
recommendations they make are public record open to public inspection provided
by any applicable statute relating to fact-finding in connection with public
collective bargaining.
      (6)   The fact-finding panel shall conduct the hearing and render their
decisions upon the basis of a prompt, peaceful and just settlement of wage or
hour disputes between the bargaining agent and the corporate authorities. The
fact, among others, to be given weight by the fact-finding panel shall include
but not be limited to:
         (a)   Interest and welfare of the general public and taxpayers,
including:
            1.   The fiscal status of the city, in light of anticipated and
realized expenditures and revenues;
            2.   Comparison of wages, salaries, rates of pay, hours, working
conditions and other terms and conditions of employment among public employees
of the city; and similar public employees in other Indiana cities of similar
size; and
            3.   The city’s pension fund obligations.
         (b)   Comparison of wages, rates or hourly conditions of public
employment with prevailing wage rates of hourly conditions in private industry
and commerce for similar positions and skill levels, together with all other
benefits as pensions, insurance and so forth; and
         (c)   Comparison of peculiarities of employment in regard to other
trades or professions, specifically:
            1.   Hazards of employment;
            2.   Physical qualifications;
            3.   Educational qualifications;
            4.   Mental qualifications; and
            5.   Job training and skills.
      (7)   The corporate authorities shall, within five days after the receipt
of the formal report of the fact-finding panel, establish final negotiation
meetings with the bargaining agent for a final effort to resolve issues. Absent
an agreed resolution, the recommendations of the fact-finding panel shall then
be submitted to Common Council, which shall vote on the recommendations of the
fact-finding panel. The recommendations of the fact-finding panel shall become
effective upon a majority vote of the Common Council approving the
recommendations. If Common Council does not approve the recommendations of the
fact-finding panel, then the recommendations are to be re-submitted to the
fact-finding panel and shall follow the process set forth in division (C)(5)
above and this division (C)(7), until a majority vote of Common Council is
obtained.
      (8)   All matters which have been agreed upon by the parties, excepting
budgetary items which must be passed by ordinance of the Common Council, shall
be reduced to writing and shall be effective for the period agreed by the
parties.
(Prior Code, § 33.04) (Ord. 45-2000, passed - -; Ord. 5-2023, passed 1-17-2023)
§ 31.005 PUBLIC EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT FUND.
   (A)   The city elects to become a participant in the Public Employees
Retirement Fund as established by I.C. 5-10.3 et seq. and all acts amendatory
and supplemental thereto.
   (B)   The city agrees to make the contribution required under state statute.
   (C)   The following are declared to be covered by the Fund: all full-time
employees of the city, including full-time elected public officials, and
excluding police officers and firefighters. It is determined that members of
Common Council and the Judge of the city court are not full-time employees and
therefore are not covered by the fund.
   (D)   It is declared that none of the classifications or positions specified
in division (C) above are compensated on a fee basis or of an emergency nature
or in a part-time category.
   (E)   The active participating membership of the city shall begin on January
1, 1966, except full-time elected public officials whose entire participating
membership shall begin on January 1, 1974.
(Prior Code, § 33.05) (Ord. 2153-1965, passed - -; Ord. 2866-1973, passed - -;
Ord. 3176-1977, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Public Employees Retirement Fund, see I.C. 5-10.3 et seq.
   Public Retirement and Disability Benefits, see I.C. 5-10.2 et seq.
   Social Security Coverage for Public Employees, see I.C. 5-10.1 et seq.
§ 31.006 EXPENSES FOR MUNICIPAL PROMOTION.
   (A)   The Common Council authorizes expenditure of funds from the General
Fund of the city to pay the expenses of or to reimburse city officials as the
case may be for expenses incurred in promoting the best interest of the city.
These expenses may include, but not necessarily be limited to, rental of
meeting places, meals, decorations, memorabilia, awards, expenses incurred in
interviewing job applicants, expenses incurred in promoting industrial,
commercial and residential development, expenses incurred in developing
relations with other units of government, and any other expenses of a civic or
governmental nature deemed by the Mayor to be in the interest of the city.
   (B)   No expenses shall be incurred under this section without prior
authorization of the Mayor and all claims for such expenses shall be approved
by the Mayor and allowed in the regular manner before payment.
   (C)   Public officials liability insurance shall be obtained by the city on
behalf of the Mayor, the City Clerk, all elected officials, including members
of the Common Council, appointed city officials and members of boards and
commissions, and such other employees as may be warranted.
(Prior Code, § 33.06) (Ord. 86-1981, passed - -; Ord. 35-1984, passed - -)
§ 31.007 CREDIT CARDS USAGE.
   (A)   The government of the city is authorized to use credit cards issued in
the name of the city for use only on city-related business.
   (B)   The responsibility for the issuance and custody of credit cards shall
be with the City Controller. Credit cards may be used by a city employee when
authorized by the employee’s department head and approved by the City
Controller, and also by elected officials of the city subject to the approval
of the City Controller. The City Controller shall establish regulations
concerning the use of the cards. In each instance of the use of the cards, once
the purpose for which the cards are used is accomplished, the cards shall be
returned to the City Controller.
   (C)   The city is authorized to pay any reasonable annual membership fee,
service charge or renewal charge levied by the credit card issuer.
   (D)   No interest, carrying charges or penalties shall be incurred due to
late payment. In the event of such charges being incurred due to late payments,
the employee or official responsible for the late payment shall bear the
charges. All claims filed in connection with the use of the credit cards must
be itemized as provided in I.C. 5-11-10. A reasonable tip or gratuity is
allowable where a business-related service has been provided.
(Prior Code, § 33.07) (Ord. 67-1990, passed - -)
SPECIFIC OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
§ 31.020 MAYOR.
   The Mayor is the city executive and head of the executive branch. He or she
shall faithfully perform the duties and responsibilities contained in I.C. 36-
4-5.
(Prior Code, § 31.01)
§ 31.021 EXECUTIVE BRANCH ORGANIZATIONS.
   Certain executive branch organization and authorization is established as
follows.
   (A)   The City Controller as fiscal officer of the city pursuant to I.C. 36-
4-10-2(c) is authorized to appoint a deputy pursuant to I.C. 36-4-11-5(b). The
City Controller is responsible for the official acts of his or her deputy.
   (B)   The City Controller shall assess to the drawer or maker of any check
or other commercial instrument, which has been returned to the city or its
agencies or departments as unpayable due to insufficient funds or no accounts,
a service fee in the maximum amount permitted by I.C. 35-43-5-5.
   (C)   The City Civil Engineer shall be the Director of the Department of
Public Works and Engineering.
   (D)   The purchasing ordinance of the city set forth in Chapter 36 of this
code shall be administered by the Department of Finance and Purchasing.
   (E)   The Department of Human Resources and Code Enforcement shall issue the
permits and supervise the inspectors acting pursuant to the Building Code,
Housing Code, Zoning Code and Subdivision Code.
   (F)   The Department of Human Resources and Code Enforcement shall supervise
the inspector acting pursuant to the weights and measures standards control
system established pursuant to I.C. 36-8-2-12.
   (G)   The Department of Public Works and Engineering shall operate the Rose
View Transit Service, the Senior/Disabled Transit Service and the City
Municipal Airport. Said operations shall be organized as the Transportation
Division of said Department. The operation of the City Municipal Airport shall
be congruent with I.C. 8-22-2-1 which establishes the Board of Aviation
Commissioners.
   (H)   The Mayor’s office is authorized and directed to provide human and
environmental information and referral services and shall oversee and supervise
the provision of such services.
   (I)   The City Clerk is authorized and directed to act as manager of the
Off-Street Parking Fund.
(Prior Code, § 31.04) (Ord. 2-1984, passed - -; Res. 4-1984, passed - -; Ord.
110-1984, passed - -; Ord. 35-1985, passed - -; Ord. 103-1985, passed - -; Ord.
54-1994, passed - -; Ord. 4-1996, passed - -; Ord. 1-1992, passed 2-3-1992)
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION PROGRAM
§ 31.035 PURPOSE.
   The Affirmative Action Program for the city is designed to ensure that every
good faith effort is made to provide equal employment opportunity (EEO) to all
existing employees and all potential employees.
(Prior Code, § 35.01) (Res. 15-1977, passed - -)
§ 31.036 GOALS.
   It shall be the goal of the city to practice EEO procedures at all levels of
government and government activity. These measures of affirmative action shall
extend into contracts with contractors, subcontractors, vendors and all those
who deal with the city where such practices are applicable. It shall be the
goal of the city to make known its affirmative action policies to its
employees, local citizenry, business, religious and social community, and all
others who have contact with the local city government.
(Prior Code, § 35.02) (Ord. 63-2000, passed - -)
§ 31.037 OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   Formalize city policies, practices and procedures for hiring,
promotion, transfer, training, compensation, benefits, layoff and recall, and
all other equal employment opportunities to which each individual is entitled.
   (B)   Identify areas of employment in which minorities and women are
underutilized and to seek improving utilization of minorities and women in
these areas.
   (C)   Establish realistic hiring goals to correct areas of underutilization.
Hiring goals shall reflect a sincere effort to utilize minorities and women in
all levels of government employment on the basis of skill and ability and
without regard to race, creed, color, sex, age, disability or national origin.
   (D)   Conduct a yearly audit of the employees working in city government
which will identify the minority and female employment ratios, job levels of
employment of minorities and females, and rates of compensation of minorities
and females in comparison to city-wide employment rates of compensation.
   (E)   Make available to all departments and their employees information
concerning the Affirmative Action Program of the city.
   (F)   Assist all employees and applicants working for or seeking work with
the city with any problems that relate to EEO.
(Prior Code, § 35.03) (Res. 15-1977, passed - -; Ord. 63-2000, passed - -)
§ 31.038 POLICY.
   (A)   It is the policy of the city to provide EEO to all persons without
regard to their race, creed, color, sex, age, disability or national origin,
and to promote the full realization of EEO through a positive and continuing
program. The city shall enact policies which reflect compliance to Title VII of
the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (being 42 U.S.C. §§ 2000e et seq.), Age
Discrimination Employment Act of 1967 (being 29 U.S.C. §§ 621 et seq.), the
Equal Pay Act of 1963, Americans with Disabilities Act and Executive Orders
4141 and 11246 of Sept. 24, 1965 appearing at 30 FR 12319, 12935, 3 CFR 1964 -
1965, Comp., p. 339, which eliminate any and all restrictions, if any, based on
race, color, religion, sex, age, disability or national origin with respect to
recruiting, hiring, training, compensation, overtime, job classifications and
assignments, working conditions, promotions, transfers, employee treatment and
any other aspects of employment. This policy will apply to all departments,
boards, districts and agencies of the city.
   (B)   It is the intent of the city in the implementation of this policy to
provide opportunities for minorities and females at all job levels through
upgrading and recruiting actions. Furthermore, it is the city’s policy to
coordinate the Affirmative Action Program in such a manner as to encourage all
employees, including minority and female employees, to advance to their fullest
potential.
   (C)   It shall be the policy of the city to make known its Affirmative
Action Program to all those who deal with the city.
   (D)   The city, including its departments, boards, districts and agencies
shall also not discriminate on the basis of race, color, national origin, sex,
religion, age and disability status in the providing of services.
(Prior Code, § 35.04) (Res. 15-1977, passed - -; Ord. 1-1985, passed - -; Ord.
63-2000, passed - -)
§ 31.039 IMPLEMENTATION OF POLICY; RESPONSIBILITY.
   The Director of the Human Right Commission (unless a specialized appointment
is made by the Mayor) shall be responsible for the implementation of the city’s
Affirmative Action Program and the direction of the city’s EEO Program (also
known as “EEOC Compliance Officer”). His or her responsibilities will include:
   (A)   Coordinating compliance with the requirements contained herein and in
any federal agency regulations;
   (B)   Updating the Affirmative Action Program of the city from time to time
with regard to federal and state laws and executive orders;
   (C)   Developing external and internal communications to inform city
employees and the community of the Affirmative Action Program;
   (D)   Assisting department administrators and contractors with the city in
achieving EEO for all persons;
   (E)   Assisting in the identification of problem areas of employment
concerning minorities and women;
   (F)   Designing and implementing a breakdown of minorities within the city
staff by job titles;
   (G)   Serving as liaison between the city and enforcement agencies, minority
organizations and community action groups;
   (H)   Keeping department heads, contractors and subcontractors, informed of
the latest developments in EEO issues which affect this Affirmative Action
Program; and
   (I)   Implementing social awareness programs for city employees consistent
with the goals of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 35.05) (Res. 15-1977, passed - -; Ord. 63-2000, passed - -)
§ 31.040 DISSEMINATION OF POLICY.
   (A)   The city’s EEO policy is communicated to all departments, agencies and
shall be available upon request to all contractors involved in work for the
city. Nondiscrimination policy statements shall be required in all contracts
entered into by the city involving expenditures of $2,000 or more. In addition,
any contractor bidding upon a city contract involving more than $25,000 shall
supply with its bid a written statement showing the makeup of the employee
workforce which includes the number of minorities and women compared with all
employees. An annual statement showing such information shall meet this
requirement.
   (B)   Posting of EEO literature on bulletin boards in the city departments
shall be done so that employees of the department and those entering the
department for the purpose of assistance or information shall be informed of
the EEO policy of the city. Copies of the city’s Affirmative Action Program
shall be kept on file in the City Clerk’s office for the benefit of the general
public. Each department shall maintain a copy of the city’s Affirmative Action
Program for the benefit of the department, its employees and all those who deal
with the department.
   (C)   A statement of the city’s EEO policy shall be disseminated to
commissions, agencies, community action groups and all other organizations
conducting training and hiring programs, and other related groups where
minorities might be solicited for employment and informed of employment
opportunities.
   (D)   All contractors, except those exempted by federal regulations, shall
abide by Pub. Law No. 90-448, 90th Congress, S. 3497 enacted August 1, 1968,
which ensures that, when feasible, local low-income project residents shall be
hired if additional employment is required for the federally-funded project
and, when feasible, materials for the federally-funded project shall be
procured locally, using small business and minority businesses. Compliance
statements in regard to § 3, employment of low-income project residents and
procurement of materials from local business, shall be required of all non-
exempt contractors. The city incorporates these requirements into its
Affirmative Action Program so that its citizens may be aware of such EEO
procedures from which they may benefit.
   (E)   EEO posters shall be displayed on all construction sites in which the
city contributes funding. (Records of employment and employment practices of
contractors and subcontractors shall be subject to review by the city to ensure
that the affirmative action policies of the contractors and subcontractors are
being followed and that the rights of its citizens are being projected in
regard to EEO.)
(Prior Code, § 35.06) (Ord. 63-2000, passed - -)
§ 31.041 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE.
   The grievance procedure, which is adopted as part of the city employee
personnel policy, shall be used for any grievance filed according to the terms
of this subchapter, provided, any grievance involving this subchapter must
include review by the EEOC compliance officer as described above.
(Prior Code, § 35.07) (Ord. 63-2000, passed - -)
§ 31.042 RECRUITMENT.
   (A)   One of the first city duties in establishing an equitable Affirmative
Action Plan is to establish a policy of recruiting from the ranks of city
employees qualified persons to fill openings, new job positions and vacancies,
which arise due to terminations, retirement and promotions. Work records and
qualifications of employees shall be reviewed when openings and vacancies
occur. This shall ensure that a system of upgrading job positions and assisting
an employee to utilize his or her abilities to the fullest shall be employed by
the city. Qualified persons employed by the city will be given the opportunity
to apply for positions of advancement. The city shall endeavor to assist
employees, especially minorities and females, in advancing to positions which
utilize their fullest skill, ability and training.
   (B)   Whenever employment opportunities arise, the positions shall be made
known to the public through advertisement reaching all segments of the
community, including newspapers, radio, internet and cable television.
   (C)   Agencies and community action groups interested in the employment of
minorities and females shall be contacted concerning the availability of
employment with the city. Referrals from such agencies and commissions shall be
kept on file with all applications for employment and systematically reviewed
when new openings or positions become available.
   (D)   Schools, colleges, civil rights organizations, community leaders and
recognized minority social and religious groups interested in the employment
problems of local citizens, especially minorities and females, shall be
contacted, when employment opportunities arise.
   (E)   The city shall work with the local school administration in
encouraging programs which can assist in the advancement of young minority and
female students. The city shall assist the local school administration by
participation in all programs requested by the administration, such as periods
during the year when students seek to work in government as a training source
for future employment, and programs sponsored by civic groups or governmental
organizations.
   (F)   Recruitment efforts for employees shall extend into all segments of
the community and local citizens shall be recruited and employed without regard
to race, creed, sex, color, religion or national origin.
   (G)   All promotional materials or literature the city distributes locally
or outside the city, if such materials consist of photographs, shall represent
the demographics the city desires to achieve.
   (H)   The phrase AN EEO EMPLOYER will be used in all employment advertising.
(Prior Code, § 35.08) (Res. 15-1977, passed - -; Ord. 63-2000, passed - -)
§ 31.043 TRAINING PROGRAMS AND ADVANCEMENT OPPORTUNITIES.
   It is the goal of the city to establish training opportunities for all
departments and employees of the city to assist qualified employees to pursue
more knowledge and skills in order to achieve their fullest potential. Such
opportunities must include having eligible employees and department
administrators attending conferences, workshops and training sessions which
relate to their work. The training assistance would extend into assisting
qualified employees in pursuing more knowledge and skill in their job by
attending institutions of higher learning. The courses must be job related and
of a nature to upgrade the person in his or her position, abilities or skills.
This program must extend partial assistance to the employee to stimulate his or
her interest in pursuing further knowledge of his or her job. This type program
would benefit the public by offering better-qualified and skilled public
servants to administer the local city programs. All training programs shall be
offered with due consideration for the advancement of all current employees,
including minorities and women.
(Prior Code, § 35.09)
§ 31.044 CITY SUPPORT.
   The city pledges to support the Affirmative Action Program to the spirit and
intent of its laws and commitments. The city shall ensure EEO to all of its
citizens without regard to race, creed, color, sex, religion, disability or
national origin. The city shall update its Affirmative Action Program and
policies as new affirmative action policies are instituted into law and new
measures for providing better approaches to equal opportunities arise. Each
city department shall develop methods to implement the general goals and
objectives contained herein and help assure compliance with all requirements of
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 35.10) (Ord. 63-2000, passed - -)
CHAPTER 32: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
32.001   Departments generally
   
32.002   Boards and commissions generally
   
32.003   Pension boards
   
32.004   Filing agendas, minutes, memoranda and notices
Specific Organizations
   
32.015   Hospital Authority
   
32.016   Street Tree Commission
   
32.017   Telecommunications Council
   
32.018   Board of Finance
   
32.019   Human Rights Commission
   
32.020   Redevelopment Authority
   
32.021   Environmental Sustainability Commission
   
32.022   Matrimony Bureau
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.001 DEPARTMENTS GENERALLY.
   (A)   All department heads shall be appointed by the Mayor, subject to
commission or board approval when required by statute or ordinance, and serve
at the pleasure of the Mayor. Department heads shall appoint deputies and other
employees within their departments with the approval of the Mayor.
   (B)   There hereby is established, pursuant to I.C. 36-8-2-2, the City
Police Department, which shall be organized within the executive branch and
operated pursuant to the Indiana Code and the city code.
   (C)   There is hereby established, pursuant to I.C. 36-8-2-3, the City Fire
Department, which shall be organized within the executive branch and operated
pursuant to the Indiana Code and the city code.
   (D)   There is hereby established, pursuant to I.C. 36-4-9-4, the following
departments, which shall be organized within the executive branch and operated
pursuant to the Indiana Code and the city code:
      (1)   Department of Finance;
      (2)   Department of Human Resources and Compliance;
      (3)   Department of Law;
      (4)   Department of Parks and Recreation;
      (5)   Department of Infrastructure and Development;
      (6)   Department of Sanitation;
      (7)   Department of Streets; and
      (8)   Department of Purchasing and Environmental Services.
(Prior Code, § 31.02) (Ord. 1-1992, passed - -; Ord. 4-1996, passed - -; Ord.
9-2004, passed - -; Ord. 7-2005, passed - -; Ord. 34-2016, passed - -; Ord. 34-
2016, passed 9-19-2016)
§ 32.002 BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS GENERALLY.
   It is hereby acknowledged that the Indiana Code and city code establish
certain boards and commissions which shall operate within the executive branch
in relation to the following departments:
   (A)   Board of Public Works and Safety in relation to the City Police
Department, the City Fire Department, the Department of Finance and Purchasing,
the Department of Human Resources and Code Enforcement, the Department of Law
and the Department of Public Works and Engineering;
(I.C. 36-4-9-5)
   (B)   Police Merit Commission in relation to the City Police Department;
   (C)   Board of Sanitary Commissioners in relation to the Department of
Sanitation;
(I.C. 36-9-25-3)
   (D)   Board of Aviation Commissioners in relation to the responsibilities
regarding aviation within the Department of Public Works and Engineering;
(I.C. 8-22-2-1)
   (E)   Parks and Recreation Board in relation to the Department of Parks and
Recreation;
(I.C. 36-10-3)
   (F)   Advisory Plan Commission in relation to the Department of Planning and
Redevelopment;
(I.C. 36-7-4-200)
   (G)   Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals in relation to the Department of
Planning and Redevelopment;
(I.C. 36-7-4-900)
   (H)   Redevelopment Commission in relation to the Department of Planning and
Redevelopment; and
(I.C. 36-7-14-6.1)
   (I)   Economic Development Commission in relation to the Department of
Economic Development.
(Prior Code, § 31.03) (Ord. 71-1996, passed - -; Ord. 3187-1977, passed - -;
Ord. 4-1996, passed - -)
§ 32.003 PENSION BOARDS.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Police Pension Board of Trustees to perform
duties prescribed by I.C. 36-8-6 (1925 Fund) and I.C. 36-8-8 (1977 Fund) and
shall bear such duties and responsibilities as are therein set out.
   (B)   There is hereby created a Firefighter’s Pension Board of Trustees to
perform certain duties prescribed by I.C. 36-8-7 (1937 Fund) and I.C. 36-8-8
(1977 Fund) and shall bear such duties and responsibilities as are therein set
out.
(Prior Code, § 31.05)
§ 32.004 FILING OF AGENDAS, MINUTES, MEMORANDA AND NOTICES.
   Includes, but not limited to the following:
   (A)   All boards, commissions, committees or authorities, created either by
city resolution, ordinance, agreement or state law, including, but not limited
to, the City Sanitary District, City Park Board, City Airport Board, the Board
of Zoning Appeals, the City Planning Commission, the Economic Growth and
Development Board, the Economic Development Commission, Police Merit
Commission, Police Pension Board, Fire Pension Board, Urban Enterprise Zone,
Revolving Loan Fund, Telecommunications Council or which are supported in whole
or part by city funds, or for which city officials or employees serve in their
official city capacities, shall furnish the City Clerk’s office with copies of
all meeting notices, agendas, minutes and memoranda. Notices and agendas, if
available, shall be furnished to the City Clerk no later than the date on which
such meetings are to be held. Meeting minutes and memoranda shall be delivered
to the City Clerk no later than five days after the minutes and/or memoranda
have been approved by the respective body;
   (B)   Unless otherwise exempt under law, all of the boards, commissions,
authorities and committees which shall meet the guidelines set forth in
division (A) above shall make written minutes of all public meetings;
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the secretary of such board, committee,
authority or other appropriate body to deliver such notices, agendas, minutes
and memoranda to the City Clerk;
   (D)   Failure to comply with this code provision shall be cause for the
Council request for the presence of the presiding officer of such board,
commission, authority or other body at a regularly scheduled meeting of the
Council to explain the failure to comply, under the powers and authority
granted by I.C. 36-4-6-21;
   (E)   This section is intended to reflect the policy of making government
more accessible to the public. The failure of any board, commission, committee,
authority or other appropriate body to comply with this subchapter shall not
invalidate any action taken by such board, committee, commission, authority or
body, unless otherwise provided by law;
   (F)   The City Clerk shall give notice to each and every board, committee,
commission, authority or other body for which this section would be applicable,
by presenting a copy of this section annually at the first meeting of such
bodies each year; and
   (G)   Those records or other materials classified as privileged or
confidential pursuant to state or federal statute shall be exempt from the
provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 32.99) (Ord. 9-1985, passed - -)
SPECIFIC ORGANIZATIONS
§ 32.015 HOSPITAL AUTHORITY.
   There is hereby created a hospital authority for the city pursuant to I.C.
5-1-4-4. The name of the hospital authority shall be “Hospital Authority of
Richmond”.
(Prior Code, § 32.10) (Res. 24-1980, passed - -)
§ 32.016 STREET TREE COMMISSION.
   There is established a Commission, to be known as the Street Tree Commission
for the city.
(Prior Code, § 32.20) (Ord. 15-1986, passed - -; Ord. 47-1986, passed - -)
§ 32.017 TELECOMMUNICATIONS COUNCIL.
   (A)   Purpose. The Telecommunications Council shall be responsible to the
Board of Public Works in reviewing and evaluating the performance of city
franchise agreements.
   (B)   Appointments. The Council shall consist of five voting members, two of
whom shall be appointed by the Mayor and three by the Common Council. In
addition, each cable television franchisee may provide a reference person in
advisory capacity only as requested by the Telecommunications Commission.
   (C)   Powers and responsibilities. The powers and responsibilities operating
in satisfaction of the terms of the cable television franchise and the
applicable state and federal rules and regulations are:
      (1)   To evaluate the quality of subscriber service by cable television
companies;
      (2)   To evaluate whether the company is operating in satisfaction of the
terms of the cable television franchise and the applicable state and federal
rules and regulations;
      (3)   To study the communication needs of the city community franchise
and the applicable state and federal rules and regulations; and explore ways of
using cable television to meet those needs;
      (4)   To assist members of the public and non-profit organizations in the
use of cable television, including, to the extent of the Council’s ability,
programming advice, production advice and assistance, and cable-casting
arrangements;
      (5)   To seek out and retain the services of other persons, organizations
and companies for purposes of satisfying the responsibilities laid upon the
Council by this section;
      (6)   To report at least once a year to the Mayor, the Common Council and
the Board of Public Works, in writing on the Council’s activities and
expenditures, such report to include the evaluations provided for in divisions
(C)(2) and (C)(3) above, and such report further being made available to the
public upon request; and
      (7)   To pursue the preceding responsibilities in the best public
interest of the citizen of the city.
   (D)   Procedure.
      (1)   The Board of Public Works shall furnish the Telecommunications
Council with rules and regulations for the administration of the
Telecommunications Council.
      (2)   It is the object of this section that the Telecommunications
Council will be supported from the receipt of cable television franchise fees,
subject to the approval of the Mayor and Common Council.
   (E)   Terms.
      (1)   The terms of each Commission member shall be for a period of four
years; provided, in order to create staggered terms, the initial members shall
serve the following terms:
         (a)   Mayor appointments: one two-year term; one four-year term; and
         (b)   Council appointments: one two-year term; one three-year term;
one four-year term.
      (2)   Successors to all members of the Commission shall be appointed for
terms of four years, except when appointed to fill a vacancy, in which case the
appointment shall be for the unexpired term. All terms shall run by calendar
year from January 1 (or date of appointment) through December 31.
(Prior Code, § 32.30) (Ord. 8-1985, passed - -; Ord. 20-1996, passed - -)
§ 32.018 BOARD OF FINANCE.
   Pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 5-12-1, the City Board of Finance is
hereby established and composed of the Mayor and the members of Common Council.
The City Controller shall serve as Secretary of the City Board of Finance. The
Board of Finance shall meet after the first Monday and on or before the third
Monday of January annually to meet and organize. After the first Monday and on
or before the third Monday in February of each odd-numbered year, the Board
shall meet for the purpose of designating public depositories for the ensuing
two- year period.
(Prior Code, § 32.40) (Ord. 5-1987, passed - -)
§ 32.019 HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION.
   I.C. 22-9-1-2 sets forth the policy of the state to provide all of its
citizens equal opportunity for education, employment, access to public
conveniences and accommodations, and acquisition through rental or purchase of
real property, and to eliminate segregation or separation based solely on race,
religion, color, sex, disability, national origin or ancestry; and I.C. 22-9-1-
12.1(b) authorizes any city to enact an ordinance to effectuate within its
territorial jurisdiction to the public policy of the state as declared in I.C.
22-9-1-2.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   It is the public policy of the city to provide all of its citizens
equal opportunity for education, employment, access to public conveniences and
accommodations and acquisition through purchase or rental of real property,
including, but not limited to, housing, and to eliminate segregation or
separation based solely on race, religion, color, sex, disability, national
origin or ancestry, since such segregation is an impediment to equal
opportunity. Equal education and employment opportunities and equal access to
and use of public accommodations and equal opportunity for acquisition of real
property are hereby declared to be human rights.
      (2)   The practice of denying these rights to properly qualified persons
by reason of the race, religion, color, sex, disability, national origin or
ancestry of such person is contrary to the principles of freedom and equality
of opportunity and is a burden to the objectives of the public policy of this
city and shall be considered a discriminatory practice. The promotion of equal
opportunity without regard to race, religion, color, sex, disability, national
origin or ancestry through reasonable methods is the purpose of this section.
      (3)   It is also the public policy of this city to protect employers,
labor organizations, employment agencies, property owners, real estate brokers,
builders and lending institutions from unfounded charges of discrimination.
      (4)   It is hereby declared to be contrary to the public policy of the
city and an unlawful practice for any person, for profit, to induce or attempt
to induce any person to sell or rent any dwelling by representations regarding
the entry or prospective entry into the neighborhood of a person or persons of
a particular race, religion, color, sex, disability, national origin or
ancestry.
      (5)   This section shall be construed broadly to effectuate its purpose.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AFFIRMATIVE ACTION. Those acts which the Commission deems necessary to
assure compliance with the city’s civil rights ordinance.
      COMMISSION.  The Human Rights Commission created under division (C)
below.
      COMMISSION ATTORNEY. The City Attorney, or such other attorney as may be
engaged by the Commission.
      COMPLAINANT.  Any individual charging on his or her own behalf to have
been personally aggrieved by a discriminatory practice, or the Director of the
Commission charging that a discriminatory practice was committed against a
person, other than himself or herself, or a class of people, in order to
vindicate the public policy of the state as defined in this section.
      COMPLAINT. Any written grievance filed by a complainant, or by the
Director, with the Commission. The original shall be signed and verified before
a notary public or other person duly authorized by law to administer oaths and
take acknowledgments. Notary service shall be furnished by the Commission
without charge. To be acceptable by the Commission, a COMPLAINT shall be
sufficiently complete so as to reflect properly the full name and address of
the complainant; the name and address of the respondent against whom the
COMPLAINT is made, the alleged discriminatory practice and a statement of
particulars thereof; the date or dates and places of the alleged discriminatory
practice, and if the alleged discriminatory practice is of a continuing nature,
the dates between which said continuing acts of discrimination are alleged to
have occurred; and a statement as to any other action, civil or criminal,
instituted in any other form based upon the same grievance as is alleged in the
COMPLAINT, together with a statement as to the status or disposition of such
other action. No COMPLAINT shall be valid unless filed within 180 days from the
date of the occurrence of the alleged discriminatory practice, or from the date
of the termination of a published and meaningful grievance procedure provided
by a respondent employer, or labor union.
      CONSENT AGREEMENT. A formal agreement entered into in lieu of
adjudication.
      DIRECTOR. The Director of the City Human Rights Commission.
      DISABILITY. With respect to an individual:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment that substantially limits at
least one of the major life activities of the individual;
         (b)   A record of an impairment described in subdivision (a); or
         (c)   Being regarded as having an impairment described in subdivision
(a). In reference to employment, under this section, discrimination because of
DISABILITY shall be interpreted in accordance with I.C. 22-9-5 et seq.
      DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICE. The exclusion of a person, from equal
opportunities because of race, religion, color, sex, disability, national
origin or ancestry; or a system which excludes persons from equal opportunities
because of race, religion, color, sex, disability, national origin or ancestry;
or the promotion of racial segregation or separation in any manner, including,
but not limited to, the inducing of, or the attempting to induce, for profit,
any person to sell or rent any dwelling by representations regarding the entry
or prospective entry in the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular
race, religion, color, sex, disability, national origin or ancestry. Every
DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICE relating to the acquisition or sale of real estate,
education, public accommodations, employment or the extending of credit as
“credit” is defined in I.C. 24-4.5-1-301.5, shall be considered unlawful unless
it is specifically exempted by this section.
      EMPLOYEE. Any person employed by another for wages or salary; provided,
however, that it should not include any individual employed by his or her
parents, spouse or child, in the domestic service of any person.
      EMPLOYER. The civil city of Richmond, and any person employing six or
more persons within the city, except that the term EMPLOYER does not include
any not-for-profit corporation or association organized exclusively for
fraternal or religious purposes; nor any school, educational or charitable
religious institution owned or conducted by, or affiliated with, a church or
religious institution; nor any exclusively social club, corporation or
association that is not organized for profit.
      EMPLOYMENT AGENCY. Any person undertaking with or without compensation to
procure, recruit, refer or place employees.
      LABOR ORGANIZATION. Any organization which exists for the purpose, in
whole or in part, of collective bargaining or of dealing with employers
concerning grievances, terms or conditions of employment, or for other mutual
aid or protection in relation to employment.
      PERSON. One or more individuals, partnerships, associations,
organizations, corporations, labor organizations, cooperatives, legal
representatives, trustees, trustees in bankruptcy, receivers and other
organized groups of persons.
      PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION. Any establishment which caters or offers its
services or facilities or goods to the general public.
      SEX. As it applies to segregation or separation in this section applies
to all types of employment, education, public accommodations and housing;
provided, however, that:
         (a)   It shall not be a discriminatory practice to maintain separate
restrooms;
         (b)   It shall not be an unlawful employment practice for an employer
to hire and employ employees, for an employment agency to classify, or refer
for employment any individual, for a labor organization to classify its
membership or to classify or refer for employment any individual, or for an
employer, labor organization or joint labor- management committee controlling
apprenticeship or other training or retraining programs to admit or employ any
other individual in any such program on the basis of sex in those certain
instances where SEX is a bona fide occupational qualification reasonably
necessary to the normal operation of that particular business or enterprise;
and
         (c)   It shall not be a discriminatory practice for a private or
religious educational institution to continue to maintain and enforce a policy
of admitting students of one sex only.
   (C)   Membership of Commission.
      (1)   There is hereby created a Human Rights Commission to be known as
the “Richmond Human Rights Commission” of the city.
         (a)   The Commission shall be composed of seven members.
         (b)   Members shall serve without compensation.
         (c)   Members shall represent racial, ethnic, political, religious,
economic, educational and disability awareness groups in the community.
         (d)   Three members shall be appointed by the Mayor and four shall be
appointed by Common Council.
         (e)   Appointments shall be made not later than 60 days from the date
this section shall be of full force and effect, or from the date any vacancy
occurs.
         (f)   Appointments shall be for terms of four years for two members,
three years for two members, two years for two members, and one year for one
member.
         (g)   Successors to all members of the Commission shall be appointed
for terms of four years excepting when appointed to fill a vacancy in which
case such appointment shall be for the unexpired term.
         (h)   The Mayor, with consent of Council, may remove any member for
cause, including unexcused absence at three consecutive Commission meetings, or
actual or apparent conflict of interest.
         (i)   All members of the Human Rights Commission shall reside within
the city during their tenure.
      (2)   The Human Rights Commission shall hold an organizational meeting
not later than ten days after all appointments are made and confirmed by
Council and shall at its April meeting thereafter, annually:
         (a)   The Commission shall elect from their body a Chairperson and
Vice-Chairperson;
         (b)   The Commission shall meet once each month as needed thereafter
or more often as the Chairperson may deem necessary;
         (c)   The Commission shall adopt rules of procedure for the conduct of
its meetings as determined by a majority of its members;
         (d)   Hearings by the Commission shall be recorded and witnesses shall
give testimony and evidence under oath;
         (e)   Any person who files a complaint with the State Civil Rights
Commission shall have no recourse to the City Civil Rights Commission and may
not also file a complaint with the City Human Rights Commission concerning any
of the matters alleged in such complaint, except as provided in I.C. 22-9-1-
12.1(d); however, nothing shall affect such person’s right to pursue any and
all other rights and remedies available in any other state or federal forum;
and
         (f)   A decision of the local agency may be appealed under the terms
of I.C. 4-21.5-1 et seq. the same as if it was a decision of a state agency.
      (3)   Although it is the intent of this code to promote mediation and
conciliation, and while legal counsel for parties is not required, it shall be
the duty of the Commission and its Executive Director to inform any complainant
or respondent of his, her or its right to legal counsel of choice. The City
Attorney shall act as counsel in an advisory capacity to the Commission and
shall not give legal advice to, nor represent any private party in proceedings
before the Commission.
   (D)   Powers and duties of the City Human Rights Commission.
      (1)   Investigate, conciliate and hear complaints;
      (2)   Subpoena and compel the attendance of witnesses or production of
pertinent documents and records;
      (3)   Administer oaths;
      (4)   Examine witnesses;
      (5)   Appoint hearing examiners or panels;
      (6)   Make findings and recommendations;
      (7)   Issue cease and desist orders or orders requiring remedial action;
      (8)   Order payment of actual damages, except that paid as a result of
discriminatory practices relating to employment shall be limited to lost wages,
salaries, commissions or fringe benefits;
      (9)   Institute actions for appropriate legal or equitable relief in a
circuit or superior court;
      (10)   Utilize an executive director, investigator and legal counsel as
may be provided for in the annual city budget;
      (11)   Conduct studies, educational programs and other activities within
its territorial boundaries to carry out the public policy of the city, as
provided in this section; and
      (12)   The City Human Rights Commission shall have no jurisdiction or
power over the state or any of its agencies, as defined in I.C. 22-9-1-12.1(a).
   (E)   Miscellaneous provisions.
      (1)   Immediately upon the taking effect of this section, the Mayor shall
select and appoint a Director, who shall be Secretary of the Commission and
Chief Administrative Officer for the Commission. The Director may only be
removed by a majority vote of the Commission. The Director shall not engage in
or have any interest in any business or activity which may create a conflict of
interest. A vacancy shall be filled within 60 days of the date of vacancy.
      (2)   So as to ensure impartiality, notwithstanding any other provisions
of this section, the Commission shall not adjudicate any complaint or claim in
which the city, its departments, agencies, officers or employees are
respondents; however, any claims or complaints presented against the city, its
officers, agencies, departments or employees shall be promptly referred by the
Executive Director of the Commission to an appropriate state or federal agency.
The Executive Director shall monitor the progress of such claims or complaints
and shall report the status periodically to the Commission.
      (3)   This section is passed by authority of and in accordance with I.C.
22-9-1-12.1.
      (4)   Neither this section, nor any claims or complaints presented
thereunder, shall be construed as a waiver by the city of the notice
requirements of the state tort claims act, being I.C. Title 34, Article 13,
Chapter 3, Tort Claims Against Governmental Entities and Public Employees (I.C.
34-13-3-0.1 through 34-13-3-25).
      (5)   If any part, word or phrase of this section, or the application
thereof to any person shall be adjudged by a court of competent jurisdiction to
be invalid, that judgment shall not invalidate the remainder of this section.
      (6)   This section shall be effective for claims or actions that accrue
after September 30, 1987.
      (7)   The Human Rights Commission of the city shall become a permanent
Commission of the city effective January 1, 1990, having all powers and duties
as assigned in Ord. 45-1986.
      (8)   A hearing examiner appointed by the City Human Rights Commission
shall have the same powers and duties as a Commissioner sitting as a Hearing
Examiner.
      (9)   Pursuant to I.C. 34-13-3-3, an attorney at law appointed by the
City Human Rights Commission as a hearing examiner under I.C. 22-9-1-12.1(c)(5)
shall not be liable for acts within the scope of said appointment.
(Prior Code, § 32.50) (Ord. 45-1986, passed - -; Ord. 2-1988, passed - -; Ord.
71-1989, passed - -; Ord. 71-1994, passed - -; Ord. 27-1995, passed - -; Ord.
74-1996, passed - -)
§ 32.020 REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY.
   I.C. 36-7-14.5 authorizes the Common Council of the city to create by
ordinance a redevelopment authority as a separate corporate and political
instrumentality of the city to finance local public improvements for lease to
the City Redevelopment Commission.
   (A)   Created. There is hereby created the City Redevelopment Authority (the
“Authority”) as a separate body corporate and politic and as an instrumentality
of the city, for the purposes and with all powers and duties now or hereafter
granted to it by the Act.
   (B)   Composition.
      (1)   The Authority shall be under the control of a Board of Directors
(the “Board”) consisting of three members, who must be residents of the city
appointed by the Mayor of the city.
      (2)   A member is entitled to serve a three- year term. A member may be
reappointed to subsequent terms.
      (3)   If a vacancy occurs on the Board, the Mayor of the city shall fill
the vacancy by appointing a new member for the remainder of the vacated term.
      (4)   A Board member may be removed for cause by the Mayor of the city.
      (5)   Each member, before entering upon the duties of office, must take
and subscribe an oath of office under I.C. 5-4-1, which shall be endorsed upon
the certificate of appointment and filed with the records of the Board.
      (6)   A member may not receive a salary, and no profit or money of the
Authority inures to the benefit of a member.
   (C)   Severability. If any part of this section shall be adjudged to be
invalid by a court of proper jurisdiction, it shall be conclusively presumed
that the Common Council of the city would have passed the remainder of this
section without such invalid part.
   (D)   Effective date. This section shall be in full force and effect
immediately from and after its passage by the Common Council and approval by
the Mayor in the manner provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 32.60) (Ord. 58-90, passed - -)
§ 32.021 ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY COMMISSION.
   (A)   Purpose. The city deems it in the public interest to establish the
City Environmental Sustainability Commission in order that said Commission may
assist the city as follows:
      (1)   Promote environmental sustainability and conservation of natural
resources in the city for the public good;
      (2)   Inform and advise the Common Council, the Mayor and the city
government on matters relating to environmental sustainability and conservation
of natural resources;
      (3)   Coordinate public and private efforts within the city towards
sustainability, environmental health and conservation of natural resources;
      (4)   Help the city and its departments and committees strive toward
operating in a manner that is sustainable to the environment.
      (5)   Help assess potential environmental liabilities and potential costs
of government policies and practices in the city;
      (6)   Coordinate and promote grant and funding opportunities for the city
related to sustainability, environment and conservation;
      (7)   Promote environmental resources and quality of life in the city, in
order to attract and retain businesses and economic investment and reinforce
the civic pride and identity of the city; and
      (8)   Facilitate environmental education, for both the city government
and general public.
   (B)   Establishment and organization of the City Environmental
Sustainability Commission.
      (1)   Creation. Pursuant to I.C. 36-1-3-1 et seq. (Home Rule), there is
hereby established the Environmental Sustainability Commission of the city
(hereinafter referred to as the “Commission”).
      (2)   Composition. 
         (a)   The Commission shall consist of nine voting members. The voting
members shall be initially appointed by the Mayor of the city, subject to the
approval of the Common Council of the city. Subsequent appointment of voting
members as terms become open shall be made by the Mayor, subject to the
approval of Common Council of the city. The members of the Commission should
include persons knowledgeable and engaged in matters of sustainability,
conservation and environment and involved and committed to promoting such
matters in the city.
         (b)   As environmental concerns cannot be contained within a political
subdivision, membership of individuals residing outside of the city limits is
allowed; however, no more than three of the Commission members may live outside
the city and it is recommended that any non-resident members be residents of
the county or residents of counties adjacent to the county.
         (c)   To ensure that the Commission represents a wide range of
interested constituencies and stakeholders, as necessary for its advisory and
coordinating role, the Commission should include representatives actively
associated with the following constituencies:
            1.   Non-profit organizations;
            2.   Business/industry;
            3.   City governance;
            4.   Education; and
            5.   Utilities.
         (d)   To represent a constituency, a member of the Commission should
either be fully employed within the designated area, or hold a significant
public office in that area (as in the case of members of the EDC, school boards
and the like). No member of the Commission can represent more than one of these
constituencies on the Commission at any given time. Not all members on the
Commission are required to be associated with one of these specific
constituencies. The Commission should include members from all major political
parties active in the city (i.e., parties whose candidates regularly appear on
the city election ballot for city positions), to make its recommendations non-
partisan. Commission members shall serve without compensation.
      (3)   Term. Members shall serve for a term of two calendar years;
however, in order for the terms to be staggered, the initial terms of members
shall be as follows:
         (a)   Four shall expire December 31, 2013; five shall expire December
31, 2014; and
         (b)   A vacancy shall be filled by nomination and vote of existing
Commission members (requiring at least two-thirds approval), subject to the
approval of the Mayor and Common Council of the city, within 90 days from the
time of vacancy. The new member shall serve for the unexpired duration of the
term of the member who is being replaced. There is no limit to the number of
terms or consecutive terms that a member may serve.
      (4)   Council liaison. One member of the Common Council of the city may
be designated as an official liaison to the Commission and charged with
informing the Commission on issues and pending and upcoming resolutions before
the Council with special important for the environment, conservation of natural
resources and sustainability, for the Commission to take up and advise the
Council.
      (5)   Relation with Mayor. The Commission shall maintain an active
working relationship with the Mayor, who will inform it of current and
potential policies and procedures of the city government with special important
for the environment, conservation of natural resources and sustainability, for
the Commission to take up and advise the Mayor.
      (6)   Officers. The Commission shall elect from its membership a
Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson and Secretary who shall each serve for one year
and who may be reelected.
      (7)   Rules. The Commission shall adopt procedural rules consistent with
this section for the transaction of its business. The rules must include the
time and place of regular meetings and a procedure for the calling of special
meetings.
      (8)   Meetings. Commission meetings must be open to the public and a
public record shall be kept of the Commission’s resolutions, proceedings and
actions in accordance with I.C. 5-14-1.5-1 et seq. (state’s Open Door Law). The
Commission shall hold regular meetings, at least monthly, except when it has no
business pending. Special meetings may be called in a manner determined by the
Commission and its rules provided that all public notice requirements pursuant
to I.C. 5-14-1.5-5 are followed.
   (C)   Powers and duties of the Commission.
      (1)   The Commission will have the power to make advisory
recommendations, in relation to issues of environmental sustainability and
conservation of natural resources, to the Common Council of the city, the Mayor
of the city, the City Advisory Plan Commission, and city departments and
offices. These recommendations may be made either at the request of the Common
Council or Mayor of the city, or on the initiative of the Commission. The
Commission will offer these recommendations in an advisory role only, and its
recommendations are not binding in any way on decisions made by the Common
Council, Mayor, Advisory Plan Commission or other government employees or
officials of the city.
      (2)   The Commission will take into account in its recommendations the
overall economic, social and cultural well-being of the general public of the
city, but its purpose will be primarily to advise on matters of environmental
sustainability and conservation of natural resources, and these elements will
be its main concern in making recommendations, allowing other groups and
officials to determine and weigh other relevant issues affecting decisions.
      (3)   The Commission will attempt to share information and coordinate
efforts, to the best of its ability, among all public groups and private
citizens in the city who are interested in promoting the goals of environmental
sustainability and conservation of natural resources. This may include, but not
be limited to, assisting as necessary with the publicizing of local
environmental activities, compiling and providing a list of all environmental
speakers to all interested persons, schools and groups, promoting the
development of environmental curricula in local schools, encouraging and
organizing workshops, seminars, films, slide shows and speaking programs on
environmental concerns.
      (4)   The Commission will research and apply for grants or other funds or
gifts from public or private agencies, to improve environmental sustainability
and resource conservation in the city.
      (5)   The Commission will seek to publicize and celebrate successes in
the city pertaining to environmental sustainability and conservation of natural
resources, in order to attract and retain businesses and investments and
bolster civic pride and identity. This goal may include seeking and maintaining
official environmental or sustainability designations for the city, such as its
current CLEAN Community Status through the State Department of Environmental
Management.
      (6)   The Commission will seek to facilitate and coordinate environmental
education in the city. As part of these efforts, the Commission may also
promote cleanup, anti-litter and beautification projects that serve to develop
civic pride in improving the environmental aesthetics of the community.
      (7)   The Commission will gather, coordinate and share data on
environmental sustainability and natural resource conservation within the city,
in ways that are useful and important to its other functions, listed above.
(Prior Code, § 32.80) (Ord. 17-2012, passed - -; Ord. 5-2018, passed - -)
§ 32.022 MATRIMONY BUREAU.
   (A)   Establishment and authorization. The Municipal Matrimony Bureau
(hereinafter “Bureau”) is hereby authorized and empowered:
      (1)   To charge on behalf of the city such service charges as hereinafter
may be identified and authorized for the performance of marriage solemnizations
to be paid by the parties desiring the solemnization services; and
      (2)   To execute forms as may be proper to efficiently administer the
actions of the Bureau.
   (B)   Solemnization services. The Bureau is hereby instructed and directed
to provide the following services:
      (1)   To develop, compile and maintain records of the services offered,
charges developed and such other information as may be desirable and to
transmit a report of the activities of the Bureau on a monthly basis to the
City Controller;
      (2)   Performance of the solemnization of marriages by the City Clerk
authorized pursuant to I.C. 31-11-6 et seq., by appointment at the premises of
the municipal building during regular business hours;
      (3)   Performance of the solemnization of marriages by the City Clerk
authorized pursuant to I.C. 31-11-6 et seq., with no appointment (“walk in”) at
the premises of the municipal building during regular business hours, at the
discretion of the City Clerk; and
      (4)   Preparation of the license and forms by the City Clerk and the
posting by United States Postal Service completed certificates for delivery to
the proper circuit court clerk as the issuing authority.
   (C)   Schedule of fees. 
      (1)   The following schedule of fees and charges is authorized as
follows.
         (a)   Residents of the city, scheduled ceremony fee: $25.
         (b)   Residents of the city, unscheduled ceremony fee: $35.
         (c)   Non-city residents, scheduled ceremony fee: $35.
         (d)   Non-city residents, unscheduled ceremony fee: $45.
      (2)   If an individual is a resident of the city and the spouse-to-be is
not a resident of the city, the couple shall be charged the appropriate
resident rate.
   (D)   Amounts collected.
      (1)   All charges and amounts collected pursuant to this subchapter
shall:
         (a)   Be collected in the City Clerk’s office and a receipt shall be
provided;
         (b)   Be deposited and credited to the General Fund of the city upon
its receipt;
         (c)   Not belong to or be the property of any public official,
including the City Clerk or a deputy, employee or appointee serving under the
same, but shall belong to and be the property of the municipality; and
         (d)   Be construed as charged by the Bureau and collected by the City
Clerk on behalf of the city, not for the benefit of any public officer or any
individual.
      (2)   Any public official, including the City Clerk or a deputy, employee
or appointee serving under the same, is hereby prohibited from personally
receiving and shall not charge or collect any fee or amount for services
performed under this subchapter that is not authorized or not deposited with
the city, according to its terms. Fees or amounts charged under this subchapter
shall be collected by the City Clerk’s office on behalf of the city.
(Ord. 009-2017, passed 2-21-2009)
CHAPTER 33: PUBLIC SAFETY; LAW ENFORCEMENT
Section
Fire Department
   
33.001   Longevity pay for firefighters
   
33.002   Fireman’s Pension Fund
   
33.003   Residency requirements
Police Department
   
33.015   Longevity pay for police officers
   
33.016   Death benefits
   
33.017   Merit system for Police Department
   
33.018   Gun permits
   
33.019   Residency requirements
   
33.020   Pension calculating
   
33.021   Compliant Advisory Committee
   
33.022   Police reserve officers
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 33.001 LONGEVITY PAY FOR FIREFIGHTERS.
   (A)   Effective January 1, 1986, any member of the Fire Department on active
duty shall receive, in addition to such member’s base pay, longevity pay, which
shall be determined on the basis of the length of active service in the Fire
Department, which said longevity pay shall be as follows, to wit:
      (1)   Any member of the Fire Department who shall have had not less than
three years and not more than six years of active service in such member’s
Department shall receive the sum of $900 per year in addition to such member’s
base pay; the annual payment shall commence upon the date upon which any such
member shall have completed three years of active service with such member’s
Department;
      (2)   Any member of the Fire Department who shall have had not less than
six years and not more than eight years of active service in such member’s
Department shall receive the sum of $1,000 per year in addition to such
member’s base pay; the annual payment shall commence upon the date upon which
any such member shall have completed six years of active service with such
member’s Department;
      (3)   Any member of the Fire Department who shall have had not less than
eight years and not more than ten years of active service in such member’s
Department shall receive the sum of $1,100 per year in addition to such
member’s base pay; the annual payment shall commence upon the date upon which
any such member shall have completed eight years of active service with such
member’s Department;
      (4)   Any member of the Fire Department who shall have had not less than
ten years and not more than 12 years of active service in such member’s
Department shall receive the sum of $1,200 per year in addition to such
member’s base pay; the annual payment shall commence upon the date upon which
any such member shall have completed ten years of active service with such
member’s Department;
      (5)   Any member of the Fire Department who shall have had not less than
12 years and not more than 14 years of active service in such member’s
Department shall receive the sum of $1,300 per year in addition to such
member’s base pay; the annual payment shall commence upon the date upon which
any such member shall have completed 12 years of active service with such
member’s Department;
      (6)   Any member of the Fire Department who shall have had not less than
14 years and not more than 16 years of active service in such member’s
Department shall receive the sum of $1,400 per year in addition to such
member’s base pay; the annual payment shall commence upon the date upon which
any such member shall have completed 14 years of active service with such
member’s Department;
      (7)   Any member of the Fire Department who shall have had not less than
16 years and not more than 18 years of active service such member’s Department
shall receive the sum of $1,500 per year in addition to such member’s base pay;
the annual payment shall commence upon the date upon which any such member
shall have completed 16 years of active service with such member’s Department;
      (8)   Any member of the Fire Department who shall have had not less than
18 years and not more than 20 years of active service in such member’s
Department shall receive the sum of $1,600 per year in addition to such
member’s base pay; the annual payment shall commence upon the date upon which
any such member shall have completed 18 years of active service with such
member’s Department; and
      (9)   Any member of the Fire Department who shall have had not less than
20 or more years of active service in such member’s Department shall receive
the sum of $1,700 per year in addition to such member’s base pay; the annual
payment shall commence upon the date upon which any such member shall have
completed 20 years of active service with such member’s Department.
   (B)   It is intended that the eligibility for longevity pay and the amount
of longevity that is to be paid to each member of the Fire Department shall be
determined as upon that date upon which such member shall have completed three
years of active service with such member’s Department, and upon that same
calendar date in each ensuing year thereafter.
   (C)   It is further intended that any member of the Fire Department who has
not accumulated three years of active service shall not be eligible for
longevity pay.
(Prior Code, § 31.40) (Ord. 93-1986, passed - -)
§ 33.002 FIREMAN’S PENSION FUND.
   (A)   The City’s Fireman’s Pension Fund and Plan shall be subject to state
law and the city does officially place itself under the rules and regulations
therein contained.
   (B)   Pursuant to state law, the monthly payment to the widow of a deceased
firefighter shall be exactly 35% of the monthly wage received by a fully paid
first-class firefighter.
   (C)   Pursuant to state law, the monthly payment to each of a deceased
firefighter’s children under 18 years of age shall be exactly 15% of the
monthly wage received by a fully paid first-class firefighter.
(Prior Code, § 31.42) (Ord. 1307-1946, passed - -; Ord. 75-1979, passed - -)
§ 33.003 RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS.
   I.C. 36-8-4-2 is adopted as it requires that members of the Police and Fire
Departments of the city reside within the county and within 15 miles of the
corporate boundaries of the city. In addition, each member shall maintain
adequate means of transportation into the city and must maintain residence
telephone service with the city.
(Prior Code, § 31.43) (Ord. 26-1985, passed - -)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 33.015 LONGEVITY PAY FOR POLICE OFFICERS
   (A)   As an incentive for continued service with the City Police Department,
each sworn police officer shall receive, in addition to his or her regular pay,
beginning on the officer’s anniversary date at the start of the officer’s
second year with the City Police Department, an amount equal to 0.5% of the
base salary of a first class patrol officer.
   (B)   On the anniversary date at the beginning of each successive year of
the officer’s employment, the longevity pay shall increase at 0.5% of the base
salary of a first class patrol officer and such successive increases in
longevity pay shall be cumulative in nature with the previous increases.
   (C)   Funding for longevity pay shall be provided by the fees generated and
deposited in the non-reverting fund created by Ord. 81-1984.
   (D)   This shall be effective January 1, 1985, and shall continue until
revoked, amended or modified by the Common Council pursuant to the negotiation
of a new agreement between the city and any bargaining unit for officers of the
City Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 31.50) (Ord. 80-1984, passed - -)
§ 33.016 DEATH BENEFITS.
   (A)   Pursuant to state law, the payment of funeral benefits to the heirs or
estate of any active or retired member of the city police force who has
suffered death from any cause shall be exactly $1,500.
   (B)   Pursuant to state law, the payment to each of any deceased police
officer’s children under the age of 18 years shall be exactly 15% of the
monthly pay of a first-class patrol officer per month to each child.
(Prior Code, § 31.51) (Ord. 2774-1973, passed - -)
§ 33.017 MERIT SYSTEM FOR POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ANNIVERSARY YEARS. Full 12-month periods beginning with the officer’s
date of entry into police service with this Department.
      BOARD. The Board of Public Works and Safety of the city.
      CITY.  The City of Richmond, Indiana.
      COMMISSION. The Civil Service Merit Commission created by this plan.
      ELIGIBILITY LIST or PROMOTION LIST. Are interchangeable terms and mean
that list prepared by the Commission of officers qualified for promotion under
rules and procedures of the Commission and this plan.
      NOMINATION-ELECTION COMMITTEE. A committee of five police officers
selected by the membership of the Police Department for the purpose of
nominating candidates to be elected by the membership of the Police Department
to the Commission and conducting that election.
      ORAL INTERVIEW.  The portion of the promotion system wherein an officer
appears before the Merit Commission for the purpose of oral examination for
promotion.
      PAST PERFORMANCE. The portion of the promotion system taken from the
Police Department bi-annual performance evaluations.
      POLICE OFFICER. A sworn officer, functioning in a full-time capacity with
the Police Department and who is a member of a Police Pension Fund.
      SENIORITY RIGHTS. Length of continuous service on this Police Department
by full anniversary years, plus that part of the year by full anniversary
months.
      STAFF. Ranks above Captain and below Chief of Police to include the ranks
of Major or Deputy Chief.
      TECHNICAL STATUS.  A position that requires specialized knowledge, skill
and training beyond that required for a patrol officer. The TECHNICAL STATUS
position includes, but is not limited to: Investigator.
      TRANSITION PERIOD. The time between enactment of this plan and the date
when all ranks within the Police Department are filled by the Commission.
      WRITTEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION. The portion of the promotion system as
relates to written tests as conducted by the Merit Commission.
   (B)   Commission member requirements.
      (1)   A Commission shall be elected in the city, pursuant to division (C)
below, to consist of seven members as follows:
         (a)   One person who holds a license to practice medicine, dentistry,
law or is a certified public accountant, in the state;
         (b)   One person who holds a degree from a nationally accredited
institution of higher learning and is actively engaged in teaching or
administration at the elementary, secondary or college level;
         (c)   One person who holds a degree from a nationally accredited
institution of higher learning in the field of theology, or any recognized
member of the clergy;
         (d)   One person who is qualified and experienced in the field of
labor relations;
         (e)   One person from the field of business or management; and
         (f)   Two other persons from the above professions or any other
endeavor.
      (2)   The members of the Commission must be legal residents of the county
which contains the city for a period of three consecutive years immediately
prior to their election. They shall be persons of good moral character, and
shall be 21 years or older at the time of nomination.
      (3)   A member of the Commission may not be an active or past member of
any police agency.
      (4)   No more than four members of the Commission may be affiliated with
the same political party. For purposes of this section, political affiliation
should be determined by declaration.
      (5)   The members of the Commission shall take an oath of office to
conscientiously and faithfully discharge their duties as Commissioners. A
signed copy of the oath shall be filed with the Board and placed in custody
with the City Clerk.
      (6)   The Commission shall submit a budget annually to the City
Controller for an amount sufficient to provide funds for the necessary expenses
of the Commission. A person may not serve on the Commission if he or she
receives any remuneration as salary from a public fund. A public fund is not to
be construed to include moneys received as remuneration, salary or fees as a
public defender, educator or physician, nor the per diem provided under this
plan.
      (7)   A candidate for the Commission may not have held an elected
political position or a compensated politically appointed position for three
years prior to nomination.
      (8)   The Commission shall adopt, promulgate and enforce rules and
procedures concerning the hiring of police officers. The Chief of Police, with
approval of the Board shall, as necessary, submit to the Commission in writing,
the need for appointments of sworn officers due to retirement, resignation,
dismissal or other valid causes. The Commission shall then by state law and
Commission rules and procedures, fill the requested need.
   (C)   Election of Commission members. The members of the Commission shall be
elected as follows.
      (1)   The police officers of the city shall make the first three
elections; no more than two shall be of the same political affiliation. The
police officers shall make their selection within 30 days after July 18, 1977.
      (2)   The Common Council shall make the next three elections, in such
manner to provide that any political affiliation does not exceed three of the
six members now elected. The Common Council’s selection shall be made within 30
days of the police officers’ action.
      (3)   The six selected members shall appoint the seventh member within 30
days of election by the City Council. This seventh member may be of any
political affiliation. In the event of an impasse in the selection of the
seventh member, the six members of the Commission shall submit a list of three
names within seven days to the Common Council which shall then elect the
seventh member from the submitted list within 30 days.
   (D)   Term of office.
      (1)   (a)   At inception, the term of office shall be staggered as
follows:
 
Police Department    Common Council       Committee
Member Term          Member Term          Member Term
       1 for 2 years        1 for 2 years
       1 for 3 years        1 for 3 years
 
         (b)   Thereafter, the membership terms shall be three years. The term
of members elected by the police officers and Common Council shall on
expiration be alternated to allow the police officers and the Common Council to
make elections in the different occupational areas as described in division (B)
above. The order of election shall remain the same.
      (2)   Exception shall be made when a Commissioner’s term expires during a
hearing for dismissal, discipline or demotion. The Commission member whose term
expires during this hearing shall relinquish all Commission duties excepting
the hearing. The term shall then expire on completing the hearing. The expired
vacancy shall be filled as required in this plan for the conducting of regular
business.
   (E)   Commission vacancies. A vacancy on the Commission by reason other than
expiration of term shall be filled within 30 days by the same electing party to
serve for the remainder of the unexpired term.
   (F)   Commissioner removal. The Board may remove any member of the
Commission for malfeasance, nonfeasance, change of residence that conflicts
with division (B)(2) above, or inability to serve. Removal of a member of the
Commission by the Board shall be subject to the same rules and procedures which
govern the removal of a police officer.
   (G)   Nomination-Election Committee.
      (1)   A Nomination-Election Committee shall be selected to conduct the
process of selecting the police officer’s appointments to the Commission.
Police officers who wish to serve on the Nomination-Election Committee shall
file with the Board in writing their intent to become candidates for election
to the Nomination-Election Committee. The Board shall hold a meeting to conduct
an election for the Nomination-Election Committee before the expiration date of
the present members’ terms. The Board shall give notice 30 days prior to
expiration of term for filing of candidates. All police officers who file with
the Board shall be candidates in the election. The Board shall give notice 14
days before the election meeting which will state the date, time, location,
purpose of the meeting, and the names of all the candidates. The notice shall
be posted in three prominent locations in the central police station.
      (2)   Only members of the Board and police officers shall be present at
the meeting for the election of the Nomination-Election Committee and only
police officers shall have the right to vote.
      (3)   Police officers who are unable to attend the meeting may vote by
written proxy, naming the police officer to whom their proxy is given. To be
valid, the proxy must be notarized, placed in a sealed envelope, and received
by the President of the Election Board before the election. The proxy shall be
opened publicly by the President or Acting President, who shall preside at the
election meeting, after he or she has called the meeting to order and before
any vote is cast.
      (4)   Voting for members of the Committee shall be by secret ballot and
the five police officers receiving the greatest number of votes shall
constitute the Nomination-Election Committee. In the event of a tie vote for
the fifth member of the Nomination- Election Committee, the President shall
call for another ballot to break the tie. The candidate receiving the greatest
number of votes shall be designated the President of the Nomination-Election
Committee. In the event two or more members tie for the greatest number of the
five members of the Nomination- Election Committee shall select their own
President.
         (a)   Any police officer on being appointed Chief of Police or staff
member is terminated from membership on the Nomination-Election Committee
effective on his or her date of appointment. Any officer on retirement,
resignation or dismissal is terminated from membership on the Nomination-
Election Committee effective the date he or she leaves police service. Any
member of the Nomination-Election Committee may resign at will.
         (b)   Vacancies created under division (G)(4)(a) above will be filled
by the Board serving notice of candidate filing no later than the seventh day
after the vacancy occurs with meeting of election to be no later than the
fourteenth day after the vacancy. Notice shall be posted according to division
(G)(1) above.
         (c)   In the first instance, the term of the Nomination-Election
Committee shall be determined by the number of votes received in the election.
A list shall be prepared of those elected beginning with the five greatest
number of votes and descending in order. The list shall be numbered one through
five beginning with the greatest number of votes and ending with the least.
Numbers one and two shall serve a three-year term, numbers three and four shall
serve a two-year term, and number five shall serve a one-year term. Thereafter
the term shall be three years.
   (H)   Election of Commission members by police officers.
      (1)   The Nomination-Election Committee shall submit to the police
officers a list of three to five names as candidates for each Commission
position being considered for election. In selecting these persons, the
Nomination-Election Committee shall consider their occupation, political
affiliation and their willingness to serve on the Commission.
      (2)   The Committee shall give at least 15 days’ notice of the election.
The notice shall state the date, time, location and the names of the candidates
being considered. The notice shall be posted in three prominent locations in
the central police station.
      (3)   Only police officers shall be present at the meeting. Police
officers who are unable to attend the meeting may vote by written proxy, naming
the police officer to whom their proxy is given. To be valid, the proxy must be
notarized, placed in a sealed envelope, and received by the Chairperson of the
Nomination-Election Committee before the election. The proxy shall be opened
publicly by the President of the Nomination-Election Committee, who shall
preside at the meeting, after he or she has called the meeting to order and
before any vote is cast.
      (4)   Voting for members of the Commission shall be by secret ballot and
the person receiving the greatest number of votes for the category position
shall be named to the Commission representing the police officers. The results
of the election shall be tabulated and filed with the City Clerk.
   (I)   Commission meetings.
      (1)   All regular meetings called by the Commission shall be held at the
central police station or the City Hall building. Each member shall be notified
of all special meetings, as to the time and place of the special meeting, at
least 48 hours prior to that meeting.
      (2)   Four members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business, provided that an action for discipline, dismissal or
demotion shall require the affirmative vote of not less than five members of
the Commission.
      (3)   The Commission shall establish rules for governing the Commission
and shall, each year, select from its members a President, Vice-President and a
Secretary.
   (J)   Promotion of police officers.
      (1)   The Commission shall adopt, promulgate and enforce rules and
procedures concerning the promotion of police officers to ranks of Sergeant,
Lieutenant and Captain, as well as appointments to the position of
Investigator.
         (a)   The Commission shall, in cooperation with the police officers of
the city and the Board, prepare job descriptions for all ranks and positions of
the Police Department within one year of inception of this plan. In the first
instance, rank and job descriptions in existence for the city shall be used. In
addition, within one year of inception of this plan the Commission in
cooperation with the police officers and the Board shall prepare standards of
performance and training for promotion of all ranks and appointments to
position of Investigator. The Commission and Police Department shall provide
the technical training to meet any technical knowledge required in promoted and
appointed positions. Failure of the Department to provide this training shall
not place a promoted or appointed officer in jeopardy. Failure of the promoted
or appointed officer to attend the training or his or her failure to meet
required standards shall place the officer in jeopardy.
         (b)   The Commission shall establish criteria for testing and
selections of the promotional process. The established criteria shall be
written and contained within the rules and regulations. The Commission has the
authority to contract with an independent agency to conduct the promotional
process for the City Police Department.
         (c)   When the Commission contracts with an independent agency to
conduct the promotional process, the independent agency shall establish
guidelines and procedures to be followed. The independent agency will provide
written documentation to the Commission, which explains the process to be used.
The Commission will then approve the independent agencies process that is to be
used for the promotional process. Upon execution of a signed agreement for the
promotional process, the guidelines written in this subchapter shall be
superseded by the independent agency procedures.
         (d)   When considering promotions, the following four factors shall be
basic consideration for rating a police officer:
            1.   The grade received by the police officer on a written
competitive examination. The Commission shall set a minimum qualification score
on the written competitive examination;
            2.   The performance rating shall use the officer’s biannual
performance evaluations for the two-year period preceding the examination date;
            3.   The score received by the police officer on an oral interview
conducted by the Commission; and
            4.   The score received by virtue of the length of service or
longevity of the police officer.
      (2)   Weighting of the basic consideration factors:
         (a)   The grade received on the written competitive examination shall
be considered 45% of the rating;
         (b)   The past performance shall be considered as 15% of the rating;
         (c)   The score received on the oral interview conducted by the
Commission shall be considered as 30% of the rating; and
         (d)   The seniority rights based upon the number of years of service
shall constitute 10% of the rating, considering the length of service at the
rate of 0.5% for each year of service up to and including 20 years. The number
of days of continuous service divided by (20 years x 365 or 7300) to derive
fraction and multiplied by 10% to reach the number of seniority points. The
maximum number of points allowable is ten. Seniority rights score will be fixed
at the date of the examination.
      (3)   When considering the percentage on the oral interview, the
Commission shall devise the method for computing this percentage and the manner
in which it is awarded. If any member receives 7% or less, the Commission
members must explain in writing the reasons for the score. The explanation
shall be placed in the officer’s personnel file.
      (4)   All examination results shall be made part of the permanent file of
the individual officer taking the examination, and shall be maintained under
the supervision of the Chief of Police. The Commission members shall not have
knowledge of ,or access to, the grade received by individual members of the
Police Department on the written competitive examination until the oral
interview has been conducted and the score posted. The Chief of Police shall
notify each police officer, in writing, of the score the officer received on
the oral interview. The rules and procedures of the Commission shall provide
that if any officer is aggrieved with the grade received on the written
competitive examination or the oral interview, the officer shall have the right
to appeal to the Commission for a review of those scores within ten days after
receiving notice of the score. The Commission, after reviewing the scores and
examination, shall have the authority to affirm or correct the grade based upon
the findings of its review.
   (K)   Demotion, dismissal and discipline of police officers. The Commission
shall adopt, promulgate and enforce rules and procedures concerning the
demotion, dismissal and discipline of police officers. However, demotions,
dismissal or discipline by the Commission may only be made upon written request
by the Chief of Police and the request shall stipulate the reasons for the
demotion, dismissal or discipline. Prior to a demotion, dismissal or discipline
being granted, the officer who is subject to a demotion, dismissal or
discipline request shall be notified in writing immediately and shall have the
right to appeal within five calendar days of notification, and be heard by the
Commission. The Commission shall require the Chief of Police and the aggrieved
police officer to be present at an open hearing within 15 calendar days of the
aggrieved member’s request for a hearing. The Commission, after termination of
the hearing, shall either affirm or deny the demotion, dismissal or discipline
request within five calendar days. If the decision is affirmed, the Chief’s
written request shall be signed by the President of the Commission for the
Commission and placed in the officer’s personnel file.
   (L)   Performance ratings.
      (1)   The rules and procedures of the Commission shall include a system
for the rating of past performance. The system shall be implemented by the
Police Department and contain a provision requiring the performance rating for
patrol officers, sergeants, lieutenants and officers of higher rank to be rated
every six months. All ratings shall be made by the officer immediately superior
to the officer being rated.
      (2)   All performance ratings shall be submitted to the Chief of the
Police Department and kept on file in his or her office or under his or her
supervision, within the central police station.
      (3)   The reviewing officer shall, within 20 working days of completing
the rating, review the results of the rating with the police officer being
rated.
      (4)   If any member is aggrieved with the performance rating given by his
or her superior officer and if this grievance is not resolved in the
performance review interview, the member shall have the right to appeal to a
Performance Rating Board of Review appointed by the Chief of the Police
Department. This appeal shall be made within ten calendar days after the
performance review interview has been conducted.
      (5)   The Performance Rating Board of Review shall be comprised of two
members of the Merit Commission, one staff officer, along with one supervising
officer, and one officer of equal rank to the aggrieved, who shall serve for
not more than six months. If a member of the Department is actively involved in
any grievance to come before such body, the actively involved member shall be
disqualified, and the Chief of the Police Department shall appoint a substitute
member to serve in his or her place in regards to such grievance. The staff
officer shall serve as Chairperson of the Performance Rating Review Board and
will vote only in the event of a tie vote by the other four members.
      (6)   Appeals to the Performance Rating Board of Review shall be
submitted to the Chief of Police in writing. The aggrieved member shall be
given a hearing within 15 calendar days of his or her request. The officer
shall be notified in writing within five calendar days of the decision made by
the Board.
      (7)   Officers appealing their scores may raise any argument they believe
is relevant but must base their appeal, at least in part, on at least one of
the following:
         (a)   The unfairness or inaccuracy of their own score or evaluation.
No one shall prevail on an appeal solely based on the score or evaluation
received by someone else; or
         (b)   A violation of any procedure in producing the score or
evaluation.
      (8)   The rules and procedures of the Commission shall provide that if
any member is aggrieved with the decision of the Performance Rating Board of
Review, he or she shall have the right to appeal to the Commission within ten
calendar days after the decision of the Performance Rating Board of Review has
been handed down. The Commission shall have the authority either to affirm or
correct the rating based on the findings of the review.
   (M)   Rules and procedures for promotions.
      (1)   The rules and procedures shall provide that all promotions to any
rank be from the next immediate lower rank and that the person shall have
qualified in time of service required by this plan. A police officer must have
served at least one year in permanent rank by January 1 of the year immediately
following the test before being eligible to take the promotional test for the
next higher rank. These requirements may be waived by the Commission in that
rare instance where by departmental reorganization, resignation or attrition,
the ranks have been depleted of officers meeting promotional requirements. This
waiver shall not be construed as to amend, or waive any other promotional
requirements in this plan.
      (2)   Service time required for eligibility for next rank:
         (a)   A police officer must have been a patrol officer of the Police
Department for a minimum of five years before he or she is eligible for the
rank of sergeant;
         (b)   A sergeant must have been a member of the Police Department for
a period of not less than seven years before he or she is eligible for the rank
of lieutenant;
         (c)   A lieutenant must have been a member of the Police Department
for a period of not less than ten years before he or she is eligible for the
rank of captain; and
         (d)   The requirement of one year in permanent rank as set forth in
divisions (M)(2)(b) and (M)(2)(c) above, may be waived in that rare instance
where by departmental reorganization, resignation or attrition, the ranks have
been depleted of officers meeting promotional requirements of divisions (M)(2)
(b) and (M)(2)(c) above. This waiver shall not be construed as to amend or
waive any other promotional requirements in this plan.
      (3)   It shall be the discretion of the Chief of Police to assign those
promoted ranks within the Department’s command structure.
      (4)   The Commission, with approval of the Board, may create rank
classification for patrol officers.
   (N)   Technical status. The Commission shall have the authority to set rules
and regulations and procedures to grant technical status and to prepare an
eligibility list. Technical status shall include only the position of
Investigator, the Commission shall have the authority to grant technical status
to any member upon request of the Chief of Police, provided the member has
completed the testing process as described in division (J) above and is listed
on the eligibility list at the time the vacancy occurs. Vacancies in the status
of Investigator shall be filled from the established list of eligible officers
through the Commission. It shall be the responsibility of the Chief to make
known to all members when a technical position is vacated. Demotions from
technical status shall be made in the same manner as demotions from rank, with
the same provisions for appeal.
   (O)   Rules and procedures to be printed. The rules and procedures of the
Commission shall be printed and a copy of the rules and procedures shall be
given to each police officer. Any amendments to the rules and procedures made
within 30 days of any promotion or demotion do not apply to that promotion or
demotion. All amendments to the rules and procedures shall be given to all
police officers. Any amendments to the rules and procedures shall require a
majority vote of all seven members of the Commission.
   (P)   Education programs. The rules and procedures of the Commission shall
include a manner for written competitive examinations and an education system
for the members of the Police Department. The Commission may employ instructors
who are not members of the Police Department of the city or may enroll members
in appropriate available programs. The Commission is authorized to purchase
materials and equipment, and allow other necessary expenditures for the purpose
of instructing the police officers. Materials, equipment, instruction and
educational system shall pertain to written examinations administered by the
Commission under division (R) below.
   (Q)   Written examinations.
      (1)   The Commission shall establish criteria for testing and selections
of the promotional process. The established criteria shall be written and
contained within the rules and regulations. The Commission has the authority to
contract with an independent agency to conduct the promotional process for the
City Police Department. When the Commission contracts with an independent
agency to conduct the promotional process, the independent agency shall
establish guidelines and procedures to be followed. The independent agency will
provide written documentation to the Commission, which explains the process to
be used. The Commission will then approve the independent agencies process that
is to be used for the promotional process. Upon execution of a signed agreement
for the promotional process, the guidelines written in this subchapter shall be
superseded by the independent agency procedures.
      (2)   Written competitive examinations shall be conducted by the
Commission for the purpose of establishing eligibility lists for promotion.
Such examinations shall be conducted under the provisions of this section. The
examination contents shall be on law enforcement related to this city, and
shall not be of the intelligence quotient, general education development or
psychological profile types. No police officer shall have access directly or
indirectly to examination or related testing materials developed for this
purpose, prior to the time he or she sits for such examination.
         (a)   The Commission shall select and designate an appropriate
independent testing service, outside the Police Department, to devise and grade
all written examinations conducted hereunder.
         (b)   The Commission may use different testing services for subsequent
examinations or for examinations for eligibility lists for promotion to
different ranks.
      (3)   To control, administer and monitor the examination, the Commission
shall appoint a Test Committee of three from its membership, and shall
designate the Chairperson of the Test Committee. The duties of the Committee
and/or its Chairperson shall be as follows.
         (a)   The Chairperson or designee shall be designated to the testing
service as the person to receive the written examination forms (and related
testing materials) and subsequent grades; and the testing service shall be
instructed to deliver the forms and materials in a sealed package, by
registered mail to the Chairperson or designee.
         (b)   It shall be the duty of the Chairperson of the Test Committee to
receive the examination forms and materials, to maintain them in their sealed
package, and secure them until the scheduled examination date.
         (c)   On the examination date, the forms and materials will be
delivered to the examining room by the Chairperson, or member of the Test
Committee, who shall break the seal and inspect the examination forms.
         (d)   A member of the Test Committee shall distribute the forms to the
officers taking the examination.
      (4)   Each officer taking the examination shall report to the Test
Committee and shall draw a number, assigned by lot and enter the number on his
or her examination paper and shall enter the number and his or her name on a
card provided for this purpose and place the card in an unmarked envelope and
seal it. He or she shall then submit his or her sealed envelope to the member
of the Test Committee.
         (a)   All examination papers (including unused forms) shall be turned
in to the representative of the testing service upon completion of the exam.
         (b)   Place all individual envelopes, containing the name and number
cards, into a packet which shall be sealed and placed in a secure area.
         (c)   Upon receipt of a grade from the testing service and after
completion of the oral interviews, under division (J) above, the Test Committee
Chairperson shall deliver the sealed packet of name and number cards to the
President of the Commission who shall then break the seal and assign the grades
by number to the officers who took the examination.
      (5)   All scores shall be posted by number only at the central police
station. The officer scoring the highest cumulative score in the four areas,
written competitive examination, past performance rating, oral interview and
seniority, shall be placed at the top of the new eligibility list for that
rank. Other members who took the test shall be ranked by their cumulative
scores on the eligibility list in a descending order.
      (6)   The eligibility list shall be maintained for a period of two years
or until exhausted, at which time there shall be another eligibility list
established.
   (R)   Staff personnel.
      (1)   The Mayor shall appoint the Chief of Police. The appointment shall
be of an officer serving at a rank not less than that of lieutenant, or
qualified to serve as a lieutenant from the current promotion list as described
in this plan.
      (2)   The staff may consist of two officers who shall be appointed by the
Chief of Police with the consent of the Mayor. The appointment shall be
officers serving at a rank not less than that of sergeant, or qualified to
serve at a rank of sergeant from the current promotion list as described in
this plan.
      (3)   Any change in title or rank of staff positions, shall be presented
in writing to the Commission. The removal of any member of the Police
Department as Chief or staff member by the Mayor shall be deemed as removal
from that rank only and not from the Police Department.
      (4)   Upon expiration of term or removal from office of any chief or
staff member of the Police Department, such persons be made available by the
Commission to the rank in the Police Department which they held at the time of
appointment to chief or staff member. In the event the chief or staff member
have qualified in accordance with the promotional procedure as prescribed by
the Commission in its rules and procedures for any rank which is higher than
the rank held at the time of their appointment, they shall, upon expiration of
their term or removal as chief or staff member, be made available by the
Commission to the rank for which they have qualified under the promotional
procedures established.
      (5)   In the event that permanent rank positions have already been
established, a bumping or replacement system would be put into effect. The
junior (time in grade) permanent Captain, Lieutenant or Sergeant would revert
to a lower rank with the required number of positions of rank being maintained.
      (6)   Any person holding the junior position and that has been reduced in
rank due to the administrative change, is subsequently placed at the top of the
eligibility list for that rank; and, reverts to the higher rank previously
achieved without any further testing when that position of rank becomes
available.
   (S)   Department structure.
      (1)   On the implementation of this plan, the organizational structure of
the Police Department shall be on the recommendation of the Chief of Police
with the approval of the Board. The Commission shall implement this structure
by filling the required rank positions according to this plan.
      (2)   Any future reorganization of departmental structure shall be on the
recommendation of the Chief of Police with the approval of the Board. If
approved the reorganization will be implemented by the Commission by filling
new rank positions according to the rules and regulations of the Commission and
this plan. Except for the instance when the Chief or staff officers descend to
positions of rank due to an administration change, no promoted officer shall be
reduced in rank for the reason of reorganization, but shall hold that rank
unless qualified for promotion, nor shall that officer lose any consideration
for promotion to the next higher rank. Reassignment of any officer as a result
of a change to restructure shall be in accordance with division (M)(4) above.
(Prior Code, § 31.52) (Ord. 3187-1977, passed - -; Ord. 3233-1977, passed - -;
Ord. 27-1978, passed - -; Ord. 68-1988, passed - -; Ord. 32-1989, passed - -;
Ord. 99-1990, passed - -; Ord. 48-2002, passed - -)
§ 33.018 GUN PERMITS.
   The City Police Department shall collect a fee of $10 for the issuing of a
gun permit.
(Prior Code, § 31.53) (Ord. 75-1981, passed - -; Ord. 54-1994, passed - -)
§ 33.019 RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS.
   I.C. 36-8-4-2 is adopted as it requires that members of the Police and Fire
Departments of the city reside within the county and within 15 miles of the
corporate boundaries of the city. In addition, each member shall maintain
adequate means of transportation into the city and must maintain residence
telephone service with the city.
(Prior Code, § 31.54) (Ord. 26-1985, passed - -)
§ 33.020 PENSION CALCULATING.
   For the purposes of establishing a basis for calculating pension benefits
and assessments for the Police Pension Fund, the salary for a first class
patrol officer with 24 years of service shall be used.
(Prior Code, § 31.59) (Ord. 41-1986, passed - -)
§ 33.021 COMPLAINT ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
   (A)   There is hereby established the City Police Complaint Advisory
Committee. Said committee shall consist of five residents of the city, of which
three shall be appointed by Common Council and two shall be appointed by the
Mayor. So that terms are staggered, three of the initial terms shall expire
December 31, 2001 (two of the Council appointments and one of the Mayor
appointments) and two shall expire December 31, 2002, (one of the Council
appointments and one of the Mayor appointments). Upon expiration of the initial
terms, subsequent appointments shall be for a term of two calendar years.
Members may be re-appointed at the discretion of the appointing authority.
   (B)   The City Police Complaint Advisory Committee shall meet upon
notification by the Police Chief of any pending complaint, or as needed. To the
extent any agenda item shall deal with any employee’s alleged misconduct, or
other information for which an executive session may be held pursuant to I.C.
5-14-1.5, the meetings may be held in executive session.
   (C)   Members of the Committee shall elect from their membership a Chair,
Vice Chair and Secretary who shall be elected at the first meeting of each
calendar year, and shall serve until the end of said calendar year.
   (D)   The City Police Complaint Advisory Committee shall not investigate the
merits or lack thereof of any incidents leading to a complaint, but shall
review the process followed in taking and investigating any original complaint
to ensure that proper procedures were followed and that both the complainant
and any police officer involved were treated fairly. After completing said
review, the Committee shall advise the Police Chief whether proper and
consistent procedures were followed and whether all involved were, in the
opinion of the Committee, treated fairly.
   (E)   The City Police Complaint Advisory Committee shall also provide
ongoing feedback, including suggestions for improvement, with respect to the
complaint process. The Committee shall consider any input received from
citizens, law enforcement officials and other sources.
   (F)   In order to preserve the integrity of the process and protect those
involved, the names of any complainant filing a complaint and any accused
police officer shall be deemed part of an investigation record; part of an
officer’s personnel file; and/or part of a record specifically prepared for
discussion in an executive session, and therefore confidential pursuant to I.C.
5-14-3-4, which information shall then be kept in confidence by the members of
the Committee.
(Prior Code, § 31.60) (Ord. 66-2000, passed - -)
§ 33.022 POLICE RESERVE OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Chief of Police, at his or her discretion, may implement a police
reserve officer program for the City Police Department, pursuant to I.C. 36-8-
3-20.
   (B)   The number of police reserve officers in the police reserve officer
program shall not exceed 20 police reserve officers at any one time.
   (C)   The police reserve officers shall be appointed by the same authority
that appoints regular members of the City Police Department.
   (D)   Police reserve officers may not be members of the regular City Police
Department but shall have all of the same police powers as regular members of
the City Police Department except as limited by the rules of the City Police
Department.
   (E)   The City Police Department may adopt rules to limit the authority of
police reserve officers.
   (F)   At the discretion of the Chief of Police and with the concurrence of
the City Police Merit Commission, to the extent that money is appropriated for
a purpose listed in this section, police reserve officers may receive any of
the following:
      (1)   A uniform allowance; or
      (2)   Compensation for time lost from other employment because of court
appearances.
   (G)   Police reserve officers are not eligible to participate in any pension
program provided for regular members of the City Police Department.
   (H)   A city police reserve officer may not be appointed until he or she has
completed the training and probationary period specified by rules of the City
Police Department.
   (I)   A reserve police officer appointed by the department may not do the
following unless the police reserve officer successfully completes the pre-
basic course under I.C. 5-2-1-9(f):
      (1)   Make an arrest;
      (2)   Conduct a search or seizure of property; or
      (3)   Carry a firearm;
   (J)   A police reserve officer may be covered by the medical treatment and
burial expense provisions of the worker’s compensation law (I.C. 22-3-2 through
I.C. 22-3-6) and the worker’s occupational diseases law (I.C. 22-3-7). If
compensability of the injury is an issue, the administrative procedures of I.C.
22-3-2 through I.C. 22-3-6 and I.C. 22-3-7 shall be used to determine the
issue.
(Prior Code, § 31.70) (Ord. 55-2009, passed 9-15-2009)
CHAPTER 34: EMERGENCIES
Section
National Incident Management System
   
34.001   Purpose
   
34.002   Official incident response system
   
34.003   Training, exercise and use of NIMS
   
34.004   Severability
   
34.005   Effective date
Emergency Medical Calls
   
34.020   Purpose
   
34.021   Authority
   
34.022   Applicability
   
34.023   Definitions
   
34.024   Responsibility for administration
   
34.025   Compatibility with other requirements
   
34.026   Emergency ambulance response fees
   
34.027   Replacement cost fees
   
34.028   Incidental fees
   
34.029   Billing procedures
   
34.030   Disposition of funds
   
34.031   Annual review of fees and procedures
   
34.032   Effective date
Motor Vehicle Accidents
   
34.045   Purpose
   
34.046   Authority
   
34.047   Applicability
   
34.048   Definitions
   
34.049   Responsibility for administration
   
34.050   Compatibility with other requirements
   
34.051   Response fees to motor vehicle accidents
   
34.052   Billing procedures
   
34.053   Disposition of funds
   
34.054   Review of fees and procedures
   
34.055   Unconstitutionality clause
   
34.056   Effective date
NATIONAL INCIDENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
§ 34.001 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The President in Homeland Security Directive (HSPD)-5, directed the
Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security to develop and administer a
National Incident Management System (NIMS), which would provide a consistent
nationwide approach for federal, state, local and tribal governments to work
together more effectively and efficiently to prevent, prepare for, respond to
and recover from domestic incidents, regardless of cause, size or complexity.
   (B)   The collective input and guidance from all federal, state, local and
tribal homeland security partners has been, and will continue to be, vital to
the development, effective implementation and utilization of a comprehensive
NIMS.
   (C)   It is necessary and desirable that all federal, state, local and
tribal emergency agencies and personnel coordinate their efforts to effectively
and efficiently provide the highest levels of incident management.
   (D)   To facilitate the most efficient and effective incident management, it
is critical that federal, state, local and tribal organizations utilize
standardized terminology, standardized organizational structures, interoperable
communications, consolidated action plans, unified command structures, uniform
personnel qualification standards, uniform standards for planning, training and
exercising, comprehensive resource management and designated incident
facilities during emergencies or disasters.
   (E)   The NIMS standardized procedures for managing personnel,
communications, facilities and resources will improve the state’s ability to
utilize federal funding to enhance local and state agency readiness, maintain
first responder safety, and streamline incident management processes.
(Prior Code, § 100.01)
§ 34.002 OFFICIAL INCIDENT RESPONSE SYSTEM.
   The National Incident Management System (NIMS) dated March 1, 2004, is
hereby approved and adopted as the standard for incident management within the
city.
(Prior Code, § 100.02)
§ 34.003 TRAINING, EXERCISE AND USE OF NIMS.
   All incident managers and response organizations under the jurisdiction and
control of the city shall train, exercise and use NIMS in their response
operations.
(Prior Code, § 100.03)
§ 34.004 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, clause or portion of this subchapter is declared invalid by
a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder shall not be affected thereby
and shall remain in full force and effect.
(Prior Code, § 100.98)
§ 34.005 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall become effective immediately upon passage by the
Common Council.
(Prior Code, § 100.99)
EMERGENCY MEDICAL CALLS
§ 34.020 PURPOSE.
   The Common Council of the city, after careful investigation and
consideration, finds that certain fees and cost recovery procedures must be
utilized to assist the city, through its Fire Department, to recover the cost
of expenses for supplies and cover the cost of services incurred by the City
Fire Department when the Department responds to or provides emergency medical
ambulance services that contribute to and are necessary to the public health,
safety and welfare of the people of the city.
(Prior Code, § 80.01)
§ 34.021 AUTHORITY.
   This subchapter is adopted under the authority granted by I.C. 16-31-5 and
all acts supplemental and amendatory thereto. This authority provides that a
municipality that maintains emergency medical services may establish and
provide for the collection of reasonable fees for any emergency ambulance
services the municipality provides.
(Prior Code, § 80.02)
§ 34.022 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter shall apply to all persons or organizations who receive
services from emergency ambulance responders of the City Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 80.03)
§ 34.023 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Any term
in this subchapter not defined below shall take on its common or dictionary
meaning.
   ADVANCED LIFE SUPPORT (“ALS”).  
      (1)   Care that is given by a paramedic or an emergency medical
technician-intermediate during an emergency ambulance response by the City Fire
Department and that is more advanced than the care usually provided by an
emergency medical technician or an emergency medical technician-basic advanced:
         (a)   At the scene of:
            1.   An accident;
            2.   An act of terrorism, if the governor has declared a disaster
emergency in response to the act of terrorism; or
            3.   An illness.
         (b)   During transport; or
         (c)   At a hospital.
      (2)   The term may include any of the following:
         (a)   Defibrillation;
         (b)   Endotracheal intubation;
         (c)   Parenteral injections of appropriate medications; and/or
         (d)   Electrocardiogram interpretation.
   AMBULANCE.  A conveyance on the following that is used or is intended to be
used for the purpose of responding to emergency life-threatening situations and
providing emergency transportation service:
      (1)   Land;
      (2)   Water; or
      (3)   Air.
   BASIC LIFE SUPPORT (“BLS”). 
      (1)   The following:
         (a)   Assessment of emergency patients;
         (b)   Administration of oxygen;
         (c)   Use of mechanical breathing devices;
         (d)   Application of anti-shock trousers;
         (e)   Performance of cardiopulmonary resuscitation;
         (f)   Application of dressings and bandage materials;
         (g)   Application of splinting and immobilization devices;
         (h)   Use of lifting and moving devices to ensure safe transport;
         (i)   Administration by an emergency medical technician or emergency
medical technician- basic advanced of epinephrine through an auto- injector;
         (j)   For an emergency medical technician-basic advanced, the
following:
            1.   Electrocardiogram inter- pretation;
            2.   Manual external defibrillation; and
            3.   Intravenous fluid therapy.
         (k)   Other procedures authorized by the State Emergency Medical
Services Commission, including procedures contained in the revised national
emergency medical technician basic training curriculum guide.
      (2)   Except as provided by division (1)(i) above and the training and
certification standards established under I.C. 16-31-2-9(3); division (1)(j)3.
above; and the training standards established under I.C. 16-31-2-9(4); the term
does not include invasive medical care techniques or advanced life support.
   EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN (“EMT”).
      (1)   An individual who is certified under I.C. 16-31 to provide basic
life support at the scene of an accident, illness or during transport; or
      (2)   An individual who is certified under I.C. 16-31 who can perform at
least one of but not all the procedures of a paramedic and who:
         (a)   Has completed a prescribed course in advanced life support;
         (b)   Has been certified by the Indiana emergency medical services
commission;
         (c)   Is associated with a single supervising hospital; and
         (d)   Is affiliated with a provider organization.
   EXPENDABLE MATERIAL. An item that is regularly used during the course of a
response, including, but not limited to, latex gloves, hypodermic syringes,
dispensed medications, bandages, hazardous spill absorption materials, agents
used in cleanup operations, or any other item that must be replaced due to the
rendering of services and/or response to an event by the City Fire Department.
   FIRST RESPONDER. An individual who is:
      (1)   Certified under I.C. 16-31 and who meets the state emergency
medical services commission’s standards for first responder certification; and
      (2)   The first individual to respond to an incident requiring emergency
medical services.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIAL SPILL. Unexpected, unintentional or unapproved discharge
or other loss of oil or other substances that contain hazardous or otherwise
objectionable substances that damage or threaten to damage the public health,
safety and welfare, which, for the purposes of this subchapter only, are the
result of a motor vehicle accident to which the City Fire Department is a
responder.
   INCIDENTAL COST. A subordinate and indirect cost that is incurred during the
course of the response.
   LEVEL I MOTOR VEHICLE RESPONSE SERVICE.  
      (1)   Services that are rendered in response to a motor vehicle accident
where the services shall consist of one or more of the following:
         (a)   The establishment of a safe environment at the scene of the
accident;
         (b)   Any further investigation that may be required; and/or
         (c)   Basic life support or medical care to a patient who then refuses
or does not require transportation to a hospital.
      (2)   Services provided that exceed standard LEVEL I SERVICES shall cause
the response to be categorized at a higher level.
   LEVEL II MOTOR VEHICLE RESPONSE SERVICE.  
      (1)   Services that are rendered in response to a motor vehicle accident
where the services shall consist of one or more of the following:
         (a)   Basic life support or advanced life support where the individual
requires transportation to a hospital;
         (b)   The cleanup of spills;
         (c)   Protection from downed power lines; or
         (d)   Extinguishment of vehicle fires.
      (2)   LEVEL II may also include any services normally provided in Level
I.
   LEVEL III MOTOR VEHICLE RESPONSE SERVICE. Services that are rendered in
response to a motor vehicle accident where the services shall consist of
extrication of entrapped individuals. LEVEL III may also include any services
normally provided in Level I or II.
   LEVEL IV MOTOR VEHICLE RESPONSE SERVICE. Services that are rendered in
response to a motor vehicle accident where the services shall consist of
preparation of individuals who require air flight to trauma hospitals, and the
establishment of a helicopter landing site. LEVEL IV may also include any
services normally provided in Level I, II or III.
   NON-RESIDENT. A person whose primary residence at the time of the service or
response is outside the corporate boundaries of the city.
   NON-TRANSPORT PATIENT.  
      (1)   A patient with a minor medical condition who does not require
transportation to a hospital or who, because of the non-severity of his or her
medical condition, refuses transportation to a hospital.
      (2)   The final determination of the severity or non-severity of the
medical condition is within the discretion of the treating officer.
   PARAMEDIC. An individual who is:
      (1)   Affiliated with a certified paramedic organization;
      (2)   Employed by a sponsoring hospital approved by the Commission; or
      (3)   Employed by a supervising hospital with a contract for in-service
education with a sponsoring hospital approved by the Commission; and who has
completed a prescribed course in advanced life support and has been certified
by the State Emergency Medical Services Commission.
   PATIENT RUN OCCURRENCE. A response to a medical emergency call by a Fire
Department ambulance or emergency response vehicle and the administration of
basic or advanced life support skills upon, or medication given, to a patient.
   REPLACEMENT COST. The direct cost to pay to replace any item of expendable
material plus any shipping fees to replace that item.
   RESIDENT. A person whose primary residence at the time of the service or
response is within the corporate boundaries of the city.
   RESPONSE or RESPOND. The deployment or mobilization of the City Fire
Department emergency ambulance to emergency medical calls, motor vehicle
accident calls, hazardous material spill calls or any calls of an emergency
nature directed to the City Fire Department, to the scene of the accident,
illness, event or occurrence.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY.
      (1)   The person being treated, attended to or rescued during a response
by the City Fire Department emergency ambulance and personnel;
      (2)   The liable insurance company of the person who was treated,
attended to or rescued during a response by the City Fire Department emergency
ambulance and personnel;
      (3)   The individual directly or indirectly responsible for a person
being treated, attended or rescued during a response by the City Fire
Department emergency ambulance and personnel;
      (4)   The owner and/or the liable insurance company of the owner of the
motor vehicle for which hazardous material spills or debris around the vehicle
are cleaned up, fires are extinguished or the site of the accident around the
vehicle is secured during a response by the City Fire Department emergency
ambulance and personnel;
      (5)   The legal representative of a deceased party or the legal guardian
of an incapacitated or minor party, which deceased party, incapacitated party
or minor party was treated, attended to or rescued during a response by the
City Fire Department emergency ambulance and personnel; or
      (6)   The person or entity responsible for conducting the special event
for which the Fire Department provides medical standby safety services.
   SERVICE. Any necessary action conducted by the City Fire Department during
an emergency ambulance medical response including, but not limited to, medical
treatment, medical services, basic life support, advanced life support,
dispensing of medication, patient handling, cleanup of hazardous substances,
evacuation, securing premises, extrication, extinguishment, transportation,
equipment operation and utilization, and any and all other services required to
assure public health and safety from known hazards which resulted from the
accident, illness, event or occurrence to which the EMT was called to respond
to.
   SPECIAL EVENT. Any special community event, whether public or private, in
the city in which the City Fire Department ambulance and personnel are on
medical standby for the safety of guests, patrons, invitees, staff or other
attendees of the event, in order to render care for any medical emergencies or
incidents that may occur during the during the course of the event.
   SPECIAL HANDLING. The administration of either physical or medical care upon
an individual where:
      (1)   An unruly patient requires restraints;
      (2)   More than one unit is required to handle the patient; or
      (3)   More than one unit is needed for transportation assistance of the
patient.
   SUPERVISED WAITING TIME.  A time delay in transferring the patient from the
care of the City Fire Department emergency ambulance and personnel to a private
transporting authority.
   TRANSPORT PATIENT. A patient who, because of the severity of his or her
medical condition, requires transportation to a hospital. The final
determination of the severity or non-severity of the medical condition is
within the discretion of the treating officer.
(Prior Code, § 80.04)
§ 34.024 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION
   (A)   The city shall administer, implement and enforce the provisions of
this subchapter by and through the City Fire Department.
   (B)   Any powers granted or duties imposed upon the city in this subchapter
may be delegated in writing by the city to persons or entities acting in the
beneficial interest of or in the employ of the City Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 80.05)
§ 34.025 COMPATIBILITY WITH OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   This subchapter is not intended to interfere with, abrogate or annul any
other subchapter, rule, regulation, statute or other provision of the law. The
requirements of this subchapter should be considered minimum requirements, and
where any provision of this subchapter imposes restrictions different from
those imposed by any other subchapter, rule, regulation or other provision of
law, the more restrictive provisions or those provisions that impose higher
protective standards for human health or the environment, shall be considered
to take precedence.
(Prior Code, § 80.06)
§ 34.026 EMERGENCY AMBULANCE RESPONSE FEES.
   The fees for emergency ambulance response services are hereby established:
Services/Response Resident Fee Non-Resident Fee
Services/Response                                 Resident Fee Non-Resident Fee
Advanced life support                             $400         $450
Basic life support                                $200         $250
Level I motor vehicle response service**          $435         $485
Level II motor vehicle response service           $495         $545
Level III motor vehicle response service***       $1,800       $1,850
Level IV motor vehicle response service           $2,100       $2,150
Mileage to an from each location, per mile        $8           $8
Non-transport patient run occurrence*             $75          $125
Patient supervised waiting time - each additional $60          $60
1/4 hour
Patient supervised waiting time - first 1/4 hour  $125         $175
Special event - additional personnel, per hour    $50          NA
Special event - initial personnel, per hour       $150         NA
Special handling fee                              $100         $150
Transport patient run occurrence                  $200         $250
*   When two or more members of an immediate family reside at the same address
and the patient run occurrence is rendered at that family’s home, only one fee
shall be charged for the patient run occurrence when more than one family
member receives non-ALS treatment and no transport occurs.
**   When the City Fire Department emergency ambulance and personnel responds
to a motor vehicle accident to administer emergency medical services, each
patient and/or vehicle involved shall be evaluated according to the services
that were rendered at the scene and/or during transportation to a medical care
facility. Each response will then be assigned the appropriate level as defined
in §
34.048 and shall be billed accordingly. Responses will be evaluated on a case-
by-case basis.
***   City residents shall not be charged for extraction rescue services as the
result of a motor vehicle accident. However, fees consistent with the remainder
of services provided (including but not limited to hazardous material spill
control or medical services) shall be charged.
 
(Prior Code, § 80.07)
§ 34.027 REPLACEMENT COST FEES.
   Replacement costs shall be charged to replace any item of expendable
material plus any shipping fees incurred to replace that item, and those
charges will be billed according to the billing procedures set forth below in §
34.029.
(Prior Code, § 80.08)
§ 34.028 INCIDENTAL FEES.
   Fees for any other incidental costs not covered above, which may arise
during the course of a response, shall be determined on a case-by-case basis,
charged accordingly, and will be billed according to the billing procedures set
forth below in §
34.029.
(Prior Code, § 80.09)
§ 34.029 BILLING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The fees set forth in this subchapter shall be charged to and billed
to responsible parties within 30 days of the rendering of services. In the
event a responsible party or user provides proof of duplicate billing from a
private emergency responder company dispatched to the same accident or
incident, the portions of the invoice sent by the City Fire Department
representing the duplicate services shall be retracted.
   (B)   Charges will be due and payable 60 days after the date services are
rendered. Unpaid charges are subject to collection action by the city.
   (C)   Internal standard operating procedures developed upon establishment of
fees pursuant to this subchapter shall be reviewed by a member of Common
Council prior to implementation and shall be reviewed on an annual basis.
(Prior Code, § 80.10)
§ 34.030 DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   The City Fire Department is responsible for the billing and collection of
aforesaid fees. All fees collected (other than fees for hazardous materials
billed and collected pursuant to I.C. 36-8-12.2) will be allocated to the
Special Revenue Fund 205 for the City Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 80.11)
§ 34.031 ANNUAL REVIEW OF FEES AND PROCEDURES.
   Fees imposed by this subchapter will be reviewed no less than annually by
the Common Council and adjustments made as necessary to assure that charges
remain reasonable in relation to the cost of providing the services set out
herein. It shall be the obligation of the City Fire Department to provide the
Common Council with data sufficient to support the amount of the charges.
(Prior Code, § 80.12)
§ 34.032 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be in full force and take effect upon its passage.
(Prior Code, § 80.13) (Ord. passed 3-16-2009)
MOTOR VEHICLE ACCIDENTS
§ 34.045 PURPOSE.
   The Common Council of the city, after careful investigation and
consideration, finds that certain fees and cost recovery procedures must be
utilized to assist the city, through its Fire Department, to recover the cost
of expenses for supplies and recover the cost of services incurred by the City
Fire Department when the Department responds to or provides services for motor-
vehicle accidents or collisions, which services contribute to and are necessary
to the public health, safety and welfare of the people of the city.
(Prior Code, § 81.01)
§ 34.046 AUTHORITY.
   This subchapter is adopted under the authority granted by I.C. 36-1-3 (Home
Rule) and all act acts supplemental and amendatory thereto. This subchapter
shall impose user fees for services provided by the City Fire Department in
response to motor vehicle accidents or collisions; provided, however, that
pursuant to I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(6), a service charge or user fee that is imposed
shall not be greater than that reasonably related to reasonable and just rates
and charges for services.
(Prior Code, § 81.02)
§ 34.047 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter shall apply to all persons or organizations who receive
services for motor-vehicle accident responses from the City Fire Department,
and shall apply to any responsible party as defined by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 81.03)
§ 34.048 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Any term
in this subchapter not defined below shall take on its common or dictionary
meaning.
   EXPENDABLE MATERIAL. An item that is regularly used during the course of a
motor-vehicle accident or collision response, including, but not limited to,
hazardous spill absorption materials, agents including, but not limited to,
foam, absorbing agents or emulsifiers used in cleanup operations, or any other
item that must be replaced due to the rendering of services and/or responses to
a motor-vehicle accident or collision by the City Fire Department.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIAL SPILL. Unexpected, unintentional or unapproved discharge
or other loss of oil or other substances that contain hazardous or otherwise
objectionable substances that damage or threaten to damage the public health,
safety and welfare, which, for the purposes of this subchapter only, are the
result of a motor-vehicle accident or collision to which the City Fire
Department is a responder.
   NON-RESIDENT. A person whose primary residence at the time of the service or
response is outside the jurisdictional boundaries of the Fire Department of the
city.
   RESIDENT. A person whose primary residence at the time of the service or
response is within the corporate boundaries of the city.
   RESPONSE or RESPOND. The deployment or mobilization of the City Fire
Department to motor-vehicle accident or collision calls or calls for hazardous
material spills that are the result of a motor-vehicle accident or collision.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY.
      (1)   The individual who caused the motor-vehicle accident or collision
(as determined by the motor-vehicle accident police report) that necessitated
the motor-vehicle accident response by the City Fire Department and personnel;
      (2)   The liable insurance company or insurance provider of the vehicle
driven or operated by the individual who caused the motor-vehicle accident or
collision (as determined by the motor-vehicle accident police report) that
necessitated the motor-vehicle accident response by the City Fire Department
and personnel;
      (3)   The owner and/or the liable insurance company or insurance provider
of the owner of the motor vehicle operated by the individual who caused the
motor-vehicle accident or collision (as determined by the motor-vehicle
accident police report) for which hazardous material spills or debris around
the vehicle are cleaned up, fires are extinguished, or the site of the accident
or collision is secured during a response by the City Fire Department and
personnel; or
      (4)   The legal representative of a deceased party or the legal guardian
of an incapacitated or minor party, which deceased party, incapacitated party
or minor party caused the motor-vehicle accident or collision (as determined by
the motor-vehicle accident police report) that necessitated the response by the
City Fire Department and personnel.
   SERVICE. Any necessary action conducted by the City Fire Department during a
motor-vehicle accident response including, but not limited to, cleanup of
hazardous substances, evacuation, securing premises, extrication,
extinguishment, transportation, equipment operation and utilization, and any
and all other services required to assure public health and safety from known
hazards which resulted from the motor-vehicle accident which the City Fire
Department was called to respond to.
(Prior Code, § 81.04)
§ 34.049 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION.
   The city shall administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this
subchapter by and through the City Fire Department. Any powers granted or
duties imposed upon the city in this subchapter may be delegated in writing by
the city to persons or entities acting in the beneficial interest of or in the
employ of the City Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 81.05)
§ 34.050 COMPATIBILITY WITH OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   This subchapter is not intended to interfere with, abrogate or annul any
other subchapter, rule, regulation, statute or other provision of the law. The
requirements of this subchapter should be considered minimum requirements, and
where any provision of this subchapter imposes restrictions different from
those imposed by any other chapter, rule, regulation or other provision of law,
the more restrictive provisions or those provisions that impose higher
protective standards for human health or the environment, shall be considered
to take precedence.
(Prior Code, § 81.06)
§ 34.051 RESPONSE FEES TO MOTOR-VEHICLE ACCIDENTS.
   (A)   The fees for response services for motor-vehicle accidents or
collisions by the City Fire Department shall be in accordance with motor-
vehicle insurance industry standards which may fluctuate from time to time and
shall not exceed that which is usual, customary and reasonable for costs of the
services rendered.
   (B)   Response fees are as follows.
 
Level 1               Fee
Battery disc          $40
Hybrid vehicle        $75
Investigation         $30
Scene safety          $30
Traffic control       $30
Vehicle stabilization $40
 
Level 2        Fee
Absorbant      $10
Discharge line $15
Extinguisher   $25
Hose lines     $15
Scene cleanup  $60
Water supply   $14
 
Level 3     Fee
Extrication $400
 
Level 4      Fee
Landing zone $300
 
HazMat      Fee
Absorbant   $10
Emulsifiers $25
Foam        $25
Personnel Fee
Personnel       Fee
Assistant Chief $58
Batt Chief      $58
Captain         $50
Chief           $67
Driver          $38
Firefighter     $32
Lieutenant      $43
Apparatus Fee
Apparatus     Fee
Chief’s car $15
Foam truck    $52
Heavy rescue  $100
Ladder truck  $76
Officer’s ca$15
Pumper truck  $62
Rescue truck  $85
 
(Prior Code, § 81.07)
§ 34.052 BILLING PROCEDURES.
   The fees set forth in this subchapter will be charged to and billed to
responsible parties within 30 days of the rendering of services. Charges will
be due and payable 60 days after the date services are rendered. Unpaid charges
are subject to collection action by the city.
(Prior Code, § 81.08)
§ 34.053 DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   The City Fire Department is responsible for the billing and collection of
aforesaid fees. All fees collected (other than fees for hazardous materials
billed and collected pursuant to I.C. 36-8-12.2) will be allocated to the
Special Revenue Fund 205 for the City Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 81.09)
§ 34.054 REVIEW OF FEES AND PROCEDURES.
   In order to remain in compliance with the authority granted by I.C. 36-1-3
(Home Rule) as set forth in §
34.046, the fees set forth by the motor-vehicle insurance industry standards as
compared with the fees actually imposed in accordance with this subchapter and
ordinance will be reviewed no less than annually by the Chief of the City Fire
Department. In the event the Chief determines there is a need to update the
fees set forth in this subchapter and ordinance, the Chief shall report his or
her findings to the Common Council of the city in order for the Common Council
to determine if adjustments should be made to assure that charges remain
reasonable in relation to the cost of providing the services set out herein. It
shall be the obligation of the City Fire Department to provide the Common
Council with data sufficient to support the amount of the charges.
(Prior Code, § 81.10)
§ 34.055 UNCONSTITUTIONALITY CLAUSE.
   Should any section, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this subchapter
be properly declared unconstitutional or invalid for any reason, the remainder
of said subchapter shall not be affected thereby.
(Prior Code, § 81.11)
§ 34.056 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be in full force and take effect upon its passage.
(Prior Code, § 81.12) (Ord. 14-2011, passed - -)
CHAPTER 35: FINANCE AND REVENUE; FUNDS
Section
General Provisions
   
35.001   Investment of public funds
   
35.002   Abatement deduction schedules; minimums
   
35.003   Credit card service charge procedures
Funds
   
35.015   Park and Recreation Non-Reverting Funds
   
35.016   Enforcement Aid Fund
   
35.017   Cumulative Capital Development Fund
   
35.018   Fund 265 Rainy Day Restricted TIF Allocation
   
35.019   Fund 256 Local Road and Bridge Matching Grant Fund
   
35.020   Fund 263 Rainy Day Restricted Motor Vehicle Highway Fund
   
35.021   Fund 257 LOIT Special Distribution Fund
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.001 INVESTMENT OF PUBLIC FUNDS.
   Pursuant to I.C. 5-13-9-5.7, the Common Council of the city hereby
authorizes the City Controller, as the investing officer of the city, to make
investments having a stated final maturity that is more than two years, but not
more than five years after the date of purchase under the following
circumstances:
   (A)   The fiscal body of the city shall first adopt an investment policy
allowing for the adoption of an ordinance authorizing the investment of public
funds of the city for more than two years and not more than five years in
accordance with I.C. 5-13-9-5.7(a) and (b);
   (B)   This section and the power to make an investment having a stated final
maturity that is more than two years, but not more than five years after the
date of purchase expire on the date on which the investment policy expires,
which may not exceed four years;
   (C)   At the time an investment of public funds of the city is made having a
stated final maturity that is more than two years, but not more than five
years, the total of such investments of the city may not exceed 25% of the
total portfolio of public funds invested by the city, including balances in
transaction accounts; and
   (D)   An investing officer may contract with a federally regulated
investment advisor or other institutional money manager to make such
investments.
(Ord. 18-2019, passed 5-6-2019)
§ 35.002 ABATEMENT DEDUCTION SCHEDULES; MINIMUMS.
   (A)   The alternative abatement deduction schedule guidelines are updated
and set forth as follows.
      (1)   The City Common Council may utilize an alternative abatement
deduction schedule of a 75% deduction for ten years if all of the following
requirements are met:
         (a)   Five million dollar minimum investment;
         (b)   A minimum of 30 new full-time employees are hired and
maintained;
         (c)   Qualifying wages paid to new employees as described in SB-1A
must pay double the state minimum wage;
         (d)   Major medical health insurance is provided to all full-time
employees;
         (e)   All improvements and new hires must be completed within three
years of the date of the signed ordinance approving the statement of benefits
for a business; and
         (f)   Failure to meet any of the requirements outlined in divisions
(A)(1)(a) through (A)(1)(e) above shall require that the alternative abatement
deduction schedule revert to the standard ten-year abatement deduction schedule
outlined in I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-4d(10) for real estate improvements and I.C. 6-1.1-
12.1-4.5d(10) for personal property beginning with the number of years
remaining for the abatement (for example, if a personal property abatement is
in its sixth year, the final four years’ deductions would be 40%, 30%, 20% and
10%, respectively).
      (2)   Additionally, if the minimum conditions outlined in divisions (A)
(1)(b), (A)(1)(c) and (A)(1)(d) above are met, the City Common Council may
increase the alternative abatement deduction described above by 5% if the
business invests a minimum of $10,000,000 or by 10% if the business invests a
minimum of $15,000,000.
      (3)   If the minimum conditions outlined in divisions (A)(1)(a), (A)(1)
(c) and (A)(1)(d) are met, the City Common Council may increase the alternative
abatement deduction described above by 5% if the business adds a minimum of 50
new employees, or by 10% if the business adds a minimum of 100 new employees
      (4)   If the minimum conditions outlined in divisions (A)(1)(a), (A)(1)
(b), (A)(1)(c) and (A)(1)(d) above are met, the City Common Council may
increase the alternative abatement deduction described above by 5% if the
business pays at least two and one-half times the state minimum wage for new
employees hired.
      (5)   The percentage increases described in divisions (A)(2), (A)(3) and
(A)(4) above are independent of each other. As such, a qualifying applicant
could possibly achieve a 100% deduction.
      (6)   The City Common Council may decrease the alternative abatement
deduction by 5% for every $250,000 of additional taxpayer assistance (any
government level) provided to the business.
      (7)   A business requesting an alternative abatement deduction schedule
shall provided a letter requesting an alternative abatement deduction schedule
and shall provide proof of the applicable justification with the standard
application materials.
   (B)   In accordance with I.C. 6-1.1-12.1 et seq., the following additional
criteria shall be established and updated by the Common Council for the regular
deduction schedule for personal property and real estate deductions permitted
as follows.
      (1)   To be considered for a one- to five-year abatement, taxpayers with
a proposed project investment of more than $250,000 listed and certified as the
estimated value of said proposed project must submit a statement of benefits
form certifying as follows:
         (a)   The taxpayer’s proposed project will have at least five new
employees;
         (b)   All current and new employees will be paid an average minimum
wage of at least $12 per hour. The minimum wage shall be determined by the
definitions provided by the SB-1 application; and
         (c)   All current and new employees’ wages will include major medical
policy benefits.
      (2)   To be considered for a one- to five-year abatement where no new
employees will be hired, taxpayers with a proposed project investment of more
than $500,000 listed and certified as the estimated value of said proposed
project must submit a statement of benefits form certifying as follows:
         (a)   All current and new employees will be paid an average minimum
wage of at least $12 per hour. The minimum wage shall be determined by the
definitions provided by the SB-1 application; and
         (b)   All current employees’ wages will include major medical policy
benefits.
      (3)   To be considered for a five- to ten-year abatement, taxpayers with
a proposed project investment of more than $500,000 listed and certified as the
estimated value of said proposed project must submit a statement of benefits
form certifying as follows:
         (a)   The taxpayer’s proposed project will have at least five new
employees;
         (b)   All current and new employees will be paid an average minimum
wage of at least $12 per hour. The minimum wage shall be determined by the
definitions provided by the SB-1 application; and
         (c)   All current and new employees’ wages will include major medical
policy benefits.
(Ord. 17-2018, passed 3-19-2018; Ord. 5-2019, passed 2-19-2019)
§ 35.003 CREDIT CARD SERVICE CHARGE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The city executive administration shall continue to accept bank card
or credit card payments by the methods set forth in I.C. 36-1-8-11.
   (B)   The city executive administration shall collect and pass on any
applicable bank card or credit card service charges in accordance with I.C. 36-
1-8-11(d), and procedures authorized for a particular type of payment must
continue to be uniformly applied to all payments of the same type in accordance
with I.C. 36-1-8-11(e).
   (C)   The enforcement of this section will not apply to contracts already in
effect.
(Ord. 53-2020, passed 9-21-2020)
FUNDS
§ 35.015 PARK AND RECREATION NON- REVERTING FUNDS.
   (A)   There is hereby created under I.C. 36-10-3-20 a special non-reverting
capital fund for the purpose of acquiring land or making specific capital
improvements. All proceeds from the sale of Parks and Recreation Department
property and equipment plus special user fees as established by the Parks and
Recreation Board shall be deposited into this capital fund. Money so deposited
may not be withdrawn except for the purposes for which the fund was created.
Common Council may include in said Board’s annual budget appropriations for
such specific purposes as requested by said Board.
   (B)   There is hereby created under I.C. 36-10-3-22(b)(1) the following
special non-reverting operating funds:
      (1)   To be known as the Highland Lake Golf Course special non-reverting
operating fund, for park purpose, from which expenditures may be made by
appropriation by the Park and Recreation Board. All receipts and revenues from
Highland Lake Golf Course actives, including, but not limited to, golf program
participation, golf event admissions, concessions, course rentals, sales of
merchandise and food, and user fees from golf operations shall be deposited
into said Highland Lake Golf course special non-reverting operating fund; and
      (2)   To be known as the Farmer’s Market special non-reverting operating
fund for park purposes, from which expenditures may be made by appropriation by
the Parks and Recreation Board. All receipts and revenues from Farmer’s Market
activities, including, but not limited to, Farmer’s Market program
participation, special Farmer’s Market event admissions, park-provided
concessions at the Farmer’s Market, Farmer’s Market space rentals, and user
fees from Farmer’s Market operations shall be deposited into said Farmer’s
Market special non-reverting operating fund.
   (C)   All receipts and revenues from other Park Department operations shall
be deposited into the Park and Recreation reverting general fund, which
operations include, but are not limited to the following operations, events,
user fees or rental fees:
      (1)   Reservoir operations, such as user fees and rental fees;
      (2)   Enclosed facilities or open-air facilities user fees at the Senior
Center, Mary Scott Park, Springwood Park or Glen Miller Park; and
      (3)   Sports and recreation operations, such as user fees and concession
revenues at sports and recreations events or the swimming pool.
(Prior Code, § 31.07) (Ord. 87-1985, passed - -; Ord. 103-1993, passed - -;
Ord. 39-2017, passed 10-2-2017)
§ 35.016 ENFORCEMENT AID FUND.
   (A)   There is established an Enforcement Aid Fund which is established as a
non-reverting fund for the use and benefit of the Police Department.
   (B)   Sources of revenue for the Enforcement Aid Fund shall be limited to:
      (1)   Moneys received as reimbursement for expenditures from the fund;
      (2)   Money received as a result of seizures under state or federal
forfeiture programs; and
      (3)   Specific appropriations by the city.
   (C)   The purpose for which funds may be expended are limited to:
      (1)   Operations or special investigations; and
      (2)   Purchase of equipment and material in aid of law enforcement.
   (D)   The City Controller’s office shall adopt accounting and disbursement
procedures in accordance with regulations and guidelines of the State Board of
Accounts to control and account for the receipt and disbursement of moneys from
this fund.
(Prior Code, § 31.08) (Ord. 64-1991, passed - -)
§ 35.017 CUMULATIVE CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT FUND.
   (A)   A need now exists for the reestablishment of the Cumulative Capital
Development Fund for all uses as set out in I.C. 36-9-15.5.
   (B)   The Common Council and city will adhere to the provisions of I.C. 36-
9-15.5, and the proposed fund will not exceed $0.0500 on each $100 of assessed
valuation and said tax rate will be levied beginning with taxes for 2020
payable in 2021.
   (C)   Proofs of publication of the public hearing held on February 18, 2020,
and a certified copy of this section shall be submitted to the Department of
Local Government Finance of the state as provided by law and this Cumulative
Fund is subject to the approval of the Department of Local Government Finance.
(Ord. 10-2020, passed 2-18-2020)
§ 35.018 FUND 265 RAINY DAY RESTRICTED TIF ALLOCATION.
   (A)   Funds are restricted to the committed match of the community crossing
grant (known also through the SBOA as the Local Road and Bridge Matching Grant
Fund).
   (B)   The TIF Allocation Fund match and the corresponding grant portion are
restricted to the statutory purposes of the TIF Allocation Fund and the
redevelopment plan or resolution.
   (C)   In the event there are any committed unused balances at the end of the
grant, said moneys are to be returned to the originating fund.
(Ord. 39-2016, passed 7-18-2016)
§ 35.019 FUND 256 LOCAL ROAD AND BRIDGE MATCHING GRANT FUND.
   The following new fund be created and established for transfer of the
community crossing grant project matching grant funds: Local Road and Bridge
Matching Grant Fund - Fund Number 256.
(Ord. 58-2016, passed 11-7-2016)
§ 35.020 FUND 263 RAINY DAY RESTRICTED MOTOR VEHICLE HIGHWAY FUND.
   (A)   The following new fund be created and established for the transfer and
use of the MVH funds: Rainy Day Restricted MVH - Fund Number 263.
   (B)   Said funds are restricted to the committed match of the community
crossing grant (known also through the SBOA as the Local Road and Bridge
Matching Grant Fund) and in the event there are any committed unused balances
at the end of the grant, said moneys are to be returned to the originating
fund.
(Ord. 29-2016, passed 6-20-2016)
§ 35.021 FUND 257 LOIT SPECIAL DISTRIBUTION FUND.
   The following new fund be created and established for the collection and
disbursement of said special one-time distribution of former Local Option
Income Tax (LOIT) funds: LOIT Special Distribution - Fund Number 257.
(Ord. 28-2016, passed 6-20-2016)
CHAPTER 36: PURCHASING POLICIES
Section
Central Purchasing
   
36.001   Short title
   
36.002   Definitions
   
36.003   Establishment of central purchasing
   
36.004   Scope of purchasing authority and objectives
   
36.005   Public works
   
36.006   Authority to set specifications
   
36.007   Requisition and estimates
   
36.008   Encumbrance of funds
   
36.009   Prohibition of interest
   
36.010   Procurement practices and competitive bidding
   
36.011   Formal contract procedure
   
36.012   Open market procedure
   
36.013   Solicitation of offers
   
36.014   Request for proposal
   
36.015   Services
   
36.016   Emergency purchases
   
36.017   Inspection and testing
   
36.018   Cooperative purchasing
   
36.019   Construction with state law
   
36.020   Construction with regard to contracts and procurement supported by
federal funds
   
36.021   Effect on Board of Public Works and Safety
   
36.022   Violations; remedies
   
36.023   Bid protest
   
36.024   Separability
   
36.025   Purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States
CENTRAL PURCHASING
§ 36.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Purchasing Ordinance
of the City of Richmond”.
(Prior Code, § 41.01)
§ 36.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. When not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future, words in the plural number include the singular number, and words in
the singular number include the plural number. Words indicating masculine
gender shall also refer to the feminine gender. The word “shall” is always
mandatory and not merely directory.
   CITY. The City of Richmond.
   COMMON COUNCIL. The Council for the City of Richmond.
   CONTRACTUAL SERVICES. Include, but not be limited to, all towel and cleaning
service; other labor contractual services; leases for all grounds, buildings,
office or other space required by the using departments; and the rental, repair
or maintenance of equipment, machinery and other city-owned personal property.
The term shall not include professional and other contractual services which
are in their nature unique and not subject to competition such as legal,
accounting or consulting services, except as a part of a grant supported by
federal funds.
   CONTROLLER. The City Controller for the City of Richmond.
   DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE. The Department of Finance and Purchasing for the City
of Richmond.
   FEDERAL GRANTS. Include all federal grants.
   MAYOR. The Mayor of the City of Richmond.
   PUBLIC WORKS. The construction, alteration or repair of a public building,
airport facility, highway, street, alley, bridge, sewer, drain or other
improvement that is paid out of a public fund or out of a special assessment.
   STATE GRANTS. Include all state grants but shall not include motor vehicle
highway or local road and street funds, or state tax revenues.
   SUPPLIES. Includes all supplies, material and equipment.
   USING DEPARTMENT. Any department, agency, commission, bureau or other unit
in the city government using supplies or procuring contractual services as
provided for in this subchapter, and includes the Richmond Sanitary District as
authorized by its central purchasing resolution, and any school system or
governmental unit with which the Controller negotiates an intergovernmental
agreement for cooperative purchasing as authorized herein to the extent and for
the purposes authorized by such intergovernmental agreement.
(Prior Code, § 41.02)
§ 36.003 ESTABLISHMENT OF CENTRAL PURCHASING.
   (A)   The function of central purchasing for all departments shall be
performed by the Department of Finance pursuant to this chapter of the code.
   (B)   The Controller shall be responsible for and/or assign the duties
required to implement central purchasing to employees of the Department of
Finance. Such assignment may be to a separate Director of Purchasing.
   (C)   This subchapter shall set forth the procurement policies and
procedures to be followed by the using departments of the city. In the event
that a using department is proposing to expend federal or state grant funds,
the using department shall comply with the procurement rules and regulations as
set forth by the applicable federal or state agency provided the same includes,
at a minimum, the provisions set forth in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 41.03)
§ 36.004 SCOPE OF PURCHASING AUTHORITY AND OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   Objectives. The objectives of this chapter and central purchasing
include the following:
      (1)   Purchase or contract. To purchase or contract for all supplies and
contractual services needed by any using department which derives its support
wholly or in part from the city, or from a federal or state grant of which the
city is the grantee, in accordance with purchasing procedures as prescribed by
this code and such rules and regulations as the Controller shall adopt for the
internal management and operation of the function of central purchasing and
such other rules and regulations as shall be prescribed by the Mayor and the
Common Council;
      (2)   Minimum expenditure. To procure for the city the highest quality in
supplies and contractual services at least expense to the city;
      (3)   Encourage competition. To discourage uniform bidding and endeavor
to obtain as full and open competition as possible on all purchases and sales;
      (4)   Rules and regulations. To establish and amend, when necessary, all
rules and regulations authorized by this code and any others deemed necessary
to it’s operation;
      (5)   Purchasing analysis. To keep informed of current developments in
the field of purchasing, prices, market conditions and new products, and secure
for the city the benefits of research done in the field of purchasing by other
governmental jurisdictions, national technical societies, trade associations
having national recognition, and by private businesses and organizations;
      (6)   Forms. To prescribe and maintain such forms as are reasonably
necessary to the operation of this subchapter, subject to approval of such
forms by the State Board of Accounts, where prescribed by state law;
      (7)   Standard nomenclature. To prepare and adopt a standard purchasing
nomenclature for using departments and suppliers;
      (8)   Vendors catalog file. To prepare, adopt and maintain a vendors’
catalog. Said catalog shall be filed according to materials and shall contain
descriptions of vendors’ commodities, prices and discounts;
      (9)   Bulk purchases. To utilize the possibilities of buying “in bulk” so
as to take full advantage of discounts;
      (10)   Federal tax exemptions. To procure for the city all federal tax
exemptions to which it is entitled;
      (11)   Disqualification of bidders. To have the authority to declare
vendors, who default on their quotations, irresponsible bidders and to
disqualify them from receiving any business from the municipality for a stated
period of time;
      (12)   Intergovernmental agreements. To negotiate intergovernmental
agreements with school systems and other governmental units authorizing
cooperative and joint bidding with such units where there is economic
justification for such; provided, that no agreement shall be negotiated which
would require the actual co-mingling of city funds with those of such school
systems and governmental units; and
      (13)   Public works. To see that all public works (construction) projects
comply with I.C. 36-1-12, including the applicable provisions of I.C. 36-1-12-3
(a) regulating the city’s own workforce.
   (B)   Unauthorized purchases. Except as provided herein, it shall be
unlawful for any city officer or employee to order the purchase of any supplies
or make any contract within the purview of this code other than through the
Department of Finance, and any purchase ordered or contract made contrary to
the provisions hereof shall not be approved by the city officials, and the city
shall not be bound thereby.
   (C)   Powers reserved. Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent
the lawful advertising, awarding of bids and letting of contracts by the Board
of Public Works and Safety of the city, and by the City Sanitary District Board
of Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 41.04) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 36.005 PUBLIC WORKS.
   The state public works (construction) statute (I.C. 36-1-12) shall establish
the procedures governing public works projects performed or contracted for by
all using departments, and is incorporated by reference herein.
(Prior Code, § 41.05)
§ 36.006 AUTHORITY TO SET SPECIFICATIONS.
   In addition to all other powers and duties conferred above, the Department
of Finance shall have authority to prepare and adopt written specifications for
all purchases and contracts within the scope of its purchasing authority,
subject to the following guidelines:
   (A)   Consult with the department heads and other officials of using
departments to determine their precise requirements and endeavor to prescribe
those standards which meet the needs of the majority of such department;
   (B)   Make use of the laboratory and engineering facilities of the using
departments and technical staffs thereof in connection with the preparation and
adoption of standards and written specifications;
   (C)   Consult with experts outside the using agencies for technical
assistance in the preparation and adoption of standards and written
specification;
   (D)   All specifications shall be definite and certain and shall permit
competition; provided, however, that the provisions of this division (D) shall
not apply to non-competitive types and kinds of supplies and services;
   (E)   Maintain a file of all written specifications and current standards
adopted, which file shall be made available for inspection by using departments
and the general public; and
   (F)   Upon written memoranda stating the reason therefor, exempt any using
department from use of the supply described in any standard specification.
(Prior Code, § 41.06)
§ 36.007 REQUISITION AND ESTIMATES.
   All using departments, either by or with the authorization of the head of
the Department, shall file with the Department of Finance detailed requisitions
or estimates of their requirements in supplies and contractual services in such
manner, at such times, and for such future periods as the Controller or
Director shall prescribe.
   (A)   Unforeseen requirements. A using department shall be permitted to file
at any time a requisition or estimate for any supplies and contractual services
the need for which was not foreseen when the detailed estimates were filed.
   (B)   Revisory power. The Department of Finance shall examine each
requisition or estimate and shall have the authority to revise it as to
quantity, quality or estimated cost; but revision as to quality shall be in
accordance with the standards and specifications established pursuant to this
code.
(Prior Code, § 41.07)
§ 36.008 ENCUMBRANCE OF FUNDS.
   Except in cases of emergency, no purchase order shall issue for delivery on
a contract or open market purchase until the Controller has certified that
there is to the credit of the using department a sufficient unencumbered
appropriation balance, in excess of all unpaid obligations, to defray the
amount of such order.
(Prior Code, § 41.08)
§ 36.009 PROHIBITION OF INTEREST.
   Any purchase order or contract within the purview of this subchapter in
which any city officer, elected or appointed, has a financial interest, shall
be void provided that before the execution of a purchase order or contract, the
Board of Public Works and Safety shall have the authority to waive compliance
with this section when it finds such action to be in the best interests of the
city, upon the filing of a written statement of such interest with the Board of
Public Works and Safety and the Common Council. The Board of Sanitary
Commissioners shall likewise have authority, with respect to its officers,
employees, agents and its purchases, to waive compliance with this section when
it finds such action to be in the best interests of the operation of the
Sanitary District and upon filing of a written statement of such interest with
the Board of Sanitary Commissioners and the Common Council. Such Boards shall
have no authority to waive compliance with this section with regard to federal
grants.
   (A)   Gifts and rebates. Every officer, employee and agent of the city,
including the members of all boards, commissions and other appointed bodies, is
expressly prohibited from accepting, directly or indirectly, from any person,
company, firm or corporation to which any purchase order or contract is or
might be awarded, any gift, rebate of money or entertainment having a value in
excess of $50 per day or $250 per year, except where given for the use and
benefit of the city and is reported in writing to the City Attorney within
seven calendar days after the occurrence.
   (B)   Loans. No officer, employee or agent of the city, including the
members of all boards, commissions and other appointed bodies, shall accept
loans from an individual or organization having prospective or actual dealings
with the city or using departments unless such individual or organization is in
the business of making loans in the ordinary course of business.
   (C)   Avoidance of appearance of impropriety. Every officer, employee or
agent of the city, including the members of all boards, commissions and other
appointed bodies, shall make every effort, in his or her contact with
individuals or organizations having prospective or actual dealings with the
city, to conduct themselves in such a manner as to not allow themselves to be
put into a position where their judgments can be influenced, and so as to avoid
even the appearance of impropriety.
   (D)   Code of conduct. No employee, officer or agent of the city, including
the members of all boards, commissions or other appointed bodies, shall
participate in the selection, award or administration of a contract if a
conflict of interest, real or apparent, would be involved. Such a conflict
would arise when such person, any member of his or her immediate family, his or
her partner or an organization which employs, or is about to employ, any of the
above, has a financial or other interest in the firm selected for the award.
   (E)   Financial conflicts of interests and permits. 
      (1)   The purpose of this division (E) is to comply with the requirements
of I.C. 36-1-27-1 et seq., as may be amended from time to time, and to
establish a process in the event a conflict of interest occurs in connection
with the issuance of a permit.
      (2)   As used in this division (E), a CONFLICT OF INTEREST means a direct
or indirect financial interest in the issuance of a permit, pursuant to I.C.
36-1-27-1.
      (3)   As used in this division (E), PERMIT has the meaning set forth in
I.C. 36-7-4-1109 as currently written or as may be amended from time to time.
At the time of the adoption of this section, the state legislature definition
includes and means any of the following:
         (a)   An improvement location permit;
         (b)   A building permit;
         (c)   A certificate of occupancy;
         (d)   Approval of a site-specific development plan;
         (e)   Approval of a primary or secondary plat;
         (f)   Approval of a contingent use, conditional use, special exception
or special use; or
         (g)   Approval of a planned unit development.
      (4)   Subject to division (E)(7) below, whenever the city’s Building
Commissioner has a financial conflict of interest in the issuance of a permit,
the Building Commissioner shall issue a written explanation of said conflict
and shall deliver it with the files to the city’s Zoning Administrator as the
Commissioner’s direct supervisor, and the city’s Zoning Administrator shall
oversee the approval or denial of the issuance of the requested permit.
      (5)   Subject to division (E)(7) below, whenever the city’s Zoning
Administrator has a financial conflict of interest in the issuance of a permit,
the Zoning Administrator shall issue a written explanation of said conflict and
shall deliver it with the files to the city’s Director of the Department of
Infrastructure and Development as the Zoning Administrator’s direct supervisor,
and the city’s Director of the Department of Infrastructure and Development
shall oversee the approval or denial of the issuance of the requested permit.
      (6)   Subject to division (E)(7) below, whenever a Building Code
Official, Inspector, Planning Technician or other employee of the Department of
Infrastructure and Development, other than the Building Commissioner or Zoning
Administrator, has a financial conflict of interest in the issuance of a
permit, such individual shall issue a written explanation of said conflict and
shall deliver it with the files to the Zoning Administrator, and said Zoning
Administrator shall oversee the approval or denial of the issuance of the
requested permit.
      (7)   In the event a city official is authorized pursuant to divisions
(E)(4), (E)(5) or (E)(6) above to oversee the approval or denial of the
issuance of a requested permit, but is unavailable or unqualified, such
individual shall recuse himself or herself from the permitting process, shall
issue a written explanation and shall deliver it with the files to the Director
of the Department of Infrastructure and Development who shall appoint a
temporary replacement to oversee the approval or denial of the issuance of the
requested permit. Said replacement may be pursuant to a contractual
relationship with the administration of the county government or pursuant to a
contractual relationship with a qualified individual from the private sector.
   (F)   Disciplinary action. Any person found by the Board of Public Works and
Safety or the Board of Sanitary Commissioners to have violated the prohibitions
of divisions (A), (B) or (E) above shall, in addition to and independently of
the prosecution or results of any civil or criminal investigation or suit, be
subject to appropriate disciplinary action including suspension or dismissal.
Any person found to have violated the prohibitions of divisions (C) or (D)
above shall be subject to such lesser disciplinary action, including temporary
suspension without pay, as deemed warranted.
(Prior Code, § 41.09) (Ord. 51-2019, passed 12-16-2019)
§ 36.010 PROCUREMENT PRACTICES AND COMPETITIVE BIDDING.
   All procurement transactions regardless of whether by sealed bids, quotes or
by negotiation and without dollar value, shall be in a manner that provides
maximum open and free competition consistent with the provisions of this
subchapter and all applicable state and federal procurement practices
requirements. (All purchases of supplies and contracts for contractual
services, and all sales of personal property which has become obsolete and
unusable shall, except as specifically provided herein, be based wherever
possible on competitive bids.) Non-competitive purchases may only be made in
conformance with the provisions of I.C. 5-22.
(Prior Code, § 41.10)
§ 36.011 FORMAL CONTRACT PROCEDURE.
   Except as otherwise provided by this chapter, the procedures promulgated in
I.C. 5-22, as may be amended from time to time by law, shall be followed for
all purchases of supplies and/or contractual services by the city.
   (A)   Purchasing agency. For the purposes of I.C. 5-22, the PURCHASING
AGENCY for the city shall be the Board of Public Works and Safety except that
the PURCHASING AGENCY for the City Sanitary District shall be the Board of
Sanitary Commissioners.
   (B)   Purchasing agent. For purposes of I.C. 5-22, the PURCHASING AGENT for
the city (including the City Sanitary District) shall be the City Controller,
the Director of Purchasing or any other employee of the city that may be so
designated by the City Controller.
   (C)   Bidders list. All responsible prospective suppliers who have requested
their names to be added to a “Bidders List” shall be sent a copy of such
newspaper notice or such other notice as will acquaint them with the proposed
purchase or sale. In any case invitations sent to the vendors on the “Bidders
List” shall be limited to commodities that are similar in character and
ordinarily handled by the trade group to which the invitations are sent.
   (D)   Bid deposits. When deemed necessary, bid deposits shall be prescribed
in the public notices inviting bids. Unsuccessful bidders shall be entitled to
return of surety. A successful bidder shall forfeit any surety upon failure on
his or her part to enter a contract within ten days after the award.
   (E)   Bid opening procedure. Bids shall be submitted sealed to whomever is
designated to receive such bids on behalf of the city and shall be identified
as bids on the envelope. Bids shall be opened in public at the time and place
stated in the notice. A tabulation of all bids received shall be available for
public inspection.
   (F)   Rejection of bids. All bids, parts of all bids or bids for any one or
more supplies or contractual services included in the proposed contract may be
rejected when the public interest will be served thereby.
   (G)   Bidders in default to the city or county. The bid of any contractor
who is in default on the payment of taxes, licenses or other moneys due the
city or county shall not be accepted.
   (H)   Awarding of contract. In conjunction with the formal contract
procedures set forth by state law, contracts shall be awarded to the lowest
responsible bidder. In determining “lowest responsible bidder”, in addition to
price, the following shall be considered:
      (1)   The ability, capability and skill of the bidder to perform the
contract and provide the service required;
      (2)   Whether the bidder can perform the contract or provide the service
within the time specified and without delay or interference;
      (3)   The character, integrity, reputation, judgment, experience and
efficiency of the bidder;
      (4)   The quality of performance of previous contracts or services to the
city;
      (5)   The previous and existing compliance by the bidder with laws and
ordinances relating to the contract or services, including all applicable
federal regulations;
      (6)   The sufficiency of the financial resources available to bidder in
performing the contract or providing the service;
      (7)   The quality, availability and adaptability of the supplies or
contractual services to the particular use required;
      (8)   The ability of the bidder to provide future maintenance and service
for the use of the subject of the contract; and
      (9)   The number and scope of conditions attached to the bid.
   (I)   Award to other than low bidder. When the award is not given to the
lowest bidder, a full and complete statement of the reasons for placing the
order elsewhere shall be prepared and filed with the other papers relating to
the transaction.
   (J)   Tie bids. If all bids received are for the same total amount or unit
price, quality and services being equal, all bids shall be rejected and the
same shall be re-bid. If the rejection of such bids would seriously delay or
impede the operations of the city or using department, the award may be made to
one of the bidders by drawing lots in public.
   (K)   Performance bonds. A performance bond, before entering a contract, in
such amount as reasonably necessary to protect the best interests of the city,
may be required.
   (L)   Prohibition against subdivision. No contract or purchase shall be
subdivided to avoid the requirements of this section.
   (M)   Alteration/correction of bids. 
      (1)   When the bidder discovers a mistake before the scheduled bid
opening, the bidder shall be permitted to withdraw the bid or to correct the
error without revealing the amount of the bid. This shall be accomplished by
submitting a notice of withdrawal before the scheduled bid opening time and/or
by submitting a corrected sealed bid.
      (2)   When a mistake is discovered after the bid opening, the following
shall be done.
         (a)   If discovered by the purchasing agent, bid verification in
writing shall be requested.
         (b)   The purchasing agent may correct a clerical mistake after
verification is made by the bidder.
         (c)   A bid may be withdrawn without prejudice upon submission of
evidence that a non-intentional error occurred.
         (d)   Corrections of mistakes other than clerical errors shall not be
permitted unless evidence of the mistake and of the bid is clear and convincing
on the face of the bid and the bid as received and as actually intended and
corrected is the lowest bid received. The purchasing agent shall determine
whether clear and convincing evidence of a mistake exists, and shall document
its findings in writing to be submitted to the purchasing agency with any
recommendations. Where clear and convincing evidence is not present, the bidder
shall not be permitted to withdraw without prejudice or to correct the mistake.
Any bond or bid deposit shall be forfeited if the bidder fails to enter into a
contract.
(Prior Code, § 41.11)
§ 36.012 OPEN MARKET PROCEDURE.
   All purchases of supplies at least $25,000, but not more than $75,000, shall
be subject to the invitation of quote system set forth in I.C. 5-22-8-3. All
purchases of supplies less than the estimated value of $25,000, shall also use
the same invitation of quote procedure, subject to any adjustments made thereto
by the city’s purchasing policy developed by the Controller and/or Director,
which may include, but not be limited to, allowing quotes to be secured by
phone on smaller purchases and/or allowing purchases to be made singularly on
the open market for even smaller purchases.
   (A)   Minimum number of quotes. Except for small purchases not requiring
quotes pursuant to the city’s purchasing policy, all open market purchases
shall, wherever possible, be based on at least three competitive quotes, and
shall be awarded to the lowest responsible offeror in accordance with the same
standards set forth in §
36.011(H).
   (B)   Notice inviting quotes. Quotes may be solicited from prospective
vendors; from the appropriate trade group; by telephone; or by any other
reasonable inquiry.
   (C)   Filing. All open market orders and the quotes submitted in competition
thereon shall be filed and available for public inspection.
(Prior Code, § 41.12)
§ 36.013 SOLICITATION OF OFFERS.
   All solicitations of offers, whether by competitive sealed bids or
competitive quotes in the open market, shall be prepared as follows.
   (A)   Technical requirements. All such solicitations shall incorporate a
clear and accurate description of the technical requirements for the material
product or service to be procured. Such description shall not, in competitive
procurements, contain features which unduly restrict competition. The
description may include a statement of the qualitative nature of the material,
product or service to be procured and, when necessary, shall set forth those
minimum essential characteristics and standards to which it must conform to
satisfy its intended use.
   (B)   Brand name or equal descriptions. When it is impractical or
uneconomical to make a clear and accurate description of the technical
requirements in a solicitation, a “brand name or equal” description may be used
as a means to define the performance or other salient requirements of a
procurement. The specific features of the named brand which must be met by
offerors shall be clearly stated. The Director of Purchasing shall have final
authority to determine whether supplies meet such a “brand name or equal”
description.
   (C)   Requests for proposals. Requests for proposals, where utilized, shall
identify all significant evaluation factors, including price or cost where
required and their relative importance, and shall comply with all other
applicable technical requirements of this chapter and of I.C. 5-22-9.
   (D)   Other requirements. All such solicitations shall clearly set forth all
requirements which offerors must fulfill and all other factors to be used in
evaluating bids or proposals.
(Prior Code, § 41.13)
§ 36.014 REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL.
   (A)   In some cases, it may be impossible or impractical to set forth and/or
create all necessary specifications to allow competitive bidding or invitation
of quotes. Pursuant to state law, if a purchasing agent makes a written
determination that the use of competitive sealed bidding (or in the case of
smaller purchases, the use of invitation or solicitation of quotes) is either
not practicable or not advantageous to the governmental body, the purchasing
agent may award a contract using requests for proposals (RFP) as set forth
within this section.
   (B)   Specifically, interested vendors of goods or services shall be invited
to submit a proposal which shall be evaluated competitively by the standards
set out in the RFP, and as set out below.
      (1)   Evaluation of requests for proposals (RFP) shall be based upon
technical expertise, experience, performance history and other criteria from
firms that provide the required services. Proof of when and to whom all RFPs
were distributed or mailed must be retained.
      (2)   An RFP must include:
         (a)   The factors or criteria that will be used to evaluate the
proposals;
         (b)   A statement concerning the relative importance of price and the
other evaluation factors;
         (c)   A statement concerning whether the proposal must be accompanied
by evidence of financial responsibility such as a bond or certified check,
which may be imposed in accordance with rules adopted by the governing body;
and
         (d)   A statement about whether discussions may be conducted for
clarification only with responsible offerors concerning their proposal after
proposals have been opened.
      (3)   Public notice of an RFP must be given in accordance with I.C. 5-3-
1.
      (4)   Proposals not subject to the formal contract procedure must be
opened so as to avoid disclosure of contents to competing offerors during the
process of negotiations. Negotiation with vendors after the bid documents have
been opened to public review shall be strictly prohibited. To the extent
permitted by state law, all proposals shall become public record after an award
is made.
      (5)   A register of proposals must be prepared and open for public
inspection after the contract award containing the following:
         (a)   A copy of the request for proposals;
         (b)   A list of all persons to whom copies of the request for
proposals were given;
         (c)   A list of all proposals received including the names and
addresses of all offerors, the dollar amount of each offer, the name of the
successful offeror and the dollar amount of the offeror’s offer;
         (d)   The basis on which the award was made; and
         (e)   The entire contents of the contract file except for proprietary
information such as trade secrets or financial information not required to be
made available for public inspection under the terms of the proposal.
      (6)   An award may be made to the responsible offeror whose proposal is
determined in writing to be the most advantageous to the governmental body,
taking into consideration price and the other evaluation factors set forth in
the RFP.
(Prior Code, § 41.14)
§ 36.015 SERVICES.
   (A)   The purchase of services shall be subject to the quote procedures set
forth in I.C. 5-22-8-3 and §
36.012 herein, subject to any adjustments made thereto by the city’s purchasing
policy developed by the Controller and/or Director; however, at all times,
every effort should be made to secure the necessary services at the best
competitive price.
   (B)   Recognizing that professional services may be associated with unique
issues, it is strongly encouraged that these services shall be procured in
similar fashion to the request for proposals (RFP) procedure, except for the
necessity that they be published prior to a proposal submission. Professional
services include services of an accountant, architect, attorney, construction
manager, engineer, financial advisor, project administrator, project manager,
tax analyst or other persons who provide consulting type services.
(Prior Code, § 41.15)
§ 36.016 EMERGENCY PURCHASES.
   (A)   Verbal purchase order. In the case of an actual emergency in which
immediate procurement is essential to prevent delays in the work of the using
department and which may vitally affect the safety or convenience of citizens,
the department head or person designated by the department head may obtain a
verbal purchase order number from purchasing.
   (B)   Recorded explanation. The department head shall follow up the issuance
of an emergency purchase order number to the purchasing agent with a
requisition within 24 hours.
   (C)   Emergency procedure. The Controller or Director shall prescribe by
rules and regulations the procedure under which emergency purchases by heads of
using departments may be made.
(Prior Code, § 41.16)
§ 36.017 INSPECTION AND TESTING.
   (A)   The Department of Finance shall inspect or authorize the inspection of
all deliveries of supplies or contractual services to determine their
conformance with the specifications set forth in the order or contract. The
Controller shall have the authority to authorize using departments having the
staff and facilities for adequate inspection to inspect all deliveries made to
them.
   (B)   The Department of Finance shall have the authority to require chemical
and physical tests of samples submitted with bids and samples of deliveries
which are necessary to determine their quality and conformance with the
specifications. In the performance of such tests, the Department of Finance
shall have the authority to make use of laboratory facilities of any using
department or of any outside laboratory, and to assess, or pro-rate the
assessment of costs for such testing against the using department which is to
receive the tested supplies where no provision is made in the contract with the
vendor for the vendor to bear such costs.
(Prior Code, § 41.17)
§ 36.018 COOPERATIVE PURCHASING.
   The Department of Finance shall have the authority to join with other units
of government in cooperative purchasing plans when the best interests of the
city would be served thereby.
(Prior Code, § 41.18)
§ 36.019 CONSTRUCTION WITH STATE LAW.
   The provisions of this subchapter are intended to supplement I.C. 5-22
(Public Purchasing), 36-1-11 (Disposal of Property), and 36-1-12 (Public Work
Projects), which chapters shall prevail in the event of conflict with any
provision of this code.
(Prior Code, § 41.19)
§ 36.020 CONSTRUCTION WITH REGARD TO CONTRACTS AND PROCUREMENT SUPPORTED BY
FEDERAL FUNDS.
   It is the specific intent of the Common Council in adopting this subchapter
to enact a procurement system which meets the standards governing state and
local grantee procurement as regards procurements and contracts using federal
funds and which is certified by federal grantor agencies. Therefore, as regards
such procurements and contracts, the provisions of this subchapter are intended
to be construed as compatible with the fulfilling the requirements contained in
Attachment O of Office of Management and Budget Circular No. A-102, Revised,
contained in Federal Register Vol. 44, No. 159, pages 47874 to and including
47878 and such additional requirements as are contained therein which may be
required for such certification are hereby adopted and incorporated herein by
reference as regards contracts and procurements using federal funds wherein the
city or a using department is a grantee, including, but not limited to, the
following provisions of the procurement standards contained in such attachment:
   (A)   Section 8. Procurement Procedures;
   (B)   Section 9. Contracting with Small and Minority Firms, Women’s Business
Enterprise and Labor Surplus Area Firms;
   (C)   Section 12. Contract Pricing;
   (D)   Section 13. Grantee Procurement Records; and
   (E)   Section 14. Contract Provisions.
(Prior Code, § 41.20)
§ 36.021 EFFECT ON BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS AND SAFETY.
   No provision herein shall be deemed to limit the powers of the Board of
Public Works and Safety as defined in state law.
(Prior Code, § 41.21)
§ 36.022 VIOLATIONS; REMEDIES.
   (A)   The Controller, after consulting with the City Attorney and providing
reasonable notice to the person involved with an opportunity for such person to
be heard, is authorized to debar a person for cause from consideration for
award of contracts. The debarment shall be for a period of not more than three
years. After consultation with the City Attorney, the Controller is authorized
to suspend a person from consideration for award of contracts if there is
probable cause to believe that the person has engaged in any activity which
might lead to debarment. The suspension shall be for a period not to exceed
three months.
   (B)   The causes for debarment include:
      (1)   Conviction for commission of a criminal offense as an incident to
obtaining or attempting to obtain a public or private contract or subcontract,
or in the performance of such contract or subcontract;
      (2)   Conviction under state or federal statutes of embezzlement, theft,
forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, receiving stolen
property, or any other offense indicating a lack of business integrity or
business honesty which currently, seriously and directly affects responsibility
as a city contractor;
      (3)   Conviction under state or federal antitrust statutes arising out of
the submission of bids or proposals;
      (4)   Violation of contract provisions, as set forth below, of a
character which is regarded by the purchasing agent to be so serious as to
justify debarment action;
      (5)   Deliberate failure, without good cause, to perform in accordance
with the specification or within the time limit provided in the contract;
      (6)   A recent record of failure to perform or of unsatisfactory
performance in accordance with the terms of one or more contracts; provided
that failure to perform or unsatisfactory performance caused by acts beyond the
control of the contractor shall not be considered to be a basis for debarment;
      (7)   Any other cause determined to be so serious and compelling as to
affect responsibility as a city contractor, including debarment by another
governmental entity for any cause listed in this code; and
      (8)   For violation of the ethical standards set forth under applicable
federal, state or local laws.
   (C)   The Controller shall issue a written decision to debar or suspend. The
decision shall state the reasons for the action taken and inform the debarred
or suspended person involved of his or her rights concerning judicial or
administrative review. A copy of the decision shall be mailed or delivered in
person to the debarred or suspended person. A decision to debar or suspend
shall be final and conclusive, unless fraudulent, or the debarred or suspended
person within ten days after receipt of the decision takes an appeal to the
Board of Public Works and Safety or commences a timely action in court in
accordance with applicable law.
(Prior Code, § 41.22)
§ 36.023 BID PROTEST.
   (A)   Right to protest. Any actual or prospective bidder, offeror or
contractor who is aggrieved in connection with the solicitation or award of a
contract may protest to the Board of Public Works and Safety. Protesters are
urged to seek resolution of their complaints initially with the Controller. A
protest with respect to an invitation for bids or request for proposals shall
be submitted in writing prior to the opening of bids or the closing date of
proposals, unless the aggrieved person did not know and should not have known
of the facts giving rise to such protest prior to bid opening or the closing
date for proposals. The protest shall be submitted within seven calendar days
after such aggrieved person knows or should have known of the facts giving rise
thereto.
   (B)   Stay of procurements during protests. In the event of a timely protest
hereunder, the Department of Finance shall not proceed further with the
solicitation or award of the contract until all administrative and judicial
remedies have been exhausted or until the Board of Public Works and Safety
makes a determination on the record that the award of a contract without delay
is necessary to protect substantial interests of the city.
   (C)   Decision of the Controller. All claims by a contractor against the
city relating to a contract, except bid protests, shall be submitted in writing
to the Controller for a decision. The contractor may request a conference with
the Controller on the claim. Claims include, without limitation, disputes
arising under a contract, and those based upon breach of contract, mistake,
misrepresentation or other cause for contract modification or revision.
   (D)   Notice to the contractor of the Controller’s decision. The decision of
the Controller shall be promptly issued in writing, and mailed or otherwise
furnished to the contractor. The decision shall state the reasons for the
decision reached, and shall inform the contractor of his or her appeal rights
hereunder.
   (E)   Finality of Controller’s decision and contractor’s right to appeal.
The Controller’s decision shall be final and conclusive unless, within seven
calendar days from the date of receipt of the decision, the contractor mails or
otherwise delivers a written appeal to the Board of Public Works and Safety or
commences an action in a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (F)   Failure to render timely decision. If the Controller does not issue a
written decision regarding any contract controversy within 21 days after
written request for a final decision, or within such longer period as may be
agreed upon between parties, then the aggrieved party may proceed as if an
adverse decision had been received.
   (G)   Authority of the Controller to settle bid protests and contract
claims. The Controller is authorized to settle any protest regarding the
solicitation or award of a city contract, or any claim arising out of the
performance of a city contract, prior to an appeal to the Board of Public Works
and Safety or the commencement of an action in a court of competent
jurisdiction.
   (H)   Solicitation may be cancelled or revised. If, prior to the bid opening
or the closing date for receipt of proposals, the Controller, after
consultation with the City Attorney, determines that a solicitation is in
violation of federal, state or municipal law, then the solicitation shall be
cancelled or revised to comply with applicable law.
   (I)   Solicitation in violation. If, after bid opening or the closing date
for receipt of proposals, the Controller, after consultation with the City
Attorney, determines that a solicitation or a proposed award of a contract is
in violation of federal, state or municipal law, then the solicitation or
proposed award shall be cancelled.
   (J)   Ratification and confirmation. If, after an award, the Controller,
after consultation with the City Attorney, determines that a solicitation of
award of a contract was in violation of applicable law, then if the person
awarded the contract has not acted fraudulently or in bad faith, the contract
may be ratified and affirmed, provided it is determined that doing so is in the
best interests of the city, or the contract may be terminated and the person
awarded the contract shall be compensated for the actual costs reasonably
incurred under the contract prior to the termination or if the person awarded
the contract has acted fraudulently or in bad faith the contract may be
declared null and void or voidable if such action is in the best interests of
the city.
(Prior Code, § 41.23)
§ 36.024 SEPARABILITY.
   If any provision of this subchapter as now or later amended or its
application to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid
provision or application.
(Prior Code, § 41.24)
§ 36.025 PURCHASE OF SUPPLIES MANUFACTURED IN THE UNITED STATES.
   Supplies manufactured in the United States shall be specified for all
purchases and shall be purchased unless the city determines that:
   (A)   The supplies are not manufactured in the United States in reasonably
available quantities;
   (B)   The price of the supplies manufactured in the United States exceeds by
an unreasonable amount the price of available and comparable supplies
manufactured elsewhere;
   (C)   The quality of the supplies manufactured in the United States is
substantially less than the quality of comparably priced available supplies
manufactured elsewhere; or
   (D)   The purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States is not in
the public interest.
(Prior Code, § 41.25)
CHAPTER 37: GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
Section
Internal Control Standards; Materiality Threshold
   
37.001   Authority and enforcement
   
37.002   Purpose
   
37.003   Component One: Control Environment
   
37.004   Component Two: Risk Assessment
   
37.005   Component Three: Control Activities
   
37.006   Component Four: Information and Communication
   
37.007   Component Five: Monitoring Activities
INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS; MATERIALITY THRESHOLD
§ 37.001 AUTHORITY AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Controller is directed to ensure that all personnel receive
training concerning the internal control procedures and approved herein prior
to June 30, 2016.
   (B)   The Human Resources Director is directed to ensure that all new
employees after June 1, 2016, will receive training concerning the internal
control procedures and approved herein prior to said new employee’s first day
of employment is completed.
   (C)   All erroneous or irregular variances, losses, shortages or thefts of
the city subdivision funds or property, or funds or property the city holds in
trust, shall be reported promptly to the Controller or his or her designee.
   (D)   It will be the policy of the Controller to report to the Common
Council and to the State Board of Accounts any erroneous or irregular
variances, losses, shortages or thefts of cash in excess of $1500, except for
inadvertent clerical errors that are identified timely and promptly corrected
with no loss to the city.
   (E)   It will be the policy of the Controller to report to the Common
Council and to the State Board of Accounts any erroneous or irregular
variances, losses, shortages or thefts of noncash in excess of $1,500,
estimated market value, except for inadvertent clerical errors that are
identified timely and promptly corrected with no loss to the city, and except
for losses from genuine accidents.
(Ord. 27-2016, passed 6-20-2016)
§ 37.002 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this policy is to communicate the Common Council’s internal
control objectives to all employees and elected officials of the city and to
firmly commit the city to the five components and 17 key principles of internal
controls as established by the State Board of Accounts.
(Ord. 27-2016, passed 6-20-2016)
§ 37.003 COMPONENT ONE: CONTROL ENVIRONMENT.
   (A)   Principle 1: The oversight body and management demonstrate a
commitment to integrity and ethical values.
      (1)   The city has the responsibility to establish and maintain an
adequate system of internal control and to furnish to the City Common Council,
various boards and commissions, governmental agencies, creditors and others
reliable financial information on a timely basis. An adequate system of
internal control is necessary for the city to discharge these responsibilities.
      (2)   Controls help ensure that assets are not exposed to unauthorized
access and use, transactions are properly recorded in the financial records,
and the resultant financial information is reliable. External organizations and
stakeholders of the city rely on financial information to make decisions toward
appropriations, loans and other debt, grants and other contractual
relationships. City resources are dependent upon the system of internal
control. Auditors are required annually to report upon the adequacy of the
city’s systems for control over financial reporting and compliance per I.C. 5-
11-1-27(e). The safeguarding of city assets and the reliability which the city
and others can place upon its financial records is dependent upon the
effectiveness of the internal control process.
      (3)   As the fiscal body, Common Council expects the city administration
to effect an internal control environment with policies and procedures
necessary to provide reasonable assurance that practices cause effective and
efficient operations, reliable financial reporting, and compliance with
applicable laws and regulations.
      (4)   The system of internal control is meant to keep the city on course
toward its mission and to minimize surprises. The system promotes efficiency,
minimizes risks of asset loss, helps ensure the reliability of financial
information, and compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations.
      (5)   Internal control is a process; a means to an end, and not an end
unto itself. The control environment is the foundation upon which all
components of internal control are based. It sets the tone for city operations.
Internal control is about people, operations, communications and the work
environment. It is not about policies and forms though it takes shape through
the implementation of relevant policies, procedures and practices. Internal
control can provide reasonable assurance, but no system of control can provide
absolute assurance to the Common Council and other users of financial
information.
      (6)   The Finance Department shall be charged with:
         (a)   Conveying periodic messages of the city’s internal control
philosophy and expectations to all employees;
         (b)   Evaluating the city’s internal control system for weaknesses on
a periodic (but no less frequently than annual) basis, providing solutions to
any discovered weaknesses, and inform employees of necessary changes in
procedures;
         (c)   Working with the Human Resources Department to establish a
confidential reporting system for individuals to report suspected fraud and
abuse of internal control policies; and
         (d)   Working with the Human Resources Department to institute
procedures to address violations of policies and consequences for violations.
   (B)   Principle 2: The oversight body oversees the entity’s internal control
system. As the fiscal body for the city, the Common Council is responsible for
setting the institutional expectations for internal control, ensuring
management is aware of the those expectations, requiring the upward
communications channels are open through all levels of management, and
evaluating management’s effectiveness toward monitoring the control environment
and implementing sound control policies and procedures. As the city’s Chief
Fiscal Officer, the Controller will be the Common Council’s chief agent in
implementing and managing the internal control policies and procedures.
   (C)   Principle 3: Management establishes an organizational structure,
assigns responsibility, and delegates authority to achieve the entity’s
objectives.
      (1)   Individuals with delegated approval authority, e.g., elected
officials and department heads are responsible for establishing, maintaining
and supporting a system of internal controls within their areas of
responsibility and for creating the control environment that encourages
compliance with city policies and procedures.
      (2)   Adequate supervision is necessary to monitor that internal controls
are operating as intended, and to help ensure the reliability of accounting and
operational controls by pointing out errors, omissions, exceptions and
inconsistencies in procedures. Staff in leadership roles are responsible for
the application of this policy and the design, development, implementation and
maintenance of systems of internal controls focusing on the effectiveness of
operations and the safeguarding of assets within their respective areas of
responsibility. All levels of management and supervision are responsible for
strengthening internal controls when weaknesses are detected. Department
managers should periodically review departmental procedures to ensure that the
general principles of internal control are being followed.
      (3)   The Finance Department has the primary responsibility for internal
control over financial reporting and compliance with applicable laws, rules and
regulations. The Controller is the city’s chief source for information and
assistance to staff and Department Heads on this topic and will make resources
available to assist in administering this policy.
      (4)   The Human Resources Department is responsible for internal controls
over employee recruitment, hiring, separation, promotion, job classification,
employee rights and salary administration. The Benefits Coordinator and
corporation counsel are the city sources for information and assistance on this
topic and will make resources available to assist in administering this policy.
      (5)   All levels of internal control are subject to examination by
external auditors who are required to report on the adequacy of internal
controls over finance and compliance.
      (6)   Department heads are responsible for prompt corrective action on
all internal control findings and recommendations made by internal and external
auditors. The audit process is completed only after department heads receive
the audit results and take action to correct internal control weaknesses,
improve systems or demonstrate that management action is not warranted.
Department heads have the responsibility to ensure that those who report to
them have adequate knowledge, skills and abilities to function within, and
contribute to, an effective internal control environment. This includes
providing access to appropriate training on topics relevant to their job
responsibilities.
   (D)   Principle 4: Management demonstrates a commitment to recruit, develop
and retain competent individuals.
      (1)   The City Employee Handbook provides a roadmap for recruiting and
maintaining quality employees. Prior to employment, individuals may be subject
to pre-employment background screening and/or a credit history check. While
employed, city employees are entitled to a benefits package including health
and disability insurance and certain other post-employment benefits. The city
will continue to assess the best recruitment pools and tools for the different
skill sets of skills necessary to adequately implement and maintain quality
internal controls.
      (2)   Job descriptions will be updated where necessary to reflect
internal control responsibilities and duties. Employees will be regularly
trained in internal control methods and all training will be documented in
employees’ personnel files. Employees will be regularly evaluated by their
supervisors on internal control duties and receive feedback on possible
improvements.
   (E)   Principle 5: Management evaluates performance and holds individuals
accountable for their internal control responsibilities. Individuals are held
accountable for their internal control responsibilities through a recognized
structure which includes relevant job descriptions, operating procedures,
periodic reviews, regular feedback and a progressive disciplinary policy.
Additionally, city administration seeks to address issues in specific
departments and positions through regular one-on-ones with department heads.
(Ord. 27-2016, passed 6-20-2016)
§ 37.004 COMPONENT TWO: RISK ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   Principle 6: Management defines objectives clearly to enable the
identification of risks and risk tolerances.
      (1)   Through the creation of standard operating procedures and accurate
organizational reporting charts management conveys and identifies objectives,
missions, policies and risk tolerances to employees. The Finance Department
will lead a risk analysis of three major areas:
         (a)   The effectiveness and efficiency of operations;
         (b)   The reliability of reporting for internal and external use; and
         (c)   Compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
      (2)   For each category, the Finance Department will define objectives in
specific measurable terms in order to enable the design of internal control for
related risk, increase understanding at all levels, assess performance,
identify what is to be achieved, who is to achieve it, how it will be achieved,
when it will be achieved and incorporate external requirements.
   (B)   Principle 7: Management identifies, analyzes and responds to risks
related to achieving the defined objectives. 
      (1)   The Finance Department will identify, analyze and respond to the
risks identified in Principle 6 by determining;
         (a)   How likely is the risk to occur;
         (b)   How will it impact the objective;
         (c)   Is the risk based on complex or unusual transactions; and
         (d)   Is the risk based on fraud.
      (2)   Once each risk has been identified and analyzed, the Finance
Department will work with department heads to determine how to respond to each
risk with a specific solution and action.
   (C)   Principle 8: Management considers the potential for fraud when
identifying, analyzing and responding to risks. Management is committed to
fraud prevention by utilizing a “trust but verify” approach. The potential for
fraud, misappropriation and outright theft are contemplated as controls are
designed for various city divisions. Fraud responses will include statutorily
required responses to fraud, including, but not limited to, I.C. 5-11-1-27(1)
relating to the Report of Misappropriation of Funds to State Board of Accounts
and Prosecuting Attorney and I.C. 5-11-1-27(j) relating to the report of
material variances, losses, shortages or thefts to the state board of accounts.
The city shall utilize a materiality threshold of $500.
   (D)   Principle 9: Management identifies, analyzes and responds to
significant changes that could impact the internal control system. The Finance
Department, in coordination with department heads, will regularly evaluate and
adjust internal control policies in order to accommodate for the impact of
future changes, including, but not limited to, personnel changes, newly elected
officials, new programs, new technology, new laws and regulations and financial
fluctuations.
(Ord. 27-2016, passed 6-20-2016)
§ 37.005 COMPONENT THREE: CONTROL ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   Principle 10: Management designs control activities to achieve
objectives and respond to risks.
      (1)   The Finance Department will establish and maintain a system of
internal controls that satisfies the city’s objectives in the following
categories:
         (a)   Risks are identified and effectively managed;
         (b)   Safeguarding of city assets;
         (c)   Reliability and integrity of financial information;
         (d)   Compliance with city policy, plans, procedures, laws and
regulations;
         (e)   Economical and efficient use of city resources; and
         (f)   Meeting established objectives and goals for city operations and
programs.
      (2)   General internal control principles for departments are:
         (a)   Separation of duties.
            1.   Duties are separated so that one person’s work routinely
serves as a check on another’s work.
            2.   No one person has complete control over more than one key
function or activity (e.g., authorizing, approving, certifying, disbursing,
receiving or reconciling).
         (b)   Authorization and approval.
            1.   Proposed transactions are authorized when proper and
consistent with city policy and the department’s plans.
            2.   Transactions are approved by the person who has delegated
approval authority, which is usually delegated on the basis of special
competency or knowledge.
         (c)   Custodial and security arrangements.
            1.   Responsibility for physical security/custody of city assets is
separated from record keeping/accounting for those assets.
            2.   Unauthorized access to city assets and institutional data is
prevented.
         (d)   Timely and accurate review and reconciliation.
            1.   Departmental accounting records and documents are examined by
employees who have sufficient understanding of the city accounting and
financial systems to verify that recorded transactions actually took place and
were made in accordance with city policies and procedures.
            2.   Departmental accounting records and documentation are compared
with city accounting system reports and financial statements to verify their
reasonableness, accuracy and completeness.
         (e)   The general internal control principles should be applied to all
departmental operations, especially accounting records and reports, payroll,
purchasing/receiving/disbursement approval, equipment and supply inventories,
cash receipts, petty cash and change funds, billing and accounts receivable.
      (3)   All city systems, processes, operations, functions and activities
are subject to evaluations of internal control systems. The results of these
evaluations provide information regarding the city’s overall system of control.
      (4)   Information and communication: information must be timely and
communicated in a manner that enables people to carry out their
responsibilities.
         (a)   All covered employees must be trained on internal controls
according to I.C. 5-11-1-27(g).
         (b)   All personnel must receive a clear message from the city’s
administration that control responsibilities are to be taken seriously. Failure
to comply with established practices will subject individuals to the terms of
disciplinary action or dismissal.
         (c)   Employees must understand their own roles in the internal
control system, as well as how individual activities relate to the work of
others. To this end, whenever a new budgetary unit, financial activity and the
like is set up, the Controller will provide notification to the appropriate
parties of the responsibilities incumbent on them for good business practices
and sound financial management, including reference to the principles within
this policy.
         (d)   Employees must have a means of communicating significant
information to the city’s administration.
         (e)   The city must communicate effectively with external parties,
such as auditors, creditors, contractors, suppliers, regulators and other
stakeholders.
      (5)   Internal control is meant to keep the city focused on achieving its
mission while avoiding surprises. There is a balance between effective controls
and mission accomplishment. Costs associated with internal controls should not
exceed their benefit, nor should controls be allowed to stifle mission
effectiveness and timely action. All levels of management must assess the
costs, benefits and risks when designing controls to develop a positive control
environment and compensate for the risks of non-compliance, loss of assets or
unreliable reporting while accomplishing the city mission.
      (6)   The following specific internal control policies are adopted for
use by city departments:
         (a)   Payroll activities.
            1.   Salaries and wage rates are verified by the Human Resources
Department.
            2.   The responsibilities for hiring, terminating and approving
promotions are segregated from those preparing payroll transactions or
inputting data.
            3.   The responsibilities for approving time sheets are segregated
from those for preparing payroll transactions or inputting data.
            4.   Payroll adjustment reports are approved by someone outside of
the payroll process.
            5.   Employees’ time and attendance records are approved by their
supervisors.
            6.   Corrections to recorded time and attendance records are
approved by the employee and employee’s supervisor.
            7.   Procedures are in place to ensure that changes in employment
status are promptly reported to the payroll processing unit.
            8.   Payroll disbursements are reviewed and approved by an
authorized individual prior to payment.
            9.   Access to payroll applications is appropriately controlled by
user logins and passwords.
            10.   Changes to a payroll disbursement are approved by an
individual other than the ones authorized to process the changes.
            11.   Payroll checks are accounted for in numerical order and
reconciled to the payroll check register.
            12.   Payroll checks are mailed or distributed by someone outside
the normal payroll distribution function.
            13.   Unclaimed payroll checks are returned to Finance Department
via the department head.
            14.   Employees are cross-trained on the payroll process; those
assigned to payroll take regular vacations.
         (b)   Disbursement activities.
            1.   The responsibility for approving claims is segregated from
those preparing the claims.
            2.   Checks are written by an individual other than the one
approving the claim.
            3.   Checks are signed by an individual other than the one
preparing them.
            4.   Claims for payment are reviewed and approved by the management
prior to payment and then by the governing body.
            5.   A reconcilement is completed between the claims for payment
approved by the board and the actual disbursements posted to the ledger.
            6.   The responsibility for acknowledging the receipt of goods or
services is segregated from those preparing claims and writing checks.
            7.   Vendor checks are accounted for in numerical order and
reconciled to the disbursement ledger.
            8.   Invoices or other receipts are attached to each claim to
support the disbursement.
            9.   A review is completed by an individual outside the
disbursement process in which the claim amount is compared to the supporting
documentation attached to the claim and the amount of the check.
            10.   Access to disbursement applications is appropriately
controlled by user logins and passwords.
         (c)   Receipting activities.
            1.   The responsibility for collecting money and issuing receipts
is segregated from those preparing the bank deposit.
            2.   The responsibility for making bank deposits is segregated from
those preparing the monthly bank reconcilement.
            3.   Pre-numbered receipts are issued for all money collected and
the receipt is retained with supporting documentation.
            4.   Posting of receipts to the ledger is completed by an
individual other than the one who collects money and makes the deposit.
            5.   Receipts indicate the type of payment received (cash, check,
credit card and the like) and this is reconciled to the make-up of the bank
deposit.
            6.   Accounts receivable records are maintained by an individual
other than the one(s) involved in the billing process.
            7.   The billing process is completed by an individual other than
the one who collects cash payments from customers.
            8.   Adjustments to customer accounts above our managerial
threshold are approved by the governing body only after review.
         (d)   Cash activities.
            1.   A reconcilement between the recorded cash balance and the bank
balance is completed monthly by an individual separate from the receipting and
disbursing processes.
            2.   A reconcilement between the receipts ledger and the credits to
the bank account is completed periodically by an individual separate of the
receipting process,
            3.   A reconcilement between the disbursement ledger and the debits
to the bank account is completed periodically by an individual separate of the
disbursement process.
            4.   The monthly reconcilement between the cash balance and the
bank balance is thoroughly reviewed and approved by the governing body.
            5.   Disbursements from and reimbursements to petty cash funds are
periodically reviewed by an individual other than the one responsible for
maintaining the petty cash fund.
         (e)   Credit cards transactions.
            1.   A designated official or employee oversees the issuance and
use of the credit cards.
            2.   An ordinance or resolution specifically states the purposes
for which the credit card may be used.
            3.   A designated person separate from disbursement process reviews
transactions listed on the credit card statements for sufficient documentation
and inclusion in claim to the Board.
   (B)   Principle 11: Management designs the political subdivision’s
information system and related control activities to achieve objectives and
respond to risks.
      (1)   The Finance Department and department heads will work with the
Information Technology Department to ensure that information technology is used
as an integral part of the internal control system.
      (2)   This may include, but not be limited to:
         (a)   Setting permission such that only certain users may perform
certain tasks;
         (b)   Using technology to accomplish segregation of duties by forcing
duties to be completed by different users;
         (c)   Automating certain processes and calculations;
         (d)   Limiting the authority to access different components of various
software to employees with duties specifically related to that component;
         (e)   Prohibiting user ID and password sharing among employees;
         (f)   Restricting the authority to correct or make adjustments to
records to key employees; and/or
         (g)   Requiring the use of prescribed forms or the approval of
alternative forms.
   (C)   Principle 12: Management implements control activities through
policies. The city has an employee handbook that is regularly updated to
communicate policies to employees. Additionally, the Finance Department
regularly works with departments and employees who handle financial
transactions to recommend and ensure best practices. All procedures are in
writing and communicated frequently to all relevant employees. The Human
Resources Director makes sure policies are available both electronically and in
hard copy form.
(Ord. 27-2016, passed 6-20-2016)
§ 37.006 COMPONENT FOUR: INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION.
   (A)   Principle 13: Management uses quality information to achieve the
political subdivision’s objectives. The city strives to lead in the areas of
financial transparency and accountability. By adopting standards and investing
in systems that exceed state- mandated minimums, city management provides
employees and stakeholders with high quality information and informatics
systems. The City Finance Department and Legal Department attend training and
industry seminars to stay abreast of changes and developments in requirements
and communicate that information effectively to impacted employees.
   (B)   Principle 14: Management internally communicates the necessary quality
information to achieve the political subdivision’s objectives. Internal
communications on internal controls are communicated through adoption of formal
policies by relevant boards and commissions and/or the legislative body or
documented through memos from the finance, legal or relevant department head.
Internal memos and reports are maintained to document communication.
   (C)   Principle 15: Management externally communicates the necessary quality
information to achieve the entity’s objectives. Communications with the State
Board of Accounts, other state agencies, grantor agencies and regulatory
agencies are documented by email, memos, letters and other forms of written
correspondence. Logs are kept for information provided verbally. All documents
are maintained in accordance with the city and state’s record retention
policies. Reports and policies are cross checked for accuracy, relevancy and
timeliness of information.
(Ord. 27-2016, passed 6-20-2016)
§ 37.007 COMPONENT FIVE: MONITORING ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   Principle 16: Management establishes and operates monitoring
activities to monitor the internal control system and evaluate the results. 
      (1)   City administration monitors and evaluates compliance with internal
control policies via multiple vectors. Separation of duties, redundancy
polices, layered approval systems, monthly reports and physical controls allow
management to both review and evaluate control systems.
      (2)   A system of monitoring includes:
         (a)   Periodic checks to determine if controls are in place and
working effectively;
         (b)   Reviewing control activities to determine if the actual
activities are in compliance with established procedures; and
         (c)   Documenting deficiencies in the internal control processes and
remediating them quickly.
      (3)   Monitoring activities will be documented by signatures, initials or
other appropriate methods.
   (B)   Principle 17: Management remediates identified internal control
deficiencies on a timely basis. Breaches of internal controls are subject to
significant levels of internal scrutiny. If informed of a material breach of
internal controls, the Finance Department and Mayor’s office actively
investigate and address said breach and adjust policies and procedures to
prevent such breaches in the future. Once breaches are identified and
investigated, a formal or informal corrective action plan will be developed.
(Ord. 27-2016, passed 6-20-2016)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   LANDFILL
      
52.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE
      
53.   ELECTRICITY
      
54.   WATERWORKS
      
55.   STORM WATER MANAGEMENT
      
56.   STORM WATER ILLICIT DISCHARGES; CONNECTIONS
      
57.   EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL
      
58.   SEWAGE AND WASTEWATER TREATMENT
      
59.   SEWER USAGE; RATES
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.001   Utility construction in flood hazard areas
§ 50.001 UTILITY CONSTRUCTION IN FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   All new or replacement water mains, valves and other appurtenances, and all
new or replacement sewers, manholes and other appurtenances constructed or
reconstructed in a flood hazard area as defined elsewhere by ordinance shall be
designed and constructed as to minimize or eliminate infiltration of
floodwaters into these systems and discharges from these systems into
floodwaters. On-site waste disposal systems, if provided, shall be so located
as to avoid impairment of them or contamination from them during the occurrence
of the regulatory flood.
(Prior Code, § 55.01) (Ord. 26-1982, passed - -; Ord. passed 1-27-1995)
CHAPTER 51: LANDFILL
Section
   
51.001   Development and implementation fees
   
51.002   Fee schedule
§ 51.001 DEVELOPMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION FEES.
   The City Board of Sanitary Commissioners is hereby authorized to amend the
landfill fee system for disposal of trash, garbage and rubbish at the city
sanitary landfill. The Board, the certified landfill operator or their designee
shall have the authority to determine which category any particular waste
received shall be billed. The Board, the certified landfill operator or their
designee shall also have the authority to reject disposal of any waste at their
discretion.
(Prior Code, § 58.01) (Ord. 46-2022, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 51.002 FEE SCHEDULE.
   The landfill shall collect user fees as follows.
   (A)   Commercial, industrial and institutional residents within the City
Sanitary District shall be charged the following fees for solid waste accepted
by the landfill for disposal subject to a minimum fee of $6, and according to
the schedule set forth herein, to-wit:
City Sanitary District
New Paris Pike Landfill
Rates
City Sanitary District
New Paris Pike Landfill
Rates
Landfilled Waste Inside District                                
Alternative daily cover                $9.00  $9.18  $9.36  $9.55  Ton
Construction/demolition waste          $35.00 $35.70 $36.41 $37.14 Ton
Contaminated soil                      $22.00 $22.44 $22.89 $23.35 Ton
Industrial process waste               $35.00 $35.70 $36.41 $37.14 Ton
Ordinary solid waste                   $35.00 $35.70 $36.41 $37.14 Ton
Special management waste               $71.00 $72.42 $73.87 $75.35 Ton
Landfilled Waste Outside District                               
Alternative daily cover                $9.00  $9.18  $9.36  $9.55  Ton
Construction/demolition waste          $38.00 $38.76 $39.54 $40.33 Ton
Contaminated soil                      $22.00 $22.44 $22.89 $23.35 Ton
Industrial process waste               $41.00 $41.82 $42.66 $43.51 Ton
Ordinary solid waste                   $38.00 $38.76 $39.54 $40.33 Ton
Special management waste               $71.00 $72.42 $73.87 $75.35 Ton
Materials Segregated from Waste Stream                          
Clean fill                             $9.00  $9.18  $9.36  $9.55  Ton
E-waste                                $2.00  $2.00  $2.00  $2.25  Each
Freon units                            $35.00 $35.50 $36.50 $37.00 Each
Raw wood compostable waste             $19.50 $19.89 $20.29 $20.69 Ton
Recyclables                            NC     NC     NC     NC     Ton
Tires                                                           
Car/pick-up tires                      $5.00  $5.00  $5.25  $5.50  Each
Tire on rim (additional)               $5.00  $5.00  $5.25  $5.50  Each
Tractor tires                          $35.00 $35.50 $36.50 $37.50 Each
Truck tires                            $15.00 $15.25 $15.50 $16.00 Each
*   Landfilled waste fees do not include current $2/ton regulatory fee
collected for IDEM/WUR on all waste which is subject to change by those
bodies
 
   (B)    (1)   The 2023 rates and charges set forth in the above table shall
become effective for billings rendered after December 31, 2022.
      (2)   The 2024 rates and charges set forth in the above table shall
become effective for billings rendered after December 31, 2023.
      (3)   The 2025 rates and charges set forth in the above table shall
become effective for billings rendered after December 31, 2024.
      (4)   The 2026 rates and charges set forth in the above table shall
become effective for billings rendered after December 31, 2025.
(Prior Code, § 58.02) (Ord. 7-2004, passed - -; Ord. 46-2022, passed 11-7-2022)
CHAPTER 52: GARBAGE AND REFUSE
Section
General Provisions
   
52.001   Purpose
   
52.002   Definitions
   
52.003   Administrative organization and enforcement
   
52.004   Private hauler service agreements
   
52.005   Collection practices
   
52.006   Owner or occupant to remove refuse from premises
   
52.007   Unsanitary disposal or placement of refuse prohibited
   
52.008   Burning of refuse prohibited
   
52.009   Approved method of disposal
   
52.010   Ownership of refuse
Public Trash Nuisances
   
52.025   Accumulation of trash, rubbish or garbage is public nuisance
   
52.026   Owner not to permit public nuisance on premises
   
52.027   Written notice of public nuisance
   
52.028   Removal of nuisance by City Sanitary District
   
52.029   City to collect fees
   
52.030   Container user fee
 
   
52.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.001 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is designated to control solid waste material in the city
providing for the establishment and enforcement of rules and regulations,
providing for service agreements for private haulers, establishing limitations
and prohibiting certain acts causing solid waste disposal problems, and
providing for fines for violations of the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 93.01) (Ord. 2432-1969, passed - -)
§ 52.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. The Board of Sanitary Commissioners of the City of Richmond or its
authorized representatives.
   BULKY WASTE. Refrigerators, stoves, appliances and attachments, the doors of
which must be removed or sealed. Furniture, bedding, carpeting, fencing, sacked
or bundled clothes or any refuse which because of its size, shape or weight
cannot be handled by normal disposal methods.
   COMMERCIAL GENERATOR. A facility generating solid refuse resulting from any
commercial enterprise with the exception of industrial and residential
enterprises.
   CONSTRUCTION REFUSE. All refuse resulting from the construction, demolition,
alteration or repair of any building, structure, roadway, sidewalk and so
forth.
   GARBAGE. Those putrescible wastes resulting from the growing, handling,
storage, preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   GRASS CLIPPINGS. The part of yard waste collected from the mowing and
trimming of turf and grass, traditionally used as ground cover.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The Health Officer having jurisdiction in Wayne County,
State of Indiana, or his or her authorized representative.
   INDUSTRIAL GENERATOR. A facility generating solid refuse resulting from any
manufacturing process not considered “special waste” nor “hazardous waste”.
   INDUSTRIAL REFUSE. The solid refuse resulting from any manufacturing
process.
   INSTITUTIONAL GENERATOR. A facility generating solid refuse resulting from
any governmental, religious, educational, recreational or other not for profit,
or property tax exempt facility.
   MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL GENERATOR. Mobile home parks, campgrounds,
condominiums, apartments and other residential facilities containing three or
more residential units.
   OPEN BURNING. Any fire from which the products of combustion are emitted
directly into the outdoor atmosphere.
   OWNER. Any person, corporation, partnership, trust or any entity which shall
be the owner of any interest whatsoever of, or in, real property which is
situated within the corporate limits of the city.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, asso- ciation, syndicate, company, firm,
trust, corporation, government corporation, department, bureau, agency or any
entity recognized by law.
   PRIVATE HAULER. Any person who shall go from place to place within the city
on any vehicle, mechanical or otherwise, for the purpose of collecting refuse
as herein defined, or any person who shall engage in the business of collecting
or disposing of refuse or recycled materials.
   REFUSE. All putrescible and nonputrescible solid wastes, with the exception
of body wastes, and shall include garbage, rubbish, ashes, street sweepings,
dead animals and industrial and construction wastes.
   RUBBISH. All nonputrescible wastes including all combustible and non-
combustible substances. COMBUSTIBLE RUBBISH shall mean relatively dry rubbish
comprised chiefly of wood, paper, straw, cardboard, excelsior, sweepings and
all other similar articles of combustible nature. INCOMBUSTIBLE RUBBISH shall
mean rubbish incapable of incineration such as glass, cans, brick, stone,
potterware, metallicware, ashes and any other material that will not burn.
   SINGLE RESIDENTIAL GENERATOR. Residential facilities containing not more
than two residential units shall be considered a single residential generator.
   SOLID WASTE GENERATOR SERVICE AGREEMENT. A service agreement for the class
of user as follows:
      (1)   Multi-family residential generator;
      (2)   Commercial generator;
      (3)   Institutional generator; and
      (4)   Industrial generator.
   TRASH. Includes demolition, refuse and rubbish.
   YARD WASTE.
      (1)   Tree limbs up to three inches in diameter and less than 12 feet
long, a pile of limbs or brush up to two cubic yards.
      (2)   Bundles up to four feet long and two feet in diameter, weighing
less than 40 pounds.
      (3)   Leaves and garden waste, weeds, flowers, vegetables, straw, hay or
similar material.
(Prior Code, § 93.02) (Ord. 2432-1969, passed - -; Ord. 11-1979, passed - -)
§ 52.003 ADMINISTRATIVE ORGANIZATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   This chapter shall be in effect throughout the city.
   (B)   This chapter shall be administered by the Board of Sanitary
Commissioners through the Manager, or duly authorized agent, of the City
Sanitary District. The Board shall:
      (1)   Receive and institute complaints;
      (2)   Institute enforcement actions necessary to ensure compliance with
this chapter, including the imposition of fines or nuisance clean ups;
provided, nothing shall prevent similar enforcement by the City Police
Department or city inspectors pursuant to law; and
      (3)   Be responsible for preparation and execution of public relations
and education plans for informing and securing the cooperation of the general
public in complying with this chapter and reducing unsanitary garbage and
rubbish storage.
   (C)   The Board is authorized to collect and dispose of all garbage and
rubbish within the city.
   (D)   No person other than the Board shall collect, transport or dispose of
garbage or rubbish within the city limits who does not possess a private hauler
service agreement issued by the Board. This shall not prohibit any person from
transporting his or her own refuse to an approved disposal site in a sanitary
manner.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person other than the Board or a private
hauler approved by the Board, to remove, displace, uncover or otherwise disturb
any refuse container or the contents thereof and placed on location, or to go
from place to place for the purpose of collecting refuse, or to act or serve as
a private hauler without first obtaining a service agreement therefore as
herein provided.
   (F)   This chapter shall not prohibit collectors of refuse from outside the
city from hauling such refuse over city streets provided the collectors comply
with the provisions of this chapter and with any other governing law or
ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 93.03) (Ord. 62-1999, passed - -) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.004 PRIVATE HAULER SERVICE AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   Solid waste generator service agreements; application and certificate
of approval.
      (1)   All solid waste generators using a manifest for disposal at the New
Paris Pike landfill shall acquire the appropriate service agreement. The solid
waste generator shall complete an application, have the service agreement
approved by the Board, and receive a numbered service agreement in writing.
      (2)   The generator shall be subject to impromptu inspection at the
generator’s location from time to time, and right of entry is implicitly
granted by the submission of the application.
      (3)   Generators using the City Sanitary District collection facilities
shall acquire a service agreement describing the terms and conditions for
service. Such service shall include a manifest for the aggregate waste
collected by the City Sanitary District.
      (4)   Generators using a private collection service that collects more
than one generator per load shall acquire a service agreement describing the
terms and conditions the private collector shall render, including a manifest
for aggregated waste collected.
      (5)   All private collectors shall acquire a private hauler’s service
agreement to access the New Paris Pike Landfill pursuant to division (B) below.
   (B)   Private operator permit.
      (1)   Application and certificate of approval.
         (a)   Any person desiring a private operator permit shall make written
application to the Board of Sanitary Commissioners on forms to be provided by
the Board.
         (b)   The Board shall then cause to be made an inspection of the
applicant’s vehicle(s) to determine whether it meets the standards and
requirements. The facts shall be certified in writing by the Board.
         (c)   No private operator permit shall be issued until the applicant
has obtained the certificate of approval from the Board, paid the permit fee
and produced proof of insurance.
         (d)   No private hauler shall, under any circumstance whatsoever, be
considered as the agent, servant or employee of the city and any and all
operations of the private hauler shall be independent of the city.
      (2)   Insurance required. Before any private operator permit shall be
issued, the applicant for the permit shall first furnish and deposit with the
Board a certificate of insurance showing public liability and property damage
insurance insuring the applicant against liability for damages sustained by a
person other than the employee of the applicant and occasioned by the
neglectful operation of the vehicle or vehicles of the applicant. The insurance
policy shall provide coverage in the amount deemed reasonable by the Board of
Sanitary Commissioners. The insurance policy shall be written by a company
authorized to do business in the state.
      (3)   Permit fee.
         (a)   The private operator permit fee shall be $30 per truck per year
beginning January 1 of any year, provided that any permit issued after August 1
of any year, for the balance of the year, shall be one-half of the yearly sum.
The fees shall be paid to the Board.
         (b)   Operator permits shall not be transferable and shall be carried
on the vehicle at all times.
      (4)   Exemption. The provisions of this section shall not apply to any
person disposing of his or her own refuse.
(Prior Code, § 93.04) (Ord. 2432-1969, passed - -) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.005 COLLECTION PRACTICES.
   (A)   The city or its duly authorized agency shall collect all garbage and
rubbish which is deposited in proper containers and properly placed for
collection as prescribed by this chapter. The scheduling of routes and
collection days, including special holiday week provisions, shall be determined
by the Manager of the City Sanitary District. Where applicable, the container
and all its parts shall be replaced by the collection agent in a position that
complies with the chapter.
      (1)   All containers shall be placed for collection not earlier than the
evening prior to collection, nor later than 6:00 a.m. on the collection day.
      (2)   All containers shall be removed from the collection sites within 12
hours after the collection service has been performed, with the exception of
stationary containers leased or provided by Sanitary District (three cubic yard
containers).
   (B)   Limitation of service: the types and locations of business and
industries to be provided with collection services shall be at the discretion
of the Board, by its approved service agreement.
   (C)   There shall be a maximum weekly limit of 180 gallons of garbage and
rubbish per single-family generator in up to two “Rosie Rollers” provided by
the City Sanitary District. The use of said Rosie Rollers shall be mandatory.
Any garbage or rubbish not placed in a Rosie Roller will not be collected,
except that up to three 40-pound bundles of brush tied in four foot lengths may
be substituted for one Rosie Roller.
   (D)   Limitations of material collected:
      (1)   The Board shall not be required to collect and dispose of
construction and industrial refuse. Construction refuse shall be removed within
ten days after completion of construction work;
      (2)   Bulky items, such as discarded stoves, refrigerators, furniture and
so forth, will be collected only by prior arrangement with the collection
agency;
      (3)   Yard waste: tree limbs up to three inches in diameter and less than
12 feet long, a pile of limbs or brush up to two cubic yards; bundles up to
four feet long and two feet in diameter weighing less than 40 pounds; leaves
and garden waste, weeds, flowers, vegetables, straw, hay or similar material
will be collected only by prior arrangement;
      (4)   No grass clippings shall be collected; and
      (5)   No explosive material or item shall be placed in any refuse
container.
   (E)   Equipment used for collection and transportation of garbage or rubbish
in the city shall have suitably constructed, sanitary type, all enclosed bodies
with water-tight beds. Equipment other than the above shall be approved by the
Manager of the Sanitary District or the Health Officer.
(Prior Code, § 93.05) (Ord. 93-1998, passed - -)
§ 52.006 OWNER OR OCCUPANT TO REMOVE REFUSE FROM PREMISES.
   The owner, occupant or lessee of any premises in the city shall cause to be
removed from the premises all refuse, and shall keep the premises at all times
free and clear of any accumulation refuse, which shall not include a maintained
and managed (defined as preventing any offensive odor) compost pile. A
violation of this section shall be subject to the penalty provision of §
52.999 and/or the provisions of §§
52.025 through
52.028.
(Prior Code, § 93.06) (Ord. 10-2001, passed - -) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.007 UNSANITARY DISPOSAL OR PLACEMENT OF REFUSE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit or place any refuse in
any alley, street, river or other public place within the city, nor shall any
person deposit or place any refuse on private property, whether owned by the
person or not, within the city limits unless the refuse is enclosed in an
approved container, or as specified herein. However, any person who immediately
destroys the refuse upon his or her own premises to the satisfaction of the
Health Officer shall not be required to place the refuse in a container.
   (B)   Improper or unsanitary condition of refuse container and area shall be
reported to the owner by a properly authorized official of the Board.
Containers found to be in violation of this chapter must be replaced within a
period of seven days under penalty provided in §
52.027.
   (C)   After due notice has been given to the responsible person to dispose
of defective or illegal containers, they may be collected as a public nuisance,
and costs of cleanup assessed per §
52.028, or subject to penalty of the city code.
(Prior Code, § 93.07) (Ord. 62-1999, passed - -; Ord. 10-2001, passed - -
) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.008 BURNING OF REFUSE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall dispose of refuse by open burning, or cause, suffer, allow
or permit open burning of refuse, unless a service agreement has been acquired
from the State Fire Marshal.
(Prior Code, § 93.08) (Ord. 62-1999, passed - -) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.009 APPROVED METHOD OF DISPOSAL.
   All disposal of refuse shall be by an approved method of incineration, by
garbage grinding, by sanitary landfill cover, or combination of the above
methods and sites to be approved by the Manager of the Sanitary District and
the State Department of Environmental Management.
(Prior Code, § 93.09) (Ord. 62-1999, passed - -) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.010 OWNERSHIP OF REFUSE.
   All refuse placed in a disposal area operated by the Board shall become the
property of the city and no person shall be allowed to separate and collect,
carry off or dispose of it except under written direction of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 93.10) (Ord. 62-1999, passed - -) Penalty, see §
52.999
PUBLIC TRASH NUISANCE
§ 52.025 ACCUMULATION OF TRASH, RUBBISH OR GARBAGE IS PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   The Common Council has determined that an accumulation of refuse, including
trash, rubbish or garbage is detrimental to the health, safety and welfare of
the people of the city. Accumulation of refuse is a public nuisance. A
violation of this section shall be subject to the penalty provision of §
52.999 and/or the provisions of §§
52.025 through
52.028.
(Prior Code, § 93.15) (Ord. 10-2001, passed - -) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.026 OWNER NOT TO PERMIT PUBLIC NUISANCE ON PREMISES.
   (A)   The owner of any premises within the city shall not permit the
existence of such a public nuisance on any private premises or transfer the
nuisance from private premises to adjacent public premises.
   (B)   It shall be a violation of this code for any owner to permit the
existence of a public nuisance as herein described and if any owner shall not
remove the public nuisance after notice by a sanitary inspector, the City
Sanitary District shall cause the public nuisance to be removed and the cost of
the removal charged to the owner of the property on which the public nuisance
exists.
(Prior Code, § 93.16) (Ord. 10-2001, passed - -) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.027 WRITTEN NOTICE OF PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Any sanitary inspector who shall find that the owner of any premises is
permitting such a public nuisance to exist shall notify the owner by notice in
writing, sent to the owner by United States mail that:
   (A)   The owner is maintaining a public nuisance;
   (B)   The owner shall cause the nuisance to be removed within seven days of
the date of the notice;
   (C)   If the owner fails to have the nuisance removed, the City Sanitary
District will cause the public nuisance to be removed; and
   (D)   The cost of the removal of the public nuisance will be charged to the
owner of the premises on which the public nuisance exists.
(Prior Code, § 93.17) (Ord. 62-1999, passed - -) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.028 REMOVAL OF NUISANCE BY CITY SANITARY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Should the owner(s) fail to remove the public nuisance within seven
days from date of notice, the City Sanitary District shall remove the public
nuisance either by use of the personnel and equipment of the City Sanitary
District or by hiring a private contractor to remove the nuisance.
   (B)   City Sanitary District shall determine the cost of removal of the
nuisance and shall immediately send a bill for the removal to the owner of the
premises which shall be due and payable to City Sanitary District within ten
days of the date of the bill.
   (C)   Should the owner fail to pay the charges for the removal of the
nuisance within ten days, the city through its Department of Law shall proceed
with collection under its general enforcement practice in a court of
appropriate jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 93.18) (Ord. 62-1999, passed - -) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.029 CITY TO COLLECT FEES.
   When any sum of money is collected by the city as herein above set out,
including fines, the sums shall be paid to City Sanitary District.
(Prior Code, § 93.19) (Ord. 62-1999, passed - -)
§ 52.030 CONTAINER USER FEE.
   City Sanitary District shall assess and collect user fees for the use of
refuse containers according to the following schedule.
   (A)   Three cubic yard containers. Commercial, multi-family and
institutional users shall pay the annual rate as follows: $80 per year
(prepaid) per one three-cubic-yard container that conforms to automatic side-
loading vehicles. Prepayment of container will be required before container is
delivered.
      (1)   User will be charged on a fiscal year basis, by invoice. The time
at which the rates or charges shall be paid is now fixed at 30 days after the
date of mailing of the invoice. In the event the user is past due on payment of
container fee, the user will be sent a past due notice. If user does not pay
within 30 days after the date of mailing of past due notice, the container
shall be retired by City Sanitary District.
      (2)   In the event two or three commercial users are sharing a container
and user fee is shared, if one of said users is delinquent in payment and has
been sent a past due notice and still has not made payment, the user will be
sent a letter stating he or she may no longer use the container. The formula
for cost shall be redistributed among paying users. Prohibited use violations
shall be considered private property trespass, and may be subject to criminal
and civil litigation. Persistent non-payment of shared containers shall cause
termination of the lease agreement, and each individual may sublet individual
containers at his or her own risk, provided that all sublets are identified to
City Sanitary District as valid users.
      (3)   Multi-family residential users (three units or more) shall pay the
rate prescribed above for one three cubic yard container that conforms to
automatic side-loading vehicles.
         (a)   Owners of multi-family dwellings shall provide at least one
three cubic yard container for every multiple of four units, and one container
for the remaining fraction of less than four units. Any deviation or alteration
to this requirement shall be made in writing by the Manager of the City
Sanitary District.
         (b)   The above owners shall acquire a solid waste service agreement
as described in §
52.004. Failure to acquire the proper service agreement shall exclude the user
of any privilege accorded a resident of City Sanitary District including the
disposal facilities, sanitary sewer and other services.
   (B)   “Rosie Roller” containers. All single- or two-family residential users
shall be required to use Rosie Roller containers as approved by the Board. All
single- or two-family users shall be limited to a maximum of two Rosie Rollers
per unit. The first Rosie Roller per unit shall be provided without charge by
the City Sanitary District. There shall be a charge of $1 per month per
container for the second Rosie Roller per unit. Any user desiring a second
Rosie Roller shall be billed on an annual basis, and must pay said fee in
advance.
      (1)   Trailer parks: individual residents in trailer parks may have a
Rosie Roller. If the landlord pays the sewer bill for trailer park and does not
give approval for the $1 fee to be added to sewer bill, then said resident will
be billed on an individual basis. The invoice will be mailed one time per year
for total rental amount due, paid in advance.
      (2)   Exceptions to the size of the 90 gallon Rosie Roller optional
containers may be granted if the user is physically impaired and the household
requires only one container.
   (C)   Eighteen cubic yard containers. (Roll-offs) are available by written
request, including a $5 drop charge, paid in advance. Said container shall be
placed in compliance with the written instructions for a period of
approximately 48 hours. This container cannot be used for the removal of
construction or re- roofing materials, tires, dirt, gravel and automobile
parts.
   (D)   Prohibitions. Failure to abide by the operating procedures for these
containers shall result in additional charges for damage, any additional out of
pocket expense, and/or civil litigation, at the discretion of the Board of
Sanitary Commissioners.
   (E)   Exceptions. Any exception or variance to the above fees and uses may
be granted by the Board of Sanitary Commissioners. All requests for variances
must be presented in writing to the Board of Sanitary Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 93.20) (Ord. 93-1998, passed - -) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999.
   (B)   (1)   A second violation of §
52.006 upon the same premises within the same calendar year shall result in a
fine of $100, and a third violation upon the same premises within the same
calendar year shall result in a fine of $250.
(Prior Code, § 93.06)
      (2)   A violation of §
52.007 shall be subject to the penalty provision of division (A) above and/or
the provisions of §§
52.025 through
52.028; provided, a second violation of §
52.007 upon the same premises within the same calendar year shall result in a
fine of $100, and a third violation upon the same premises within the same
calendar year shall result in a fine of $250.
(Prior Code, § 93.07)
      (3)   A second violation of §
52.025 upon the same premises within the same calendar year shall result in a
fine of $100, and a third violation upon the same premises within the same
calendar year shall result in a fine of $250.
(Prior Code, § 93.15)
      (4)   A second violation of §
52.026 upon the same premises within the same calendar year shall result in a
fine of $100, and a third violation upon the same premises within the same
calendar year shall result in a fine of $250.
(Prior Code, § 93.16)
(Ord. 10-2001, passed - -)
CHAPTER 53: ELECTRICITY
Section
   
53.001   Electric Utility
   
53.002   Electric service rates
   
53.003   Emergency electric curtailment rules
   
53.004   Common Council Executive Committee for Electric Utility
   
53.005   Electricity shutoff
   
53.006   Winter disconnections
   
53.007   Complaints and reviews
   
53.008   Cost of service study criteria
§ 53.001 ELECTRIC UTILITY.
   The operation, management and control of City Power and Light (formerly the
municipal electric lighting and power plant) shall be by and under the power
and authority of the Common Council of the city according to and under the
powers and authority established by I.C. 8-1-2-1 et seq., as amended and
supplemented.
(Prior Code, § 52.01) (Ord. 1085-1935, passed - -; Ord. 1813-1960, passed - -)
§ 53.002 ELECTRIC SERVICE RATES.
   The rate for electric utility service shall be as set, from time to time, by
legislative authority.
(Prior Code, § 52.02) (Ord. 18-2015, passed 3-16-2015)
§ 53.003 EMERGENCY ELECTRIC CURTAILMENT RULES.
   The rules for emergency electric curtailment shall be as set forth in the
program “Emergency Curtailment and Load Reduction Plan for Indiana Electric
Utilities”, appendix to Ord. 13-1978, and made a part of this chapter as though
fully restated herein.
(Prior Code, § 52.03) (Ord. 13-1978, passed - -)
§ 53.004 COMMON COUNCIL EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE FOR ELECTRIC UTILITY.
   (A)   Common Council Executive Committee for Electric Utility. An Executive
Committee is established. The Committee is to be comprised of seven voting
members: the Chairperson of the Board, the Chairperson of the Finance
Committee, the Chairperson of the Personnel Committee, the Chairperson of the
Street Light Committee, the General Manager, the Manager of Finance and the
Manager of Transmission and Distribution. Each member shall hold office for a
period of one year, commencing on January 15 of each year.
(Prior Code, § 52.04)
   (B)   Powers and duties of the Executive Committee.
      (1)   The Executive Committee shall have the following duties:
         (a)   To recommend the hiring of management and the fixing of
salaries;
         (b)   To make recommendations concerning the hiring of consultants and
the cost pertaining thereto;
         (c)   To recommend the borrowing of money, the issuance of bonds,
notes or other obligations, and evidence of indebtedness therefor;
         (d)   To study and recommend question of general policy with regard to
business of the utility;
         (e)   To make recommendations as to rates and declaration of dividends
to the city; and
         (f)   To make recommendations regarding existing or proposed
contractual agreements of the utility.
      (2)   The Board of Directors retains any and all power of final
authorization except as those powers specifically designated to the Executive
Committee or any other committee.
      (3)   The Executive Committee shall report all its actions to the Board
of Directors.
(Prior Code, § 52.05)
   (C)   Meetings of the Executive Committee. The meetings of the Executive
Committee shall be called by the Manager of Personnel acting as Secretary to
the Executive Committee at the direction and request of the General Manager,
Chairperson or any two members of the Executive Committee. Notice of such
meetings shall in each instance be given in writing to each member of the
Committee at least 48 hours before the meeting.
(Prior Code, § 52.06)
   (D)   Expenditures and activities approved for Electric Utility.
      (1)   The General Manager is authorized to take out memberships for RP&L
for the City Area Chamber of Commerce, City Area Management Association,
National Association of Accountants, American Society for Personnel
Administration and other organizations of a similar nature which the General
Manager deems will further the objectives and operations of RP&L.
      (2)   Employees of RP&L who attend, on behalf of RP&L, luncheons, dinner
meetings, conferences and activities of a similar nature shall be reimbursed
for their meals and incidental expenses related to such attendance. In
addition, guests of RP&L attending conferences and meetings on behalf of RP&L,
shall have their meals paid for by RP&L.
      (3)   RP&L is authorized to pay the entry fees for its employees in
bowling leagues, softball leagues, and is further authorized to pay for the
incidental equipment for its employees, including bowling shirts, softball
jerseys, related athletic equipment, incidental expenses related to such
recreational activities and the rental of facilities.
      (4)   RP&L is authorized to pay for community service advertising which
will further its customer relations and community standing including holiday
greetings, advertisements in city area publications and such other advertising
expenses of a similar nature.
      (5)   RP&L is authorized to pay educational and instructional course
expense of a reasonable nature for its utility employees.
      (6)   RP&L is authorized to engage in and pay for civic expenses and
activities of a reasonable nature required by the Common Council or other
governmental officials of a reasonable nature.
      (7)   RP&L is authorized to pay expenses incurred in promoting good
customer relations with its residential, industrial and commercial purchasers
of power.
      (8)   RP&L is authorized to engage in activities and expenditures of a
reasonable nature which will promote good relations with its employees
including, but limited to, the issuance of award plaques, the sending of
flowers to employees and their families as occasions warrant, and activities of
a similar nature.
      (9)   RP&L is authorized to advance to its employees funds that may be
required by them to travel on behalf of RP&L.
      (10)   Expenditures and activities of RP&L in conformity with the
provisions herein made by RP&L, are retroactively approved.
      (11)   Color Weather Radar Signal Service.
         (a)   The Council hereby authorizes RP&L to provide color weather
radar service to members of the public located in the service area of RP&L or
Clearview Cable TV, Inc. utilizing its employees, funds and facilities and the
facilities of Clearview Cable TV, Inc.
         (b)   The General Manager of RP&L is hereby authorized to enter into
an agreement with Clearview Cable TV, Inc. as may be required to carry out the
purposes and provisions of this chapter.
         (c)   The General Manager or his or her designated employees are
hereby authorized to enter into agreements to provide color weather radar
signal service to members of the public under such terms and conditions as he
or she deems appropriate with the charge for said service to members of the
public to be reasonably related to the cost of said service.
         (d)   The General Manager of RP&L, its employees and agents are hereby
granted such authority as may be required to carry out the purposes and
provisions of this chapter including the execution of all necessary documents
and contracts.
(Prior Code, § 52.07)
(Res. 11-1979, passed - -; Ord. 1-1980, passed - -; Ord. 55-1983, passed - -)
§ 53.005 ELECTRICITY SHUTOFF.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      COMMISSION. The Public Service Commission of Indiana.
      CUSTOMER. For the purposes of this rule (170 I.A.C. 4).
      DISCONNECT. The termination or discontinuance of electric services.
   (B)   The customer shall notify the utility at least three days in advance
of the day disconnection is desired. The customer shall remain responsible for
all service used and the billings therefor until service is disconnected
pursuant to such notice. Upon request by a customer of a utility to disconnect
service, the utility shall disconnect the service within three working days of
the requested disconnection date. The customer shall not be liable for any
service rendered to such address or location after the expiration of three such
days.
   (C)   (1)   A utility may disconnect service without request by the customer
of the service and without prior notice only:
         (a)   If a condition dangerous or hazardous to life, physical safety
or property exists;
         (b)   Upon order by any court, the commission or other duly authorized
public authority;
         (c)   If fraudulent or unauthorized use of electricity is detected and
the utility has reasonable grounds to believe the affected customer is
responsible for such use; or
         (d)   If the utility’s regulating or measuring equipment has been
tampered with and the utility has reasonable grounds to believe that the
affected customer is responsible for such tampering.
      (2)   In all other instances a utility, upon providing the customer with
proper notice (as defined in division (F) below) may disconnect service subject
to the other provisions of these rules.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (A) and (B) above, a utility
shall postpone the disconnection of service for ten days if, prior to the
disconnect date specified in the disconnect notice, the customer provides the
utility with a medical statement from a licensed physician or public health
official which states that disconnection would be a serious and immediate
threat to the health or safety of a designated person in the household of the
customer. The postponement of disconnection shall be continued for one
additional ten-day period upon the provision of an additional such medical
statement.
   (E)   (1)   A utility may not disconnect services to the customer upon the
following; provided, however, that the utility may add to the outstanding bill
a late payment charge not to exceed the amount set pursuant to 170 I.A.C. 4-1-
13(c). Provided further, that the above terms of agreement shall be put in
writing by the utility and signed by the customer and by a representative of
the utility:
         (a)   Upon his or her failure to pay for merchandise or appliances;
         (b)   Upon his or her failure to pay for the service rendered at a
different metering point, residence or location if such bill has remained
unpaid for less than 45 days;
         (c)   Upon his or her failure to pay for services to a previous
occupant of premises to be served;
         (d)   Upon his or her failure to pay for a different form or class of
utility service; or
         (e)   If the customer or user shows cause for his or her inability to
pay the full amount due (financial hardship shall constitute cause), and said
customer:
            1.   Pays a reasonable portion (not to exceed $10 or one-tenth of
the bill whichever is less unless the customer agrees to a greater portion) of
the bill;
            2.   Agrees to pay the remainder of the outstanding bill within
three months;
            3.   Agrees to pay all undisputed future bills for service as they
become due; and
            4.   Has not breached any similar agreement with the utility made
pursuant to this section within the past 12 months.
         (f)   If a customer or user is unable to pay a bill, which is
unusually large due to a prior incorrect reading of the meter, incorrect
application of the rate schedule, incorrect connection or functioning of the
meter, prior estimates where no actual reading was taken for over two months,
stopped or slow meters, or any human or mechanical error of the utility, and
the customer:
            1.   Pays a reasonable portion of the bill, not to exceed an amount
equal to the customer’s average bill for the six bills immediately preceding
the bill in question;
            2.   Agrees to pay the remainder at a reasonable rate; and
            3.   Agrees to pay all undisputed future bills for service as they
become due.
      (2)   Provided, however, that the utility may not add to the outstanding
bill any late fee. Provided, further that the above terms of agreement shall be
put in writing by the utility and signed by the customer and a representative
of the utility.
      (3)   If a customer proceeds with a review pursuant to 170 I.A.C. 16-1-3,
the utility may disconnect only as provided in 170 I.A.C. 16-1-7.
   (F)   No utility may disconnect service unless it is done between the hours
of 8:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m., prevailing local time. Disconnections pursuant to
divisions (A) and (B) above are not subject to this limitation. A utility may
not disconnect service for nonpayment on any day, or beyond 12:00 noon of the
day immediately preceding any day, on which the utility office is not open to
the public.
   (G)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided herein, electric service to any
residential customer shall not be disconnected for a violation of any rule or
regulation of a utility or for the non-payment of bill except after 14 days’
prior written notice to such customer by either:
         (a)   Mailing the notice to such residential customer at the address
shown on the records of the public utility; or
         (b)   Personal delivery of the notice to the residential customer or a
responsible member of his or her household at the address shown on the records
of the utility.
      (2)   No disconnect notice for non-payment may be rendered prior to the
date on which the account becomes delinquent. The notice must be in language
which is clear, concise and easily understandable to a layperson and shall
state in separately numbered large types or printed paragraphs;
      (3)   The date of proposed disconnection;
      (4)   The specific factual basis and reason for the proposed
disconnection; and
      (5)   The telephone number of the utility office which the customer may
call during regular business hours in order to question the proposed
disconnection or seek information concerning his or her rights.
   (H)   Immediately preceding the actual disconnection of service, the
employee of the utility designated to perform such function shall make a
reasonable attempt to identify himself or herself to the customer or any other
responsible person then upon the premises and shall announce the purpose of his
or her presence and shall make a record thereof to be maintained for at least
30 days. The employee shall have in his or her possession information
sufficient to enable him or her to inform the customer or other responsible
person the reason for disconnection, including the amount of any delinquent
bill of the customer, and shall request the customer for any available
verification that the outstanding bill has been satisfied or is currently in
dispute pursuant to review. Upon the presentation of such credible evidence,
service shall not be disconnected. The employee shall not be required to accept
payment from the customer, user, or other responsible person in order to
prevent the service from being disconnected. The utility shall notify its
customers of its policy with regard to the acceptance or non-acceptance of
payment from such employee, and shall uniformly follow such policy without
discrimination. When the employee has disconnected the service, the employee
shall give to a responsible person at the user’s premises or, if no one is at
home, shall leave at a conspicuous place on the premises, a notice stating that
service has been disconnected and stating the address and telephone number of
the utility where the user may arrange to have service reconnected.
   (I)   A utility may charge a reasonable reconnection charge, not to exceed
the charge approved by the Commission in the utility’s filed tariffs. A utility
shall inform its customers of such reconnection fee. If the utility disconnects
service in violation of this rule, the service shall immediately be restored at
no charge to the customer.
   (J)   The utility must reconnect the service to the customer or user as soon
as reasonably possible but at least within one working day after it is
requested to do so if the customer has satisfied the requirements of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 52.08)
§ 53.006 WINTER DISCONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Without customer request, a utility may not, during the period from
December 1 through March 15, disconnect electric residential service to any
customer who either is receiving or who is eligible for and has applied for
assistance under I.C. 4-27-5.
   (B)   During the period from December 1 through March 15, a utility may not
disconnect service to such customers if:
      (1)   The customers’ eligibility to receive benefits pursuant to I.C. 4-
27-5 is being determined by the Department on Aging and Community Services or
its designee after the submission of a complete application for benefits by the
customer; and
      (2)   The customer has furnished to the utility proof of his or her
application to receive such benefits or the utility has been so notified in
writing by the Department of Aging and Community Services or its authorized
representatives.
   (C)   This rule does not prohibit a utility from terminating residential
electric service upon the request of a customer or under the following
circumstances:
      (1)   If a condition dangerous or hazardous to life, physical safety or
property exists;
      (2)   Upon order by any court, the commission or other duly authorized
public authority;
      (3)   If fraudulent or unauthorized use of electricity is detected, and
the utility has reasonable grounds to believe the affected customer is
responsible for such use; and
      (4)   If the utility’s regulating or measuring equipment has been
tampered with and the utility has reasonable grounds to believe that the
affected customer is responsible for such tampering.
(Prior Code, § 52.09)
§ 53.007 COMPLAINTS AND REVIEWS.
   (A)   Complaint procedure.
      (1)   A customer may complain at any time to a utility about any bill
which is not delinquent at that time, security deposit, disconnection notice or
any other matter relating to its service and may request a conference thereon.
Such complaints may be made in person, in writing, or by completing a form
available from either the Commission or from the utility at its business
offices. A complaint shall be considered filed upon receipt by the utility,
except mailed complaints shall be considered filed on the postmarked date. In
making a complaint and/or request for conference, the customer shall state at a
minimum, his or her name, service address and the general nature of his or her
complaint.
      (2)   Upon receiving each such complaint or request for conference, the
utility shall promptly, thoroughly and completely investigate such complaint,
confer with the customer when requested and notify, in writing, the customer of
the results of its proposed disposition of the complaint after having made a
good faith attempt to resolve the complaint.
   (B)   Review.
      (1)   If the customer is dissatisfied with the utility’s proposed
disposition of the complaint as provided in division (A)(2) above, he or she
may request the City Council in writing within seven days following the date in
which such notification is mailed, to informally review the disputed issue and
the utility’s proposed disposition thereof. Such request shall certify that the
customer has also sent a copy of his or her request for review to the utility
involved. Upon receiving such request, the Council shall provide an informal
review within 21 days. The review shall consist of not less than a prompt and
thorough investigation of the dispute and shall result in a written decision to
be mailed to the customer and the utility within 30 days after its receipt of
the customer’s request. Upon request by either party or the Council, the
parties shall be required to meet and confer to the extent and at such place as
the Council may consider to be appropriate.
      (2)   The records of the Council relating to such reviews shall be kept
in a systematic order.
   (C)   Continuation of service pending disposition of complaint.
      (1)   If the customer is receiving service at the time the complaint and/
or request for conference provided for in division (A)(1) above is received by
the utility, his or her service shall not be disconnected until ten days have
elapsed from the date of mailing of the notification of the utility’s proposed
disposition of his or her complaint. Provided, however, that if a review by the
Council of the utility’s proposed disposition of the complaint is requested by
the customer as provided by division (B)(1) above within seven days after the
mailing of such proposed disposition of the complaint, the utility shall not
disconnect the customer’s service until at least three days have elapsed from
the date of mailing of the Council’s decision upon and pursuant to such review
has paid and continues to pay all undisputed bills, portions of disputed bills
as specified in division (C)(2) below, and pays all future undisputed bills
prior to their becoming delinquent.
      (2)   In those instances when the customer and utility cannot agree as to
what portion of a bill is undisputed, it shall be sufficient that the customer
pay on the disputed bill an amount equal to his or her average bill for the six
bills, in which event the customer shall pay an amount equal to the average
(arithmetical mean) of such bills as have been received.
   (D)   Record of complaints. Each utility shall keep a written record of
complaints and requests for conferences pursuant to this section. Such records
shall be retained at the office or branch office of the utility or in the
respective department office thereof where such complaints were received and/or
any conferences were subsequently held. Such written records are to be readily
available upon request by the concerned customer, his or her agent possessing
written authorization, or the Commission.
(Prior Code, § 52.10) (Ord. 39-1984, passed - -)
§ 53.008 COST OF SERVICE STUDY CRITERIA.
   (A)   Cost of service studies will be completed by a third-party consulting
firm with expertise in assessing the costs associated with and rate structures
associated with providing electrical services by municipally-owned electric
utilities.
   (B)   Programs, such as the winter assistance program from the Interlocal
Community Assistance Program (ICAP), will be honored.
   (C)   Guidelines established by the IURC for service disconnection due to
non-payment and reconnections will be utilized.
   (D)   Guidelines established by the IURC for fees assessed due to late and
non-payment will be utilized.
   (E)   Rate adjustments for RPL require adherence to state law processes and
procedures, including customer protection via the requirement for non-
discriminatory, reasonable and just charges pursuant to I.C. 8-1.5-3-8,
customer input at public hearings and rate adjustments approved by elected
public officials.
(Ord. 47-2022, passed 10-18-2022)
CHAPTER 54: WATERWORKS
Section
   
54.001   Fluoridation of water
§ 54.001 FLUORIDATION OF WATER.
   (A)   The waterworks corporation is directed to provide the means for and to
proceed with the addition of sufficient quantities of fluoride compound to the
public water supply to bring the total amount of fluoride ions present in the
finished water to the optimum concentration recommended by the State Board of
Health.
   (B)   The plans and specifications for the installation of the necessary
equipment and detailed plans for the operations involved in the introduction of
the fluoride compounds into the water supply shall promptly be submitted by the
waterworks corporation to the State Board of Health.
   (C)   On the receipt of the approval of the plans and specifications by the
State Board of Health for the furnishing of the service provided for in
division (A) above, the waterworks corporation shall proceed to fluoridate the
water supply furnished to the city and its inhabitants within the period of
time as provided therein.
(Prior Code, § 51.01) (Ord. 1889-1961, passed - -)
CHAPTER 55: STORM WATER MANAGEMENT
Section
Department of Storm Water Management
   
55.001   Adoption of state law
   
55.002   Creation of special district
   
55.003   Purpose and objective
   
55.004   Power and jurisdiction
   
55.005   Definitions
   
55.006   Storm water service charge
   
55.007   Storm water service rate establishment procedures
   
55.008   Rate structure and calculation
   
55.009   Billings; terms of payment
   
55.010   Appeals of ERU determination
   
55.011   Credit policies and procedure
   
55.012   Private storm water facilities outletting to public drainage system
   
55.013   Storm Water Revenue Fund
   
55.014   Delinquent fees and penalties as liens; duplicates; collection
   
55.015   Severability
   
55.016   Expiration of rates for bond debt
   
55.017   Effective date
 
   
55.999   Penalty
DEPARTMENT OF STORM WATER MANAGEMENT
§ 55.001 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW.
   A Department of Storm Water Management is hereby created by the city. In
conjunction therewith, the provisions of I.C. 8-1.5-5-1 et seq., including any
amendments or substitutions therein, are hereby adopted. The control, operation
and financing of the Department and Storm Water District shall be controlled
pursuant to the terms of the state law, and the Board of Storm Water Management
to be created by such laws, shall have full power and authority to take any and
all actions set out within the state law, including, but not limited to,
financing the facilities through any method controlled by I.C. 8-1.5-5-7.
(Prior Code, § 59.01)
§ 55.002 CREATION OF SPECIAL DISTRICT.
   Pursuant to I.C. 8-1.5-5-5, a special Storm Water Management District is
hereby established the boundaries of which shall be consistent with the
corporate boundaries of the city.
(Prior Code, § 59.02)
§ 55.003 PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVE.
   (A)   The mission of the City Department of Storm Water Management is to
develop, implement, operate and adequately and equitably fund the acquisition,
construction, operation, maintenance and regulation of the storm water
collection and drainage systems and activities in the city, including, without
limitation, sewer separation and other improvements to the existing combined
sewers of the city.
   (B)   The Department shall safely and efficiently control storm water
runoff, enhance public health and safety, protect lives and property,
facilitate mobility and enable access to homes and businesses throughout the
community during storms, complement and support other city programs and
objectives, control the discharge of pollutants in storm water to receiving
waters and enhance the natural resources of the community.
(Prior Code, § 59.03)
§ 55.004 POWER AND JURISDICTION.
   (A)   General powers of the Department. The Department shall have exclusive
departmental jurisdiction over the collection and conveyance of storm water
within the city and the combined sewers in the city, and shall possess the
following general powers:
      (1)   Install, maintain and operate the storm water collection and
conveyance system and the combined sewers of the city;
      (2)   Make all necessary or desirable improvements to the storm water
collection and conveyance system and the combined sewers of the city (including
all appropriate actions taken with respect to sewer separation), and, when
determined to be the best interests of the city, to acquire or otherwise assume
jurisdiction over any other improvements or facilities relating to the control
of storm water collection an conveyance currently owned or under the
jurisdiction of other parties;
      (3)   Establish and enforce the rules, regulations, policies and
procedures promulgated by the Department as the same may be approved by the
Board of Storm Water Management and, if appropriate, the Common Council of the
city;
      (4)   Hold hearings and make findings and determinations to carry out the
policies and procedures of the Department with respect to the use of the storm
water system by the users thereof and the proper rates and changes imposed on
such users; and
      (5)   Recommend to the Board of Storm Water Management and the Common
Council of the city reasonable and just rates and charges for services to the
users of the storm water collection and conveyance system and combined sewers
of the city.
   (B)   Board of Storm Water Management. The Department, through the Director,
shall report directly to the Board of Storm Water Management of the city. The
Board of Storm Water Management shall perform all necessary administrative
policy-making oversight of the operations of the Department.
   (C)   Storm water system jurisdiction. It is the intent of this chapter to
vest in the Department the full and exclusive departmental jurisdiction over
the collection and conveyance of storm water within the city. Notwithstanding
anything in this subchapter to the contrary, the Board of Sanitary
Commissioners shall continue to levy annually the special benefits tax
authorized under I.C. 36-9-25 in an amount sufficient to pay all debt service
on outstanding bonds of the Sanitary District for each respective year until
final retirement of all outstanding bonds of the Sanitary District.
(Prior Code, § 59.04)
§ 55.005 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   APPLICANT. The owner of land requesting a drainage credit or his or her
agent or his or her legal representative.
   BOARD. The Storm Water Management Board.
   CITY. The City of Richmond, Indiana or designated party.
   COMBINED SEWER. Pipe or conduit primarily used to convey sanitary sewage and
secondarily intended to convey storm water.
   CUSTOMER (OR USER). A property owner benefitting from the storm water
system.
   DEPARTMENT. The Department of Storm Water Management established under §
55.001.
   DETENTION. The temporary storage of storm runoff in a basin, pond or other
structural or non-structural device to control the peak discharge rates by
holding the storm water for a lengthened period of time and which provides
gravity-settling of pollutants.
   DETENTION FACILITY. A facility constructed for the purpose of mitigating
storm water runoff from a developed site to control the peak discharge rates
that is normally maintained either as a dry basin or with a permanent pool of
water.
   DEVELOPED. The condition of real property altered from its natural state by
the addition to or construction on such property of impervious surfaces or
physical improvements such that the hydrology of the property or a portion
thereof is affected.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of Public Works and Engineering of the City of
Richmond, Indiana.
   DITCH, LEGAL. Any drainage system under the jurisdiction of the Wayne County
Drainage Board as of the date of enactment of this chapter.
   DITCH, OPEN. A relatively deep drainage channel which may have a continuous
water flow. OPEN DITCHES are outlets for both surface, subsurface or storm
sewer drainage systems.
   DRAIN. Relative to storm water drainage, any sewer, tile, ditch, stream or
other storm water runoff conveyance channel or conduit.
   DRAINAGE EASEMENT. The land required for the installation of storm water
sewers or drainage ditches, or required along a natural stream or watercourse
for preserving the channel and providing for the flow of water therein to
safeguard the public against flood damage.
   DRAINAGE FACILITIES. All ditches, channels, conduits, retention-detention
systems, tiles, drainage swales, sewers and other natural or artificial means
of draining storm water from land.
   DRAINAGE REQUIREMENTS.
      (1)   Minimum drainage standards as established by this subchapter;
      (2)   Regulations promulgated by the Board of Storm Water Management of
the city;
      (3)   Obligations and requirements relating to drainage established under
the subdivision control ordinance of the city;
      (4)   Requirements contained in the zoning ordinance of the city,
including floodway zoning requirements;
      (5)   Obligations and requirements relating to drainage established under
the Drainage Board of the county; and
      (6)   Conditions relating to drainage attached to a grant of variance by
the Board of Zoning Appeals of the city.
   DRAINAGE SUBSURFACE. A system of pipes, tile, conduit or tubing installed
beneath the ground used to collect underground water from individual parcels,
lots, building footings or pavements.
   DRAINAGE SURFACE. A system by which the storm water runoff is conducted to
an outlet. This would include the proper grading of parking lots, streets,
driveways and yards so that storm runoff is removed without ponding and flows
to a drainage swale, open ditch or a storm sewer.
   DRAINAGE SWALE. A natural or constructed waterway, usually broad and
shallow, covered with erosion-resistant grasses, used to conduct surface water
from a field, diversion or other site feature.
   DRAINAGE SYSTEM. Any combination of surface and/or subsurface drainage
components fulfilling all applicable drainage requirements.
   EASEMENT. A grant by the property owner of the use of a strip of land by the
public, a corporation or other legal entity for specified purposes.
   ERU. Equivalent residential unit, equal to the average amount of impervious
area found on a typical single-family residential parcel, which is 2,980 square
feet. Therefore, one ERU equals 2,980 square feet of impervious area.
   IMPERVIOUS AREA. Area within developed land that prevents or significantly
impedes the infiltration of storm water into the soil. Including in this
definition are areas that have been paved and/or covered with buildings and
materials which include, but are not limited to, concrete asphalt, rooftop and
blacktop, such that the infiltration of water into the soil is prevented.
Excluded from this definition are undisturbed land, lawns and fields.
   INFILTRATION. A complex process of allowing runoff to penetrate the ground
surface and flow through the upper soil surface.
   LAND ALTERATION. Any action taken relative to land which either:
      (1)   Changes the contour;
      (2)   Increases the runoff;
      (3)   Changes the elevation;
      (4)   Decreases the rate at which water is absorbed;
      (5)   Changes the drainage pattern;
      (6)   Creates or changes a drainage facility;
      (7)   Involves construction, enlargement or location of any building on a
permanent foundation; or
      (8)   Creates an impoundment. LAND ALTERATION includes (by way of example
and not of limitation) terracing, grading, excavating, constructing earthwork,
draining, installing drainage tile, filling and paving.
   MAINTENANCE. Cleaning out of, spraying, removing obstructions from and
making minor repairs in a drainage facility to that it will perform the
function for which it was designed and constructed.
   NPDES. The national pollutant discharge elimination system, the EPA program
initiated to reduce and eliminate pollutants reaching water bodies of all
types.
   NPDES PERMIT. Storm water management permit required of municipalities and
certain industries by the EPA pursuant to § 402 of the Clean Water Act.
   PEAK DISCHARGE. The maximum rate of flow of water passing a given point
during or after a rainfall event. Sometimes called PEAK FLOW.
   PRIVATE STORM WATER FACILITIES. Various storm water and drainage works not
under the control or ownership of the city, the county, the state or the
federal government which may include inlets, conduits, pipes, pumping stations,
manholes, structures, channels, outlets, retention or detention basins, other
structural components and equipment designed to transport, move or regulate
storm water.
   PROPERTY OWNER. The individual, partnership, corporation or other legal
entity holding the deed or record title to real property.
   PUBLIC DRAINAGE SYSTEM. Various storm water and drainage works under the
control and/or ownership of the city, the county, the state or the federal
government which may include inlets, conduits, pipes, pumping stations,
manholes, structures, channels, outlets, retention or detention basins, other
structural components and equipment designed to transport, move or regulate
storm water.
   RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY. A lot or parcel of real estate on which a building or
mobile home is situated which building contains a group of rooms forming a
single inhabitable dwelling unit with facilities which are used or are intended
to be used primarily for living, sleeping, cooking and eating.
   RETENTION. The holding of storm water runoff in a constructed basin or pond
or in a natural body of water without release except by means of evaporation,
infiltration or emergency bypass.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any highway, street, avenue, boulevard, road, lane or alley
and includes the entire right-of-way for public use thereof and all surface and
subsurface improvements thereon including, without limitation, sidewalks,
curbs, shoulders, utility lines and mains.
   SEWER SEPARATION. A project intended to reduce the amount or rate of storm
water entering the wastewater treatment plant. SEWER SEPARATION projects
include, but are not limited to, new sanitary sewer construction with
conversion of combined sewer to storm sewer; new storm sewer construction with
conversion of combined sewer to sanitary sewer; combined sewage holding tanks;
and equalization tanks at the treatment plant or in the system.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer designed or intended to convey only storm water,
surface runoff, street wash waters and drainage, and not intended for sanitary
sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted cooling water. A STORM SEWER
begins at the grating or opening where water enters said sewer, through the
sewer and any other conduits to the outlet structure where water enters a
channel, natural watercourse or combined sewer.
   STORM WATER SERVICE CHARGE. A charge imposed on users of the storm water
system.
   STORM WATER SYSTEM. All constructed facilities, including combined sewers,
structures and natural watercourses owned by or under the jurisdiction of the
city used for collecting and conducting storm water to, through and from
drainage areas to the point of final outlet, including, but not limited to, any
and all of the following: inlets; conduits and appurtenant features; creeks;
channels; catch basins; ditches; streams; culverts; retention or detention
basins; and pumping stations.
(Prior Code, § 59.05)
§ 55.006 STORM WATER SERVICE CHARGE.
   (A)   A storm water service charge shall be imposed on each and every lot
and parcel of land within the city which directly or indirectly contributes to
the storm water system of the city, which charge shall be assessed against the
property owner thereof, who shall be considered the user for the purposes of
this chapter. This charge is deemed reasonable and is necessary to pay for the
repair, replacement, planning, improvement, operation, regulation and
maintenance of the existing and future storm water system.
   (B)   This chapter’s storm water service charge shall take effect no earlier
than July 1, 2007.
(Prior Code, § 59.06)
§ 55.007 STORM WATER SERVICE RATE ESTABLISHMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Basis for charge. The storm water service charge is designed to
recover the cost of rendering storm water service to the users of the storm
water system, and shall be the basis for assessment of the storm water service
charge. This rate is established so as to maintain adequate fund reserves to
provide for reasonably expected variations in the cost of providing services,
as well as variations in the demand for services.
   (B)   Charge for single-family residential properties. The storm water
service charge for all single-family residential properties shall be $6 per
month, based upon all single-family residential properties having a single ERU.
If a billing is for storm water service of less than one month, billing shall
be on a per-diem basis.
   (C)   Charges for all properties other than single-family residential
properties. The storm water service charge for all properties other than
single-family residential properties shall be a fixed customer charge of $4.50
per month per parcel plus a variable rate of $1.50 per month charge for each
ERU assessed on said property.
(Prior Code, § 59.07) (Ord. 10-2009, passed - -)
§ 55.008 RATE STRUCTURE AND CALCULATION.
   (A)   Generally. For the purposes stated in §
55.003, there is hereby assessed a storm water service charge for each property
owner owning land situated within the corporate limits of the city that
contributes directly or indirectly to the storm water system of the city, in an
amount as determined below.
   (B)   Impervious area. For any such property, lot, parcel of land, building
or premises which contribute directly or indirectly to the storm water system
of the city, such charge shall be based upon the quantity of impervious area
situated thereon. Impervious area of public rights-of-way and railroad lines
(which shall not be deemed to include adjacent property, such as a rail yard,
operated by a railroad), will not be included in the determination of a storm
water service charge.
   (C)   Classification of property. All properties within the city will be
assigned an equivalent residential unit (ERU), or a multiple thereof, with all
properties having impervious area assigned at least one ERU, as follows.
      (1)   Single-family residential properties. A monthly flat-rate charge
for storm water service rendered to single-family residential properties shall
be assessed to each single-family residential parcel within the city limits.
All single-family residential properties are hereby assigned one ERU.
      (2)   Other properties. Properties with impervious area other than those
containing a single-family residence will be assigned an ERU multiple based on
the total amount of impervious area on the property (measured in square feet)
divided by 2,980 square feet. ERU multiples shall be rounded to the nearest
whole integer.
   (D)   Land alterations. The issuance of any building permit or other action
which results in a land alteration of a property other than a single-family
residential property or a property that currently only contains a single-family
residence but will be no longer used for such purpose shall be cause to an
adjustment of the storm water service charge determined under this section. The
property owner shall have the obligation of informing the Department of any
such changes.
   (E)   Exceptions/exemptions. Except for public rights-of-way and railroad
lines, there shall be no exceptions or exemptions from the assignment of gross
storm water ERUs for any property with impervious area.
(Prior Code, § 59.08)
§ 55.009 BILLINGS; TERMS OF PAYMENT.
   (A)   Billings. All storm water service bills shall be rendered on a monthly
basis unless additional or prorated billing is required to reflect customer
changes, initial billings or is otherwise required to adjust billing cycles.
Charges for miscellaneous services or work performed on behalf of a storm water
customer by the Department shall be assessed at the time the work is completed
and shall be included in the customer’s next storm water service bill. Storm
water billing for a new property shall commence with the billing for water
service, the meter set date or date of occupancy whichever shall first occur.
Additional storm water charges for an established service address necessitated
by a change in the amount of impervious area at the property shall commence on
the date the new certificate of occupancy or compliance is issued. Billing
adjustments required to correct impervious area measurements shall be applied
retroactively to the date of the customer’s initial protest. Adjustments shall
be made by crediting the storm water service charge portion of the customer’s
utility account until any overpayment has been fully repaid.
   (B)   Rights and responsibilities of property owner. Charges for storm water
service shall remain the ultimate responsibility of the property owner,
including all penalties, recording fees, attorney fees, interest and court
costs. Fees assessed against real property constitute a lien against the
property assessed. For properties with inactive utility accounts where no water
charges have been generated for 60 days or more, a storm water only account
number will be issued to such property, payable by the owner of said property,
until water charges have been reinstated. A lien attaches against real property
occupied by someone other than the owner only if the Department of Storm Water
Management notifies the owner within 20 days after the time the user fees
became 60 days delinquent. However, the Department of Storm Water Management
must give notice to the owner only if the owner has given the Department of
Storm Water Management written notice of the address to which to send notice.
Storm water service charges attach to the property; provided, however, that if
a property owner sells or otherwise transfers such property billed for storm
water service, such property owner shall be responsible for the payment of all
bills rendered for storm water service until written notice of the transfer has
been provided to the City Utility Department, and the account may properly be
transferred to another customer.
   (C)   Terms of payment. The storm water service charges prescribed in §
55.007 shall be due on the payment date set out on the bill. It shall be a
violation of this chapter to fail to pay a storm water service bill when due.
All bills for storm water services not paid on or before the due date shall be
subject to a collection or deferred payment charge of 10% on the outstanding
balance. Moving from one location to another in no way absolves the customer
from responsibility for any unpaid charges incurred at a previous location.
   (D)   Bad check charge. Checks returned for non-sufficient funds will be
subject to reimbursement of the fee the banking institution charges the City
Utilities Department and an administrative charge to be established by the
Department not in excess of the amount provided in I.C. 35-43-5-5(e). A
customer submitting a bad check may be prohibited from making future storm
water service charge payments by check.
   (E)   Collection. Delinquent storm water service charges may be collected in
a civil action along with other delinquent city utility charges, reasonable
attorney fees and court costs.
(Prior Code, § 59.09)
§ 55.010 APPEALS OF ERU DETERMINATION.
   If, in the opinion of any property other than a single-family residential
property owner, the ERU multiple assigned to the property of such owner is
inaccurate in light of the amount of impervious area contained on said
property, such property owner shall have the right to contest such ERU
determination. The Department shall develop and promulgate policies and
procedures to resolve any such contests, including, as determined necessary,
the conducting of hearings and the making of determinations with respect to the
measurement of impervious area contained on any property.
(Prior Code, § 59.10)
§ 55.011 CREDIT POLICIES AND PROCEDURE.
   Currently the city requires all developments to meet certain minimum
detention criteria. Properties that meet such criteria will receive a 25%
credit. Properties that meet the minimum city requirements plus achieve
additional detention will receive up to an aggregate total of 40% credit for
storm water detention. An additional 10% credit can be obtained for water
quality measures implemented by the property owner. The minimum storm water
service charge shall remain one ERU, even if the credit or credits reduce the
ERU multiple below one ERU. The following outlines the criteria for each level
of credit.
   (A)   Minimum detention criteria.
      (1)   The city currently requires that all new developments meet the
following criteria:
         (a)   Developed discharge not to exceed ten-year pre-developed rate;
and
         (b)   Development must provide reten- tion or detention of 100 years
developed rate on site through inline storage, pond or parking lot.
      (2)   Properties that meet these criteria shall receive a 25% credit. The
city shall develop policies and procedures for documenting compliance with the
requirements for this credit. If no records are available in the city, the
owner shall provide the information to obtain a credit.
      (3)   All drainage facilities shall be in approved drainage easements
before any credit will be allowed. In addition, all drainage facilities shall
be maintained by the property owner and verified on annual inspections for the
property owner to maintain established credit. Inspections shall be performed
annually. In the event of non-compliance, the property owner shall be notified
and given 30 to 60 days depending on the severity of the non-compliance to
remediate the deficiencies and respond. If such non-compliance has not been
remediated by the expiration date of the remediation period given to the
property owner, the credit shall be forfeited and the property owner must
reapply to obtain a new credit.
   (B)   Maximum detention criteria. 
      (1)   In addition to the minimum detention credit, a property owner may
receive up to an additional 15% credit if the owner’s storm water facilities
exceed the city minimum detention requirements in the manner hereinafter
described. By increasing capacity on-site, these detention efforts reduce the
demand and stress on the downstream drainage facilities.
      (2)   The city shall credit up to an additional 15% for facilities that
meet the following criteria:
 
Criteria                                                              Credit
Provide an additional 20% volume storage                              4%
Provide a reduction in developed peak runoff rate by 20%              4%
Provide extended storage with the potential for ground water recharge 3%
 
      (3)   The city shall develop policies and procedures for documenting
compliance with the requirements for the credits described in this §
55.011. If no records are available in the city, the owner shall provide the
information to obtain a credit.
   (C)   Volume credit. Properties that provide additional volume under the
emergency spillway of the detention facility shall receive up to an additional
4% credit. To receive this credit, the applicant must provide the calculations
and data necessary to quantify the additional storage volume. The credit is
calculated by determining the minimum detention volume required by the city and
comparing it to the volume provided. The additional credit shall be calculated
based on the following table:
 
Table
55.011C (Credit) - Volume Credit
Additional Volume Provided % Credit
20% or greater             4%
15-20%                     3%
10-15%                     2%
5-10%                      1%
0-5%                       0%
 
   (D)   Peak reduction credit.  
      (1)   Properties that provide additional decrease in peak flow rate shall
receive up to an additional 4% credit.
      (2)   The credit is calculated by determining the required peak outflow
to meet the city requirements, and comparing it to the designed peak outflow.
      (3)   The additional credit shall be calculated based on the following
table:
 
Table
55.011D - Peak Reduction Credit
Additional Reduction in Peak % Credit
20% or greater               4%
15-20%                       3%
10-15%                       2%
5-10%                        1%
0-5%                         0%
 
   (E)   Extended storage credit. Properties that provide extended storage
greater than 24 hours will receive up to 3% additional credit. The credit will
be calculated by determining the time it takes the pond to drain, from its peak
elevation, to the original time to peak of the undeveloped conditions. The
additional credit percentage will be determined by the following table:
 
Table
55.011(E) - Extended Storage Credit
Detention Time Provided % Credit
24 hours or greater     3%
16-24 hours             2%
8-16 hours              1%
0-8 hours               0%
 
   (F)   Water quality credit. Properties that provide measures that improve
the quality of storm water that leaves the property will receive up to an
additional 10% above the maximum 40% for storm water quantity. This credit can
apply to property owners who are required to maintain individual NPDES
industrial permits. All applicants for the water quality credit will be
required to provide copies of past site compliance evaluations and most current
site compliance evaluations to maintain this credit. The city shall develop
policies and procedures to establish standards for the granting of the water
quality credit.
   (G)   Payment required. Application for any one or more credits, or any
appeal of the determination or determinations made in respect thereto shall not
constitute a valid reason for non-payment by the user of the originally
assessed storm water service charge.
   (H)   Appeals. Determinations regarding credits for a user may be appealed
in the same manner as will be established by the city for appeals of ERU
determinations pursuant to §
55.010.
   (I)   Inspections. Any party requesting a credit shall permit the city and
its agents, to undertake any inspection or inspections needed, in the
discretion of the city, to determine whether any one or more credits are
appropriate. The city further reserves the right to inspect periodically all
storm drainage control facilities of a user that has received one or more
credits to ascertain whether such facilities are operating properly. If such
facilities, due to improper maintenance or any other reason, fails to meet the
criteria required for any credit, the city shall issue an order to complete the
repairs of such facilities within 60 days. If such repairs are not completed
within the 60-day period, the city, in its sole discretion, may issue an order
eliminating or reducing detention credits to an appropriate level. Any such
facility shall not be eligible to reapply for credit adjustments for a period
of 12 months following any credit reduction or elimination ordered by the city.
   (J)   Land alteration. The issuance of any building permit or other action
which results in land alteration with respect to a property receiving any one
or more credits under this section shall be cause for an adjustment, as
appropriate, of the credits to which the owner may be entitled. The property
owner shall have the obligation of informing the city of any such changes in
the manner prescribed.
(Prior Code, § 59.11)
§ 55.012 PRIVATE STORM WATER FACILITIES OUTLETTING TO PUBLIC DRAINAGE SYSTEM.
   (A)   The city shall have no responsibility for the installation,
maintenance and repair of private storm water facilities or private drain
systems.
   (B)   No newly-constructed drain shall cross the property of another private
owner unless such private owner has granted an easement for such private drain
and which easement is duly recorded in the office of the County Recorder.
   (C)   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of
the private drain or private drainage system shall be borne by the owner. The
owner shall indemnify the city for any loss or damage directly or indirectly
occasioned by the construction or installation of the private drain, including
backwater damages from the public drainage system.
   (D)   The connection or outlet of a private drain into the public drainage
system shall conform to city specifications and standards for sanitary sewers
and storm drainage works. Any deviation of the prescribed procedure or material
must be approved by the Department before installation.
   (E)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connection with or open
into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first contacting the office of the City Engineer.
   (F)   All excavations for construction or installation of private drainage
facilities shall be adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to
protect the public from hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public
property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored in accordance
with the specifications and standards for sanitary sewers and storm drainage
works of the city.
   (G)   All private construction and installation of storm water drainage
works shall include proper restoration and provisions for erosion and sediment
control in accordance with the specifications and standards for sanitary sewers
and storm drainage works of the city and all other drainage requirements.
   (H)   No property owner shall change the storm water runoff pattern of the
property of such owner in such a way that neighboring properties or city
property is adversely affected. Consideration and provisions must be made for
drainage to and from neighboring properties in connection with land
alterations.
   (I)   No owner, manager, developer or occupant of any real property shall
tap, drain or outlet, either directly or indirectly, into any public sewer
until a sewer tap permit has been obtained from the city and until the owner
has satisfied the obligation to pay all assessments, reimbursements and pro-
rata share of sewer extension costs laid against that property for public
sewers which serve it. A sewer tap permit given in error shall not operate to
nullify any such obligation that has been duly recorded nor stop the city from
charging and collecting such costs at any subsequent time.
   (J)   Sewer tap permits shall be obtained from the Sanitary District office
and shall be issued to contractors, who shall pay to the District a fee for
each sewer tap permit. Not later than 24 hours before making each sewer tap and
building of the sewer installation, the tap contractor or property owner shall
notify the District of such connection so that an inspection may be made by the
District prior to backfilling the said sewer installation.
   (K)   In cases of requests for connections to newly constructed mains, prior
to acceptance by the Board of Storm Water Management a prime contractor’s
release must be executed and granted through the District. Upon satisfaction of
all other requirements, a permit for connection may be issued.
   (L)   No person shall make use of a sewer tap or backfill or otherwise
conceal a sewer installation unless and until the same has been inspected and
approved by the District. In addition to all other remedies, the District may
cause installation of the sewer tap to be excavated and exposed, may terminate
the connection, and may require the owner, developer, manager or occupant to
pay or reimburse the District for its costs and expenses in such excavation,
exposure, termination, reconnection and restoration. Such costs and expenses
shall be considered as charges for storm water system services and may be
collected in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 59.12)
§ 55.013 STORM WATER REVENUE FUND.
   All revenues earned and fees collected for storm water service, including,
but not limited to, drainage service charges, permit and inspection fees,
direct charges and interest earnings on any unused funds shall be deposited in
an account entitled “City of Richmond Storm Water Revenue Fund” and shall be
subject to the provisions of I.C. 36-9-23, as amended. Disbursements from this
account shall be authorized by the Board of Storm Water Management and, where
required by law, the Common Council. Such disbursements shall be used
exclusively for the operation, maintenance and improvement of the city’s storm
water system. Funds from this account shall not revert to any other city
utilities or the General Fund of the city and may not be transferred for any
other purpose. To the extent that there are outstanding revenue bonds of the
city issued pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 36-9-23, as amended, revenues
deposited in the Storm Water Revenue Fund shall be subject to the covenants
contained in the ordinance or ordinances authorizing such outstanding bonds.
(Prior Code, § 59.13)
§ 55.014 DELINQUENT FEES AND PENALTIES AS LIENS; DUPLICATES; COLLECTION.
   Delinquent charges for storm water services, and applied penalties,
recording fees and service charges constitute a lien upon the property and may
be collected in accordance with provisions of I.C. 36-9-23-32 and 36-9-23-33.
(Prior Code, § 59.14)
§ 55.015 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   The invalidity of any section, sentence, clause, division, part or
provision of this chapter shall not affect the validity of any other section,
sentence, clause, division, part of provision of this chapter which can be
given meaning without such invalid part or parts.
   (B)   If any section, paragraph or provision of this chapter shall be held
to be invalid or unenforceable for any reason, the validity or unenforceability
of such section, paragraph or provision shall not affect any of the remaining
provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   All ordinances, resolutions and orders, or parts thereof, in conflict
with the provisions of this chapter are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby
repealed, and this chapter shall be in full force and effect from and upon
compliance with all procedures required by law.
(Prior Code, § 59.16)
§ 55.016 EXPIRATION OF RATES FOR BOND DEBT.
   The portion of the rates and charges that represents debt service on bonds
issued to fund the construction of storm water collection and conveyances
systems and storm water improvements shall be repealed upon redemption or
maturity of such bonds. Upon redemption or maturity of such bonds, the Board of
Storm Water Management shall send written notice to Common Council and shall
also give public service announcements to the ratepayers of the redemption or
maturity of such bonds.
(Prior Code, § 59.17)
§ 55.017 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect upon passage.
(Prior Code, § 59.18)
§ 55.999 PENALTY.
   Failure to pay a storm water user fee when due shall constitute a violation
of this chapter, which shall be enforced by the Director and such persons as
the Director may appoint for such purposes.
(Prior Code, § 59.15)
CHAPTER 56: STORM WATER ILLICIT DISCHARGES; CONNECTIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
56.001   Purpose
   
56.002   Authority
   
56.003   Applicability
   
56.004   Severability
   
56.005   Definitions
Administration and Enforcement
   
56.020   Responsibility for administration
   
56.021   Ultimate responsibility
   
56.022   Compatibility with other permit and requirements
   
56.023   Enforcement
   
56.024   Appeal of notice of violation
   
56.025   Enforcement measures after appeal
   
56.026   Cost of abatement of the violation
   
56.027   Injunctive relief
   
56.028   Compensatory action
   
56.029   Violations deemed a public nuisance
Discharges and Pollution
   
56.040   Discharge prohibitions
   
56.041   Suspension of MS4 access
   
56.042   Industrial or construction activity discharges
   
56.043   Monitoring of discharges
   
56.044   Requirement to prevent, control and reduce storm water pollutants by
the use of best management practices
   
56.045   Proper credential or identification required
   
56.046   Watercourse protection
   
56.047   Notification of spills
 
   
56.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 56.001 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the health, safety and
general welfare of the citizens of the city through the regulation of non-storm
water discharges to the storm drainage system to the maximum extent practicable
as required by federal and state law. This chapter establishes methods for
controlling the introduction of pollutants into the municipal separate storm
sewer system (MS4) in order to comply with requirements of the national
pollutant discharge elimination system (NPDES) permit process.
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the municipal
separate storm sewer system (MS4) by storm water discharges by any user;
      (2)   To prohibit illicit connections and discharges to the municipal
separate storm sewer system; and
      (3)   To establish legal authority to carry out all inspection,
surveillance and monitoring procedures necessary to ensure compliance with this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 56.01)
§ 56.002 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is adopted under the authority granted by I.C. 36-1-4-11, 36-7-
4 and all acts supplemental and amendatory thereto. This authority provides for
the administration, enforcement and amendment of this chapter for controlling
storm water illicit discharges and connections in the city.
(Prior Code, § 56.02)
§ 56.003 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall apply to all water entering the storm drain system
generated on any developed and undeveloped lands unless explicitly exempted by
the city.
(Prior Code, § 56.03)
§ 56.004 SEVERABILITY.
   The invalidity of any section, clause, sentence or provision of this chapter
shall not affect the validity of any other part of this chapter which can be
given effect without the invalid part or parts.
(Prior Code, § 56.07) (Ord. 54-1981, passed - -)
§ 56.005 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPS). Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, general good housekeeping practices, pollution prevention and
educational practices, maintenance procedures and other management practices to
prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants directly or indirectly to storm
water, receiving waters or storm water conveyance systems. BMPs also include
treatment practices, operating procedures and practices to control site runoff,
spillage or leaks, sludge or water disposal, or drainage from raw materials
storage.
   CITY. The City of Richmond, or designated party.
   CLEAN WATER ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. §§ 1251
et seq.), and any subsequent amendments thereto.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. Activities subject to NPDES construction permits.
NPDES storm water Phase II permits are required for construction projects
resulting in land disturbance of one acre or more. Such activities include, but
are not limited to, clearing and grubbing, grading, excavating and demolition.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any material, including any substance, waste or
combination thereof, which because of its quantity, concentration or physical,
chemical or infectious characteristics may cause, or significantly contribute
to, a substantial present or potential hazard to human health, safety, property
or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of or
otherwise managed.
   ILLEGAL DISCHARGE. Any direct or indirect non-storm water discharge to the
storm drain system, except as exempted in §
56.040(A)(2)(a).
   ILLICIT CONNECTIONS. Either of the following:
      (1)   Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface,
which allows an illegal discharge to enter the storm drain system, including,
but not limited to, any conveyances which allow any non-storm water discharge
including sewage, process wastewater, and wash water to enter the storm drain
system;
      (2)   Any connections to the storm drain system from indoor drains and
sinks, regardless of whether said drain or connection had been previously
allowed, permitted or approved by the city; or
      (3)   Any drain or conveyance connected from a commercial or industrial
land use to the storm drain system which has not been documented in plans, maps
or equivalent records and approved by the city.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. Those surfaces that cannot effectively infiltrate
rainfall (e.g., building rooftops, pavement, sidewalks, driveways and the
like).
   INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY. Activities subject to NPDES industrial permits as
defined in 40 C.F.R. § 122.26 (b)(14).
   MS4. Municipal separate storm sewer system.
   NPDES PERMIT. National pollution discharge elimination system permit. A
PERMIT issued by EPA (or by a state under authority delegated pursuant to 33
U.S.C. § 1342(b)) that authorizes the discharge of pollutants to water of the
United States, whether the permit is applicable on an individual, group or
general area-wide basis.
   NON-STORM WATER DISCHARGE. Any discharge to the storm drain system that is
not composed entirely of storm water.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co- partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, trust, estate, political subdivision, state agency or
any other legal entity or their legal representative, agent or assigns legally
capable of owning property in the state.
   POLLUTANT. A pollutant is something that causes or contributes to pollution.
POLLUTANTS may include, but are not limited to: paints, varnishes and solvents;
oil and other automotive fluids; non-hazardous liquid and solid wastes and yard
wastes; refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter or other discarded or abandoned
objects, ordnances and accumulations so that same may cause or contribute to
pollution; floatables; pesticides, herbicides and fertilizers; hazardous
substances and wastes; sewage, fecal coliform and pathogens; dissolved and
particulate metals; animal wastes; wastes and residues that result from
constructing or building or structure; sediments and noxious or offensive
matter of any kind.
   PREMISES. Any building, lot, parcel of land or portion of land whether
improved or unimproved including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
   STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEM. Publicly-owned facilities by which storm water is
collected and/or conveyed, including, but not limited to, any roads with
drainage systems, municipal streets, gutters, curbs, inlets, piped storm
drains, pumping facilities, retention and detention basins, natural and human-
made or altered drainage channels, reservoirs and other drainage structures.
   STORM WATER. Any surface flow, runoff and drainage consisting entirely of
water from any form of natural precipitation, and resulting from such
precipitation.
   STORM WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN. A document which describes the Best
Management Practices and activities to be implemented by a person or business
to identify sources of pollution or contamination at a site and the actions to
eliminate or reduce pollutant discharges to storm water, storm water conveyance
systems or receiving waters to the maximum extent possible.
   WASTEWATER. Any water or other liquid, other than uncontaminated storm water
discharged from a dwelling, commercial building, industrial facility or
institution.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
(Prior Code, § 56.08) (Ord. 54-1981, passed - -; Ord. 93-2002, passed - -)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 56.020 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION.
   The city shall administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this
chapter by and through the City Sanitary District. Any powers granted or duties
imposed upon the city may be delegated in writing by the city to persons or
entities acting in the beneficial interest of or in the employ of the agency.
(Prior Code, § 56.04)
§ 56.021 ULTIMATE RESPONSIBILITY.
   The standards set forth herein and promulgated pursuant to this chapter are
minimum standards; therefore this chapter does not intend nor imply that
compliance by any person will ensure that there will be no contamination,
pollution, nor unauthorized discharge of pollutants.
(Prior Code, § 56.05)
§ 56.022 COMPATIBILITY WITH OTHER PERMIT AND REQUIREMENTS.
   This chapter is not intended to interfere with, abrogate or annul any other
chapter, rule or regulation, statute or other provision of law. The
requirements of this chapter should be considered minimum requirements, and
where any provision of this chapter imposes restrictions different from those
imposed by any other chapter, rule or regulation, or other provision of law,
whichever provisions are more restrictive or impose higher protective standards
for human health or the environment shall be considered to take precedence.
(Prior Code, § 56.06)
§ 56.023 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Notice of violation.
      (1)   Whenever the city finds that a person has violated a prohibition or
failed to meet a requirement of this chapter, the city may order compliance by
written notice of violation to the responsible person. Such notice may require
without limitation:
         (a)   The performance of monitoring, analysis and reporting;
         (b)   The elimination of illicit connections or discharges;
         (c)   That violating discharges, practices or operations shall cease
and desist;
         (d)   The abatement or remediation of storm water pollution or
contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property;
         (e)   Payment of a fine to cover administrative and remediation costs;
and
         (f)   The implementation of source control or treatment BMPs.
      (2)   If abatement of a violation and/or restoration of affected property
is required, the notice shall set forth a deadline within which such
remediation or restoration must be completed. Said notice shall further advise
that, should the violator fail to remediate or restore within the established
deadline, the work will be done by a designated governmental agency or a
contractor and the expense thereof shall be charged to the violator.
   (B)   Administrative fines.
      (1)   When the city finds that a person has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this chapter, the city may impose an administrative
fine against such person in an amount not to exceed $2,500 on a per violation,
per-day basis, plus any administrative or remediation costs.
      (2)   Issuance of an administrative fine shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the person.
(Prior Code, § 56.17) Penalty, see §
56.999
§ 56.024 APPEAL OF NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Any person receiving a notice of violation may appeal the determination of
the city. The notice of appeal must be received within ten days from the date
of the notice of violation. Hearing on the appeal before the appropriate
authority or his or her designee shall take place within 15 days from the date
of receipt of the notice of appeal, unless waived by both the city and the
person appealing. The decision of the municipal authority or its designee shall
be final.
(Prior Code, § 56.18)
§ 56.025 ENFORCEMENT MEASURES AFTER APPEAL.
   (A)   If the violation has not been corrected pursuant to the requirements
set forth in the notice of violation, or, in the event of an appeal, within ten
days of the decision of the municipal authority upholding the decision of the
city, then representatives of the city shall enter upon the subject private
property and are authorized to take any and all measures necessary to abate the
violation and/or restore the property.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, owner, agent or person in
possession of any premises to refuse to allow the government agency or
designated contractor to enter upon the premises for the purposes set forth
above.
      (2)   Penalties shall include, but are not necessarily limited to, those
found in §
56.999.
(Prior Code, § 56.19) Penalty, see §
56.999
§ 56.026 COST OF ABATEMENT OF THE VIOLATION.
   (A)   (1)   Within 30 days after abatement of the violation, the owner of
the property will be notified of the cost of abatement, including
administrative costs.
      (2)   The property owner may file a written protest objecting to the
amount of the assessment within ten days of the post marked notice informing
the property owner of the cost of abatement.
      (3)   If the amount due is not paid within 60 days of the post marked
date on the notice, or by the expiration of the time in which to file an
appeal, the charges shall become a special assessment against the property and
shall constitute a lien on the property for the amount of the assessment.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this subchapter shall
become liable to the city by reason of such violation. The liability shall be
paid in not more than 12 equal payments. Interest at the rate as established by
state law, which interest rate is currently 8% per annum, shall be assessed on
the balance beginning on the tenth day following the post marked date of the
notice of cost of abatement.
(Prior Code, § 56.20) Penalty, see §
56.999
§ 56.027 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision or fail
to comply with any of the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   If a person has violated or continues to violate the provisions of
this chapter, the city may petition for a preliminary or permanent injunction
restraining the person from activities which would create further violations or
compelling the person to perform abatement or remediation of the violation.
(Prior Code, § 56.21) Penalty, see §
56.999
§ 56.028 COMPENSATORY ACTION.
   In lieu of enforcement proceedings, penalties and remedies authorized by
this chapter, the city may impose upon violator alternative compensatory
actions, such as storm drain stenciling, attendance at compliance workshops,
creek cleanup or such other activities selected by the city.
(Prior Code, § 56.22)
§ 56.029 VIOLATIONS DEEMED A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties provided, any
condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter is a threat to public health, safety and welfare, and is declared
and deemed a nuisance, and may be summarily abated or restored at the
violator’s expense, and/or a civil action to abate, enjoin or otherwise compel
the cessation of such nuisance may be taken.
(Prior Code, § 56.23) Penalty, see §
56.999
DISCHARGES AND POLLUTION
§ 56.040 DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Prohibition of illegal discharges. 
      (1)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged into the
municipal storm drain system or watercourses any materials, including, but not
limited to, pollutants or waters containing any pollutants that cause or
contribute to a violation of applicable water quality standards, other than
storm water.
      (2)   The commencement, conduct or continuance of any illegal discharge
to the storm drain system is prohibited except as described as follows.
         (a)   The following discharges are exempt from discharge prohibitions
established by this chapter: water line flushing or other potable water
sources; landscape irrigation or lawn watering; diverted stream flows; rising
ground water; ground water infiltration to storm drains; uncontaminated pumped
ground water; foundation or footing drains (not including active groundwater
dewatering systems); water from crawl space pumps; air conditioning
condensation; springs; non-commercial washing of vehicles; natural riparian
habitat or wet-land flows; swimming pools (if dechlorinated - less than one PPM
chlorine); firefighting activities; and any other water source not containing
pollutants;
         (b)   Discharges specified in writing by the city as being necessary
to protect public health and safety;
         (c)   Dye testing is an allowable discharge, but requires a verbal
notification to the City Sanitary District prior to the time of the test; and
         (d)   The prohibition shall not apply to any non-storm water discharge
permitted under an NPDES permit, waiver or waste discharge order issued to the
discharger and administered under the authority of the Federal Environmental
Protection Agency, provided that the discharger is in full compliance with all
requirements of the permit, waiver or order and other applicable laws and
regulations, and provided that written approval has been granted for any
discharge to the storm drain system.
   (B)   Prohibition of illicit connections.
      (1)   The construction, use, maintenance or continued existence of
illicit connections to the storm drain system is prohibited.
      (2)   This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
connection.
      (3)   A person is considered to be in violation of this chapter if the
person connects a line conveying sewage to the MS4, or allows such a connection
to continue.
(Prior Code, § 56.09) Penalty, see §
56.999
§ 56.041 SUSPENSION OF MS4 ACCESS.
   (A)   Suspension due to illicit discharges in emergency situations. The city
may, without prior notice, suspend MS4 discharge access to a person when such
suspension is necessary to stop an actual or threatened discharge which
presents or may present imminent and substantial danger to the environment, or
to the health or welfare of persons, or to the MS4 or waters of the United
States. If the violator fails to comply with a suspension order issued in an
emergency, the city may take such steps as deemed necessary to prevent or
minimize damage to the MS4 or waters of the United States, or to minimize
danger to persons.
   (B)   Suspension due to the detection of illicit discharge. Any person
discharging to the MS4 in violation of this chapter may have their MS4 access
terminated if such termination would abate or reduce an illicit discharge. The
city will notify a violator of the proposed termination of its MS4 access. The
violator may petition the city for a reconsideration and hearing.
   (C)   A person commits an offense if the person reinstates MS4 access to
premises terminated pursuant to this section, without the prior approval of the
city.
(Prior Code, § 56.10) Penalty, see §
56.999
§ 56.042 INDUSTRIAL OR CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY DISCHARGES.
   Any person subject to an industrial or construction activity NPDES storm
water discharge permit shall comply with all provisions of such permit. Proof
of compliance with said permit may be required in a form acceptable to the city
prior to the allowing of discharges to the MS4.
(Prior Code, § 56.11)
§ 56.043 MONITORING OF DISCHARGES.
   (A)   The city shall be permitted to enter and inspect facilities subject to
regulation under this chapter as often as may be necessary to determine
compliance with this chapter. If a facility operator has security measures in
force which require proper identification and clearance before entry into its
premises, the facility operator shall make the necessary arrangements to allow
access to representatives of the city.
   (B)   Facility operators shall allow the city ready access to all parts of
the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, examination and copying
of records that must be kept under the conditions of an NPDES permit to
discharge storm water, and the performance of any additional duties as defined
by state and federal law.
   (C)   The city shall have the right to set up on any permitted facility such
devices as are necessary in the opinion of the city to conduct monitoring and/
or sampling of the facility’s storm water discharge.
   (D)   The city has the right to require the facility operator to install
monitoring equipment as necessary. The facility’s sampling and monitoring
equipment shall be installed and maintained by the facility operator’s own
expense. The facility operator shall maintain the monitoring equipment at all
times in a safe and proper operating condition. All devices used to measure
storm water flow and quality shall be calibrated to ensure their accuracy.
   (E)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to the
facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
facility operator at the written or oral request of the city and shall not be
replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the facility
operator.
   (F)   Unreasonable delays, as determined by the City Sanitary District, in
allowing the city access to a permitted facility is a violation of a storm
water discharge permit and of this chapter. A facility operator with a NPDES
permit to discharge storm water associated with industrial activity commits an
offense if the facility operator denies the city reasonable access to the
permitted facility for the purpose of conducting any activity authorized or
required by this chapter.
   (G)   If the city has been refused access to any part of the premises from
which storm water is discharged, and he or she is able to demonstrate probable
cause to believe that there may be a violation of this chapter, or that there
is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine inspection and sampling
program designed to verify compliance with this chapter or any order issued
hereunder, or to protect the overall public health, safety and welfare of the
community, then the city may seek issuance of a search warrant from any court
of competent jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 56.12) Penalty, see §
56.999
§ 56.044 REQUIREMENT TO PREVENT, CONTROL AND REDUCE STORM WATER POLLUTANTS BY
THE USE OF BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES.
   The city will adopt requirements identifying best management practices for
any activity, operation or facility which may cause or contribute to pollution
or contamination of storm water, the storm drain system, or waters of the
United States. The owner or operator of a commercial or industrial
establishment shall provide, at his, her or its own expense, reasonable
protection from accidental discharge of prohibited materials or other wastes
into the municipal storm drain system or watercourses through the use of these
structural and non-structural BMPs. By way of example these establishments
include, but are not limited to: impervious surfaces; retail gasoline outlets;
or municipal, state, federal or institutional refueling areas. Further, any
person responsible for a property or premises, which is, or may be, the source
of an illicit discharge, may be required to implement, at said person’s
expense, additional structural and non-structural BMPs to prevent the further
discharge of pollutants to the MS4. Compliance with all terms and conditions of
a valid NPDES permit authorizing the discharge of storm water associated with
industrial activity, to the extent practicable, shall be deemed compliance with
the provisions of this section. These BMPs shall be part of a Storm Water
Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPP) as necessary for compliance with requirements
of the NPDES permit.
(Prior Code, § 56.13)
§ 56.045 PROPER CREDENTIAL OR IDENTIFICATION REQUIRED.
   The city shall present proper credentials or identification before entering
upon property of the person.
(Prior Code, § 56.14)
§ 56.046 WATERCOURSE PROTECTION.
   Every person owning property through which a watercourse passes, or such
person’s lessee, shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse within
the property free of trash, debris, excessive vegetation and other obstacles
that would pollute, contaminate or significantly retard the flow of water
through the watercourse. If herbicides are used for vegetation control, that
herbicide shall be compatible with and registered for use in and around
watercourses. In addition, the owner or lessee shall maintain existing
privately owned structures within or adjacent to a watercourse, so that such
structures will not become a hazard to the use, function or physical integrity
of the watercourse.
(Prior Code, § 56.15) Penalty, see §
56.999
§ 56.047 NOTIFICATION OF SPILLS.
   Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as soon as any person responsible
for a facility or operation, or responsible for emergency response for a
facility or operation has information of any known or suspected release of
materials which are resulting or may result in illegal discharges or pollutants
discharging into storm water, the storm drain system or waters of the United
States said person shall take all necessary steps to ensure the discovery,
containment and cleanup of such release. In the event of such a release of
hazardous materials said person shall immediately notify emergency response
agencies of the occurrence via emergency dispatch services. In the event of a
release of non-hazardous materials, said person shall notify the city in person
or by phone or facsimile no later than the next business day. Notifications in
person or by phone shall be confirmed by written notice addressed and mailed to
the city within three business days of the phone notice. If the discharge of
prohibited materials emanates from a commercial or industrial establishment,
the owner or operator of such establishment shall also retain an on-site
written record of the discharge and the actions taken to prevent its
recurrence. Such records shall be retained for at least three years from date
of record, unless an investigation or litigation exists or is pending, in which
case, records shall be retained indefinitely.
(Prior Code, § 56.16) Penalty, see §
56.999
§ 56.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter for
which no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999.
   (B)   Judicial enforcement remedies.
      (1)   Injunctive relief. When the city finds that a person has violated,
or continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, an NPDES permit, or
order issued hereunder, or any other standard or requirement, the city may
petition through any court of general jurisdiction within the county, for the
issuance of a temporary or permanent injunction. The city may also seek such
other action as is appropriate for legal and/or equitable relief, including a
requirement for the person to conduct environmental remediation. A petition for
injunctive relief shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any
other action against a person.
      (2)   Civil penalties. In addition to the administrative fines available
herein, a person who has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of
this chapter, or order issued hereunder, or any other standard or requirement
shall also be liable to the city for a maximum civil penalty of $2,500 per
violation, per day. Penalties shall accrue for each day during the period of
the violation.
         (a)   The city may recover reasonable attorney fees, court costs and
other expenses associated with enforcement activities, including sampling and
monitoring expenses, and the cost of any actual damages incurred by the
District.
         (b)   In determining the amount of civil liability, the court shall
take into account all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to,
the extent of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration of the
violation, any economic benefit gained through the person’s violation,
corrective actions by the person, the compliance history of the person, and any
other factor as may be deemed appropriate.
         (c)   Filing a suit for civil penalties shall not be a bar against, or
a prerequisite, for taking any other action against a person.
(Prior Code, § 56.24)
   (C)   Remedies not exclusive. The remedies listed in this chapter are not
exclusive of any other remedies available under any applicable federal, state
or local law and it is within the discretion of the city to seek cumulative
remedies.
(Prior Code, § 56.25)
(Ord. 72-2004, passed - -)
CHAPTER 57: EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL
Section
General Provisions
   
57.001   Purpose
   
57.002   Authority
   
57.003   Applicability
   
57.004   Responsibility for administration
   
57.005   Compatibility with other permit and chapter requirements
   
57.006   Severability
   
57.007   Definitions
Conditions and Regulations
   
57.020   Design criteria, standards and specifications for erosion control
measures
   
57.021   Control of erosion and sediment during land-disturbing activities
   
57.022   General requirements for individual lots within a permitted project
   
57.023   Maintenance of erosion control measures
   
57.024   Permit application, erosion and sediment control plan; permit issuance
   
57.025   Inspection
   
57.026   Proper credential or identification required
   
57.027   Enforcement
   
57.028   Project termination
   
57.029   Violations deemed a public nuisance
 
   
57.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Land Usage, see Title XV
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 57.001 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to conserve natural resources, to protect air
and water quality, and to protect and promote the health, safety and welfare of
the people to the extent practicable by minimizing the amount of sediment and
other pollutants resulting from soil erosion due to land-disturbing activities
from being transported off-site to adjacent public or private lands including
ditches, streams, lakes, wetlands, reservoirs, storm sewers and MS4
conveyances.
(Prior Code, § 57.01)
§ 57.002 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is adopted under the authority granted by I.C. 36-1-4-11, 36-7-
4 and all acts supplemental and amendatory thereto. This authority provides for
the administration, enforcement and amendment of this chapter for controlling
soil erosion in the city.
(Prior Code, § 57.02)
§ 57.003 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter applies to nonagricultural land-disturbing activities on land
within the corporate boundaries and jurisdiction of the city, including
commercial, industrial, residential and highway development.
(Prior Code, § 57.03)
§ 57.004 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION
   The city shall administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this
chapter by and through the City Engineer’s office. Any powers granted or duties
imposed upon the city may be delegated in writing by the city to persons or
entities acting in the beneficial interest of or in the employ of the city.
(Prior Code, § 57.04)
§ 57.005 COMPATIBILITY WITH OTHER PERMIT AND CHAPTER REQUIREMENTS.
   This chapter is not intended to interfere with, abrogate or annul any other
chapter, rule or regulation, statute or other provision of law. The
requirements of this chapter should be considered minimum requirements, and
where any provision of this chapter imposes restrictions different from those
imposed by any other chapter, rule or regulation, or other provision of law,
whichever provisions are more restrictive or impose higher protective standards
for human health or the environment shall be considered to take precedence.
(Prior Code, § 57.05)
§ 57.006 SEVERABILITY.
   The invalidity of any section, clause, sentence or provision of this chapter
shall not affect the validity of any other part of this chapter which can be
given effect without the invalid part or parts.
(Prior Code, § 57.06) (Ord. 54-1981, passed - -)
§ 57.007 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURAL LAND USE. The use of land for the production of animal or plant
life, including forestry, pasturing or yarding livestock, and planting,
growing, cultivating and harvesting crops for human or livestock consumption.
   CITY. The City of Richmond, or designated party.
   EASEMENTS. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   EROSION. The detachment and movement of soil, sediment or rock fragments by
water, wind, ice or gravity.
   EROSION CONTROL MEASURE. A practice or a combination of practices to control
erosion and resulting sedimentation.
   EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PLAN. A written description of pertinent
information concerning erosion control measures designed to meet the
requirements of this chapter as submitted by the applicant for the review and
approval of the city.
   LAND-DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Any human- made change of the land surface
including removing vegetative cover, excavating, filling, transporting and
grading. In the context of this chapter, it includes only nonagricultural land-
disturbing activities.
   MS4. Municipal separate storm sewer system.
   NONAGRICULTURAL LAND USE. The commercial use of land for the manufacturing
and wholesale or retail sale of goods and services, residential or
institutional use of land intended primarily to shelter people, highway use of
land including lanes, alleys and streets, and other land uses not included
under agricultural land use.
   NPDES PERMIT or NATIONAL POLLUTION DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM PERMIT. A
permit issued by EPA (or by a state under authority delegated pursuant to 33
U.S.C. § 1342(b) that authorizes the discharge of pollutants to water of the
United States, whether the permit is applicable on an individual, group or
general area-wide basis.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, trust, estate, political subdivision, state agency or
any other legal entity or their legal representative, agent or assigns legally
capable of owning property in the state.
   RUNOFF. The portion of the precipitation from such sources as rainfall,
snowmelt or irrigation water that flows over the ground surface.
   SITE. The entire area included in the legal description of the land on which
land-disturbing activity has been proposed in the permit application.
(Prior Code, § 57.07) (Ord. 54-1981, passed - -)
CONDITIONS AND REGULATIONS
§ 57.020 DESIGN CRITERIA, STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS FOR EROSION CONTROL
MEASURES.
   All erosion control measures, including, but not limited to, those required
to comply with this chapter shall meet the design criteria, standards and
specifications for erosion control measures similar to or the same as those
outlined in the “City of Richmond Storm Water Development Manual”, “Field
Office Technical Guide of the USDA Natural Resources Conservation Services” and
the “Indiana Handbook for Erosion Control in Developing Areas”.
(Prior Code, § 57.08)
§ 57.021 CONTROL OF EROSION AND SEDIMENT DURING LAND-DISTURBING ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   Control of erosion and sediment is the responsibility of the
applicant. Design criteria, details and specifications are located in the Storm
Water Development Manual.
   (B)   The following erosion and other sediment control requirements shall be
met on all sites, with the exception of individual lots within a permitted
project.
      (1)   Site dewatering. Sediment-laden water flowing from the site shall
be detained by temporary sediment basins. Also, water shall not be discharged
in a manner that causes erosion in the receiving channel.
      (2)   Waste and material disposal. Wastes or unused building materials,
including, but not limited to, garbage, debris, cleaning wastes, wastewater,
toxic materials and hazardous substances, shall not be carried by runoff from a
site. Proper disposal of all wastes and used building materials, in line with
the nature of the waste materials, is required.
      (3)   Tracking. Sediment being tracked from a site onto public or private
roadways shall be minimized. This can be accomplished initially by a well-
planned layout of roads, access drives and parking areas of sufficient width
and length. However, protective covering also may be necessary.
      (4)   Sediment removal. Public or private roadways shall be kept cleared
of accumulated sediment. If appreciable sedimentation occurs after a storm
event, the sediment shall be deposited on the parcels of land, if in the site,
from where it likely originated.
      (5)   Drain inlet protection. All storm drain inlets shall be protected
against sedimentation with straw bales, filter fabric or equivalent barriers
meeting accepted design criteria, standards and specifications.
      (6)   Site erosion control. The following items apply only to the time
period when land- disturbing activities are taking place.
         (a)   Runoff passing through a site from adjacent area shall be
controlled by diverting it around disturbed areas. Alternatively, the existing
channel may be improved to prevent erosion or sedimentation from occurring.
         (b)   Runoff from a disturbed area shall be controlled by one or more
of the following measures:
            1.   Barring unforeseen weather conditions, all disturbed ground
left inactive for seven or more days shall be stabilized prior to the tenth day
by seeding, sodding, mulching, covering or by other equivalent erosion control
measures;
            2.   With disturbed areas within a site of ten acres or more, where
drainage is in the same direction or where runoff will result in loss of soil,
an abatement or recovery program is required. Where feasible, one or more
sediment basins shall be constructed. Each sediment basin shall have a depth of
a least three feet and have sufficient surface area to trap the sediment. The
size of sedimentation basin should be at least 1% of its drainage area.
Sediment shall be removed from time to time to maintain a minimum three-foot
depth. When the disturbed area is stabilized, the sediment basin can be
removed. However, if erosion is likely to continue, the sediment basin shall be
maintained by the existing or subsequent landowners. The discharge rate from a
sediment basin shall not cause scouring in the receiving channel; and/or
            3.   With disturbed areas within a site of less than ten acres,
filter fences, straw bales or equivalent erosion control measure placed along
all sideslope and downslope sides of the site shall be required. However, if
these measures are not sufficient to control off-site sedimentation, a sediment
basin may still be required.
         (c)   Erosion from all storage piles shall be controlled by placing
straw bales, filter fence or other appropriate barriers around the piles.
            1.   Adjacent storm drain inlets shall be protected using similar
filter barriers. Moreover, any soil storage pile containing more than ten cubic
yards of material may be located closer than 25 feet to a roadway or a drainage
channel but shall be covered with tarps or suitable alternative if in existence
for less than seven days.
            2.   However, if a pile is in existence for more than seven days,
barriers also shall be placed around the pile.
         (d)   IDEM Rule 5 requirements are addressed in §
57.024.
(Prior Code, § 57.09)
§ 57.022 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR INDIVIDUAL LOTS WITHIN A PERMITTED PROJECT.
   Provisions for erosion and sediment control on individual building lots
regulated under the original permit of a project site owner must include the
following requirements:
   (A)   The individual lot operator, whether owning the property or acting as
the agent of the property owner, shall be responsible for erosion and sediment
control requirements associated with activities on individual lots;
   (B)   Installation and maintenance of a stable construction site access;
   (C)   Installation and maintenance of appropriate perimeter erosion and
sediment control measures prior to land disturbance;
   (D)   Sediment discharge and tracking from each lot must be minimized
throughout the land disturbing activities on the lot until permanent
stabilization has been achieved;
   (E)   Clean-up of sediment that is either tracked or washed onto roads. Bulk
clearing of sediment shall not include flushing the area with water. Cleared
sediment must be redistributed or disposed of in a manner that is in compliance
with all applicable statutes and rules;
   (F)   Adjacent lots disturbed by an individual lot operator must be repaired
and stabilized with temporary or permanent surface stabilization; and
   (G)   For individual residential lots, final stabilization will be achieved
when the individual lot operator:
      (1)   Completes final stabilization; or
      (2)   Has installed appropriate erosion and sediment control measures for
an individual lot prior to occupation of the home by the homeowner and has
informed the homeowner of the requirement for, and benefits of, final
stabilization.
(Prior Code, § 57.10)
§ 57.023 MAINTENANCE OF EROSION CONTROL MEASURES.
   During the period of land disturbance at a site, all sediment basins and
other erosion control measures necessary to meet the requirements of this
chapter shall be applied by the applicant or subsequent landowner. If
sedimentation is likely to be a problem after land-disturbing activities have
ceased, some or all of the erosion control measures shall be maintained by the
applicant or subsequent landowner for as long as the problem exists.
(Prior Code, § 57.11)
§ 57.024 PERMIT APPLICATION, EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PLAN; PERMIT
ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Generally. No person shall begin a land-disturbing activity subject to
this chapter without receiving approval of an erosion and sediment control
plan. An application should be made after the initial coordination meeting with
the city. By submitting an application, the applicant is implying that the city
has been given permission to enter the site to obtain information required for
review of the erosion and sediment control plan. This permit is in addition to
a General Storm Water Permit (Rule 5) required under 327 I.A.C. 15-5.
   (B)   Applicability. This section applies to the following sites with land-
disturbing activities: those involving construction activities with a land
disturbance greater than or equal to one acre, or disturbances of less than one
acre of land that are part of a larger common plan of development or sale if
the larger common plan will ultimately disturb one or more acres of land.
      (1)   Content of erosion and sediment control plan for land-disturbing
activities covering one or more acres in a given site. At a minimum, the
erosion and sediment control plan shall include a project narrative, a vicinity
map, construction plans and calculations. A detailed listing of the
comprehensive plan requirements can be found in the Storm Water Development
Manual.
      (2)   Content of erosion and sediment control plan for a single-family
residential development consisting of four or fewer lots or a single-family
residential strip development where the developer offers for sale or lease
without land improvements, and the project is not part of a larger common plan
of development or sale. At a minimum, the erosion and sediment control plan
shall include a project narrative, a vicinity map, construction plans and
calculations. A detailed listing of the plan requirements can be found in the
Storm Water Development Manual.
      (3)   Content of erosion and sediment control plan for individual lots
within a permitted project. At a minimum, the erosion and sediment control plan
shall include a project narrative, a vicinity map, construction plans and
calculations. A detailed listing of the minimal plan requirements can be found
in the Storm Water Development Manual.
      (4)   Review of the erosion and sediment control plan. The city shall
review the application and erosion and sediment control plan in conjunction
with the subdivision plat and local improvement permit application to determine
whether the requirements of this chapter have been met. If the conditions are
not met, the city shall inform the applicant in writing and either may require
additional information or may disapprove the plan. If requested, additional
information shall be submitted. The city shall again determine whether the plan
meets the requirements of this chapter. If the plan is disapproved, the city
shall inform the applicant in writing, giving reasons for disapproval.
      (5)   Permits.
         (a)   Surety bond. As a condition of approval and issuance of the
permit, the city shall require the applicant to provide a surety bond or an
irrevocable letter of credit when the erosion and sediment control plan has
been approved to guarantee a good faith execution of the erosion and sediment
control plan and any permit conditions; and
         (b)   Notification requirements.
            1.   Notify the city at least 24 hours before commencing with any
land-disturbing activity;
            2.   Notify the city of the completion of erosion control measures
within seven days after their installation;
            3.   Obtain approval from the city prior to implementing any
changes to the most recently approved erosion and sediment control plan;
            4.   Install all erosion control measures as identified in the
approved erosion and sediment control plan;
            5.   Maintain all road drainage systems, storm water drainage
systems, erosion control measures and other facilities identified in the
erosion and sediment control plan until the project has been terminated (see §
57.023 for continuing maintenance responsibility);
            6.   Where legal, remove sediment resulting from land-disturbing
activities from adjacent surfaces and drainageways and/or repair erosion damage
to adjacent surfaces and drainageways; and
            7.   Allow the city to enter the site for verifying compliance with
the erosion and sediment control plan or for the performing of any work
necessary to bring the site into compliance with the erosion and sediment
control plan.
(Prior Code, § 57.12) Penalty, see §
57.999
§ 57.025 INSPECTION.
   (A)   To ensure compliance with the erosion and sediment control plan, the
city shall inspect sites having ongoing land-disturbing activities as deemed
appropriate by the city.
   (B)   If land-disturbing activities are being carried out without a permit,
the city shall issue a stop work order pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 36-1-
4-11 and I.C. 36-1-6-2.
(Prior Code, § 57.13)
§ 57.026 PROPER CREDENTIAL OR IDENTIFICATION REQUIRED.
   The city shall present proper credentials or identification before entering
upon property of the person.
(Prior Code, § 57.14)
§ 57.027 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The city shall post a stop work order if:
      (1)   Any non-complying land-disturbing activity regulated under this
chapter is being undertaken;
      (2)   The erosion and sediment control plan is not being implemented in
good faith; or
      (3)   The conditions of the permit are not being met.
   (B)   Upon appeal to the city, a stop work order or the revocation may be
retracted.
   (C)   Ten days after posting a stop work order, the city may issue a notice
of intent to the violator stating that 14 days after issuing the notice of
intent the city will use the surety bond to perform the work necessary to
provide compliance with this chapter.
   (D)   If, within five days after notification, a permit holder does not
comply with the erosion and sediment control plan or permit conditions, the
city shall revoke the permit.
   (E)   Administrative fines.
      (1)   When the city finds that a person has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this chapter, the city may impose an administrative
fine against such person in an amount not to exceed $2,500 on a per violation,
per day basis, plus any administrative or remediation costs.
      (2)   Issuance of an administrative fine shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the person.
   (F)   Compliance with the provisions of this chapter also may be enforced by
injunction.
(Prior Code, § 57.15)
§ 57.028 PROJECT TERMINATION.
   An orderly and timely termination of a project with land-disturbing
activities should be planned between all persons involved with a site.
   (A)   Nearing the end of a project, but prior to final land grading, seeding
and mulching, the person holding the permit should petition the city, in
writing, to allow the installation of utility lines on the site. Those persons
involved in the installation of utility lines shall perform their work promptly
to minimize the time period during which some of the land may be left in a
relatively unprotected state. After the utility lines have been installed, the
person holding the permit shall promptly complete all erosion control
activities.
   (B)   When a project has been completed, the person holding the permit shall
petition, in writing, the city for approval of erosion control measures which
are to remain on the site to evaluate the adequacy of these control measures.
      (1)   If the erosion control measures are approved, any surety bonds and/
or letters of credit shall be released forthrightly. However, maintenance
responsibilities (see § 57.023) shall remain with the person owning the land.
      (2)   If the erosion control measures are not approved because they are
not in line with either the erosion and sediment control plan or the general
principles of this chapter, the city shall notify, in writing, the person
holding the permit of unacceptable features. After a minimum period of two
weeks during which corrective measures are taken, a petition, again in writing,
may be sent asking the city to evaluate the adequacy of the erosion control
measures. If, in good faith, the city again decides that the erosion control
measures are inadequate, the city may delay the release of any surety bonds
and/or letters of credit for up to two months. After an agreed upon time period
of two months or longer has lapsed without corrective measures being taken, the
city may use the surety bonds to finance changes or additions to the erosion
control measures needed to complete the project.
(Prior Code, § 57.16)
§ 57.029 VIOLATIONS DEEMED A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties provided, any
condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter is a threat to public health, safety and welfare, and is declared
and deemed a nuisance, and may be summarily abated or restored at the
violator’s expense, and/or a civil action to abate, enjoin or otherwise compel
the cessation of such nuisance may be taken.
(Prior Code, § 57.17)
§ 57.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Judicial enforcement remedies.
      (1)   Injunctive relief. When the city finds that a person has violated,
or continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, an NPDES permit, or
order issued hereunder, or any other standard or requirement, the city may
petition through any court of general jurisdiction within the county, for the
issuance of a temporary or permanent injunction. The city may also seek such
other action as is appropriate for legal and/or equitable relief, including a
requirement for the person to conduct environmental remediation. A petition for
injunctive relief shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any
other action against a person.
      (2)   Civil penalties. In addition to the administrative fines available
herein, a person who has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of
this chapter, or order issued hereunder, or any other standard or requirement
shall also be liable to the city for a maximum civil penalty of $2,500 per
violation, per day. Penalties shall accrue for each day during the period of
the violation.
      (3)   The city may recover reasonable attorney fees, court costs and
other expenses associated with enforcement activities, including sampling and
monitoring expenses, and the cost of any actual damages incurred by the
District.
      (4)   In determining the amount of civil liability, the court shall take
into account all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to, the
extent of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration of the
violation, any economic benefit gained through the person’s violation,
corrective actions by the person, the compliance history of the person, and any
other factor as justice requires.
      (5)   Filing a suit for civil penalties shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite, for taking any other action against a person.
(Prior Code, § 57.18)
   (B)   Remedies not exclusive. The remedies listed in this chapter are not
exclusive of any other remedies available under any applicable federal, state
or local law and it is within the discretion of the authorized enforcement
agency to seek cumulative remedies.
(Prior Code, § 57.19)
CHAPTER 58: SEWAGE AND WASTEWATER TREATMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
58.001   Purpose
   
58.002   Definitions
   
58.003   Industrial wastes; national categorical pretreatment standards
   
58.004   Pretreatment facilities to be approved by district
   
58.005   Certain unpolluted waters prohibited
   
58.006   Strength of discharge used to establish charges
   
58.007   Accidental discharges/slug discharges
   
58.008   Dilution
   
58.009   Notice to employees
   
58.010   Upsets; bypass
   
58.011   Record retention
   
58.012   Annual publication of significant non- compliance
   
58.013   Confidential information
   
58.014   Severability
   
58.015   Compliance with state or federal requirements
   
58.016   Applicable standards
   
58.017   Tenant responsibilities
User of Public Sewers Required
   
58.030   Unlawful deposits
   
58.031   Certain waters prohibited
   
58.032   Removal of unpolluted waters from treatment facility
   
58.033   Privy vaults, septic tanks and cesspools prohibited
   
58.034   Connection to public sewers required
   
58.035   Discharge of wastewater to natural outlets
Building Sewers and Connections
   
58.050   Connection of sources of surface runoff prohibited
   
58.051   Connection of floor drain or pit drain prohibited
   
58.052   Damage to facilities
Extension of Interceptor Sewers Outside District Limits
   
58.065   Authority of Board; compliance with ordinances and state law
   
58.066   Permit required
   
58.067   Septic tank wastes
   
58.068   Additional connections not mandatory
   
58.069   Rules and regulations of the District
Use of the Public Sewers
   
58.080   Ground water/soil remediation activity
   
58.081   Prohibited waters and wastes
   
58.082   Remedies for prohibited discharges; authority of Director
   
58.083   Test and analysis standards
   
58.084   Maintenance of preliminary treatment facilities
   
58.085   Monitoring manhole
   
58.086   Grease, oil and sand interceptors
   
58.087   Samples to be taken for measurements
   
58.088   Persons required to provide monitoring manholes
   
58.089   New connections
   
58.090   Deposit of waste waters
Industrial Waste Charges
   
58.105   Sewer service surcharge
   
58.106   Determination of surcharge
   
58.107   Industrial discharge permit and general permit, and continuation of
expired permits
   
58.108   Testing requirements
   
58.109   Billing procedure
   
58.110   Contract method
   
58.111   Billing on a regular basis
   
58.112   Reports
Power and Authority of Inspectors
   
58.125   Proper credentials or identification required
   
58.126   Right of entry
   
58.127   Safety standards
   
58.128   Entry, work to be in accordance with easement
Notices
   
58.140   Notifications enforcement and remedies
   
58.141   Administrative enforcement/remedies
   
58.142   Consent orders
   
58.143   Show cause hearings
   
58.144   Administrative compliance orders
   
58.145   Cease and desist orders
   
58.146   Administrative fines
   
58.147   Emergency suspensions
   
58.148   Termination of discharge
   
58.149   Violator to pay damages
   
58.150   Administrative appeal
   
58.151   Falsifying information
   
58.152   Statutory authority
 
   
58.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   General public works provisions, see
Chapter 50
   Sewer Usage; Rates, see
Chapter 59
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 58.001 PURPOSE.
   (A)   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for direct and indirect
contributors into the wastewater collection and treatment system for the City
Sanitary District and enables the District to comply with all applicable state
and federal laws required by the Clean Water Act of 1977 as amended, being 33
U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq. and the general pretreatment regulations (40 C.F.R. part
403).
   (B)   The objective of this chapter is:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
wastewater treatment system which will interfere with the operation of the
system or contaminate the resultant sludge;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
wastewater system which will pass through the system, inadequately treated,
into receiving waters or otherwise be incompatible with the system;
      (3)   To improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewaters and
sludges from the system;
      (4)   To protect both publicly owned treatment works personnel who may be
affected by wastewater and sludge in the course of their employment, and the
general public; and
      (5)   To enable the District to comply with its national pollutant
discharge elimination system permit conditions, sludge use and disposal
requirements, and any other federal or state laws to which the publicly owned
treatment works is subject.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided herein, the City Sanitary District
Director shall administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this
chapter. Any powers granted to or duties imposed upon the Director may be
delegated by the Director to other District personnel.
(Prior Code, § 54.01)
§ 58.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act as amended by the Clean Water
Act of 1977, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The Regional Administrator of Region V of the United
States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).
   APPLICABLE PRETREATMENT STANDARD. Any pretreatment limit or prohibitive
standard (federal, state and/or local) contained in the chapter and considered
to be the most restrictive with which non-domestic users will be required to
comply.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF INDUSTRIAL USER.
      (1)   If the user is a corporation:
         (a)   The president, secretary, treasurer or vice-president of the
corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who
performs similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation; or
         (b)   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production, or
operation facilities, provided the manager is authorized to make management
decisions that govern the operation of the regulated facility including having
the explicit or implicit duty of making major capital investment
recommendations, and initiate and direct other comprehensive measures to assure
long-term environmental compliance with environmental laws and regulations; can
ensure that the necessary systems are established or actions taken to gather
complete and accurate information for wastewater discharge permit requirements;
and where the authority to sign documents has been assigned or delegated to the
manager in accordance with corporate procedures.
      (2)   If the user is a partnership or sole proprietorship: a general
partner or proprietor, respectively.
      (3)   If the user is a federal, state or local governmental facility: a
director or highest official appointed or designated to oversee the operation
and performance of the activities of the government facility, or their
designee.
      (4)   The individuals described in divisions (1) through (3) above, may
designate another authorized representative if the authorization is in writing,
the authorization specifies the individual or position responsible for the
overall operation of the facility from which the discharge originates or having
overall responsibility for environmental matters for the company, and the
written authorization is submitted to the Director.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP). As defined in 40 C.F.R. part 403.3(e),
schedules of activities, prohibitions of practices, maintenance procedures and
other management practices to implement the general and specific prohibitions
listed in 40 C.F.R. § 403.5(a)(1)(a) and (b). BMPs also include treatment
requirements, operating procedures and practices to control plant site runoff,
spillage or leaks, sludge waste disposal, or drainage from raw materials
storage.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter using standard laboratory procedures in
five days at 20°C, and usually expressed as a concentration (milligrams per
liter).
   CATEGORICAL INDUSTRIAL USER. An industrial user subject to a categorical
pretreatment standard or categorical standard.
   CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD. See definition for NATIONAL CATEGORICAL
PRETREATMENT STANDARD or CATEGORICAL STANDARD.
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. A measure of the oxygen required to oxidize all
compounds, both organic and inorganic in water.
   COMBINED SEWER. The sewer intended to carry sanitary and industrial waste
waters from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, institutions
and also to carry storm waters, surface runoff, street wash waters and
drainage.
   COMMERCIAL USER. Any person owning an establishment offering lodging,
selling goods (either retail or wholesale) or offering services for sale and
contributing an average monthly flow in excess of 10,000 gallons.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. BOD, TSS, pH, fecal coliform bacteria and any
additional pollutants as are now or may be in the future specified and
controlled in the city’s NPDES permit for its wastewater treatment works where
the works have been designed and used to reduce or remove the pollutants to a
substantial degree.
   COMPOSITE SAMPLE. A composite sample should contain a minimum of four
discrete samples taken at equal time intervals over the compositing period or
proportional to the flow rate over the compositing period. More than the
minimum number of discrete samples will be required where the wastewater
loading is highly variable.
   CONTROL AUTHORITY. The City of Richmond, Indiana, City Sanitary District by
and through its Board of Sanitary Commissioners and/or its Director.
   DAILY DISCHARGE. Discharge of a pollutant, measured during a calendar day or
any 24-hour period, that reasonably represents a normal working day.
   DAILY MAXIMUM. The arithmetic average of all effluent samples for a
pollutant collected during a calendar day.
   DAILY MAXIMUM LIMIT. The maximum allowable discharge limit of a pollutant
during a calendar day. Where DAILY MAXIMUM LIMITS are expressed in units of
mass, the daily discharge is the total mass discharged over the course of the
day. Where DAILY MAXIMUM LIMITS are expressed in terms of concentration, the
daily discharge is the arithmetic average measurement of the pollutant
concentration derived from all measurements taken that day.
   DIRECTOR. The duly appointed and qualified Director of the City Sanitary
District or his or her authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   DISTRICT. The Sanitary District of the city, acting by its duly constituted
Board of Sanitary Commissioners or their authorized representatives.
   DOMESTIC USER. All persons owning residential dwellings which discharge
primarily domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary conveniences.
   DOMESTIC WASTE. Liquid wastes from the non-commercial preparation, cooking
and handling of food or containing human excrement and similar matter from the
sanitary conveniences of dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities
and institutions.
   EASEMENTS. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY or EPA. The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency or, where appropriate, the Regional Water Management Division Director,
the Regional Administrator or other duly authorized official of said agency.
   EXISTING SOURCE. Any source of discharge, the construction or operation of
which commenced prior to the publication of proposed categorical pretreatment
standards which will be applicable to such source if the standard is thereafter
promulgated in accordance with § 307 of the Act, being 42 U.S.C. § 7401.
   FECAL COLIFORM. Any of the number of organisms common to the intestinal
tract of humans and animals, whose presence is an indicator of pathogenic
microorganisms.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state, such that will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in a pretreatment facility
approved by the city.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   GOVERNMENTAL USER. Any user who represents some function of local, regional,
state or federal government and who discharges primarily segregated domestic
waste or waste from sanitary conveniences.
   GRAB SAMPLE. A sample which is taken from a wastestream with no regard to
the flow in the wastestream, and within a time period of 15 minutes or less.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant which is not a “compatible pollutant”.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE or DISCHARGE. The introduction of pollutants into the
POTW from any nondomestic source regulated under § 307(b), (c) or (d) of the
Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317(a).
   INDUSTRIAL USER or USER. Any source of an indirect discharge.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. Any solid, liquid, gaseous waste or heat resulting from
any process or excess energy of industry, manufacturing trade or business, or
from the development, processing or recovery of any natural resource, as
distinct from industrial employees’ domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences (normal domestic sewage).
   INFILTRATION. Any water other than wastewater that enters a sewage system
from the ground through such means as defective pipes, pipe joints, connections
or manholes. INFILTRATION does not include, and is distinguished from,
“inflow”.
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW. The total quantity of water from both infiltration and
inflow without distinguishing the source.
   INFLOW. Any water other than wastewater, that enters a sewage system from
sources such as roof leaders, cellar drains, yard drains, area drains,
foundation drains, drains from springs and swampy areas, manhole covers, cross-
connections between storm sewers and sanitary sewers, catch basins, cooling
towers, storm waters, surface runoff, street wash waters or drainage. INFLOW
does not include, and is distinguished from, “infiltration”.
   INSTANTANEOUS LIMIT. The maximum concentration of a pollutant allowed to be
discharged at any time, determined from the analysis of any discrete or
composite sample collected, independent of the industrial flow rate and the
duration of the sampling event.
   INSPECTOR. The person or persons duly authorized by the Board of Sanitary
Commissioners to inspect and approve the installation of building sewers and
their connection to the public sewer system.
   INTERFERENCE. A discharge that, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, does one of the following:
      (1)   Inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment processes or
operations, its sludge processes or its selected sludge use or disposal
methods;
      (2)   Causes a violation of any requirement of the POTW’s NPDES permit,
including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation; or
      (3)   Prevents the use of the POTW’s sewage sludge or its sludge disposal
method selected in compliance with the following statutory provisions,
regulations or permits issued thereunder or more stringent state or local
regulations:
         (a)   Section 405 of the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. § 1345);
         (b)   The Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA) (42 U.S.C. § 6901),
including:
            1.   Title II, more commonly referred to as the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA); and
            2.   The rules contained in any state sludge management plan
prepared pursuant to Subtitle D of the SWDA (42 U.S.C. § 6941).
         (c)   The Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. § 7401);
         (d)   The Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C. § 2601); and
         (e)   The Marine Protection, Research and Sanctuaries Act (33 U.S.C. §
1401).
   LOCAL LIMITS. Wastewater limitations that discharge to a publicly owned
treatment works (POTW) (40 C.F.R. § 403.3(q)). LOCAL LIMITS are developed to
meet the pretreatment program objectives and site-specific needs of the local
POTW and the receiving stream. LOCAL LIMITS control the pollutants in the
wastewater discharges from commercial and industrial facilities and apply at
the “end-of-pipe” from the facility. The regulations under 40 C.F.R. § 403.5(d)
give the POTW the authority to enforce its local limits.
   MAHL (MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE HEADWORKS LOADING). The maximum loading of a given
pollutant that the POTW can accept without causing an exceedance of the most
limiting of the following restrictions:
      (1)   POTW upset limits (activated sludge and/or anaerobic digestion);
      (2)   Pass-through limits (either NPDES discharge limits or water quality
objectives);
      (3)   Sludge disposal limits; and
      (4)   POTW design capacity limits.
   MAIL (MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE INDUSTRIAL HEADWORKS LOADING). The maximum loading
of a given pollutant that can be discharged by the sum total of all industrial
users without causing an exceedance of the most limiting of the following
restrictions:
      (1)   POTW upset limits (activated sludge and/or anaerobic digestion);
      (2)   Pass-through limits (either NPDES discharge limits or water quality
objectives);
      (3)   Sludge disposal limits; and
      (4)   POTW design capacity limits.
   NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD or CATEGORICAL STANDARD.  Any
regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by EPA in
accordance with §§ 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317) which apply to
specific category of users and which appear in 40 C.F.R. Chapter I, Subchapter
N, Parts 405 to 471.
   NPDES PERMIT. The permit issued to the Richmond (William Edwin Ross)
Wastewater Treatment Plant Wayne County under the national pollutant discharge
elimination system for discharge of wastewaters to the navigable waters of the
United States pursuant to § 402 of the Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1342.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or any other body of surface
or groundwater.
   NEW SOURCE.
      (1)   Any building, structure, facility or installation from which there
is, or may be, a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced
after the publication of proposed pretreatment standards under § 307(c) of the
Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317(c) which will be applicable to such source if such
standards are thereafter promulgated in accordance with that section, provided
that:
         (a)   The building, structure, facility or installation is constructed
at a site at which no other source is located;
         (b)   The building, structure, facility or installation totally
replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an existing source; or
         (c)   The production or wastewater generating processes of the
building, structure, facility or installation are substantially independent of
an existing source at the same site. To determine if the new wastewater
generating process is substantially independent of an existing source at the
same site, certain factors should be considered. These factors include the
extent to which the new facility is integrated with the existing plant, and the
extent to which the new facility is engaged in the same general type of
activity as the existing source.
      (2)   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located
results in a modification rather than a NEW SOURCE if the construction does not
create a new building, structure, facility or installation meeting the criteria
of divisions (1)(b) or (1)(c) above but otherwise alters, replaces or adds to
existing process or production equipment.
      (3)   Construction of a NEW SOURCE as defined under this division (3) has
commenced if the owner or operator has:
         (a)   Begun, or caused to being, as part of a continuous onsite
construction program:
            1.   Any placement, assembly or installation of facilities or
equipment; or
            2.   Significant site preparation work including clearing,
excavation or removal of existing buildings, structures or facilities which is
necessary for the placement, assembly or installation of NEW SOURCE facilities
or equipment.
         (b)   Entered into a biding contractual obligation for the purchase of
facilities or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation within a
reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be terminated or
modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility, engineering
and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation under this
division (3).
   NOV. Notice of violation is the initial formal enforcement action for a
violation.
   OIL AND GREASE.
      (1)   Non-polar oil and grease: total petroleum hydrocarbons (TPH) oil
and grease. Petroleum or mineral oil based products.
      (2)   Polar oils and grease: processed vegetable and animal origin fats
and oils that are commonly found in food based products/industries. These
substances must not solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F and
150°F (0°C and 65°C).
   OTHER WASTES. Garbage, refuse, wood residues, sand, lime, cinders, ashes,
offal, night soil, silt, tar, dyestuffs, acids, chemicals, disposable wipes and
all other substances, not sewage or industrial waste, which discharge would
cause pollution or cause damage or blockage to sewers.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the concentration of hydrogen ions
expressed in grams per liter of solution as determined under standard
laboratory procedure.
   PASS THROUGH. A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the United
States in quantities or concentration which, alone or in conjunction with a
discharge or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any
requirement of the District’s NPDES permit, including an increase in the
magnitude or duration of a violation.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, trust, estate, political subdivision, state agency or
any other legal entity or their legal representative, agent or assigns legally
capable of owning property in the state.
   POLLUTANT. Dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, filter backwash,
sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, medical wastes, chemical waste,
biological materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discarded
equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt, municipal, agricultural and industrial
wastes, and certain characteristics of wastewater (e.g., pH, temperature, TSS,
turbidity, color, BOD, COD, toxicity or odor). The term includes sewage,
industrial waste and other waste.
   POTW (PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS). A treatment works as defined by § 212
of the Clean Water Act (the Act) being 33 U.S.C. § 1292, which is owned by a
state or municipality (as defined by § 502(4) of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. §
1362(4)). This definition includes any devices and systems used in the storage,
treatment, recycling and reclamation of municipal sewage or industrial wastes
of a liquid nature. It also includes sewers, pipes and other conveyances only
if they convey wastewater to a POTW treatment plant. The term also means the
municipality as defined in § 502(4) of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1362(4),
which has jurisdiction over the indirect discharges to and the discharges from
such a treatment works.
   PRETREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater prior to or in lieu of discharging or otherwise introducing such
pollutants into a POTW. The reduction or alteration may be obtained by
physical, chemical or biological processes, process changes or by other means,
except as prohibited by 40 CFR § 403.6(d).
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment, other than a pretreatment standard imposed on an industrial
user.
   PRETREATMENT STANDARDS or STANDARDS. Prohibited discharge standards,
categorical pretreatment standards and local limits.
   PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS or PROHIBITED DISCHARGES. Absolute
prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances; these prohibitions
appear in §
58.081.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and is controlled by a public authority, or owned by the Sanitary
District.
   QUALIFIED PROFESSIONAL. An individual who is trained and experienced in
wastewater treatment, environmental compliance or related fields as may be
demonstrated by state registration, professional certification, experience or
completion of coursework that enables the individual to make sound,
professional judgment regarding a facility’s ability to comply with federal,
state and local wastewater rules and regulations.
   REGIONAL ADMINISTRATOR. Head of EPA Region 5 Office located in Chicago, IL.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that carries wastewater, sanitary and industrial,
together with incidental land runoff, but to which storm, surface and ground
water are not intentionally admitted.
   SEPTIC TANK WASTE. Any sewage from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers and septic tanks.
   SEWAGE. Water-carried human and related wastes from any source, together
with associated land runoff, sanitary and industrial wastewaters and polluted
cooling water, from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and
institutions. The term includes sanitary sewage, industrial sewage and combined
sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying either wastewater or land runoff, or
both.
   SHALL AND MAY.
      SHALL. Mandatory.
      MAY. Permissive.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER (SIU).
      (1)   A user subject to categorical pretreatment standards; or
      (2)   A user that:
         (a)   Discharges an average of 25,000 gallons per day or more of
process wastewater to the POTW (excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling and
boiler blowdown wastewater);
         (b)   Contributes a process wastestream which makes up 5% or more of
the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW treatment
plant; or
         (c)   Is designated as such by the Director on the basis that it has a
reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW’s operation or for
violating any pretreatment standard or requirement.
      (3)   Upon finding that a user meeting the criteria in division (2) above
has no reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW’s operation or for
violating any pretreatment standard or requirement, the Director may at any
time, on his or her own initiative or in response to a petition received from a
user, and in accordance with the procedures in 40 C.F.R. § 403.8(f)(6),
determine that such user should not be considered a significant industrial
user.
   SLUG. Any discharge at a flow rate or concentration which could cause a
violation of the prohibited discharge standards in §
58.081, or any discharge of a non-routine, episodic nature, including, but not
limited to, an accidental spill or a non-customary batch discharge
   STORM SEWER. A sewer intended to receive and convey only land runoff, ground
water or unpolluted water from any source and to which sanitary or industrial
wastes are not intentionally admitted.
   TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS). Solids in a liquid suspension of water, sewage
or other liquids and which are removable by laboratory filtering under standard
laboratory procedure.
   TOXIC AMOUNT. Concentrations of any pollutants or combination of pollutants,
which upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism will cause adverse
effects, such as cancer, genetic mutations and physiological manifestations, as
defined in standards issued pursuant to § 307(a) of the Clean Water Act, being
33 U.S.C. § 1317(a).
   TOXIC POLLUTANTS. As defined in the Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1362,
those pollutants, or combinations of pollutants, including disease-causing
agents, which, after discharge and upon exposure, ingestion, inhalation or
assimilation into any organism, either directly from the environment or
indirectly by ingestion through food chains, will, on the basis of information
available to the Director, cause death, disease, behavioral abnormalities,
cancer, genetic mutations, physiological malfunctions (including malfunctions
in reproduction), or physical deformations in the organisms or their offspring
(§ 502 (13), being 33 U.S.C. § 1362(13)). TOXIC POLLUTANTS include, but are not
limited to the list of 126 priority pollutants, or any other list of total
toxic organics. The toxic substances of concern in the waste of a particular
facility will depend on the raw materials, products and processes employed at
that facility.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   UPSET. An exceptional incident in which there is unintentional and temporary
non-compliance with categorical pretreatment standards because of factors
beyond the reasonable control of the industrial user. An UPSET does not include
non-compliance to the extent caused by operational error, improperly designed
treatment facilities, inadequate treatment facilities, lack of preventive
maintenance or careless or improper operation.
   USER. See INDUSTRIAL USER.
   VOLATILE ORGANIC MATTER. The material in the sewage solids transformed to
gases or vapors when heated at 550°C for 60 minutes under standard laboratory
procedures.
   WASTEWATER. Treated or untreated liquid and water-carried industrial or
domestic wastes from dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities,
manufacturing facilities and institutions, together with any inflow and
infiltration that may be present, which is discharged into or permitted to
enter the POTW.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or TREATMENT PLANT. The portion of the POTW which
is designed to provide treatment of municipal sewage, industrial waste and
wastewater from manufacturing facilities.
(Prior Code, § 54.02)
§ 58.003 INDUSTRIAL WASTES; NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   Industrial users shall provide necessary pretreatment as required to comply
with this chapter and shall achieve compliance with all categorical
pretreatment standards, local limits and the prohibitions set forth in §
58.081 within the time limitations specified by the EPA, the state or the
Director, whichever is more stringent.
   (A)   The national categorical pretreatment standards found at 40 C.F.R.
Chapter I, Subchapter N, Parts 405 to 471 are hereby incorporated.
   (B)   State pretreatment standards are also incorporated into this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 54.58)
§ 58.004 PRETREATMENT FACILITIES TO BE APPROVED BY DISTRICT.
   Plans, specifications and any other pertinent information relating to
pretreatment or control facilities shall be submitted for approval of the
District, and no construction of the facilities shall be commenced until
approval in writing is granted. Where these facilities are provided, they shall
be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operating order by the
user, at the user’s expense, and shall be subject to periodic inspection by the
District to determine that the facilities are being operated in conformance
with applicable federal, state and local laws and permits. The user shall
maintain operating records and shall submit to the District, periodic reports,
as required in the user’s wastewater discharge permit, of the character of the
influent and effluent to show the performance of the treatment facilities and
for comparison against district monitoring records.
(Prior Code, § 54.59)
§ 58.005 CERTAIN UNPOLLUTED WATERS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged, or make a connection to
discharge or cause to be discharged to any sanitary sewer, either directly or
indirectly, storm water, surface water, ground water, roof runoff, downspouts,
swimming pools, subsurface drainage or noncontact cooling water, unpolluted
industrial process water, or other unpolluted waters.
(Prior Code, § 54.60) Penalty, see §
58.999
§ 58.006 STRENGTH OF DISCHARGE USED TO ESTABLISH CHARGES.
   Strength of wastewaters shall be determined, for periodic establishment of
charges provided for in §§
59.135 through
59.150 of this code of ordinances, from samples taken at the structure(s)
mentioned in §§
58.004 and
58.085 at any period of time and of such duration and in such a manner as the
District may elect, or, at any place mutually agreed upon between the user and
the District. Appropriate charges for sampling and analysis shall be assessed
to the user at the option of the District. The results of routine sampling and
analysis by the user may also be used for determination of charges with
appropriate verification by the District.
(Prior Code, § 54.61)
§ 58.007 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGES/SLUG DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Accidental discharges. Each industrial user having the ability to
cause interference with the POTW treatment plant or to violate the regulatory
provisions of this chapter shall implement a plan to provide protection against
accidental discharge to the POTW of prohibited materials or other substances
regulated by this chapter. The Director may require any user to develop, submit
for approval and implement such a plan. Facilities to prevent accidental
discharge or prohibited materials from entering the POTW shall be provided and
maintained at the user’s own cost and expense. All industrial users whose
wastewater includes or could include compatible or incompatible pollutants in
amounts great enough to cause interference with the POTW must have detailed
plans on file at the District showing facilities and operating procedures to
provide this protection. Plans shall be approved by the District before
construction of the facility. Review and approval of such plans and operating
procedures shall not relieve the industrial user from the responsibility to
modify its facility as necessary to meet the requirements of this chapter.
      (1)   Notification. In the case of any discharge of compatible or
incompatible pollutants which may cause interference at the POTW or violate
regulatory requirements of this chapter, it shall be the responsibility of the
industrial user to immediately telephone and notify the District of the
incident as set forth in §
58.140(B)(1) of this chapter. This notification shall include name of caller,
location and time of discharge, type of wastewater, concentration, volume and
corrective actions.
      (2)   Written report. Within five working days following such an
accidental or deliberate discharge, the industrial user shall submit to the
Director a detailed written report describing the cause of the discharge and
the measures to be taken by the user to prevent similar future occurrences as
set forth in §
58.140(B)(2) of this chapter. Follow-up reports may be required by the District
as needed. Such report, or reports, shall not relieve the industrial user of
any expense, loss, damage or other liability which may be incurred as a result
of damage to the POTW, fish kills, or any other damage to person or property;
nor shall such report relieve the user of any fines, civil penalties or other
liability which may be imposed by the chapter or otherwise. Failure to report
accidental or deliberate dischargers may, in addition to any other remedies
available to the District, result in the revocation of the user’s wastewater
discharge permit.
   (B)   Slug control plan. The Director shall evaluate each significant
industrial user within a year of being designated as such, regarding the need
for a slug control plan. The Director may require any user to develop, submit
for approval and implement such a plan. A slug control plan shall address, at
minimum, the following:
      (1)   Include definition of slug discharge as per §
58.002;
      (2)   Description of discharge practices, including non-routine batch
discharges;
      (3)   Description of stored chemicals;
      (4)   Procedures for immediately notifying the Director of any discharge
meeting the definition of “slug discharge”, as set forth in §
58.140(B); and
      (5)   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
discharge. Such procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants, including solvents and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response.
   (C)   Evaluation criteria. Criteria used to evaluate the need for an
accidental or slug control will be site specific, but at a minimum will
consider:
      (1)   Quantity and types of materials used or stored and their potential
for causing violation of local limits or the general or specific prohibitions;
      (2)   Potential for such materials to enter the sewer systems and cause
damage, pass through or interference; and
      (3)   Existing controls to prevent any potential accidental or slug
discharges.
   (D)   Notification of change. The Director must be notified immediately of
any change that occurs at a facility that affects the potential for an
accidental or slug discharge, thereby allowing the District to reevaluate the
need for a accidental or slug control plan or other actions to prevents such
discharges.
(Prior Code, § 54.63)
§ 58.008 DILUTION.
   (A)   No user shall increase the use of process water or, in any way,
attempt to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
pretreatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in the
national categorical pretreatment standards when effective, or in any other
pollutant-specific limitation developed by the district or state.
   (B)   The district may impose mass limitations on users which are using
dilution to meet applicable pretreatment standards or requirements, or in other
cases where the imposition of mass limitations is appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 54.64) Penalty, see §
58.999
§ 58.009 NOTICE TO EMPLOYEES.
   A notice shall be permanently posted on the user’s bulletin board or other
prominent place advising employees whom to call in the event of a discharge of
a prohibitive material. Employers shall ensure that all employees who are in a
position to cause, discover or observe such an accidental discharge are advised
of the emergency notification procedures.
(Prior Code, § 54.65)
§ 58.010 UPSETS; BYPASS.
   (A)   Upset.
      (1)   For the purposes of this section, UPSET means an exceptional
incident in which there is unintentional and temporary non-compliance with
categorical pretreatment standards because of factors beyond the reasonable
control of the industrial user. An UPSET does not include non-compliance to the
extent caused by operational error, improperly designed treatment facilities,
inadequate treatment facilities, lack of preventative maintenance, or careless
or improper operation.
      (2)   The industrial user must submit the following information to the
District within 24 hours upon becoming aware of an operational upset (if this
information is provided orally, a written submission must be provided within
five working days):
         (a)   A description of the upset and specific cause of non-compliance;
         (b)   The period of non-compliance, including exact dates and times
or, if not corrected, the anticipated time the non-compliance is expected to
continue; and
         (c)   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate and
prevent recurrence of the non-compliance.
   (B)   Bypass. 
      (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         BYPASS. The intentional diversion of wastestreams from any portion of
a user’s treatment facility.
         SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE. Substantial physical damage to property,
damage to the treatment facilities which causes them to become inoperable, or
substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can reasonably be
expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE does not
mean economic loss caused by delays in production.
      (2)   A user may allow any bypass to occur which does not cause
pretreatment standards or requirements to be violated, but only if it also is
for essential maintenance to assure efficient operation. These bypasses are not
subject to the provision of divisions (B)(3) and (B)(4) below.
      (3)   (a)   If a user knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it shall
submit prior notice to the Director, at least ten days before the date of the
bypass, if possible.
         (b)   A user shall submit oral notice to the Director of an
unanticipated bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment standards within 24
hours from the time it becomes aware of the bypass. A written submission shall
also be provided within five days of the time the user becomes aware of the
bypass. The written submission shall contain a description of the bypass and
its cause; the duration of the bypass, including exact dates and times, and, if
the bypass has not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected to
continue; and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate and prevent
reoccurrence of the bypass. The Director may waive the written report on a
case-by-case basis if the oral report has been received within 24 hours.
      (4)   (a)   Bypass is prohibited, and the Director may take an
enforcement action against a user for a bypass, unless:
               1.   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal
injury or severe property damage;
               2.   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as
the use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes, or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate back-up equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and
               3.   The user submitted notices as required under division (B)
(3) above.
         (b)   The Director may approve anticipated bypass, after considering
its adverse effects, if the Director determines that it will meet the three
conditions listed in division (B)(4)(a) above.
      (5)   A documented and verified upset or bypass may constitute an
affirmative defense to an action brought for non-compliance with applicable
pretreatment standards if the requirements of 40 C.F.R. § 403.16(c) are met.
(Prior Code, § 54.66)
§ 58.011 RECORD RETENTION.
   Users subject to the reporting requirements of this chapter shall retain at
the location of the user’s regulated facility, and make available for
inspection and copying, all records of information obtained pursuant to any
monitoring activities required by this chapter and any additional records of
information obtained pursuant to monitoring activities undertaken by the user
independent of such requirements, and documentation associated with best
management practices (BMP) established under §
58.082(A)(4). Records shall include the date, exact place, method and time of
sampling and the name of the person(s) taking the samples; the dates analyses
were performed; who performed the analyses; the analytical techniques or
methods used; and the results of such analyses. These records shall remain
available for a period of at least three years. This period shall be
automatically extended for the duration of any litigation concerning the user
or the city, or where the user has been specifically notified of a longer
retention period by Director.
(Prior Code, § 54.67)
§ 58.012 ANNUAL PUBLICATION OF SIGNIFICANT NON-COMPLIANCE.
   The Director shall publish annually, in a newspaper of general circulation
that provides meaningful public notice with the jurisdiction(s) served by the
POTW, a list of the users which at any time, during the previous 12 months,
were in significant non-compliance with applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements. The term SIGNIFICANT NON-COMPLIANCE shall mean:
   (A)   Chronic violations: 66% or more of all measurements taken for the same
pollutant parameter during a six-month period exceed, by any magnitude, a
numeric pretreatment standard or requirement, including instantaneous limits,
as defined by 40 C.F.R. § 403.3(1);
   (B)   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations: 33% or more of all
measurements for same pollutant parameter taken during a six-month period equal
or exceed the product of the numeric pretreatment standard or requirement,
including instantaneous limits, as defined by 40 C.F.R. 403.3(1), multiplied by
the applicable TRC listed below:
      (1)   Conventional pollutants: biochemical oxygen demand (BOD), total
suspended solids (TSS), fats, oil, grease (FOG). TRC LIMIT - numeric standard
or requirement x 1.4;
      (2)   Note: discharge of conventional surcharge pollutants in excess of
threshold concentrations will not constitute a violation unless the discharge
satisfies a condition in divisions (C) or (D) below; and
      (3)   All other pollutants except pH: TRC limit - numeric standard or
requirement x 1.2.
   (C)   Any other violation of a pretreatment standard or requirement as
defined by 40 C.F.R. § 403.3(1), such as daily maximum, long-term average,
instantaneous limit or narrative standard that the District determines has
caused, alone or in combination with other discharges, interference (i.e., slug
loads) or pass through, including endangering the health of District personnel
or the general public;
   (D)   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment to
human health, welfare or the environment; or has resulted in the District’s
exercise of its emergency authority to halt or prevent such a discharge;
   (E)   Failure to meet, within 90 days after the scheduled date, a compliance
schedule milestone contained in a industrial discharge permit or enforcement
order for starting construction, completing construction or attaining final
compliance;
   (F)   Failure to provide within 45 days after the due date, required reports
such as baseline monitoring reports, report on compliance with categorical
pretreatment standard deadlines, periodic self-monitoring reports, and reports
on compliance with compliance schedules;
   (G)   Failure to accurately report non-compliance; or
   (H)   Any other violation or group of violations, which may include a
violation of best management practices (BMPs), that the District determines
will adversely affect the operation or implementation of the local pretreatment
program.
(Prior Code, § 54.68)
§ 58.013 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, surveys, wastewater
discharge permit applications, wastewater discharge permits, and monitoring
programs, and from the Director’s inspection and sampling activities, shall be
available to the public without restriction, unless the user specifically
requests, and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Director, that
the release of such information would divulge information, processes or methods
of production entitled to protection as trade secrets as stated in 40 C.F.R.
part 2, which refers to public information. Any such request must be asserted
at the time of submission of the information or data by stamping the words,
“confidential business information” on each page containing such information.
Wastewater constituents and characteristics and other “effluent data” as
defined by 40 C.F.R. 2.302 will not be recognized as confidential information
and will be available to the public without restriction. Regardless of
information being stamped “confidential business information”, this information
shall be made available for governmental agencies for use in all matters
pertaining to the NPDES program or pretreatment program, and in enforcement
proceedings involving the person furnishing the report.
(Prior Code, § 54.69)
§ 58.014 SEVERABILITY.
   The invalidity of any section, clause, sentence or provision of this chapter
shall not affect the validity of any other part of this chapter which can be
given effect without the invalid part or parts.
(Prior Code, § 54.89)
§ 58.015 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE OR FEDERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All provisions of this chapter and limits set herein shall comply with any
applicable state or federal requirements now, or projected to be, in effect.
(Prior Code, § 54.90)
§ 58.016 APPLICABLE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Upon the promulgation of the national categorical pretreatment
standards for a particular industrial user, the said standard, if more
stringent than the limitations imposed under this chapter for sources in that
category, shall, when effective, immediately supersede the limitations and
conditions imposed under this chapter.
   (B)   State requirements and limitations on discharges apply in any case
where they are more stringent than federal requirements or those contained in
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 54.91)
§ 58.017 TENANT RESPONSIBILITY.
   Where an owner of property leases premises to any other person as a tenant
under any rental or lease agreement, if either the owner or the tenant is a
user other than a domestic user, either or both may be held responsible for
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 54.92)
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED
§ 58.030 UNLAWFUL DEPOSITS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited, in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
Sanitary District or in any area under the jurisdiction of the District any
human or animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
(Prior Code, § 54.03) Penalty, see §
58.999
§ 58.031 CERTAIN WATERS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged, or make a connection to
discharge or cause to be discharged to any sanitary sewer, either directly or
indirectly, storm water, surface water, ground water, roof runoff, downspouts,
swimming pools, subsurface drainage or noncontact cooling water, unpolluted
industrial process water or other unpolluted waters.
(Prior Code, § 54.04) Penalty, see §
58.999
§ 58.032 REMOVAL OF UNPOLLUTED WATERS FROM TREATMENT FACILITY.
   The Sanitary District shall require the removal of unpolluted waters from
any wastewater collection or treatment facility if removal is cost-effective
and is in the best interest of all users of the facilities.
(Prior Code, § 54.05)
§ 58.033 PRIVY VAULTS, SEPTIC TANKS AND CESSPOOLS PROHIBITED.
   Except as herein provided, it shall be unlawful for any person to construct
or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended for the treatment of sewage or wastewater on any property within the
Sanitary District.
(Prior Code, § 54.06) Penalty, see §
58.999
§ 58.034 CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWERS  REQUIRED.
   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes, located within the Sanitary District
and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is located a
public sewer, is hereby required to connect the house, building or property
directly with the public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter within three months after the date of official notice to do so. In the
event the building drain of the house, building or property is within 300 feet
of a public sewer, the owner shall be required to connect the building drain to
the public sewer; in the event the house, building or property is at a distance
greater than 300 feet from the public sewer the owner may be required to
connect at the discretion of the Board of Sanitary Commissioners; provided,
that the wastewater treatment facility shall have the capacity to treat the
waste of the house, building or parcel of real estate.
(Prior Code, § 54.07) Penalty, see §
58.999
§ 58.035 DISCHARGE OF WASTEWATER TO NATURAL OUTLETS.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any natural outlet
any wastewater or deleterious pollutants except where suitable treatment has
been provided in accordance with provisions of this chapter and the NPDES
permit.
(Prior Code, § 54.08) Penalty, see §
58.999
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 58.050 CONNECTION OF SOURCES OF SURFACE RUNOFF PROHIBITED.
   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior foundation
drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a
building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or
indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
(Prior Code, § 54.29) Penalty, see §
58.999
§ 58.051 CONNECTION OF FLOOR DRAIN OR PIT DRAIN PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
58.086, no person shall connect any floor drain, pit drain, site drain or any
other drain subject to receiving oil, grease or gasoline to any sewer either
directly or indirectly.
   (B)   Any drain subject to receiving oil, grease, gasoline, other flammable
substances, excessive solids or sand in accordance with §
58.086 shall connect only to a sanitary sewer unless specifically authorized by
the Director.
(Prior Code, § 54.30) Penalty, see §
58.999
§ 58.052 DAMAGE TO FACILITIES.
   When a discharge of wastes causes an obstruction, damage or any other
impairment to the POTW, City Sanitary District may assess a charge against the
IU and/or septic hauler for the work required to clean and/or repair the
sanitary sewer system and/or the POTW, and add such charge or charges to the
user’s charges and fees.
(Prior Code, § 54.32)
EXTENSION OF INTERCEPTOR SEWERS OUTSIDE DISTRICT LIMITS
§ 58.065 AUTHORITY OF BOARD; COMPLIANCE WITH ORDINANCES AND STATE LAW.
   The installation, construction or extension of interceptor sewers outside
the corporate limits of the city, shall be governed solely by the Board of
Sanitary Commissioners and any connection to the interceptor shall be subject
to the provisions of §
58.066 and I.C. 36-9-25-1 et seq.
   (A)   Any existing significant industrial user located beyond the District
limits and discharging into the District sewer system shall submit a discharge
permit application, in accordance with §
58.107 within 90 days of the effective date of this chapter, or in the case a
valid permit exists and does not violate any part of this chapter, shall not
have to re-apply until the permit expiration date. New significant industrial
users located beyond the District limits shall submit such applications to the
Director at least 90 days prior to any proposed discharge into the POTW.
   (B)   Alternately, the Director may enter into an agreement with the
neighboring jurisdiction in which the significant industrial user is located to
provide for the implementation and enforcement of pretreatment program
requirements against said industrial user.
(Prior Code, § 54.33)
§ 58.066 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Properties outside the territorial limits of the Sanitary District shall not
be permitted connections to the sewage utility until a permit has been obtained
from the Board of Sanitary Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 54.34)
§ 58.067 SEPTIC TANK WASTES.
   (A)   Septic tank and grease trap waste may be introduced into the POTW only
at locations designated by the Director, and at such times as are established
by the Director. Such waste shall not violate §
58.081 or any other requirements established by the Director. The Director
shall require septic tank and grease trap waste haulers to obtain wastewater
discharge permits.
   (B)   The Director shall require haulers of industrial waste to obtain
wastewater discharge permits. The Director may require generators of hauled
industrial waste to obtain wastewater discharge permits. The Director also may
prohibit the disposal of hauled industrial waste. The discharge of hauled
industrial waste is subject to all other requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   All waste haulers may discharge loads only at locations designated by
the Director. No load may be discharged without prior consent of the Director.
The Director may collect samples of each hauled load to ensure compliance with
applicable standards. The Director may require the industrial waste hauler to
provide a waste analysis of any load prior to discharge.
   (D)   All waste haulers must provide a waste-tracking form for every hauled
load. This form shall include, at a minimum, the name and address of the waste
hauler, names and addresses of sources of waste, and volume of waste. The form
shall be signed by a representative of the source and a representative of the
hauler.
   (E)   Damage to facilities, see §
58.052.
(Prior Code, § 54.35)
§ 58.068 ADDITIONAL CONNECTIONS NOT MANDATORY.
   No provision of this chapter shall be interpreted to require the District to
accept any additional connections if there is insufficient capacity available
in the POTW to accept or treat additional waste.
(Prior Code, § 54.36)
§ 58.069 RULES AND REGULATIONS OF THE DISTRICT.
   (A)   The Board of Sanitary Commissioners may issue a permit for the owner
of real estate outside the Sanitary District to connect to the public sewer
system, provided that the permit shall be issued subject to rules and
regulations of the Sanitary District relating to the connection to the
publicly-owned sewer of the private building sewer. These regulations shall be
determined and published by the Board and shall include a sewer tap fee, a user
charge, and construction criteria. The user charge shall be determined by the
Board according to the laws of the state, and the United States Environmental
Protection Agency.
   (B)   To the extent any user outside the limits of the District connects or
discharges into the POTW, the District shall have the same authority to
regulate such user, including any industrial user, pursuant to the same
provisions contained within this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 54.37)
USE OF THE PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 58.080 GROUND WATER/SOIL REMEDIATION ACTIVITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any user to discharge treated groundwater
from a groundwater or soil remediation system into the District’s POTW without
first obtaining a wastewater discharge permit or general permit from the
Director. Any violation of the terms and conditions of a wastewater discharge
permit or general permit shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and
subjects the permittee to the enforcement and remedies set out in this chapter.
      (1)   Obtaining a wastewater discharge permit or general permit does not
relieve a permittee of its obligation to comply with all federal and state
pretreatment standards or requirements or with any other requirements of
federal, state and local law.
      (2)   Any user proposing to begin or recommence discharging treated
groundwater into the POTW must obtain a wastewater discharge permit or general
permit in accordance with §
58.107(A), prior to the beginning or recommencing of such discharge. A
wastewater discharge permit application must be filed at least 90 days prior to
the date which any discharge will begin.
   (B)   A permitted groundwater or soil remediation system will utilize
accepted industrial practices and equipment including, but not limited to, oil/
water separators for free product capture, particulate removal, air stripping,
granular activated carbon and the like.
   (C)   Each groundwater or soil remediation system will be subject to
pollutant parameters specific to the type of remediation activity, including,
but not limited to, gasoline, diesel or heating fuel, industrial solvents,
heavy metals and the like. Pollutants will be limited as follows.
      (1)   No discharge of free product in any amount.
      (2)   Prohibitions and limitations as specified in §
58.081.
      (3)   No single total toxic organic compound analyzed using approved
wastewater methods found in 40 C.F.R. part 136 shall exceed a concentration
that is greater than the lowest achievable detection limit for a given compound
in an interference-free sample matrix.
(Prior Code, § 54.38) Penalty, see §
58.999
§ 58.081 PROHIBITED WATERS AND WASTE.
   Except as herein provided, no person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any of the following described waters or wastes into the POTW,
except those waters and wastes handled in accordance with the hauled septic and
industrial waste requirements specified in this chapter:
   (A)   Any pollutant or wastewater which causes pass through or interference.
These general prohibitions apply to all users of the POTW whether or not they
are subject to categorical pretreatment standards or any other national, state
or local pretreatment standards or requirements (40 C.F.R. § 403.5(a)(1)
General Prohibitions);
   (B)   Heats in amounts which will inhibit biological activity in the POTW
resulting in interference, but in no case heat in such quantities that the
temperature at the treatment plant exceeds 40°C (104°F) (40 C.F.R. § 403.5(b)
Specific Prohibitions);
   (C)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, wastestreams with a closed-cup flashpoint of
less than 140°F (60°C) using the test methods specified in 40 C.F.R. § 261.21
(40 C.F.R. § 403.5(b) Specific Prohibitions);
   (D)   Any solid or viscous pollutants in amounts which will cause
obstruction to the flow in the POTW resulting in interference or other
interference with the proper operation of any sewer or treatment works (40
C.F.R. § 403.5(b) Specific Prohibitions);
   (E)   Any “other wastes” as defined in §
58.002;
   (F)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a
public nuisance;
   (G)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or concentration
as may exceed limits established by the Director in compliance with applicable
state or federal regulations;
   (H)   Any industrial waste that may cause a deviation from the NPDES permit
requirements, pretreatment standards and all other state and federal
regulations as now set out or may be set out in the future as a requirement for
the NPDES permit;
   (I)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or
gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the POTW;
   (J)   Any waters or wastes except hauled wastes having a pH lower than 5.0
or higher than 12.0 or having any other corrosive property capable of causing
damage or hazard to structures, equipment and personnel of the publicly owned
treatment works or POTW (40 C.F.R. § 403.5(b) Specific Prohibitions):
      (1)   Wastewaters which are monitored on a continuous basis with
automated pH monitoring and control devices, and which exceed the limitation of
12.0 will not be cause for a violation if the duration of the excursion for any
single event does not exceed 15 minutes, and combined excursions do not exceed
180 minutes in any calendar month. No pH greater than 12.5 shall be authorized
for any duration of time; and
      (2)   Hauled septic tank waste and hauled industrial waste within the
range of 5.0 to 10.0 may be accepted at designated locations at the POTW with
prior approval of the Director.
   (K)   Any of the following substances which shall be termed contaminates. It
shall be unlawful for any person to discharge into a public sewer any such
contaminate in any quantity where the level of the contaminate exceeds the
following daily maximum limit during a 24-hour period or a period of normal
daily operations. The concentration based limitations for the following
contaminates apply at the point where the wastewater is discharged to the POTW.
At the discretion of the Director, and under the following guidelines, the
District may consider mass based limitations in addition to or in place of the
concentration based limitations.
      (1)   The Director may consider mass based limits only in situations
where a facility has tried in good faith to comply with our local concentration
based limits using pretreatment or other legitimate means, and the attempt(s)
is unsuccessful; and
      (2)   The District’s POTW does have ample loading capacity for the
parameter(s) of concern, and the consideration of mass based limits will not
cause the POTW to exceed the maximum allowable headworks loadings at the POTW
headworks and the industrial users to exceed the maximum allowable industrial
headworks loadings at the POTW headworks.
Contaminate Concentration (mg/l)
Contaminate                Concentration (mg/l)
Arsenic (total)            0.09
Cadmium (total)            0.025
Chromium (total)           2.00
Copper (total)             0.75
Cyanide                    0.15
Lead (total)               0.20
Mercury (total)            0.0002
Molybdenum                 0.55
Nickel (total)             0.75
Oil and grease (non-polar) 100.0 (see division (L) below)
Oil and grease (polar)     300.0 (see division (L) below)
Phenols                    1.00
Selenium (total)           0.22
Silver                     0.40
Zinc                       3.00
 
   (L)   Oil and grease:
      (1)   Non-polar oil and grease is any water or waste containing fats,
wax, grease or oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or
containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures
between 32°F and 150°F (0°C and 65°C).
      (2)   Polar oil and grease such as processed vegetable and animal origin
fats and oils that cannot solidify or become viscous at temperatures between
32°F and 150°F (0°C and 65°C) may be discharged in concentrations up to 300mg/
l.
   (M)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation and
operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths
horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the Director;
   (N)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes, or
concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not;
   (O)   Materials which exert or cause any of the following.
      (1)   Unusual concentrations of inert TSS such as, but not limited to,
Fuller’s earth, lime slurries and lime residues, or of dissolved solids such
as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate;
      (2)   Excessive discoloration such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and
vegetable tanning solutions;
      (3)   Unusual BOD chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the POTW; and
      (4)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs” as defined in §
58.002.
   (P)   Water or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the POTW effluent cannot meet
the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction over discharge to the
receiving waters;
   (Q)   Any waters containing TSS of such character and quantity that unusual
provisions, attention or expense is required to handle the materials at the
POTW;
   (R)   Pollutants, including oxygen-demanding pollutants (BOD and the like),
released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration which,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, will cause interference
with the POTW (40 C.F.R. § 403.5(b) Specific Prohibitions);
   (S)   Petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oil or products of mineral
oil origin, in amounts that will cause interference or pass through (40 C.F.R.
§ 403.5(b) Specific Prohibitions);
   (T)   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors or
fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems (40 C.F.R. § 403.5(b) Specific Prohibitions);
   (U)   Trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points designated by
the Director as set forth in §
58.067 (40 C.F.R. § 403.5(b) Specific Prohibitions);
   (V)   Any substance in a concentration that may pose danger to human health
or the environment; or
   (W)   Any toxic pollutant as defined in §
58.002 in a concentration that will cause pass through or interference, or may
pose danger to human health or the environment. Local limits for toxic
pollutants, including total toxic organics will be considered on a case by case
basis, by the Director, for those compounds not regulated as pollutants of
concern. Local limit calculations will take into consideration such factors
including, but not limited to, the specific toxic pollutant, flow volume, mass
loadings to the POTW, and any other factor to prevent pass through or
interference of the POTW or to protect worker health.
(Prior Code, § 54.39) (Ord. 93-2002, passed - -; Ord. 72-2007, passed - -
) Penalty, see §
58.999
§ 58.082 REMEDIES FOR PROHIBITED DISCHARGES; AUTHORITY OF DIRECTOR.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes that contain the substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in §
58.081 are proposed to be discharged to the public sewers, the Director may do
the following:
      (1)   Reject the wastes in whole or in part;
      (2)   Require pretreatment of the wastes as necessary to comply with the
limitations defined in this chapter;
      (3)   Require payment of a surcharge on any excessive flows or loadings
discharged to the treatment works to cover the additional costs of having
capacity for the treating of the wastes; and
      (4)   The Director may develop best management practices (BMP) by
ordinance or in industrial wastewater discharge permits or general permits, to
implement local limits and the requirements of §
58.081.
   (B)   If the Director permits pretreatment, equalization of wastes
equalization of waste flows, or establishes best management practices (BMP),
the industrial user must develop and submit a compliance schedule for the
design and installation of the technology required to meet applicable
pretreatment standards. The compliance schedule, design and equipment shall be
subject to the approval of the Director and subject to the requirements of all
applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
(Prior Code, § 54.40) Penalty, see §
58.999
§ 58.083 TEST AND ANALYSIS STANDARDS.
   All pollutant analyses, including sampling techniques, to be submitted as
part of a wastewater discharge permit application or report shall be performed
in accordance with the techniques prescribed in 40 C.F.R. part 136 and
amendments thereto, unless otherwise specified in an applicable categorical
pretreatment standard. If 40 C.F.R. part 136 and amendments thereto does not
contain sampling or analytical techniques for the pollutant in question or
where the EPA determines that the Part 136 sampling and analytical techniques
are inappropriate for the pollutant in question, sampling and analyses must be
performed using validated analytical methods or any other applicable sampling
and analytical procedure, including procedures suggested by the Director or
other parties approved by EPA.
(Prior Code, § 54.41) Penalty, see §
58.999
§ 58.084 MAINTENANCE OF PRELIMINARY TREATMENT FACILITIES.
   Where preliminary treatment facilities for any wastewater or other wastes
are required, they shall be operated and maintained continuously in
satisfactory and effective operation by the owner, at his or her expense.
(Prior Code, § 54.42)
§ 58.085 MONITORING MANHOLE.
   When required by the Director, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying non- residential wastes shall install a suitable
monitoring manhole together with any necessary meters and other appurtenances
in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of
the wastes. The manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the Director. The
manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her expense, and shall be
maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible at all times. Agents
of the Sanitary District, the State Water Pollution Control Agencies and the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency shall be permitted to enter all properties
for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing.
Monitoring manhole locations shall not be changed without prior approval of the
Director.
(Prior Code, § 54.43) Penalty, see §
58.999
§ 58.086 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   (A)   Grease, oil, sand interceptors and separators, sand traps or retainers
shall be provided when required by the State Uniform Plumbing Code, or when in
the opinion of the Director, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing grease, oils or sand in excessive amounts, or any
flammable wastes, or other harmful ingredients, except that the traps or
retainers shall, not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units.
All traps shall be of a type and capacity approved by the State Uniform
Plumbing Code and the Director, and shall be located so as to be readily and
easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
   (B)   These devices shall be constructed of impervious material capable of
withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature. They shall be of
substantial construction, water-tight, and equipped with easily removable
covers which when bolted in place shall be gas-tight and water-tight.
   (C)   Where installed, these devices shall be maintained by the owner, at
his or her expense, in continuously efficient operation at all times.
(Prior Code, § 54.44) Penalty, see §
58.999
§ 58.087 SAMPLES TO BE TAKEN FOR MEASUREMENTS.
   In all instances the measurement of BOD, TSS or other compatible or
incompatible pollutants within non-residential waste water shall be measured
from samples taken at the monitoring manhole within the boundaries of the
property or at the next manhole downstream from the property boundary provided
no other wastewater or pollutants are introduced between the property boundary
and the next downstream manhole.
(Prior Code, § 54.46) Penalty, see §
58.999
§ 58.088 PERSONS REQUIRED TO PROVIDE MONITORING MANHOLES.
   (A)   All significant industrial users, as defined in §
58.002, shall install a surveillance or monitoring manhole and all persons
discharging into the public sewer system industrial waste mixtures of BOD, TSS
or other pollutants of concern with levels greater than the threshold values as
established in §§
59.135 through
59.150 shall provide a monitoring manhole.
   (B)   Monitoring manhole locations shall not be changed without prior
approval of the Director.
(Prior Code, § 54.47) Penalty, see §
58.999
§ 58.089 NEW CONNECTIONS.
   No new connection shall be made to any sanitary, combined or storm sewer
unless there is capacity available in all downstream sewers, lift stations,
force mains and the POTW including capacity for treatment of BOD and TSS.
(Prior Code, § 54.48) Penalty, see §
58.999
§ 58.090 DEPOSIT OF WASTE WATERS.
   No person shall place, deposit or permit to be deposited in any unsanitary
manner on public or private property within the jurisdiction of the District,
any wastewater or other polluted water except where suitable treatment has been
provided in accordance with provisions of this chapter and the NPDES permit.
(Prior Code, § 54.49) Penalty, see §
58.999
INDUSTRIAL WASTE CHARGES
§ 58.105 SEWER SERVICE SURCHARGE.
   Producers of industrial wastewaters assessed at pollutant quantities greater
than 200 mg/l for BOD. and/or 225 mg/l for TSS, for which the cost of treatment
is greater than the normal charges paid by the producer, shall pay to the
Sanitary District a sewer service surcharge as determined by the District.
(Prior Code, § 54.50)
§ 58.106 DETERMINATION OF SURCHARGE.
   The sewer service surcharge shall be determined by sampling and testing, or
contract. In either case, payments shall be based upon current surcharge rates
as defined in the District’s governing ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 54.51)
§ 58.107 INDUSTRIAL DISCHARGE PERMIT AND GENERAL PERMIT, AND CONTINUATION OF
EXPIRED PERMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any significant industrial user to discharge
wastewater into the District’s POTW without first obtaining an industrial
discharge permit or general permit from the Director. Any violation of the
terms and conditions of an industrial discharge permit or general permit shall
be deemed a violation of this chapter and subjects the permittee to the
enforcement and remedies set out in this chapter. Obtaining an industrial
discharge permit or general permit does not relieve a permittee of its
obligation to comply with all federal and state pretreatment standards or
requirements or with any other requirements of federal, state and local law.
   (B)   The Director may require other industrial users or users, including
liquid waste haulers, to obtain wastewater discharge permits or general permits
as necessary to carry out the purposes of this chapter. Any significant
industrial user or user which discharges industrial waste into the POTW prior
to the effective date of this chapter and wishes to continue such discharges in
the future, shall, within 90 days after said date, apply to the District for an
industrial discharge permit or general permit in accordance with divisions (C)
(1) or (2) below, and shall not cause or allow discharges to the POTW to
continue after 180 days of the effective date of this chapter except in
accordance with an industrial discharge permit issued by the Director, or in
the case, a valid permit exists and does not violate any part of this chapter,
shall not have to re-apply until the permit expiration date.
   (C)   Any significant industrial user or user proposing to begin or
recommence discharging industrial wastes into the POTW must obtain a wastewater
discharge permit in accordance with division (C)(1) below, prior to the
beginning or recommencing of such discharge. An industrial discharge permit
application must be filed at least 90 days prior to the date which any
discharge will begin.
      (1)   Application industrial discharge permits. Significant industrial
users must complete and file with the District a permit application in the form
prescribed by the District. No discharge permit will be issued until the
following information is made available on the completed permit application:
         (a)   All information required by §
58.112(B);
         (b)   Description of activities, facilities and plant processes on the
premises, including a list of all raw materials and chemicals used or stored at
the facility which are, or could accidentally or intentionally be, discharged
to the POTW;
         (c)   Number and type of employees, hours of operation and proposed or
actual hours of operation;
         (d)   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes, and
rate of production;
         (e)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum
per day);
         (f)   Disclosure of site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing
plans and details to show all sewers, sewer connections, inspection manholes,
sampling chambers and appurtenances by size, location and evaluation;
         (g)   Time and duration of discharges;
         (h)   Disclosure of the nature and concentration of any pollutants or
materials in the discharge prohibited by this chapter, including a statement
regarding whether or not compliance is being achieved on a consistent basis and
if not, what additional operation and maintenance activities and/or additional
pretreatment is required for the discharger to comply;
         (i)   Where additional pretreatment and/or operation and maintenance
activities will be required to comply with the applicable pretreatment
standard, the user must provide a compliance schedule by which the user will
provide the additional pretreatment and/or implementation of additional
operational and maintenance activities.
            1.   The schedule must contain milestone dates for the commencement
and completion of major events leading to the construction, and operation of
additional pretreatment required for the discharger to comply with the
requirements of the chapter, including, but not limited to, dates relating to
hiring an engineer, hiring other appropriate personnel, completing preliminary
plans, completing final plans, executing contracts for major components,
commencing construction, completing construction, and all other acts necessary
to achieve compliance.
            2.   Under no circumstances will the Director permit a time
increment for any single step directed toward compliance which exceeds nine
months.
            3.   Not later than 14 days following each milestone date in the
schedule and the final date for compliance, the user must submit a progress
report to the Director. This report must include a statement as to whether or
not it complied with the increment of progress represented by that milestone
date and, if not, the date on which it expects to comply with this increment of
progress, the reason for delay, and the steps being taken to return the
construction to the approved schedule. In no event shall more than nine months
elapse between such progress reports to the District.
         (j)   Any other information as may be deemed necessary by the Director
to evaluate the wastewater discharge permit application. Incomplete or
inaccurate applications will not be processed and will be returned to the user
for revision; and
         (k)   All permit applications for new or modified permits must be
signed by an authorized representative of the industrial user.
      (2)   Application general permits.
         (a)   At the discretion of the Director, the Director may use general
permits to control SIU or user discharges to the POTW if the following
conditions are met. All facilities to be covered by a general permit must:
            1.   Involve the same or substantially similar types of operations;
            2.   Discharge the same types of wastes;
            3.   Require the same effluent limitations;
            4.   Require the same or similar monitoring; and
            5.   In the opinion of the Director, are more appropriately
controlled under a general permit than under industrial wastewater discharge
permits.
         (b)   To be covered by the general permit, the SIU or user must file a
written request for coverage that identifies its contact information,
production processes, the types of wastes generated, the location for
monitoring all wastes covered by the general permit, and any other information
the POTW deems appropriate.
         (c)   The Director will retain a copy of the general permit,
documentation to support the POTW’s determination that a specific SIU or user
meets the criteria in division (C)(2)(a) through (C)(2)(e) and applicable state
regulations, and a copy of the user’s written request for coverage for three
years after the expiration of the general permit.
         (d)   The Director may not control an SIU or user through a general
permit where the facility is subject to production-based categorical
pretreatment standards or categorical pretreatment standards expressed as mass
of pollutant discharged per day or for IUs whose limits are based on the
combined waste stream formula in §
58.081(D).
         (e)   The Director will evaluate the complete application and data
furnished by the user and may require additional information. After full
evaluation and acceptance of the data furnished, the District will issue a
wastewater discharge permit or general permit subject to terms and conditions
provided in the chapter.
      (3)   Permit modifications. 
         (a)   The Director may modify an industrial discharge permit or
general permit for good cause including, but not limited to, the following:
            1.   To incorporate any new or revised federal, state or local
pretreatment standards or requirements;
            2.   To address significant alterations or additions to the users
operation, processes or industrial wastewater volume or characteristics since
the time of the industrial discharge permit issuance;
            3.   A change in the POTW that requires either a temporary or
permanent reduction or elimination of the authorized discharge;
            4.   Information indicating that the permitted discharge poses a
threat to the POTW, District personnel, or the receiving waters;
            5.   Violation of any terms or conditions of the industrial
wastewater industrial discharge permit or general permit;
            6.   Misrepresentation or failure to fully disclose all relevant
facts in the wastewater discharge permit or general permit application or in
any required reporting; and
            7.   To correct typographical or other errors in the permit.
         (b)   The user shall be informed of any proposed changes in a permit
at least 30 days prior to the effective date of change. Where any changes are
made in user’s permit, a reasonable time shall be given to achieve compliance.
         (c)   The filing of a request by the permittee for an industrial
discharge, permit or general permit modification does not stay any industrial
discharge permit or general permit conditions.
      (4)   Permit conditions.
         (a)   Wastewater discharge permits must include the following:
            1.   A statement that indicates wastewater discharge permit
duration (see division (C)(6) below);
            2.   A statement that the wastewater discharge permit is
nontransferable (see division (C)(7) below);
            3.   Effluent limits on the average and/or maximum wastewater
constituents including best management practices and characteristics based on
applicable pretreatment standards;
            4.   When required by the Director, a user developed slug control
plan will be added as an addendum to the permit, or the Director may include
specific slug control mechanisms in the permit in lieu of the development of a
slug control plan;
            5.   Self-monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification and record-
keeping requirements. These requirements shall include an identification of
pollutants or best management practices (BMP) to be monitored, sampling
location, sampling frequency and sample type based on federal, state and local
law; and
            6.   A statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for
violation of pretreatment standards and requirements, and any applicable
compliance schedule. Such schedule may not extend the time for compliance
beyond that required by applicable federal, state or local law.
         (b)   Wastewater discharge permits may include the following:
            1.   Limits on average and/or maximum rate and time of discharge
and/or requirements for flow regulations and equalization;
            2.   When wastewater subject to a categorical pretreatment standard
is mixed with wastewater not regulated by the same standard, The Director shall
impose an alternate limit in accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(e);
            3.   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection
and sampling facilities;
            4.   Special conditions the Director may require under particular
circumstances of a given discharge including sampling locations, frequency of
sampling, number, types and standards for tests and reporting schedules;
            5.   Compliance schedules; and
            6.   Requirements for submission of special technical reports or
discharge reports where they differ from those outlined in the chapter.
      (5)   Change in conditions. See §
58.140(C)(1) through (C)(3).
      (6)   Duration. Permits shall be issued for a specified time period, not
to exceed five years. The permittee shall apply for permit reissuance by
submitting a completed wastewater discharge permit application no later than 90
days prior to the expiration date of the existing permit. When the permittee
has made a timely and sufficient application for the renewal or modification of
a permit, the existing permit does not expire until the permit application has
been finally approved or denied by the control authority. The terms and
conditions of the permit may be subject to modification by the control
authority during the term of the permit as limitations or requirements as
identified in this chapter are modified or other just cause exists. The user
shall be informed of any proposed changes in a permit at least 30 days prior to
the effective date of change. Where any changes are made in user’s permit, a
reasonable time shall be given to achieve compliance.
      (7)   Transfer. Individual discharge permits are issued to a specific
user for the process activity specified in the permit. General permits are
permits issued to authorize similar discharge activities by one or more
applicants throughout a prescribed geographic area. A wastewater discharge
permit or general permit shall not be assigned, transferred or sold to a new
owner or new user in different premises or to a new or changed operation in the
same or different premises without the approval of the District.
      (8)   Continuation of expired permits. An expired permit will continue to
be effective and enforceable until the permit is reissued if:
         (a)   The permittee has submitted a complete permit application at
least 90 days prior to the expiration date of the permittee’s existing permit;
and
         (b)   The failure to reissue the permit, prior to expiration of the
previous permit, is not due to any act or failure to act on the part of the
permittee.
(Prior Code, § 54.52) (Ord. 38-1985, passed - -; Ord. 93-2002, passed - -
) Penalty, see §
58.999
§ 58.108 TESTING REQUIREMENTS
   A user shall cause sampling and analysis and reports thereof to be made to
the District, of flow and waste characteristics to determine strength and
quantity of BOD and TSS under average conditions. Further testing requirements
will be as they appear in the discharge permit issued under §
58.107(C).
   (A)   Samples and measurements shall be representative of the volume and
nature of the monitored discharge. Samples shall be taken during normal working
hours at the specified monitoring manholes.
      (1)   Except as indicated in divisions (A)(2) and (A)(3) below, the user
shall collect wastewater samples using flow proportional collection techniques,
or time proportional collection techniques, if authorized by the Director. Time
proportional samples are composed of constant volume aliquots collected at
constant time intervals. This method provides representative samples when the
wastewater flow does not vary more than 10% of the average flow rate over time.
The time proportional sample can be obtained using an automatic sampler, or by
the compositing of a minimum of four individual grab samples of the same volume
of wastewater, taken during the course of a normal work day.
      (2)   Samples for oil and grease, temperature, pH, cyanide, phenols,
sulfides and volatile organic compounds must be obtained using grab collection
techniques. A grab sample can be composed of discrete samples, but all samples
must be obtained and combined within a 15-minute time period from start of
sampling to finish. When taking a grab sample, the entire mouth of the sample
jar must be submerged below the surface of the waste stream. The pH sample
should be analyzed immediately and must not be held longer than 15 minutes in
any case.
      (3)   For sampling required in support of baseline monitoring and 90-day
compliance reports required in §
58.112(A) and (B), a minimum of four grab samples must be used for pH, cyanide,
total phenols, oil and grease, sulfide and volatile organic compounds for
facilities for which historical sampling data do not exist; for facilities for
which historical sampling data are available, the Director may authorize a
lower minimum. For the reports required by §
58.112(D), the industrial user is required to collect the number of grab
samples necessary to assess and assure compliance by with applicable
pretreatment standards and requirements.
   (B)   The Director may use a grab sample(s) to determine non-compliance with
any pretreatment standards.
(Prior Code, § 54.53)
§ 58.109 BILLING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The District shall sample and analyze the flow of industrial waste to
determine the concentration and total quantity of BOD and TSS under average
conditions to corroborate the data reported by the industrial user per the
city’s ordinance, §§
59.135 through
59.150.
   (B)   The District shall bill the producer of excess waste on a quarterly
basis. Three-month periods shall begin in January, April, July and October.
Periods of less than three months will be billed on a pro-rated basis or as
provided by the sewer user rates and charges resolution of the Sanitary
District currently in effect.
(Prior Code, § 54.54)
§ 58.110 CONTRACT METHOD.
   In cases where the contract method is used, billing by the District shall be
made as stipulated in §
58.109.
(Prior Code, § 54.55)
§ 58.111 BILLING ON A REGULAR BASIS.
   Any clause or section in this chapter which calls for a billing on a regular
basis at variable or fixed rates shall be billed according to the rates and
charges set forth in §§
59.135 through
59.150.
(Prior Code, § 54.56)
§ 58.112 REPORTS.
   (A)   Compliance schedule reports.
      (1)   Any user who is not in compliance with the chapter’s limitations or
is not meeting categorical pretreatment standards at the time of promulgation
of that standard, must develop a compliance schedule containing increments of
progress which correspond to specific dates. The increments represent major
events leading to the construction and operation of pretreatment equipment
required for the user to meet the applicable standard. No increment shall
exceed nine months in duration. Users subject to these conditions must submit a
progress report to the Director no later than 14 days following each date in
the compliance schedule. This report must include whether or not the user
complied with the increment of progress to be met on such date, the reason for
delay if the date was not met, the date on which the user expects to comply
with this increment of progress, and the steps being taken to return to
compliance. In no event can more than nine months elapse between progress
reports.
      (2)   Written reports will be deemed to have been submitted on the date
postmarked. For reports which are not mailed, postage prepaid, into a mail
facility serviced by the USPS, the date of receipt of the report shall govern.
   (B)   Baseline monitoring reports.
      (1)   Within either 180 days after the effective date of a categorical
pretreatment standard, or the final administrative decision on a category
determination under 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(a)(4), whichever is later, existing
categorical users currently discharging to or scheduled to discharge to the
POTW shall submit to the Director a report which contains the information
listed in division (B)(2) below. At least 90 days prior to commencement of
their discharge, new sources and sources that become categorical users
subsequent to the promulgation of an applicable categorical standard, shall
submit to the Director a report which contains the information listed in
division (B)(2) below. A new source shall report the method of pretreatment it
intends to use to meet applicable categorical standards. A new source shall
provide estimated data on production, flow, presence and quantity of regulated
pollutants if actual data is not available.
      (2)   Users described above shall submit the information set forth below:
         (a)   Identifying information. The name and address of the facility,
including the name of the operator and owner;
         (b)   Environmental permits. A list of any environmental control
permits held by or for the facility;
         (c)   Description of operations. A brief description of the nature,
average rate of production, and standard industrial classifications of the
operation(s) carried out by such user. This description should include a
schematic process diagram which indicates points of discharge to the POTW from
the regulated processes;
         (d)   Flow measurement. Disclosure of average daily wastewater flow
rates in gallons per day to the POTW, including daily, monthly and seasonal
variations, if any. Include average daily and maximum daily flow in gallons per
day from regulated process streams and other streams, as necessary, to allow
use of the combined wastestream formula set out in 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(e). All
flows must be measured unless other verifiable techniques are approved by the
Director;
         (e)   Measurement of pollutants.
            1.   The user shall provide the following information:
               a.   The categorical pretreatment standards applicable to each
regulated process and any new categorically regulated processes for existing
sources;
               b.   The results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature
and concentration, and/or mass, where required by the standard or by the
Director, of regulated pollutants in the discharge from each regulated process;
               c.   Instantaneous, daily maximum and long-term average
concentrations, or mass, where required, shall be reported; and
               d.   The sample shall be representative of daily operations and
shall be analyzed in accordance with procedures set out forth in §
58.083. Where the standard requires compliance with a BMP or pollution
prevention alternative, the user shall submit documentation as required by the
Director or the applicable standards to determine compliance with the standard.
            2.   The user shall take a minimum of one representative sample to
compile that data necessary to comply with the requirement of this division (B)
(2)(e).
            3.   Samples should be taken immediately downstream from
pretreatment facilities if such exist or immediately downstream from the
regulated process if no pretreatment exists. If other wastewaters are mixed
with the regulated wastewater prior to pretreatment the user should measure the
flows and concentrations necessary to allow use of the combined wastestream
formula in 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(e) to evaluate compliance with the pretreatment
standards. Where an alternate concentration or mass limit has been calculated
in accordance with 40 C.F.R. 403.6(e) this adjusted limit along with supporting
data shall be submitted to the Control Authority.
            4.   Sampling and analysis shall be performed in accordance with §
58.083.
            5.   The Director may allow the submission of a baseline report
which utilizes only historical data so long as the data provides information
sufficient to determine the need for industrial pretreatment measures.
            6.   The baseline report shall indicate the time, date and place of
sampling and methods of analysis and shall certify that such sampling and
analysis is representative of normal work cycles and expected pollutant
discharges to the POTW.
         (f)   Certification. A statement, reviewed by the user’s authorized
representative and certified to by a qualified professional, indicating whether
pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis, and, if not,
whether additional operation and maintenance and/or additional pretreatment is
required to meet the pretreatment standards and requirements.
         (g)   Compliance schedule. If additional pretreatment and/or operation
and maintenance will be required to meet the pretreatment standards, the
shortest schedule by which the user will provide such additional pretreatment
and/or operation and maintenance. The completion date in this schedule shall
not be later than the compliance date established for the applicable
pretreatment standard. A compliance schedule pursuant to this section must meet
the requirements as set forth in division (A) above.
         (h)   Signature and certification. All baseline monitoring reports
must be signed and certified in accordance with division (E) below.
   (C)   Categorical pretreatment standard compliance date report. Within 90
days following the date for final compliance with applicable pretreatment
standards, or in case of a new source, following commencement of the
introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any user subject to pretreatment
standards and requirements shall submit to the Director a report containing the
information described in divisions (B)(2)(d) through (B)(2)(f) above. For
industrial users subject to equivalent mass or concentration limits established
in accordance with the procedures in 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(c), this report shall
contain a reasonable measure of the industrial user’s long term production
rate. For all other industrial users subject to categorical pretreatment
standards expressed in terms of allowable pollutant discharge per unit of
production (or other measure of operation), this report shall include the
industrial user’s actual production during the appropriate sampling period. All
compliance reports must be signed and certified in accordance with division (E)
below. Sampling must be performed in accordance with procedures as set forth in
§
58.108(A).
   (D)   Periodic compliance reports.
      (1)   All users subject to an applicable pretreatment standard shall, at
a frequency determined by the Director but in no case less than four times per
year (in April, July, October and January) each covering the previous three-
month period, submit a report indicating the nature and concentration, or
production and mass where required by the Director, of pollutants in the
discharge which are limited by such pretreatment standards. In cases where the
pretreatment standard requires compliance with a best management practice (BMP)
or pollution prevention alternative, the user must submit documentation
required by the Director or the pretreatment standard necessary to determine
the compliance status of the user. Additionally, this report shall include a
measured or estimated flow for the reporting period, or in the case of
significant industrial users subject to categorical pretreatment standards,
shall include a record of measured or estimated average and maximum daily flows
for the reporting period. All periodic compliance reports must be postmarked by
the fifteenth day of the reporting month, signed and certified in accordance
with division (E) below.
      (2)   All wastewater samples must be representative of the industrial
user’s discharge. Wastewater monitoring and flow measurement facilities shall
be properly operated, kept clean, and maintained in good working order at all
times. The failure of an industrial user to keep its monitoring facility in
good working order shall not be grounds for the industrial user to claim that
sample results are unrepresentative of its discharge.
      (3)   If an industrial user subject to the reporting requirements in and
of this section monitors any pollutants identified in their permit more
frequently than required by their permit, using the procedures prescribed in §§
58.083 and
58.108(A), the results of this monitoring shall be included in the report.
      (4)   Periodic compliance reports may be waived by the Director if the
District chooses to monitor the industrial user’s required wastewater discharge
and no process wastewater is discharged to the District’s POTW.
      (5)   All discharge monitoring and analysis shall be performed in
accordance with §
58.083.
      (6)   If industrial user sampling and analysis indicates a violation, the
industrial user shall report to the District in accordance with §
58.140(A).
   (E)   Signatory requirement. All wastewater discharge permit applications,
user reports and certification statements must be signed by an authorized
representative of the user. The above reports shall contain the certification
statement as set forth in 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(a)(2)(ii), and shall be signed by
an authorized representative of the industrial user, whom meets the signatory
requirements as defined in 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(1).
      (1)   If the designation of an authorized representative is no longer
accurate because a different individual or position has responsibility for the
overall operation of the facility or overall responsibility for environmental
matters for the company, a new written authorization satisfying the
requirements of this section must be submitted to the Director prior to or
together with any reports to be signed by an authorized representative.
      (2)   The following certification statement is required to be signed and
submitted by users submitting permit applications, baseline monitoring reports,
compliance reports with the categorical pretreatment standard deadlines, all
periodic compliance reports and initial request to forego sampling of a
pollutant. The following certification statement must be signed by an
authorized representative as defined in §
58.002:
I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments were
prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed
to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information
submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system,
or those persons directly responsible for gathering the information, the
information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true,
accurate and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for
submitting false information, including the possibility of fine and
imprisonment for knowing violations.
   (F)   Wastewater survey. When requested by the City Sanitary District and/or
Director, all IUs must submit information on the nature and characteristics of
their wastewater by completing a survey. The Director is authorized to prepare
a form for this purpose and may require IUs to update this information. Failure
to complete this survey shall be considered a violation of the sewer use
ordinance and may result in penalties found.
(Prior Code, § 54.57) (Ord. 72-2007, passed - -) Penalty, see §
58.999
POWER AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS
§ 58.125 PROPER CREDENTIALS OR IDENTIFICATION REQUIRED.
   Any person, Director or other duly authorized employee shall present proper
credentials or identification before entering upon property of the user.
(Prior Code, § 54.70)
§ 58.126 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   The Director shall have the right to enter premises of any user to
determine whether the user is complying with all requirements of this chapter
and any wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder. Users shall
allow the Director ready access to all parts of the premises for the purposes
of inspection, sampling, records examination and copying, and performance of
any additional duties.
      (1)   Where a user has a security measures in force which require proper
identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the user shall
make necessary arrangements with its security guards so that, upon presentation
of suitable identification, the Director will be permitted to enter without
delay for the purposes of performing specific responsibilities.
      (2)   The Director shall have the right to set up on the user’s property,
or require installation of, such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling
and/or metering of the user’s operations.
      (3)   The Director may require the user to install monitoring equipment
as necessary. The facility’s sampling and monitoring equipment shall be
maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating condition by the user at
its own expense. All devices used to measure wastewater flow and quality shall
be calibrated periodically to ensure their accuracy.
      (4)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to
the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
user at the written or verbal request of the Director and shall not be
replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the user.
      (5)   Unreasonable delays, defined as longer than 15 minutes, in allowing
the Director access to the user’s premises shall be a violation of this
chapter.
   (B)   If the Director has been refused access to a building, structure or
property, or any part thereof, and is able to demonstrate probable cause to
believe that there may be a violation of this chapter, or that there is a need
to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine inspection and sampling program
of the District designed to verify compliance with this chapter or any permit
or order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public health, safety and
welfare of the community, then the Director may seek issuance of a search
warrant from any court of general jurisdiction within the county.
(Prior Code, § 54.71) Penalty, see §
58.999
§ 58.127 SAFETY STANDARDS.
   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to in §
58.126, the Director or other duly authorized employees of the District shall
observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company,
and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the District
employees. The District shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to
its property by District employees and against liability claims and demands for
personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing out
of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by
negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required in
§
58.085.
(Prior Code, § 54.72)
§ 58.128 ENTRY, WORK TO BE IN ACCORDANCE WITH EASEMENT.
   The Director and other duly authorized employees of the District bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the District holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within the easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on the easement
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(Prior Code, § 54.73)
NOTICES
§ 58.140 NOTIFICATIONS ENFORCEMENT AND REMEDIES.
   (A)   Twenty-four-hour notification/repeat samp- ling and reporting. If
sampling performed by a user indicates a violation, the user shall notify the
Director within 24 hours of becoming aware of the violation. The user shall
also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the results of the repeat
analysis to the Director within 30 days after becoming aware of the violation.
Where the POTW has performed the sampling and analysis in lieu of the
industrial user, the POTW must perform the repeat sampling and analysis unless
it notifies the user of the violation and requires the user to perform the
repeat analysis. Resampling is not required if:
      (1)   The POTW performs sampling at the industrial user at a frequency of
at least once per month; or
      (2)   The POTW performs sampling a the user between the time when the
initial sampling was conducted and the time when the user of the Control
Authority receives the results of the sampling.
   (B)   Reports of potential problems.
      (1)   In the case of any discharge, including, but not limited to,
accidental discharges, slug discharges, or any other non-routine discharge. The
user shall immediately telephone and notify the Director of the incident. This
notification shall include the location of the discharge, type of waste,
concentration and volume, if known, and corrective actions taken by the user.
      (2)   Within five days following such discharge, the user shall, unless
waived by the Director, submit a detailed written report describing the cause
(s) of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user to prevent
similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the user of any
expense, loss, damage or other liability which may be incurred as a result of
damage to the POTW, natural resources or any other damage to person or
property; nor shall such notification relieve the user of any fines, penalties
or other liability which may be imposed pursuant to this chapter.
      (3)   A notice shall be permanently posted on the user’s bulletin board
or other prominent place advising employees whom to call in the event of a
discharge described in division (B)(1) above. Employers shall ensure that all
employees who are in a position to cause, discover or observe such an
accidental discharge are advised of the emergency notification procedures.
      (4)   Significant industrial users are required to notify the Director
immediately of any changes at its facility affecting the potential for a slug
discharge.
   (C)   Reports of changed conditions. All industrial users must promptly
notify the Director in advance of any planned substantial changes to the volume
or characteristics of its wastewater, including the listed or characteristic
hazardous wastes for which the industrial user has submitted initial
notification under division (D) below at least 30 days before the change.
Industrial users described in division (C)(5) below are subject to additional
notification of change reporting procedures.
      (1)   For purposes of this requirement, significant changes include, but
are not limited to, flow increases/decreases of 20% or greater, and/or the
discharge of any previously unreported pollutants.
      (2)   The Director may require the user to submit information as may be
deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition, including the submission of
a wastewater discharge permit application under §
58.107.
      (3)   The Director may issue a wastewater discharge permit under §
58.107 or modify an existing wastewater discharge permit in response to changed
conditions or anticipated changed conditions.
      (4)   No user shall implement the planned changed condition(s) until and
unless the Director has responded to the industrial user’s notice.
      (5)   Any industrial user operating under a permit incorporating
equivalent mass or concentration limits calculated from a production based
standard shall notify the Director within two business days after the user has
a reasonable basis to know that the production level will significantly change
within the next calendar month.
   (D)   Reports of discharge of hazardous waste.
      (1)   Any user who commences the discharge of hazardous waste shall
notify the POTW, the EPA. Regional Waste Management Division Director and state
hazardous waste authorities, in writing, of any discharge into the POTW of a
substance which, if otherwise disposed of, would be a hazardous waste under 40
C.F.R. part 261. Such notification must include the name of the hazardous waste
as set forth in 40 C.F.R. part 261, the EPA hazardous waste number, and the
type of discharge (continuous, batch, other). If the user discharges more than
100 kilograms of such waste per calendar month to the POTW, the notification
also shall contain the following information to the extent such information is
known and readily available to the user: an identification of the hazardous
constituents contained in the wastes; an estimation of the mass and
concentration of such constituents in the waste-stream discharged during that
calendar month; and a estimation of the mass of constituents in the waste
stream expected to be discharged during the following 12 months. All
notifications must take place no later than 180 days submitted only once for
each hazardous waste discharged. However, notifications of changed conditions
must be submitted under division (C) above. The notification requirement in
this section does not apply to pollutants already reported under the self-
monitoring requirement of §
58.112(B) through (D).
      (2)   Discharges are exempt from the requirements of division (D)(1)
above, during a calendar month in which the discharge is no more than 15
kilograms of hazardous wastes, unless the wastes are acute hazardous wastes as
specified in 40 C.F.R. § 261.30(d) and 261.33(e). Discharge of more than 15
kilograms of non-acute hazardous wastes (in a calendar month, or of any
quantity of acute hazardous wastes) as specified in 40 C.F.R. § 261.30(d) and
261.33(e), requires a one-time notification. Subsequent months during which the
user discharges more than such quantities of any hazardous waste do not require
additional notification.
      (3)   In the case of any new regulations under § 3001 of RCRA, being 42
U.S.C. § 6921, identifying additional characteristics of hazardous waste or
listing any additional substance as a hazardous waste, the user must notify the
Director, the EPA Regional Waste Management Waste Division Director and state
hazardous waste authorities of the discharge of such substance within 90 days
of the effective date of such regulations.
      (4)   In the case of any notification made under this section, the user
shall certify that it has a program in place to reduce the volume and toxicity
of hazardous wastes generated to the degree it has determined to be
economically practical.
      (5)   All industrial users permitted by the District shall make a one-
time notification to the Director on the District’s “Hazardous Waste
Notification Form” stating if the company is subject to the reporting
conditions in division (D)(1) and (D)(2) above.
      (6)   This provision does not create a right to discharge any substance
not otherwise permitted to be discharged by this chapter, a permit issued
thereunder, or any applicable federal or state law.
   (E)   Reports from non-permitted users.
      (1)   All users not required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit
shall provide appropriate reports to the Director as the Director may require.
      (2)   Written reports required under any section of this chapter will be
deemed to have been submitted on the date postmarked. For reports which are not
marked, or do not show a postmark, the date of receipt of the report shall
govern.
(Prior Code, § 54.74)
§ 58.141 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT/REMEDIES.
   (A)   An Enforcement Response Guide (ERG), prepared for passage, and
approved in conjunction with this chapter, by the Board of Sanitary
Commissioners of the City Sanitary District shall be used to ensure that the
requirements of 40 C.F.R. part 403 of the Clean Water Act are met. The ERG
outlines various administrative actions the Director may take for various
pretreatment violations. The maximum fine shall be $2,500 per day per
violation. When the Director finds that a user has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this chapter, an industrial wastewater discharge
permit or general permit, the Director shall refer to the Enforcement Response
Guide (ERG) to ensure reasonable and equitable enforcement.
   (B)   The Director shall review and update, on an annual basis, for the
Board of Sanitary Commissioners any changes needed to ensure compliance with
the federal, state and local pretreatment regulations as listed in the Act and
this chapter.
      (1)   Informal notice. An informal notice may be either a documented
phone call, email (written warning) or a site visit/meeting notifying the user
of minor incidences that have occurred and that need to be corrected. Repeat
performance of the same incidence or escalation of the incidence will result in
escalated enforcement action.
      (2)   Notice of violation (NOV). An NOV is a written notification to the
IU indicating the type of apparent violation and requesting a written response
within ten days, indicating a reason for the non- compliance and what steps are
being taken to eliminate any future violations of similar nature.
(Prior Code, § 54.75)
§ 58.142 CONSENT ORDERS.
   (A)   The Director may enter into consent orders, assurances of compliance
or other similar documents establishing an agreement with any user responsible
for non-compliance. Such documents will include specific action to be taken by
the user to correct the non-compliance within a time period specified by the
document. Discharge limits may be included in a consent order, at the
discretion of the Director, when the user is working in good faith to correct
the non- compliance. Such documents shall have the same force and effect as the
administrative orders issued pursuant to §§
58.144 and
58.145 and shall be judicially enforceable.
   (B)   Interim discharge limits (interim limits) may be issued as a condition
of a pretreatment enforcement response. Any consent order issued to an IU under
the provisions of this chapter may include interim limits for the duration of
such order. Interim limits shall be established and approved by the Director.
If interim limits are established, the IU shall acknowledge that any violation
of such limits will, in addition to any other remedies or causes of action the
District may have, result in penalties for each such violation. Compliance with
interim limits shall not relieve the IU from liability under the provisions of
this chapter, federal or state regulations or statutes except as specifically
provided in the consent order in which they are incorporated. Interim limits
shall not exceed five times the IU’s current permit discharge limit(s).
(Prior Code, § 54.76)
§ 58.143 SHOW CAUSE HEARING.
   The Director may order a user which has violated, or continues to violate,
any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit or order issued
hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, to appear before
the Director and show cause why the proposed enforcement action should not be
taken. Notice shall be served on the user specifying the time and place for the
meeting, the proposed enforcement action, the reasons for such action, and a
request that the user show cause why the proposed enforcement action should not
be taken. The notice of the meeting shall be served personally or by registered
or certified mail (return receipt requested) at least ten days prior to the
hearing. Such notice may be served on any authorized representative of the
user. A show cause hearing shall not be a bar against, or prerequisite for,
taking any other action against the user.
(Prior Code, § 54.77)
§ 58.144 ADMINISTRATIVE COMPLIANCE ORDERS.
   When the Director finds that a user has violated, or continues to violate,
any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit or order issued
hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, the Director may
issue an order to the user responsible for the discharge directing that the
user come in compliance within a specified time. If the user does not come into
compliance within the time provided, sewer service may be discontinued unless
adequate treatment facilities, devices or other related appurtenances are
installed and properly operated. Compliance orders also may contain other
requirements to address the non-compliance, including additional self-
monitoring and management practices designed to minimize the amount of
pollutants discharged to the sewer. A compliance order may not extend the
deadline for compliance established for a pretreatment standard or requirement,
nor does a compliance order relieve the user of liability of any violation,
including any continuing violation. Issuance of a compliance order shall not be
a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
(Prior Code, § 54.78)
§ 58.145 CEASE AND DESIST ORDERS.
   (A)   When the Director finds that a user has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit or order
issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard requirement, or that the
user’s past violations are likely to recur, the Director may issue an order to
the user directing it to cease and desist all such violation and directing the
user to:
      (1)   Immediately comply with all requirements; and
      (2)   Take such appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be
needed to properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including
halting operation and/or terminating the discharge.
   (B)   Issuance of a cease and desist order shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the users.
(Prior Code, § 54.79)
§ 58.146 ADMINISTRATIVE FINES.
   (A)   When the Director finds that a user has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit or order
issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, the
Director may fine such user in an amount not to exceed $2,500 as set forth in
the Enforcement Response Guide. Such fines shall be assessed on a per
violation, per day basis. In the case of monthly or other long term average
discharge limits, fines shall be assessed for each day during the period of
violation.
   (B)   Unpaid charges, fines and penalties shall after 45 calendar days, be
assessed an additional penalty of 10% of the unpaid balance, and interest shall
accrue thereafter at a rate of 1.5% per month. A lien against the user’s
property will be sought for unpaid charges, fines and penalties.
   (C)   Users desiring to dispute such finds must file a written request for
the Director to reconsider the fine along with full payment of the fine amount
within 30 days of being notified of the fine. Where a request has merit, the
Director may convene a meeting on the matter. In the event the user’s appeal is
successful, the payment, together with an interest accruing thereto, shall be
returned to the user.
   (D)   Issuance of an administrative fine shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
(Prior Code, § 54.80)
§ 58.147 EMERGENCY SUSPENSIONS.
   (A)   The Director may immediately suspend a user’s discharge, after
informal notice to the user, whenever such suspension is necessary to stop an
actual or threatened discharge which reasonably appears to present or cause an
imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons.
   (B)   The Director may also immediately suspend a user’s discharge, after
notice and opportunity to respond, that threatens to interfere with the
operation of the POTW, or which presents, or may present, an endangerment to
the environment.
      (1)   Any user notified of a suspension of its discharge shall
immediately stop or eliminate its contribution. In the event of a user’s
failure to immediately comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the
Director may take such steps as deemed necessary, including immediate severance
of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize damage to the POTW, its
receiving stream or endangerment any individuals. The Director may allow the
user to recommence its discharge when the user has demonstrated to the
satisfaction of the Director that the period of endangerment has passed, unless
the termination proceedings in §
58.148 are initiated against the user.
      (2)   A user that is responsible, in whole or in part, for any discharge
presenting imminent endangerment shall submit a detailed written statement,
describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures taken to
prevent any future occurrence, to the Director prior to the date of any show
cause or termination hearing under §
58.143 or §
58.148. Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as requiring a hearing
prior to any emergency suspension under this section.
(Prior Code, § 54.81)
§ 58.148 TERMINATION OF DISCHARGE.
   In addition to any other provisions of this chapter, any user who violated
the following conditions is subject to discharge termination:
   (A)   Violation of wastewater discharge permit conditions;
   (B)   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of its discharge;
   (C)   Failure to report significant changes in operations or wastewater
volume, constituents and characteristics prior to discharge;
   (D)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises for the purpose of
inspection, monitoring or sampling; and
   (E)   Violation of the pretreatment standards in §
58.003. Such user will be notified of the proposed termination of its discharge
and be offered an opportunity to show cause under §
58.143 why the proposed action should not be taken. Exercise of this option by
the Director shall not be a bar to, or a prerequisite for, taking any other
action against the user.
(Prior Code, § 54.82)
§ 58.149 VIOLATER TO PAY DAMAGES.
   In addition to the fines provided in §
58.141 for conviction of a violation of this chapter, the Sanitary District
shall cause to be collected from the violator an amount equal to all damages as
are sustained by the District as a result of the violation.
(Prior Code, § 54.85)
§ 58.150 ADMINISTRATIVE APPEAL.
   In the event that a user disputes any interpretation or ruling of the
Director on matters covered by the chapter, that user may request an appeal
before the entire Board of Sanitary Commissioners, which request must be in
writing and be made within 30 days of the Director’s action. A hearing will be
held by the Board at which time the user may present its arguments on the
issue.
(Prior Code, § 54.86)
§ 58.151 FALSIFYING INFORMATION.
   Any person who knowingly makes any false statements, representations or
certifications in any application, record, report, plan or other document filed
or required to be maintained pursuant to this chapter or wastewater discharge
permit, or who falsifies, tampers with or knowingly renders inaccurate any
monitoring device or method required under this chapter, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction, be punished by civil penalties.
(Prior Code, § 54.87) Penalty, see §
58.999
§ 58.152 STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   (A)   This chapter is adopted pursuant to I.C. 36-9-25-1 et seq., and all
other statutes of the state, as amended, relating to sewers and sanitation
departments and districts, and the Board of Sanitary Commissioners shall have
the powers conferred by state law.
   (B)   The Board of Sanitary Commissioners shall, in accordance with state
law, make and enforce whatever bylaws, rules and regulations it may deem
necessary for the safe, economical and efficient management of the sewage
utility, for the construction and use of building sewers and connections to the
sewerage system, for the regulation of the rates and subsequent collection of
charges for any strength of waste surcharge, and in general for the
implementation of the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 54.88)
§ 58.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Judicial enforcement remedies.
      (1)   Injunctive relief. When the Director finds that a user has
violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, a wastewater
discharge permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard
or requirement, the Director may petition through any court of general
jurisdiction within the county, for the issuance of a temporary or permanent
injunction, as appropriate, which restrains or complies the specific
performance of the wastewater discharge permit, order or other requirement
imposed by this chapter on activities of the user. The Director may also seek
such other action as is appropriate for legal and/or equitable relief,
including a requirement for the user to conduct environmental remediation. A
petition for injunctive relief shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite
for, taking any other action against a user.
      (2)   Civil penalties. In addition to the administrative fines available
herein, a user who has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this
chapter, a wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement shall also be liable to the District for a
maximum civil penalty of $2,500 per violation, per day. In the case of a
monthly or other long-term average, discharge limit, penalties shall accrue for
each day during the period of the violation.
         (a)   In determining the amount of civil liability, the court shall
take into account all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to,
the extent of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration of the
violation, any economic benefit gained through the user’s violation, corrective
actions by the user, the compliance history of the user, and any other factor
as justice requires.
         (b)   Filing a suit for civil penalties shall not be a bar against, or
a prerequisite, for taking any other action against a user.
      (3)   Recovery. The Director may recover reasonable attorney fees, court
costs and other expenses associated with enforcement activities, including
sampling and monitoring expenses, and the cost of any actual damages incurred
by the District.
(Prior Code, § 54.83)
   (B)   Remedies nonexclusive. The remedies provided for in this chapter are
not exclusive. The Director may take any, all, or any combination of these
actions against a non-compliant user. Enforcement of pretreatment violations
will generally be in accordance with the district enforcement response plan.
However, the Director may take other action against any user when the
circumstances warrant. Further, the Director is empowered to take more than one
enforcement action against any non- compliant user.
(Prior Code, § 54.84)
CHAPTER 59: SEWER USAGE; RATES
Section
General Provisions
   
59.001   Definitions
   
59.002   Statutes, bylaws, rules and regulations
   
59.003   Additional connections not mandatory
   
59.004   Unlawful deposits
   
59.005   Amendments to sewer provisions
   
59.006   Notice
   
59.007   Severability
   
59.008   Compliance with state or federal requirements
   
59.009   Tenant responsibility
   
59.010   Termination of discharge
   
59.011   Violator to pay damages
   
59.012   Falsifying information
   
59.013   Statutory authority
   
59.014   Emergency suspensions
Power and Authority of Inspectors
   
59.025   Proper credentials or identification required
   
59.026   Right of entry
   
59.027   Safety standards
   
59.028   Entry, work to be in accordance with easement
Sewer Regulations
   
59.040   Privies, vaults, septic tanks and cesspools prohibited
   
59.041   Private sewer system to comply with state and local regulations
   
59.042   Discharge of wastewater to natural outlets
   
59.043   Connection to public sewers required
   
59.044   Permit required
   
59.045   Classes of permits; applications
   
59.046   Costs to be borne by owner
   
59.047   Persons qualified for sewer tap permit
   
59.048   Cancellation of permit for failure to comply with notice
   
59.049   Approval required for excavations
   
59.050   Separate building sewer required for every building
   
59.051   Old building sewers connected to new buildings
   
59.052   Design of sewers
   
59.053   Sewer extensions
   
59.054   Size of building sewer
   
59.055   Elevation of building sewer
   
59.056   Low building drain to be lifted
   
59.057   Excavations
   
59.058   Connection of building sewer with public sewer
   
59.059   Inspection
   
59.060   Excavations to be guarded
   
59.061   Maintenance
   
59.062   Insurance
   
59.063   Connection of building sewer with public sewer to conform with
district standards
   
59.064   Restoration of public property
   
59.065   Requirements for sewer backflow prevention devices
   
59.066   Grease, oil and sand interceptors
Prohibited Discharges and Illicit Connections and Associated Requirements
   
59.080   Certain waters prohibited
   
59.081   Removal of unpolluted waters from treatment facility
   
59.082   Connection of floor drain or pit drain prohibited
   
59.083   Grease traps and grease interceptors
   
59.084   Other prohibited discharges
   
59.085   Liability for damage
Connection to or Extension of Sewers Outside Corporate Limits
   
59.100   Authority of Board; compliance with ordinances and state law
   
59.101   Permit required
   
59.102   Connections to sewer system outside the territorial limits of the
district
Enforcement and Remedies
   
59.115   Enforcement
   
59.116   Appeal of notice of violation
   
59.117   Enforcement measures after appeal
   
59.118   Cost of abatement of the violation
   
59.119   Injunctive relief
   
59.120   Violations deemed a public nuisance
Rates and Charges
   
59.135   Necessity of user charge
   
59.136   Distribution of costs
   
59.137   Approval of Sanitary District Board resolution
   
59.138   Unlawful to discharge without paying rates, charges
   
59.139   Definitions
   
59.140   User rates and charges to be fair and equitable
   
59.141   Biennial review
   
59.142   Classes of users
   
59.143   Schedule of rates and charges
   
59.144   Determination of water usage, strength and character of wastes for
billing purpose
   
59.145   Liquid wastewater disposal charges
   
59.146   Billing and collection
   
59.147   Rate review study
   
59.148   Sanitary District; authority; appeal procedure
   
59.149   Severability; statutory authority not lessened
   
59.150   Special rate contracts
 
   
59.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 59.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. A piece of equipment installed on either the
building drain or building sewer which helps protect the connected building
from the main sewer backing up into the building due to cleaning or a blockage
in the line.
   BOARD. The Board of Sanitary Commissioners of the city, or its authorized
representative.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharges from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer beginning
five feet outside the building walls, exclusive of storm water.
   BUILDING DRAIN, SANITARY. A building drain which conveys sanitary or
industrial sewage only.
   BUILDING DRAIN, STORM. A building drain which conveys storm water or other
clear water drainage, but no wastewater.
   BUILDING SEWER. The part of the horizontal piping of a drainage system which
extends from the end of the building drain and which receives the discharge of
the building drain and conveys it to a public sewer, private sewer, individual
sewage disposal system or other point of disposal.
   BUILDING SEWER, SANITARY. A building sewer which conveys sanitary or
industrial sewage only.
   BUILDING SEWER, STORM. A building sewer which conveys storm water or other
clear water drainage, but not sanitary or industrial sewage.
   COMBINED SEWER. The sewer intended to carry sanitary and industrial waste
waters from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants or
institutions, and also to carry storm waters, surface runoff, street wash
waters and drainage.
   COMMERCIAL USER. Any person owning an establishment offering lodging,
selling goods (either retail or wholesale), or offering services for sale and
contributing an average monthly flow in excess of 10,000 gallons.
   DIRECTOR. The duly appointed and qualified Director of the City Sanitary
District or his or her authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   DISTRICT. The Sanitary District of the city, acting by its duly constituted
Board of Sanitary Commissioners or their authorized representatives.
   DISTRICT ENGINEER. The chief engineer of the City Sanitary District or a
duly authorized representative.
   DOMESTIC USER. All persons owning residential dwellings which discharge
primarily domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary conveniences.
   DOMESTIC WASTE. Liquid wastes from the non-commercial preparation, cooking
and handling of food or containing human excrement and similar matter from the
sanitary conveniences of dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities
and institutions.
   EASEMENTS. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   EFFLUENT. The water, together with any wastes that may be present, flowing
out of a drain, sewer, receptacle or outlet.
   FATS, OILS, GREASE (FOG). Any substance such as vegetable or animal
products, that is used in or is a byproduct of the cooking or food preparation
process, and that turns or may turn viscous or solidifies with a change of
temperature or other conditions.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state, such that will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in a pretreatment facility
approved by the city.
   GARBAGE. Those putrescible wastes resulting form the growing, handling,
storage, preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   GROUND GARBAGE. Garbage that is shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely in suspension under the conditions normally prevailing
in public sewers, with no particle to exceed one-half inch in size.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance or form of energy
discharge, permitted to flow or escaping from an industrial, manufacturing,
commercial or business process or from the development, recovery or processing
of any natural resource.
   INFILTRATION. Any water other than wastewater that enters a sewage system
from the ground through such means as defective pipes, pipe joints, connections
or manholes. INFILTRATION does not include, and is distinguished from,
“inflow”.
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW. The total quantity of water from both infiltration and
inflow without distinguishing the source.
   INFLOW. Any water other than wastewater, that enters a sewage system from
sources such as roof leaders, cellar drains, yard drains, area drains,
foundation drains, drains from springs and swampy areas, cross-connections
between storm sewers and sanitary sewers, catch basins, cooling towers, storm
waters, surface runoff, street wash waters or drainage. INFLOW does not
include, and is distinguished from, “infiltration”.
   INFLUENT. The water, together with any wastes that may be present, flowing
into a drain, sewer, receptacle or outlet.
   OTHER WASTES. Garbage, refuse, wood residues, sand, lime, cinders, ashes,
offal, night soil, silt, oil, tar, dyestuffs, acids, chemicals and all other
substances, not sewage or industrial waste, which discharge would cause
pollution or cause damage or blockage to sewers.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, trust, estate, political subdivision, state agency or
any other legal entity or their legal representative, agent or assigns legally
capable of owning property in the state.
   POLLUTANT. Dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, filter backwash,
sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, medical wastes, chemical waste,
biological materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discarded
equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt, municipal, agricultural and industrial
wastes, and certain characteristics of wastewater (e.g., pH, temperature, TSS,
turbidity, color, BOD, COD, toxicity or odor). The term includes SEWAGE,
INDUSTRIAL WASTE and other waste.
   PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS or PROHIBITED DISCHARGES. Absolute
prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances; these prohibitions
appear in §§
59.080 through
59.084.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and is controlled by a public authority, or owned by the Sanitary
District.
   POTW (PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS). A treatment works as defined by § 212
of the Clean Water Act which is owned by a state or municipality as defined by
§ 502(4) of the Act, includes any sewers that convey wastewater to such a
treatment works, but does not include pipes, sewers or other conveyances not
connected to a facility providing treatment.
   QUALIFIED PROFESSIONAL. An individual who is trained and experienced in
wastewater treatment, environmental compliance or related fields as may be
demonstrated by state registration, professional certification, experience or
completion of coursework that enables the individual to make sound,
professional judgement regarding a facility’s ability to comply with federal,
state and local wastewater rules and regulations.
   RECEIVING STREAM. The watercourse, stream or body of water receiving the
waters finally discharged from the sewage treatment plant.
   RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY UNIT. A building under one roof designed, arranged and
used primarily for dwelling purposes by a single family.
   SANITARY SEWAGE. Sewage discharged from the sanitary conveniences of
dwellings including apartment houses, hotels and motels, office buildings,
factories or institutions and free from storm water, surface water and
industrial wastes.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
ground waters and unpolluted industrial wastewater are not intentionally
admitted.
   SEWAGE. Water-carried human and related wastes from any source, together
with associated land runoff, sanitary and industrial wastewaters, and polluted
cooling water, from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and
institutions. The term includes sanitary sewage, industrial sewage and combined
sewage.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT or WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT. The arrangement of
devices, structures and equipment used for treating and disposing of sewage and
sludge.
   SEWAGE UTILITY or WATER POLLUTION CONTROL UTILITY. All facilities for
collecting, transporting, pumping, treating and disposing of sewage and sludge,
namely the sewerage system and the sewage treatment plant.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying either wastewater or land runoff, or
both.
   SEWER BACKFLOW. The undesired reversal of flow in a sanitary sewer water
system.
   SHALL AND MAY.
      (1)   MAY. Permissive.
      (2)   SHALL. Mandatory.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer intended to receive and convey only land runoff, ground
water or unpolluted water from any source and to which sanitary or industrial
wastes are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWERAGE SYSTEM. The network of sewers and appurtenances used for
collecting, transporting and pumping sewage to the sewage treatment plant.
   STANDARD METHODS. The examination and analytical procedures set forth in the
most recent edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater published jointly by the American Public Health Association, the
American Water Works Association, and the Water Pollution Control Federation.
   STRENGTH-OF-WASTES SURCHARGE. The extra charges for sewerage service
assessed customers whose sewage is of such a nature that it imposes upon the
sewage utility a burden greater than can be anticipated under normal
conditions.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   USER. Any person or domestic or non-domestic source of discharge into a
sanitary sewer.
   WASTEWATER. Treated or untreated liquid and water-carried industrial or
domestic wastes from dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities and
institutions, together with any inflow and infiltration that may be present,
which is discharged into or permitted to enter the POTW.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or TREATMENT PLANT. The portion of the POTW which
is designed to provide treatment of municipal sewage and industrial waste.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs either continuously
or intermittently.
(Prior Code, § 50.01)
§ 59.002 STATUTES, BYLAWS, RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   This chapter is adopted pursuant to I.C. 36-9-25-1 et seq., as amended, and
all other state statutes relating to sewers and sanitation departments and
districts. The Board of Sanitary Commissioners shall have all powers conferred
by state statute. The Board shall make and enforce whatever bylaws, rules and
regulations it may deem necessary for the safe, economical and efficient
management of the sewage utility, for the construction and use of building
sewers and connections, to the sewerage system, for the regulation of the rates
and subsequent collection of charges for any strength-of-waste surcharge in
general, for the implementation of the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 50.02)
§ 59.003 ADDITIONAL CONNECTIONS NOT MANDATORY.
   No provision of this chapter shall be interpreted to require the District to
accept any additional connections if there is insufficient dry or wet weather
capacity in any or all downstream sewers, lift stations, force mains and
treatment plants, including the capacity of pollutants, to accommodate the
waste load or flow rate expected to be generated as a result of the proposed
development.
(Prior Code, § 50.03)
§ 59.004 UNLAWFUL DEPOSITS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited, in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
Sanitary District or in any area under the jurisdiction of the District any
human or animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
(Prior Code, § 50.04) Penalty, see §
59.999
§ 59.005 AMENDMENTS TO SEWER PROVISIONS.
   The Board shall have the right to recommend amendments to this chapter to
the Common Council. The procedure for adoption of amendments by the Common
Council shall be as authorized by law. Methods for determining rates and
charges shall be established, fixed and amended by the Board and the Common
Council, pursuant to state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 50.05)
§ 59.006 NOTICE.
   Any person found to be violating any provisions of this chapter shall be
served with written notice stating the nature of the violations and provide a
reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction of the violation. The
offender shall, within the period of time stated in the notice, permanently
cease all violation or be subject to the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 50.07)
§ 59.007 SEVERABILITY.
   The invalidity of any section, clause, sentence or provision of this chapter
shall not affect the validity of any other part of this chapter which can be
given effect without the invalid part or parts.
(Prior Code, § 50.66)
§ 59.008 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE OR FEDERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All provisions of this chapter and limits set herein shall comply with any
applicable state or federal requirements now in effect or later enacted or
amended.
(Prior Code, § 50.67)
§ 59.009 TENANT RESPONSIBILITY.
   Where an owner of property leases premises to any other person as a tenant
under any rental or lease agreement, if either the owner or the tenant is a
user, either or both may be held responsible for compliance with the provisions
of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 50.68)
§ 59.010 TERMINATION OF DISCHARGE.
   In addition to any other provisions of this chapter, any user who violates
the conditions of this chapter is subject to discharge termination (sewer
disconnection).
(Prior Code, § 50.69)
§ 59.011 VIOLATOR TO PAY DAMAGES.
   In addition to the fines provided in this chapter for a violation of this
chapter, the District shall cause to be collected from the violator an amount
equal to all damages as are sustained by the District as a result of the
violation.
(Prior Code, § 50.70)
§ 59.012 FALSIFYING INFORMATION.
   Any person who knowingly makes any false statements, representations or
certifications in any application, record, report, plan or other document filed
or required to be maintained pursuant to this chapter, or who falsifies,
tampers with or knowingly renders inaccurate any monitoring device or method
required under this chapter, shall be subject to administrative fine and other
enforcement measures.
(Prior Code, § 50.71)
§ 59.013 STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   (A)   This chapter is adopted pursuant to I.C. 36-9-25-1 et seq., and all
other statutes of the state, as amended, relating to sewers and sanitation
departments and districts, and the Board of Sanitary Commissioners shall have
the powers conferred by state law.
   (B)   The Board of Sanitary Commissioners shall, in accordance with state
law, make and enforce whatever bylaws, rules and regulations it may deem
necessary for the safe, economical and efficient management of the sewage
utility, for the construction and use of building sewers and connections to the
sewerage system, for the regulation of the rates and subsequent collection of
charges for any strength of waste surcharge, and in general for the
implementation of the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 50.72)
§ 59.014 EMERGENCY SUSPENSIONS.
   (A)   The Director may immediately suspend a user’s discharge, after
informal notice (e.g., over the telephone or in person) to the user, whenever
such suspension is necessary to stop an actual or threatened discharge which
reasonably appears to present or cause an imminent or substantial, endangerment
to the health or welfare of persons.
   (B)   The Director may also immediately suspend a user’s discharge, after
notice and opportunity to respond, that threatens to interfere with the
operation of the POTW, or which presents, or may present, an endangerment to
the environment.
   (C)   Any user notified of a suspension of its discharge shall immediately
stop or eliminate its discharge. In the event of a user’s failure to
immediately comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the Director may take
such steps as deemed necessary, including immediate severance of the sewer
connection, to prevent or minimize damage to the POTW, its receiving stream, or
endangerment of any individuals. The Director may allow the user to recommence
its discharge when the user has demonstrated to the satisfaction of the
Director that the period of endangerment has passed, unless the termination
proceedings in §
59.010 are initiated against the user. In the event that the District severs or
plugs the sewer to stop the discharge, the user shall bear the cost of the work
done to stop the discharge along with all work necessary to repair the line to
working conditions.
(Prior Code, § 50.73)
POWER AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS
§ 59.025 PROPER CREDENTIALS OR IDENTIFICATION REQUIRED.
   Any person, Director or other duly authorized employee shall present proper
credentials or identification before entering upon property of the user.
(Prior Code, § 50.10)
§ 59.026 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   The Director or other duly authorized employee shall have the right to
enter premises of any user to determine whether the user is complying with all
requirements of this chapter and any wastewater discharge permit or order
issued hereunder. Users shall allow the Director ready access to all parts of
the premises for the purposes of inspection (e.g., lateral cameras), sampling,
records examination and copying, and performance of any additional duties.
      (1)   Where a user has security measures in force which require proper
identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the user shall
make necessary arrangements with its security guards so that, upon presentation
of suitable identification, the Director will be permitted to enter without
delay for the purposes of performing specific responsibilities.
      (2)   The Director shall have the right to set up on the user’s property,
or require installation of, such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling
and/or metering of the user’s operations.
      (3)   The Director may require the user to install monitoring equipment
as necessary. The facility’s sampling and monitoring equipment shall be
maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating condition by the user at
its own expense. All devices used to measure wastewater flow and quality shall
be calibrated annually to ensure their accuracy.
      (4)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to
the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
user at the written or verbal request of the Director and shall not be
replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be born by the user.
      (5)   Unreasonable delays in allowing the Director access to the user’s
premises shall be a violation of this chapter. An unreasonable delay shall be
15 minutes.
   (B)   If the Director has been refused access to a building, structure or
property, or any part thereof, and is able to demonstrate probable cause to
believe that there may be a violation of this chapter, or that there is a need
to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine inspection and sampling program
of the District designed to verify compliance with this chapter or any permit
or order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public health, safety and
welfare of the community, then the Director may seek issuance of a search
warrant from any court of general jurisdiction within the county.
(Prior Code, § 50.11)
§ 59.027 SAFETY STANDARDS.
   (A)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in §
59.026, the Director or other duly authorized employees of the District shall
observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company,
and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the District
employees.
   (B)   The District shall indemnify the user against loss or damage to its
property by District employees and against liability claims and demands for
personal injury or property damage asserted against the user and growing out of
the inspection operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure
of the user to maintain safe conditions.
(Prior Code, § 50.12)
§ 59.028 ENTRY, WORK TO BE IN ACCORDANCE WITH EASEMENT.
   The Director and other duly authorized employees of the District bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the District holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within the easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on the easement
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(Prior Code, § 50.13)
SEWER REGULATIONS
§ 59.040 PRIVIES, VAULTS, SEPTIC TANKS AND CESSPOOLS PROHIBITED.
   Except as herein provided, it shall be unlawful for any person to construct
or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended for the treatment of sewage or wastewater on any property within the
Sanitary District.
(Prior Code, § 50.16) Penalty, see §
59.999
§ 59.041 PRIVATE SEWER SYSTEM TO COMPLY WITH STATE AND LOCAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The type, capacity, location and layout of a private sewage treatment
system shall comply with all requirements of the state, county or any agency or
subdivision thereof.
   (B)   No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any
public sewer, ditch or watercourse.
(Prior Code, § 50.17) Penalty, see §
59.999
§ 59.042 DISCHARGE OF WASTEWATER TO NATURAL OUTLETS.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any natural outlet
any wastewater or deleterious pollutants except where suitable treatment has
been provided in accordance with provisions of this chapter, Chapter 58 or an
NPDES permit.
(Prior Code, § 50.18) Penalty, see §
59.999
§ 59.043 CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, located within the
Sanitary District and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which
there is located a public sewer or as a public sewer becomes available, is
hereby required to connect the house, building or property directly to the
public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter within 90 days
after the date of official notice to do so.
   (B)   In the event the building drain of the house, building or property is
within 300 feet of a public sewer, the owner shall be required to connect the
building drain to the public sewer. The Director may make exceptions to this on
a case by case basis and in accordance with state law.
   (C)   In the event the house, building or property is at a distance greater
than 300 feet from the public sewer, the owner may be required to connect at
the discretion of the Board of Sanitary Commissioners, provided that the
wastewater treatment facility shall have the capacity to treat the waste of the
house, building or parcel of real estate.
   (D)   Private treatment systems shall be taken out of service in a manner
approved by the District and the County Health Department.
(Prior Code, § 50.19)
§ 59.044 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to uncover, make any connections
with or opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenances
thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the Director.
   (B)   Permits shall be obtained from the office of the Sanitary District and
shall be issued only to sewer tap contractors, with proper insurance. When a
permit has been granted, the Director or their representative shall, when
possible, designate the position or location of the appropriate “Y” branch.
(Prior Code, § 50.20) Penalty, see §
59.999
§ 59.045 CLASSES OF PERMITS; APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits: for single-
family residential; and for service other than single-family residential. In
either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make application on a special
form furnished by the Sanitary District.
   (B)   The permit applications shall be supplemented by any plans,
specifications or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of the
Director.
      (1)   Single-family residential sewer tap permit. A fee of $200,
inspection costs included, shall be paid to the District at the time the
application for a sewer tap permit for a single family residential building
sewer is filed.
      (2)   Non-single-family residential sewer tap permit. A fee of $400 shall
be paid to the District at the time the application for a non-single-family
residential building sewer permit is filed, which fee shall include inspection
costs.
      (3)   Performance bond. A performance bond in an amount equal to 100% of
the cost of making the sewer tap, as determined by the Sanitary District in
favor of the Sanitary District, may be required by the Director to be filed
with the tap permit application by the owner or his or her agent.
(Prior Code, § 50.21)
§ 59.046 COSTS TO BE BORNE BY OWNER.
   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner.
(Prior Code, § 50.22)
§ 59.047 PERSONS QUALIFIED FOR SEWER TAP PERMIT.
   No sewer tap permit shall be issued to any person, firm or corporation
except any person licensed by the state as a certified plumber, or any
competent person who qualifies by furnishing the Sanitary District satisfactory
proof of their experience, equipment and personnel.
(Prior Code, § 50.23)
§ 59.048 CANCELLATION OF PERMIT FOR FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH NOTICE.
   Any person who shall neglect, or fail to correct any defect in the
installation or connection of a building sewer within 30 days after notice by
the Director to make the correction, shall cause cancellation of the sewer tap
permit and all permits outstanding of the person, and the issuer of the bond
shall be liable for all expenses or damages caused by neglect or failure to
correct the defect.
(Prior Code, § 50.24)
§ 59.049 APPROVAL REQUIRED FOR EXCAVATIONS.
   A permit for a building sewer and connection shall not be construed to be a
permit or approval to do excavations in any public or private street, parkway,
alley, sidewalk, terrace or curb. Approval of any such excavation must be
obtained from the city. No excavation will be started until all necessary
permits have been obtained by the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 50.25)
§ 59.050 SEPARATE BUILDING SEWER REQUIRED FOR EVERY BUILDING.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building. Exceptions may be allowed at the discretion of the Director.
(Prior Code, § 50.26)
§ 59.051 OLD BUILDING SEWERS CONNECTED TO NEW BUILDINGS.
   An old building sewer, or portions thereof, may be used in connection with
new buildings only when it is found, on examination and test supervised by the
Director or his or her agent, to meet all requirements of this chapter. The
inspection and testing shall be at the sole expense of owner.
(Prior Code, § 50.27)
§ 59.052 DESIGN OF SEWERS.
   (A)   All new sewers and laterals, whether public or private, shall be
designed and built in accordance with City Sanitary District standards and be
subject to the review and approval of the Director.
   (B)   Sewers installed for dedication to the City Sanitary District or city
shall be designed and built in accordance with City Sanitary District Standards
and be subject to the review and approval of the Director.
   (C)   Sewer lines that are to be extended shall have the same hydraulic
capacity and be constructed on the same grade line as the existing sewers
unless the District determines that a reduction of capacity is justified.
Sewers shall be sized with capacity for the contiguous service area which is
defined as the undeveloped and/or unsewered land capable of a gravity
connection to the proposed sanitary sewer.
(Prior Code, § 50.28)
§ 59.053 SEWER EXTENSIONS.
   The District shall not be required to extend sewers to provide service for
those properties not currently being served by a public sewer and lie within or
outside of the District boundaries. It shall be the responsibility of the
property owner(s) to extend a sewer, at their own cost and in accordance with
District requirements, if they wish for an extension to take place. The
District may elect to use a process (e.g., contribution agreements) to aid
interested property owners in this process. The process and its details shall
be as determined by the Director or the Board and in accordance with applicable
state law. The District is in no way required to aid or contribute to sewer
extension projects.
(Prior Code, § 50.29)
§ 59.054 SIZE OF BUILDING SEWER.
   The size of the building sewer shall be subject to the approval of the
Director, but in no event shall the diameter be less than six inches. The slope
of the six-inch pipe shall not be less than one-quarter inch per foot. The
minimum slope for larger size pipe shall not be less than one-eighth inch per
foot.
(Prior Code, § 50.30)
§ 59.055 ELEVATION OF BUILDING SEWER.
   The building sewer shall be brought to the building at an elevation below
the basement floor. The depth shall be sufficient to afford protection from
frost. The building sewer shall be laid at a uniform grade and in straight
alignment insofar as possible. Changes in grade or alignment shall be made only
at manholes or properly curved pipes and fittings, as approved by the Director.
(Prior Code, § 50.31)
§ 59.056 LOW BUILDING DRAIN TO BE LIFTED.
   In the case of any building drain which is too low to permit gravity flow to
the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by the drain shall be lifted by
approved methods and discharged into the building sewer. The method shall be
approved by the Sanitary District.
(Prior Code, § 50.32)
§ 59.057 EXCAVATIONS.
   (A)   All excavations required for the installation of a building sewer
shall be open trench work unless otherwise approved by the Director. Pipe
laying and backfill shall be performed in accordance with District standards.
No backfill shall be placed at the connection of the building sewer to the
public sewer and at the connection of the building sewer and building drain
until after work has been inspected and passed by the Director or his or her
representatives.
   (B)   No stone, brick and so forth, shall be used in the backfill until a
minimum depth of at least 18 inches of fine earth or gravel has been placed
over the pipe. If blasting of rock is required in excavating, utmost precaution
shall be used and suitable cover such as mats, timbers, brush and so forth,
shall be provided to cover the immediate blast area so that life and property
in the vicinity will not be jeopardized.
(Prior Code, § 50.33)
§ 59.058 CONNECTION OF BUILDING SEWER WITH PUBLIC SEWER.
   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be made at
the “Y” branch designated for that property, if such a branch is available at a
suitable location. If the public sewer is 12 inches in diameter or less and no
properly located “Y” branch is available, the owner shall, at his or her
expense, install a “Y” branch in the public sewer or make the connection of an
approved type at a location approved by the Director. All connections shall be
made in accordance with district standards.
(Prior Code, § 50.34)
§ 59.059 INSPECTION.
   (A)   The applicant for the building sewer shall notify the Director at
least one working day in advance of the date the building sewer will be ready
for inspection and connection to the public sewer. The connection shall be made
under the supervision of the Director or his or her representative.
   (B)   The applicant shall be required to perform and pass a low pressure air
test on all newly installed laterals. The applicant shall be required to
perform and pass a mandrel test on all newly installed sewers. The applicant
shall also perform and pass a vacuum test on all newly installed manholes.
These tests or others required by the District shall meet the standards and
requirements of the City Sanitary District.
   (C)   Any tap not made in accordance with the foregoing provisions shall be
deemed an illegal installation and, upon discovery, shall be promptly
disconnected at the expense of the property owner and shall remain disconnected
until all provisions of this section have been complied with.
(Prior Code, § 50.35)
§ 59.060 EXCAVATIONS TO BE GUARDED.
   All excavations for building sewer installations shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
(Prior Code, § 50.36)
§ 59.061 MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The building sewer from the building drain to the connection with the
public sewer shall be maintained by the owner at no expense to the Sanitary
District. The property owner shall be responsible for connection of the
building sewer to the public sewer.
   (B)   Private sewers, laterals and other private accessories shall be
maintained by the property owner(s) to provide water-tight joints. It shall be
the responsibility of the owner(s) to make all necessary repairs or replaces as
required to keep the sewer or lateral in working order and without excessive
infiltration.
(Prior Code, § 50.37)
§ 59.062 INSURANCE.
   Any person constructing a building sewer shall, on application for a permit
to so construct the building sewer, agree to secure adequate insurance to hold
harmless the city and the Sanitary District from all damage, loss or claims of
any person whatsoever arising out of the construction of the building sewer.
(Prior Code, § 50.38)
§ 59.063 CONNECTION OF BUILDING SEWER WITH PUBLIC SEWER TO CONFORM WITH
DISTRICT STANDARDS.
   (A)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing code and applicable
district standards.
   (B)   All such connections shall be made gas-tight and water-tight. Any
deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the
Director before installation.
(Prior Code, § 50.39)
§ 59.064 RESTORATION OF PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the
course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the Sanitary
District, or the appropriate governing authority.
(Prior Code, § 50.40)
§ 59.065 REQUIREMENTS FOR SEWER BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES.
   To prevent sanitary sewer overflows or basement backups, the Director may
require owners or users to install backflow prevention devices on their
building sewer or building drain at their expense.
(Prior Code, § 50.41)
§ 59.066 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   (A)   Grease, oil, sand interceptors and separators, sand traps or retainers
shall be provided when required by the State Uniform Plumbing Code, District
Standards or when in the opinion of the Director, they are necessary for the
proper handling of liquid wastes containing grease, oils or sand in excessive
amounts, or any flammable wastes, or other harmful ingredients, except that the
traps or retainers shall not be required for private living quarters or
dwelling units. All traps shall be of a type and capacity according to the
State Uniform Plumbing Code, district standards and the Director and shall be
located so as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
   (B)   These devices shall be constructed of impervious material capable of
withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature. They shall be of
substantial construction, water-tight and equipped with easily removable covers
which when bolted in place shall be gas-tight and water-tight.
   (C)   Where installed, these devices shall be maintained by the owner, at
his or her expense, in continuously efficient operation at all times.
(Prior Code, § 50.42)
PROHIBITED DISCHARGES AND ILLICIT CONNECTIONS AND ASSOCIATED REQUIREMENTS
§ 59.080 CERTAIN WATERS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged, or make a connection to
discharge or cause to be discharged to any sanitary sewer, either directly or
indirectly, storm water, surface water, ground water, roof runoff, downspouts,
swimming pools, subsurface drainage, noncontact cooling water, unpolluted
industrial process water, or other unpolluted waters.
(Prior Code, § 50.45) Penalty, see §
59.999
§ 59.081 REMOVAL OF UNPOLLUTED WATERS FROM TREATMENT FACILITY.
   The District shall require the removal of unpolluted waters from any
wastewater collection system or treatment facility. Property owners shall have
30 days after notice to comply with any such requirements. All costs for work
required for compliance shall be borne by the owner.
(Prior Code, § 50.46)
§ 59.082 CONNECTION OF FLOOR DRAIN OR PIT DRAIN PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Except as provided in §§
59.066 and
59.083, no person shall connect any floor drain, pit drain, site drain or any
other drain subject to receiving oil, grease or gasoline to any sewer either
directly or indirectly.
   (B)   Any drain subject to receiving oil, grease, gasoline, other flammable
substances, excessive solids, or sand in accordance with §§
59.066 and
59.083 shall connect only to a sanitary sewer unless specifically authorized by
the Director.
(Prior Code, § 50.47) Penalty, see §
59.999
§ 59.083 GREASE TRAPS AND GREASE INTERCEPTORS.
   (A)   A grease trap or grease interceptor meeting the specifications in
accordance with the State Uniform Plumbing Code and the District shall be
installed in all food handling establishments. These establishments shall
include restaurants, cafés, lunch counters, cafeterias, bars, clubs, hotels,
hospitals, sanitariums, factories, churches, retirement homes, school kitchens
or any other establishment where fats, oils or grease (FOG) may be introduced
into the sanitary sewer, except that the traps or retainers shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. In locations where
grease traps or interceptors are required, at no time shall the fats, oils or
grease, whether emulsified or not, be discharged at a concentration greater
than 100 mg/l nor may the discharge contain substances which may solidify or
become viscous at temperatures between 32°F and 150°F.
   (B)   Traps and interceptors must be located so as to provide easy access
for routine inspection, cleaning, repair and maintenance. All traps and
interceptors shall be maintained by any person owning or controlling the
property upon which a grease trap or interceptor is installed. The trap or
interceptor shall be in continuously efficient operation at all times.
   (C)   The owner or operator of the trap or interceptor shall perform system
maintenance as required to maintain minimum design capability or effective
volume. This maintenance shall include the emptying of accumulated waste
content. The owner or operator shall develop and carry out this maintenance at
a minimum of every six months. This maintenance shall occur at a frequency
shorter than every six months if it is needed to maintain minimum design
capability or effective volume. Users shall:
      (1)   Provide a minimum hydraulic retention time in accordance with
engineering guidelines, District standards and plumbing code;
      (2)   Remove accumulated sludge, grease and organic material as required;
      (3)   Remove inorganic solid materials such as grit, rocks, gravel, sand,
eating utensils, cigarettes, towels, rags and the like, which could settle and
thereby reduce the effective volume of the device;
      (4)   Inspect grease traps or interceptors no less than once every month;
and
      (5)   Maintenance and inspection records shall be kept and posted at the
facility. These records shall be maintained for three years and must be
available for inspection on the premises.
   (D)   The District shall have the right to inspect the grease traps and
interceptors along with the maintenance and inspection records of any facility
who operates or maintains such devices. These inspections may be done at
regular intervals or anytime as deemed necessary by the Director.
   (E)   If the flow into an existing grease trap or interceptor is more than
the design capacity of the device, the owner or operator shall install a device
that has sufficient capacity according to State Uniform Plumbing Code and
District guidelines. It shall be the responsibility of the owner or operator to
use an adequately sized device at all times.
(Prior Code, § 50.48)
§ 59.084 OTHER PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   Except as provided by this chapter or
Chapter 58, no person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to a POTW, any
of the following described apparatus, substance, wastes, pollutants or waters:
   (A)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosion hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, wastestreams with a closed cup flashpoint of
less than 140°F or 60°C using the test methods specified in 40 C.F.R. § 261.21;
   (B)   Pollutants which will cause corrosive structural damage to the POTW,
but in no case discharges with pH lower than 5.0, unless the works is
specifically designed to accommodate such discharges;
   (C)   Solid or viscous pollutants in amounts which will cause obstruction to
the flow in the POTW resulting in interference;
   (D)   Any pollutant, including oxygen demanding pollutants (BOD and the
like) released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration
which will cause Interference with the POTW;
   (E)   Heat in amounts which will inhibit biological activity in the POTW
resulting in interference, but in no case heat in such quantities that the
temperature at the POTW treatment plant exceeds 40°C (104°F) unless the
approval authority, upon request of the POTW, approves alternate temperature
limits;
   (F)   Petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oil, or products of mineral
oil origin in amounts that will cause interference or pass through;
   (G)   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors or
fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems;
   (H)   Any trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points
designated by the POTW;
   (I)   Any oils, greases, fats, acids, chemicals, iron or mineral wastes,
ashes or cinders, garbage, dead animals, rags, hair, toxic material or wastes
which may cause clogging, or which may be injurious to the sewage utility, or
interferes with the proper treatment of domestic sewage, or the operation and
maintenance of the sewage treatment plant;
   (J)   Any hot, suffocating, corrosive, inflammable or explosive liquids,
gases, acids, vaporous substances, or toxic material or liquid that can
endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a nuisance;
   (K)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F;
   (L)   Any waters containing suspended solids of such character and quantity
that unusual provisions, attention, or expense is required to handle the
materials at the sewage treatment plant;
   (M)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance which either singly or by
interaction with other wastes is capable of creating a public nuisance or
hazard to life or preventing entry into sewers for their maintenance and
repair; or
   (N)   Any substance in a concentration that may pose danger to human health
or the environment.
(Prior Code, § 50.49)
§ 59.085 LIABILITY FOR DAMAGE.
   If a person discharges or causes to be discharged a waste which causes
interference, pass-through, obstruction, damage or increased maintenance of any
sewer, lift station, treatment plant or other portion of the POTW, the person
may be assessed a charge to cover the cost of the work required to clean or
repair it. Additional fines or penalties may also be assessed in accordance
with this chapter or other applicable chapters of city code.
(Prior Code, § 50.50)
CONNECTION TO OR EXTENSION OF SEWERS OUTSIDE CORPORATE LIMITS
§ 59.100 AUTHORITY OF BOARD; COMPLIANCE WITH ORDINANCES AND STATE LAW.
   The installation, construction or extension of interceptor sewers outside
the corporate limits of the city, shall be governed solely by the Board of
Sanitary Commissioners and any connection to the interceptor shall be subject
to the provisions of §
59.101 and I.C. 36-9-25-1 et seq.
   (A)   Any existing significant industrial user located beyond the District
limits and discharging into the District sewer system shall submit a discharge
permit application, in accordance with §
59.101, within 90 days of the effective date of this chapter, or in the case a
valid permit exists and does not violate any part of this chapter, shall not
have to re-apply until the permit expiration date. New significant industrial
users located beyond the District limits shall submit such applications to the
Director at least 90 days prior to any proposed discharge into the POTW.
      (B)   Alternately, the Director may enter into an agreement with the
neighboring jurisdiction in which the significant industrial user is located to
provide for the implementation and enforcement of pretreatment program
requirements against said industrial user.
(Prior Code, § 50.53)
§ 59.101 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Properties outside the territorial limits of the Sanitary District shall not
be permitted connections to the sewage utility until a permit has been obtained
from the Board of Sanitary Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 50.54)
§ 59.102 CONNECTIONS TO SEWER SYSTEM OUTSIDE THE TERRITORIAL LIMITS OF THE
DISTRICT.
   (A)   No person, corporation or entity owning any property outside the
District shall connect to or permit to be connected any sewer or drain to the
wastewater treatment system or the storm water drainage system owned by or
operated by or existing in the City Sanitary District unless the person,
corporation or entity owning the property outside the Sanitary District and
desiring to connect to the wastewater treatment system of the Sanitary District
shall enter into a contract with the District providing:
      (1)   A connection charge;
      (2)   A user charge;
      (3)   Compliance with other provision of this chapter or Chapter 58; and
      (4)   Future annexation to the city if determined feasible.
   (B)   To the extent any user outside the limits of the District connects or
discharges into the POTW, the District shall have the same authority to
regulate such user, including any industrial user, pursuant to the same
provisions contained within this chapter and Chapter 58.
(Prior Code, § 50.55) Penalty, see §
59.999
ENFORCEMENT AND REMEDIES
§ 59.115 ENFORCEMENT.
   Whenever the District finds that a person has violated a prohibition or
failed to meet a requirement of this chapter, the District may order compliance
or take action through any of the following.
   (A)   VTN. A verbal telephone notice describes a response to a minor type of
violation which is conveyed verbally to the user and no further follow up on
the user’s part is expected. A VTN is utilized when there is a very minor
infraction.
   (B)   EN. An email notice describes a documented response to a minor type
violation which is conveyed via email to the user. It is self-documenting and
will be added to a user’s records. An EN is equivalent to a VTN.
   (C)   SV. A site visit is a visit to the user’s property to discuss and
observe the problem. This can be a substitution for VTN or NOV. The SV can also
be made in conjunction with a NOV, indicating a reason for the non-compliance
and what steps are being taken to eliminate any future violations of this
nature. A site visit form needs to be filled out when this action is taken.
   (D)   NOV. A notice of violation is written notice to a user or responsible
party indicating the type of apparent violation.
      (1)   Such notice may require without limitation:
         (a)   A written response;
         (b)   Compliance with this chapter;
         (c)   The elimination of illicit connections or discharges;
         (d)   That violating discharges, practices or operations shall cease
and desist;
         (e)   The abatement or remediation of pollution or contamination
hazards and the restoration of any affected property;
         (f)   Payment of a fine to cover administrative and remediation costs;
and
         (g)   The implementation of source control or treatment best
management practices.
      (2)   If abatement of a violation and/or restoration of affected property
is required, the notice shall set forth a deadline within which such
remediation or restoration must be completed.
      (3)   Said notice shall further advise that, should the violator fail to
remediate or restore within the established deadline, the work will be done by
a designated governmental agency or a contractor and the expense thereof shall
be charged to the violator.
   (E)   AO. An administrative order is issued to an user by the District or
Director and contains necessary corrective measures that need to be carried out
by a user to undertake or to cease specified activities by a specified
deadline. An AO may contain one or more of the following: administrative fines;
enforcement compliance schedules; directives for increased monitoring and/or
reporting frequencies; or cease and desist orders. In addition, it specifies
the name of the parties involved, statement of facts, the requirement to ensure
compliance and the enforcement associated with any future non-compliance.
   (F)   AF. Administrative fines are monetary penalties assessed by the
District.
      (1)   When the District finds that a person has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this chapter, the District may impose an
administrative fine against such person in an amount not to exceed $2,500 on a
per violation, per day basis, plus any administrative or remediation costs.
      (2)   Issuance of an administrative fine shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the person.
      (3)   In order to establish a consistent basis for assessing monetary
penalties against a user, a schedule of common administrative fines may be as
follows.
         (a)   Connection of unpolluted waters (see § 59.080): $50 per
connection (per day) (e.g., two downspouts on the same property equal two
violations);
         (b)   Un-maintained grease trap $200 (per day);
         (c)   No grease trap inspection and maintenance logs posted $100 (per
day);
         (d)   Insufficient grease trap inspection or maintenance logs $100
(per day); and
         (e)   Prohibited discharge (excluding unpolluted waters) $100 (per
day).
      (4)   This schedule does not limit the Director or the District, at their
discretion, from assessing administrative fines for any violation of this
chapter up to the maximum allowed amount of $2,500 per violation per day. This
may be done for reasons including, but not limited to, a user having habitual
violations, showing evidence of negligence or intent to violate, failure to
remedy the violation in a timely manner, or a major violation impacting the
POTW.
(Prior Code, § 50.58)
§ 59.116 APPEAL OF NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Any person receiving a notice of violation may appeal the determination of
the District. The notice of appeal must be received within ten days from the
date of the notice of violation. Hearing on the appeal before the Board of
Sanitary Commissioners or their designee shall take place within 15 days from
the date of receipt of the notice of appeal, unless waived by both the District
and the person appealing. The decision of the District shall be final.
(Prior Code, § 50.59)
§ 59.117 ENFORCEMENT MEASURES AFTER APPEAL.
   If the violation has not been corrected pursuant to the requirements set
forth in the notice of violation, or, in the event of an appeal, within ten
days of the decision of the municipal authority upholding the decision of the
District, then representatives of the District shall enter upon the subject
private property and are authorized to take any and all measures necessary to
abate the violation and/or restore the property. It shall be unlawful for any
person, owner, agent or person in possession of any premises to refuse to allow
the government agency or designated contractor to enter upon the premises for
the purposes set forth above. Penalties shall include, but are not necessarily
limited to, those found in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 50.60) Penalty, see §
59.999
§ 59.118 COST OF ABATEMENT OF THE VIOLATION.
   (A)   Within 30 days after abatement of the violation, the owner of the
property will be notified of the cost of abatement, including administrative
costs. The property owner may file a written protest objecting to the amount of
the assessment within ten days of the post marked notice informing the property
owner of the cost of abatement. If the amount due is not paid within 60 days of
the post marked date on the notice, or by the expiration of the time in which
to file an appeal, the charges shall become a special assessment against the
property and shall constitute a lien on the property for the amount of the
assessment.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this subchapter shall
become liable to the District by reason of such violation. The liability shall
be paid in not more than 12 equal payments. Interest at the rate as established
by state law, which interest rate is currently 8% per annum, shall be assessed
on the balance beginning on the tenth day following the post marked date of the
notice of cost of abatement.
(Prior Code, § 50.61) Penalty, see §
59.999
§ 59.119 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision or fail to
comply with any of the requirements of this chapter. If a person has violated
or continues to violate the provisions of this chapter, the District may
petition for a preliminary or permanent injunction restraining the person from
activities which would create further violations or compelling the person to
perform abatement or remediation of the violation.
(Prior Code, § 50.62) Penalty, see §
59.999
§ 59.120 VIOLATIONS DEEMED A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties provided, any
condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter is a threat to public health, safety and welfare, and is declared
and deemed a nuisance, and may be summarily abated or restored at the
violator’s expense, and/or a civil action to abate, enjoin or otherwise compel
the cessation of such nuisance may be taken.
(Prior Code, § 50.63) Penalty, see §
59.999
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 59.135 NECESSITY OF USER CHARGE.
   The Common Council, after investigation and consideration finds that a user
charge for permitting a user to discharge liquid wastes into the publicly owned
treatment works (POTW) of the Sanitary District is of necessity to the public
health and welfare and of public benefit to the people of the city.
(Prior Code, § 53.01)
§ 59.136 DISTRIBUTION OF COSTS.
   The Common Council of the city finds Amended Resolution 19-1994 adopted
November 14, 1995, by the City Sanitary District Board is a just and equitable
distribution of user fees among the classes of service provided by the POTW
including the cost of operation, maintenance, replacement and debt service of
the treatment facilities and collection system.
(Prior Code, § 53.02) (Ord. 93-1995, passed - -)
§ 59.137 APPROVAL OF SANITARY DISTRICT BOARD RESOLUTION.
   The Common Council of the city, approves by Ord. 93-1995 the increase in
user fees made substantially pro rata for all classes of service by Amended
Resolution 19-1994 adopted November 14, 1995, by the City Sanitary District
Board.
(Prior Code, § 53.03) (Ord. 93-1995, passed - -)
§ 59.138 UNLAWFUL TO DISCHARGE WITHOUT PAYING RATES, CHARGES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, partnership, firm or corporation to
discharge waste into the sewer system owned and operated by the City Sanitary
District, unless the user of the sewer shall pay the user rates and charges
provided for in Amended Resolution 19-1994 adopted November 14, 1995, by the
City Sanitary District Board.
(Prior Code, § 53.04) (Ord. 93-1995, passed - -) Penalty, see §
59.999
§ 59.139 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. The Board of Sanitary Commissioners of the City Sanitary District of
the City of Richmond, Indiana.
   BOD (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in terms of weight and concentration (milligrams
per liter).
   CITY. The City of Richmond, Wayne County, Indiana acting by and through its
Board of Sanitary Commissioners of the City Sanitary District.
   DISTRICT. The Sanitary District of the city, acting by its duly constituted
Board of Commissioners or their authorized representatives.
   COMMERCIAL USER. Any establishment offering lodging, selling goods (either
retail or wholesale), or offering services for sale, or contributing an average
monthly flow in excess of 10,000 gallons, or any industrial establishment not
qualifying as an “industrial users”.
   DWELLING UNITS. One or more rooms for the use of one or more persons as a
housekeeping unit with space for eating, living and sleeping, and permanent
provision for cooking and sanitation.
   EXCESSIVE STRENGTH SURCHARGES. An additional charge which is billed to users
for treating sewage wastes with an average strength in excess of “normal
domestic sewage”.
   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any manufacturing or processing facility that discharges
industrial waste to a publicly-owned treatment works.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. Any solid, liquid or gaseous waste resulting from any
process or excess energy of industry, manufacturing trade or business, or from
the development, processing or recovery of any natural resource, except for
agricultural crop raising, as distinct from industrial employees’ domestic
wastes or wastes from sanitary conveniences (normal domestic sewage).
   NPDES PERMIT. The permit issued to the sewage works under the national
pollutant discharge elimination system for discharge of wastewaters to the
navigable waters of the United States pursuant to § 402 of the Federal Water
Quality Act Amendments of 1972.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE. A combination of liquid and water-carried wastes
resulting from activities common to residences and generally having strengths
not exceeding 200 mg/l BOD and 225 mg/l suspended solids.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS. Includes all costs, direct and indirect,
necessary to provide adequate wastewater collection, transport and treatment on
a continuing basis and produce discharges to receiving waters that conform with
all related federal, state and local requirements. These costs include
replacement.
   OTHER SERVICE CHARGES. Tap charges, connection charges, area charges and
other identifiable charges, other than “user charges”, “debt service charges”
and “excessive strength surcharges”.
   PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any
individual, firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association,
society, institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
   REPLACEMENT COSTS. The budget allowances set aside to provide for cash
expenditures for procuring and installing units of equipment or reconstructing
appurtenances necessary to maintain or regain the capacity and performance for
which the treatment works were designed during their useful life.
   SEGREGATED DOMESTIC WASTES. Those wastes from non-residential users which
are generated from activities of a domestic nature and which are measurable or
set apart from industrial discharges.
   SEWER USE ORDINANCE. A separate and companion enactment to this chapter, set
out in Chapter 58, which regulates the connection to and use of public and
private sewers.
   SHALL AND MAY.
      SHALL. Mandatory.
      MAY. Permissive.
   STANDARD LABORATORY PROCEDURE. The analytical and sampling methods as they
appear in the most recent editions of:
      (1)   Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater, APHA,
New York 10019; A.S.T.M. Standards, Part 23, Water, Atmospheric Analysis,
American Society for Testing and Materials, Philadelphia, PA 19103; and
      (2)   Methods of Chemical Analysis of Water and Wastes, USEPA, Water
Quality Office, Analytical Quality Control Laboratory, 1014 Broadway,
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids in a liquid suspension of water, sewage or other
liquids and which are removable by laboratory filtering under standard
laboratory procedure.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of the wastewater treatment works for
the cost of operation and maintenance of the works pursuant to § 204(b) of Pub.
Law No. 92-500, (including replacement).
   USER CLASS. The division of wastewater treatment customers by source,
function, waste characteristics and process or discharge similarities (i.e.,
residential, commercial, industrial, institutional and governmental) in the
user charge system.
      (1)   COMMERCIAL USER. Any establishment offering lodging, selling goods
(either retail or wholesale), or offering services for sale, or contributing an
average monthly flow in excess of 10,000 gallons, or any industrial
establishment not qualifying as an “industrial users”.
      (2)   GOVERNMENTAL USER. Any federal, state or local governmental user of
the wastewater treatment work.
      (3)   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any manufacturing or processing facility that
discharges industrial waste to a publicly-owned treatment works.
      (4)   INSTITUTIONAL USER. Any establishment involved in a social,
charitable, religious or educational function which, based on a determination
by the Sanitary District, discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes or
wastes from sanitary conveniences.
      (5)   RESIDENTIAL USER. A user of the treatment works whose premises or
building is used primarily as a residence for one or more persons, including
all dwelling units.
(Prior Code, § 53.05) (Ord. 93-1995, passed - -)
§ 59.140 USER RATES AND CHARGES TO BE FAIR AND EQUITABLE.
   This chapter approves certain sections which set user rates and user charges
for certain user classes, which users may have their rates determined by the
Board of Sanitary Commissioners without the approval of Common Council. These
user rates and charges are approved in this chapter for the purpose of
determining the acceptable rates to be charged residential users, and it is the
recommendation of the Common Council that the rates herein set out for non-
residential users be charged by the Board of Sanitary Commissioners of the
Sanitary District in order to achieve the fair and equitable distribution of
the cost of operation, maintenance, replacement and debt service of the City
Sanitary District.
(Prior Code, § 53.08)
§ 59.141 BIENNIAL REVIEW.
   The Board of Sanitary Commissioners of the Sanitary District shall cause a
biennial review to be made of the user charge and its rates to ascertain if
they are fair and equitable and if they are adequate to cover the cost of
operation, maintenance and replacement of the wastewater treatment facilities.
(Prior Code, § 53.10)
§ 59.142 CLASSES OF USERS.
   (A)   Every person whose premises are served by the sewage works shall be
charged for the services provided. These charges are established for each user
class in order that the sewage works shall recover, from each user and user
class, revenue which is proportional to the use by that class of the treatment
works in terms of volume and load. User charges are levied to defray the cost
of operation and maintenance (including replacement) of the treatment works.
   (B)   User charges shall be uniform in magnitude within a user class.
      (1)   User charges are subject to the rules and regulations adopted by
the United States Environmental Protection Agency, published in the Federal
Register, September 27, 1978 page 44022 (40 CFR 35). Replacement costs, which
are recovered through the system of user charges, shall be based upon the
expected useful life of the sewage works equipment.
      (2)   The various classes of users of the treatment works for the
purposes of this subchapter, shall be as follows.
         (a)   Class I:
            1.   Residential;
            2.   Commercial;
            3.   Governmental; and
            4.   Institutional.
         (b)   Class II: Industrial.
(Prior Code, § 53.13)
§ 59.143 SCHEDULE OF RATES AND CHARGES.
 
Treatment Rate
Rate per 1,000 gallons per month Phase I Phase II Phase III
Industrial                       $3.99   $4.30    $4.67
Residential/commercial           $4.49   $4.83    $5.25
Monthly Base Rate (All Classes)
Monthly Base Rate (All Classes)
Water meter size:
5/8- or 3/4-inch  $19.17  $20.64  $22.44
1-inch            $59.12  $63.65  $69.19
1-1/2-inch        $131.31 $141.37 $153.67
2-inch            $223.19 $240.29 $261.20
3-inch            $507.47 $546.34 $593.87
4-inch            $879.27 $946.62 $1,028.98
 
Unmetered Customers
Charge per month $41.62 $44.81 $48.71
 
   (A)   Charges shall be collected from the owners or occupants of each and
every lot, parcel of real estate or building that is connected with the
sanitary system or otherwise discharges sanitary sewage, industrial wastes,
water or other liquids, either directly or indirectly, into the sanitary sewage
system of the Sanitary District.
   (B)   For metered water users, the charges shall be based on the quantity of
water used on or in the property or premises, as the same is measured by the
water meter there in use, plus a base rate for the size of the water meter
installed. For the purpose of billing and collecting the charges for sewage
service, the water meter shall be read or estimated monthly and the user shall
be billed each month or period equaling a month.
   (C)   For unmetered water users or in situations where accurate meter
readings are not available, the monthly charges shall be as set forth above.
Sewage bills shall be rendered once each month or period equaling a month.
   (D)   For the service rendered to any city departments or agencies, the city
shall be subject to the same rates and charges as any other customer.
   (E)   In order to recover the cost of monitoring industrial wastes, the
District shall charge the user the actual cost incurred for each sample.
   (F)   No free service shall be provided to any user of the wastewater
treatment facility.
(Prior Code, § 53.13) (Ord. 93-1995, passed - -)
§ 59.144 DETERMINATION OF WATER USAGE, STRENGTH AND CHARACTER OF WASTES FOR
BILLING PURPOSES.
   (A)   Determination of water usage for billing purposes. The quantity of
water discharged into the sanitary sewage system and obtained from sources
other than the utility that serves the city shall be determined by the Sanitary
District in the manner the District may reasonably elect, and the sewage
service shall be billed at the above appropriate rates; except, as is provided
in this section, the District may make proper allowances in determining the
sewage bill for quantities of water shown on the records to be consumed, but
which are also shown to the satisfaction of the District that the quantities do
not enter the sanitary sewage system.
      (1)   In the event the owner of a lot, parcel of real estate, or building
discharging sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or other liquids into the
District’s sewer system, either directly or indirectly, is not a user of water
supplied by the waterworks company and the water used thereon or therein is not
measured by a meter, or is measured by a meter not acceptable to the District,
then the amount of water used shall be otherwise measured or determined by the
District, in order to ascertain the rates and charges, the owner or other
interested party, at his or her expense, may install and maintain meters,
weirs, volumetric measuring devices or any adequate an approved method of
measurement acceptable to the District for the determination of the sewage
discharge.
      (2)   In the event the owner of a lot, parcel of real estate or building
discharging sanitary sewage, industrial waste, water or other liquids into the
District’s sewer system, either directly or indirectly, is a user of water
supplied by the waterworks company, and in addition uses water from another
source which is not measured by a water meter, or is measured by a water meter
not acceptable to the District, then the amount of water used shall be
otherwise measured or determined by the District in order to ascertain the
rates of charge, or the owner or other interested party, at his or her expense,
may install and maintain meters, weirs, volumetric measuring devices, or any
adequate and approved method of measurement acceptable to the District for the
determination of sewage discharge.
      (3)   In the event the owners of two or more residential lots, parcels of
real estate, or buildings discharging sanitary sewage, water or other liquids
into the District’s sewer system, either directly or indirectly, are users of
water and the quantity of water is measured by a single water meter, then in
that case, for billing purposes, the quantity of water used shall be averaged
for each user and the sewage rates and charges shall apply to each of the
number of residential lots, parcels of real estate or buildings served through
the single water meter.
      (4)   In the event two or more dwelling units such as mobile homes,
apartments or housekeeping rooms discharging sanitary sewage, water or other
liquids into the District’s sanitary sewage system, either directly or
indirectly, are users of water and the quantity of water is measured by a
single water meter, then in that case, billing shall be for a single service in
the manner set out elsewhere herein, except that the minimum bill shall not be
less than the number of dwelling units times the minimum base rate. In the case
of mobile home courts, the numbers of dwelling units shall be computed and
interpreted as the total number of mobile home spaces available for rent plus
any other dwelling units served through the meter. A dwelling unit shall be
interpreted as defined in §
59.139.
      (5)   In order that the single-family domestic and residential users of
sewage service shall not be penalized for sprinkling lawns during the summer
months of July, August and September, the billing for sewage service for
residences or domestic users for those months shall be based on the water usage
for the previous months of April, May and June, or one month determined by the
Board. In the event the water usage for said previous months is greater than
the water usage for the summer months, then the billing for sewage services
shall be computed on the actual water used in the month for which the sewage
service bill is being rendered. Domestic or residential sewage service as
applicable to the sprinkling rate shall apply to each lot, parcel of real
estate or building which is occupied and used as a single-family residence. The
sprinkling rates shall not apply to any premises which are partially or wholly
used for commercial or industrial purposes. In the event a portion of the
premises shall be used for commercial or industrial purposes, the owner shall
have the privilege of separating the water service so that the residential
portion of the premises is served through a separate meter and in that case the
water usage as registered by the water meter serving that portion of the
premises used for residential purposes would qualify under the sprinkling rate.
This credit will be given to qualified users only on request.
      (6)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate or building discharges
sanitary sewage, industrial waste, water or other liquids into the District’s
sanitary sewage system, either directly or indirectly, and uses water in excess
of 25,000 gallons per month, and it can be shown to the satisfaction of the
District that a portion of water as measured by the water meter or meter does
not and cannot enter the sanitary sewage system, then the owner or other
interested party shall, at his or her expense, install and maintain meters,
weirs, volumetric measuring devices or any adequate and approved method of
measurement acceptable to the District for the determination of sewage
discharge.
      (7)   Where a metered water supply is used for fire protection as well as
for other uses, the District may, in its discretion, make adjustments in the
user charge as may be equitable.
(Prior Code, § 53.15)
   (B)   Determination of strength, character of wastes for billing purposes.
In order that the rates and charges may be justly and equitably adjusted to the
service rendered to users, the Sanitary District shall base its charges not
only on the volume, but also on the strength and character of the stronger than
normal domestic sewage and wastes which it is required to treat and dispose of.
The District shall require the user to determine the strength and content of
all sewage and wastes discharged, either directly or indirectly into the
sanitary sewage system, in the manner and by the method the District may deem
practicable in the light of the conditions and attending circumstances of the
case, in order to determine the proper charge. The user shall furnish a
representative sampling point available to the District at all times.
      (1)   Normal sewage domestic waste strength should not exceed a
biochemical oxygen demand of 200 milligrams per liter of fluid or suspended
solids in excess of 225 milligrams per liter of fluid. Additional charges for
treating stronger than normal domestic waste shall be made on the following
basis.
         (a)   Rate surcharge based upon suspended solids. There shall be an
additional charge per pound of suspended solids for suspended solids received
in excess of 225 milligrams per liter of fluid to be determined by Common
Council.
         (b)   Rate surcharge based on BOD There shall be an additional charge
per pound of biochemical oxygen demand for BOD received in excess of 200
milligrams per liter of fluid to be determined by Common Council.
      (2)   The determination of suspended solids and five-day BOD contained in
the waste shall be in accordance with standard laboratory procedures.
(Prior Code, § 53.16) (Res. 2-1984, passed - -; Res. 1-1989, passed - -; Ord.
8-1989, passed - -)
§ 59.145 LIQUID WASTEWATER DISPOSAL CHARGES.
   Waste from septic tanks, waste from grease traps and treatment plant
residuals (industrial or municipal) shall be charged at a rate per 100 gallons
to be set from time to time by Common Council.
(Prior Code, § 53.17) (Ord. 42-1991, passed - -)
§ 59.146 BILLING AND COLLECTION.
   Bills shall be prepared and collected by Indiana-American Water Company in
its normal course of business operations.
(Prior Code, § 53.18) (Ord. 93-1995, passed - -)
§ 59.147 RATE REVIEW STUDY.
   (A)   In order that the rates and charges for sewage services may remain
fair and equitable and be in proportion to the cost of providing services to
the various users or user classes, the District shall cause a study to be made
as deemed appropriate by the Board of Sanitary Commissioners. The study shall
include, but not be limited to, an analysis of the costs associated with the
treatment of excessive strength effluents from industrial users, volume and
delivery flow-rate characteristics attributed to the various users or user
classes, the financial position of the sewage works, and the adequacy of its
revenue to provide reasonable funds for the operation, maintenance,
replacements, debt service requirements and capital improvements to the waste
treatment systems.
   (B)   Thereafter, on a biennial basis, within a reasonable period of time
following the normal accounting period. The District shall cause a study to be
made for the purpose of reviewing:
      (1)   The sufficiency of the revenue to properly operate the wastewater
treatment facility and all appurtences attached thereto; and
      (2)   Maintaining proportionately among user classes of the rates and
charges for sewage services. Said service shall be conducted by the officers or
employees of the district or by a firm of certified public accountants, or a
firm of consulting engineers which firms shall have experience in such studies,
or by such combination of officers, employees, certified public accountants or
engineers as the Director shall determine to be best under the circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 53.19)
§ 59.148 SANITARY DISTRICT; AUTHORITY; APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Sanitary District shall make and enforce any rules and regulations
as may be deemed necessary for the safe, economical and efficient management of
the District sewage system, pumping stations and sewage treatment works, for
the construction and use of house sewers and connections to the sewage system,
and for the regulation, collection, rebating, and refunding of rates and
charges, and any other rules and regulations that are necessary to carry out
the purpose of this chapter.
   (B)   The District is hereby authorized to prohibit dumping of wastes into
the District’s sewage system which, in its discretion, are deemed harmful to
the operation of the sewage treatment works of the District, or to require
methods affecting pretreatment of wastes to comply with the pretreatment
standards included in the NPDES permit issued to the sewage works.
   (C)   The rules and regulations promulgated by the Sanitary District, after
approval by the Board of Sanitary Commissioners shall, among other things,
provide for an appeal procedure whereby a user shall have the right to appeal a
decision of the Administrator of the user charge to the Board of Sanitary
Commissioners and that any decision concerning user charges of the Board may be
appealed to the circuit court of the county under the appeal procedures
provided for in the state administrative adjudication law found at I.C. Title
4, Articles 21.5 and 22, being I.C. 4-21.5-1-1 to 4-21.5-7-9 and 4-22-2-0.1 to
4-22-10-5.
(Prior Code, § 53.20)
§ 59.149 SEVERABILITY; STATUTORY AUTHORITY NOT LESSENED.
   (A)   The invalidity of any section, clause, sentence or provision of this
chapter shall not affect the validity of any other part of this chapter which
can be given effect without the invalid part or parts.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall delete from the powers any power or
authority granted to the Board of Sanitary Commissioners of the Sanitary
District provided for in I.C. 19-2-14-1 through 19-2-32 or amendments and
statutes subsequent thereto including but not limited to I.C. 19-2-20-1 through
19-2-20-15 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 53.21)
§ 59.150 SPECIAL RATE CONTRACTS.
   The Sanitary District is authorized, consistent with federal regulations, to
enter into special rate contracts with customers of the sewage works whereby
clearly definable differences in cost to the sewage works can be determined,
and the special rate shall be limited to these special costs. The contracts
shall be subject to the approval of the Board of Sanitary Commissioners of the
Sanitary District.
(Prior Code, § 53.22)
§ 59.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter for
which no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999.
   (B)   Judicial enforcement remedies.
      (1)   Injunctive relief. When the District finds that a person has
violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, an NPDES
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other standard or requirement, the
District may petition through any court of general jurisdiction within the
county, for the issuance of a temporary or permanent injunction. The District
may also seek such other action as is appropriate for legal and/or equitable
relief, including a requirement for the person to conduct environmental
remediation. A petition for injunctive relief shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against a person.
      (2)   Civil penalties. In addition to the administrative fines available
herein, a person who has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of
this chapter, or order issued hereunder, or any other standard or requirement
shall also be liable to the District for a maximum civil penalty of $2,500 per
violation, per day. Penalties shall accrue for each day during the period of
the violation.
      (3)   The District may recover reasonable attorney’s fees, court costs
and other expenses associated with enforcement activities, including sampling
and monitoring expenses, and the cost of any actual damages incurred by the
District.
      (4)   In determining the amount of civil liability, the court shall take
into account all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to, the
extent of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration of the
violation, any economic benefit gained through the person’s violation,
corrective actions by the person, the compliance history of the person, and any
other factor as may be deemed appropriate.
      (5)   Filing a suit for civil penalties shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite, for taking any other action against a person.
(Prior Code, § 50.64)
   (C)   Remedies not exclusive. The remedies listed in this chapter are not
exclusive of any other remedies available under any applicable federal, state
or local law and it is within the discretion of the District to seek cumulative
remedies.
(Prior Code, § 50.65)
   (D)   Penalty. Violation of any section of §§
59.135 through
59.150 shall be subject to a fine of not less than $50 nor more than $1,000.
Each day in which a violation occurs shall be considered a separate violation
of §§
59.135 through
59.150.
(Prior Code, § 53.06)
   (E)   Remedies. The Board shall enforce provisions of this chapter by any
legal methods, including but not limited to:
      (1)   A civil action for debt brought by the City Sanitary District in
the name of the city;
      (2)   By disconnecting the property owned or controlled by the property
owner or user;
      (3)   By obtaining an injunction against the property owner or user to
prohibit any further discharge into the sewer system of sewer wastes by the
property owner, or user; or
      (4)   The City Controller, after user charges have gone unpaid for a
period of 60 days and declared delinquent, certify the amount due from each
such owner or user of a parcel of real estate to the County Auditor and certify
the amount of charges due from the owner or user shall be placed on the tax
duplicate by the County Auditor and collected as taxes are collected from such
owner or user of a parcel of real estate as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 53.07) (Ord. 93-1995, passed - -)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
      
72.   TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
      
73.   PEDESTRIANS
      
74.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
75.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
76.   SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES
      
77.   RAILROADS
      
78.   TRAFFIC AND PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.001   Definitions
   
70.002   Incorporation of State Uniform Traffic provisions
   
70.003   Accident Report Account
§ 70.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this title, these chapters herein shall be referred to
as the “Traffic Code” or “this code”. The following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Whenever
any words or phrases used herein are not defined herein but are defined in the
state laws regulating the operation of vehicles, any such definition therein
shall be deemed to apply to such words and phrases used herein.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Fire Department vehicles, police vehicles and
such ambulances and emergency vehicles of the city or other vehicles which are
designated or authorized by the Chief of Police to serve as emergency vehicles.
   BICYCLE. Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may
ride having two tandem wheels either of which is more than 15 inches in
diameter.
   BOARD. The Board of Public Works and Safety of Richmond, Indiana.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway when
within any 600 feet along the highway there are buildings in use for business
or industrial purposes, including, but not limited to, hotels, banks or office
buildings, railroad stations and public buildings, which occupy at least 300
feet of frontage on the one side or 300 feet collectively on both sides of the
highway.
   CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT. All streets and portions of streets within the
area described as follows: all that area bounded on the north by the north line
of North A Street, on the south by the south line of South A Street, on the
east by the east line of North and South Twelfth Streets, and on the west by
the west line of North and South Fifth Street. and the west line of Fort Wayne
Avenue.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Every vehicle designed, maintained or used primarily for
the transportation of property.
   CROSSWALKS.
      (1)   The part of a roadway, at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
highway measured from the curbs, or in the absence of curbs from the edges of
the traversable roadway.
      (2)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface.
   CURB LOADING ZONE. A space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use
of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or materials.
   DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes
of vehicular travel.
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two highways which join one another at, or approximately at, right
angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways
joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
      (2)   Where a highway includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of each roadway of the divided highway by an intersecting
highway shall be regarded as a separate intersection. In the event such
intersecting highway also includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of two roadways of such highways shall be regarded as a separate
intersection.
   LANED ROADWAY. A roadway which is divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for vehicular traffic.
   LOADING ZONE. Paved area of street provided by the Board of Works for
limited parking while loading or unloading in the business district.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled.
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use of the
rider and designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the
ground, but excluding a tractor.
   OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Whenever certain hours are named herein, they shall
mean standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use in this
city.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, markings and devices
not inconsistent with this chapter placed or erected by authority of a public
body or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating, warning or
guiding traffic.
   PARK or PARKING. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
loading or unloading merchandise or passengers.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer of the Police Department or any officer
authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to make arrests for violations of
traffic regulations. Every regular officer of the Richmond Police Department
authorized to enforce the state law and this code, and any person employed by
said Department as a parking enforcement officer.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. Every way or place in private ownership and used
for vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied
permission from the owner, but not by other persons.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway not
comprising a business district when the property on the highway for a distance
of 300 feet or more is in the main improved with residences and buildings in
use for business.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the event a highway
includes two or more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY shall refer to any
such roadway separately but not to all such roadways collectively.
   SAFETY ZONE. The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set
apart as a safety zone.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for use of
pedestrians.
   STAND or STANDING. The halting of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than for the purpose of and while actually engaged in receiving or
discharging passengers.
   STOP or STOPPING. When required, means complete cessation from movement.
When prohibited, means any halting even momentarily of a vehicle, whether
occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or
in compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic-control sign
or signal.
   STREET OR HIGHWAY.  The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
   THROUGH HIGHWAY. Every highway or portion thereof on which vehicular traffic
is given preferential right-of-way, and at the entrances to which vehicular
traffic from intersecting highways is required by law to yield right-of-way to
vehicles on the through highway in obedience to either a stop sign or a yield
sign, when the signs are erected as provided in this chapter.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, vehicles, bicycles and other conveyances either singly
or together while using any highway for purposes of travel.
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL. Any device, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and to
proceed.
   TRAFFIC DIVISION. The Traffic Division of the Police Department of the city.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, on or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway, excepting devices moved by human power.
(Prior Code, § 70.01) (Ord. 1781-1960, passed - -; Ord. 2125-1965, passed - -)
§ 70.002 INCORPORATION OF STATE UNIFORM TRAFFIC PROVISIONS.
   The city acknowledges the state law traffic provisions and any provision of
this Traffic Code inconsistent therewith shall be considered not enforceable,
adopts and incorporates the provisions of I.C. Title 9, Article 21.
(Prior Code, § 70.02)
§ 70.003 ACCIDENT REPORT ACCOUNT.
   The Police Department shall collect a fee of $8 for each copy of an accident
report as provided in I.C. 9-26-9-3. The fee collected shall be deposited in
the Local Law Enforcement Continuing Education Fund established by I.C. 5-2-8-
2.
(Prior Code, § 70.03) (Ord. 59-2007, passed - -)
CHAPTER 71: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
Section
Traffic Division
   
71.001   Establishment
   
71.002   Duties
   
71.003   Records
   
71.004   Investigation of accidents
   
71.005   Accident studies
   
71.006   Accident reports
   
71.007   Drivers’ files to be maintained
   
71.008   Annual Traffic Safety Report
   
71.009   Identification of funeral processions
   
71.010   Emergency and experimental regulations
   
71.011   Vehicle identification fee
Enforcement and Obedience
   
71.025   Authority of Police and Fire Department officials
   
71.026   Required obedience
   
71.027   Coasters, roller skates and similar devices restricted
   
71.028   Public employees to obey regulations
   
71.029   Authorized emergency vehicles
TRAFFIC DIVISION
§ 71.001 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is established in the Police Department of this city a Traffic
Division to be under the control of an officer of police appointed and directly
responsible to the Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 70.06) (Ord. 1781-1960, passed - -)
§ 71.002 DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of the Traffic Division, with such aid as may be
rendered by other members of the Police Department, to enforce the street
traffic regulations of this city and all of the state vehicle laws applicable
to street traffic in this city, to make arrests for traffic violations, to
investigate accidents and to cooperate with other officers of the city in the
administration of the traffic laws and in developing ways and means to improve
traffic conditions and to carry out those duties specially imposed upon the
division by this Traffic Code.
(Prior Code, § 70.07) (Ord. 1781-1960, passed - -)
§ 71.003 RECORDS.
   (A)   The Police Department or the Traffic Division thereof shall keep a
record of all moving traffic violations of the traffic ordinances of this city
or of the state vehicle laws of which any person has been charged, together
with a record of the final disposition of all such alleged offenses. The record
shall be so maintained as to show all types of violations and the total of
each. The record shall accumulate during at least a five-year period and from
that time on the record shall be maintained complete for at least the most
recent five-year period.
   (B)   All forms for records of violations and notices of violations shall be
serially numbered. For each month and year a written record shall be kept
available to the public showing the disposal of all such forms.
   (C)   All such records and reports shall be public records.
(Prior Code, § 70.08) (Ord. 1781-1960, passed - -)
§ 71.004 INVESTIGATION OF ACCIDENTS.
   It shall be the duty of the Traffic Division, assisted by other police
officers, to investigate traffic accidents, to arrest and to assist in the
prosecution of those persons charged with violations of law causing or
contributing to the accidents.
(Prior Code, § 70.09) (Ord. 1781-1960, passed - -)
§ 71.005 ACCIDENT STUDIES.
   Whenever the accidents at any particular location become numerous, the
Traffic Division shall cooperate with the City Traffic Engineer in conducting
studies of the accidents and determining remedial measures.
(Prior Code, § 70.10) (Ord. 1781-1960, passed - -)
§ 71.006 ACCIDENT REPORTS.
   The Traffic Division shall maintain a suitable system of filing traffic
accident reports. Accident reports or cards referring to them shall be filed
alphabetically by location. The reports shall be available for the use and
information of the city.
(Prior Code, § 70.11) (Ord. 1781-1960, passed - -)
Cross-reference:
   Accident Report Account, see §
70.003
§ 71.007 DRIVERS’ FILES TO BE MAINTAINED.
   (A)   The Police Department or the Traffic Division shall maintain a
suitable record of all traffic accidents, warnings, arrests, convictions and
complaints reported for each driver, which shall be filed alphabetically under
the name of the driver concerned.
   (B)   The Traffic Division shall study the cases of all the drivers charged
with frequent or serious violations of the traffic ordinances and laws, or
involved in frequent traffic accidents or any serious accident, and shall
attempt to discover the reasons therefor, and shall take whatever steps are
lawful and reasonable to prevent the same or to have the licenses of the
persons suspended or revoked.
   (C)   The records shall accumulate during at least a five-year period and
from that time on such records shall be maintained complete for at least the
most recent five-year period.
(Prior Code, § 70.12) (Ord. 1781-1960, passed - -)
§ 71.008 ANNUAL TRAFFIC SAFETY REPORT.
   Traffic Division shall annually prepare a traffic report which shall be
filed with the Mayor. The report shall contain information on traffic matters
in this city as follows:
   (A)   The number of traffic accidents, the number of persons killed, the
number of persons injured and other pertinent traffic accident data;
   (B)   The number of traffic accidents investigated and other pertinent data
on the safety activities of the police; and
   (C)   The plans and recommendations of the division for future traffic
safety activities.
(Prior Code, § 70.13) (Ord. 1781-1960, passed - -)
§ 71.009 IDENTIFICATION OF FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   The Traffic Division shall require all vehicles in funeral processions to
display a pennant or other identifying insignia.
(Prior Code, § 70.14) (Ord. 1781-1960, passed - -)
§ 71.010 EMERGENCY AND EXPERIMENTAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Chief of Police, by and with the approval of the Board of Public
Works and Safety, is empowered to make regulations necessary to make effective
the provisions of this Traffic Code and to make and enforce temporary or
experimental regulations to cover emergencies or special conditions. No
temporary or experimental regulation shall remain in effect for more than 90
days.
   (B)   The City Engineer may test traffic-control devices under actual
conditions of traffic.
(Prior Code, § 70.15) (Ord. 1781-1960, passed - -)
§ 71.011 VEHICLE IDENTIFICATION FEE.
   The City Police Department is authorized to assess a $5 fee for checking
vehicle identification numbers, as allowed by I.C. 9-1-2-2(1). The proceeds of
the inspection fee shall be deposited in a special vehicle inspection fund for
which appropriations may be made for law enforcement purposes.
(Prior Code, § 70.16) (Ord. 60-1988, passed - -; Ord. 54-1994, passed - -)
ENFORCEMENT AND OBEDIENCE
§ 71.025 AUTHORITY OF POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the officers of the Police Department or
officers assigned by the Chief of Police to enforce all street traffic
regulations of this city and all of the state vehicle laws applicable to street
traffic in this city.
   (B)   Officers of the Police Department or officers assigned by the Chief of
Police are authorized to direct all traffic by voice, hand or signal in
conformance with traffic laws; provided that, in the event of a fire or other
emergency or to expedite traffic or to safeguard pedestrians, officers of the
Police Department may direct traffic as conditions may require, notwithstanding
the provisions of the traffic ordinances or laws.
   (C)   Officers of the Fire Department, when at the scene of a fire, may
direct or assist the police in directing traffic there or in the immediate
vicinity.
(Prior Code, § 70.20) (Ord. 1781-1960, passed - -)
§ 71.026 REQUIRED OBEDIENCE.
   It is an infraction for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to
perform any act required in this Traffic Code.
(Prior Code, § 70.21) (Ord. 1781-1960, passed - -; Ord. 55-1987, passed - -
) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 71.027 COASTERS, ROLLER SKATES AND SIMILAR DEVICES RESTRICTED.
   No person upon roller skates or riding in or by means of any coaster, toy
vehicle or similar device, shall go upon any roadway except while crossing a
street on a crosswalk, and when so crossing, the person shall be granted all of
the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to pedestrians.
This section shall not apply on any street while set aside as a play street as
authorized by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 70.23) (Ord. 1781-1960, passed - -; Ord. 53-1987, passed - -
) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 71.028 PUBLIC EMPLOYEES TO OBEY REGULATIONS.
   The provisions of this Traffic Code shall apply to the driver of any vehicle
owned by or used in the service of the United States government, the state, the
county or the city, and it shall be unlawful for any driver to violate any of
the provisions of this Traffic Code, except as otherwise permitted in this code
or by the state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 70.24) (Ord. 1781-1960, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 71.029 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the
law or when responding to but not upon returning from a fire alarm, may
exercise the privileges set forth in this section, but subject to the
conditions herein stated.
   (B)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
      (1)   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this Traffic Code;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
      (3)   Exceed the maximum speed limits so long as he or she does not
endanger life or property; and
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specified directions.
   (C)   The exemptions granted to an authorized emergency vehicle shall apply
only when the driver of any vehicle while in motion sounds an audible signal by
bell, siren or exhaust whistle as may be reasonably necessary, and when the
vehicle is equipped with at least one lighted lamp displaying a red light
visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the
front of the vehicle. An authorized emergency vehicle operated as a police
vehicle need not be equipped with or display a red light visible from in front
of the vehicle.
   (D)   The foregoing provisions shall not relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with regard for the safety of all
persons, nor shall the provisions protect the driver from the consequences of
his or her reckless disregard for the safety of others.
(Prior Code, § 70.25) (Ord. 1781-1960, passed - -)
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
Section
   
72.001   Authority to install
   
72.002   Manual and specifications
   
72.003   When traffic signs required for enforcement purposes
   
72.004   Signal legend
   
72.005   Pedestrian-control signals
   
72.006   Flashing signals
   
72.007   Play streets; authority to establish
   
72.008   School crossings
   
72.009   Crosswalks and safety zones
   
72.010   Traffic lanes
 
   
72.999   Penalty
§ 72.001 AUTHORITY TO INSTALL.
   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall place and maintain traffic-
control signs, signals and devices when and as required under this Traffic Code
to make effective the provisions of this Traffic Code, and may place and
maintain such additional traffic-control devices as it may deem necessary to
regulate traffic under this Traffic Code or under state law or to guide or warn
traffic.
(Prior Code, § 70.35) (Ord. 1781-1960, passed - -)
§ 72.002 MANUAL AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   All traffic-control signs, signals and devices shall conform to the manual
and specifications approved by the State Department of Transportation State
Highway Commission. All signs and signals required hereunder for a particular
purpose, so far as practicable, shall be uniform as to type and location
throughout the city. All traffic-control devices so erected and not
inconsistent with the provisions of state law or this Traffic Code shall be
official traffic-control devices.
(Prior Code, § 70.36) (Ord. 1781-1960, passed - -)
§ 72.003 WHEN TRAFFIC SIGNS REQUIRED FOR ENFORCEMENT PURPOSES.
   No provision of this Traffic Code for which signs are required shall be
enforced against an alleged violator if at the time and place of the alleged
violation an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently legible
to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular section
does not state that signs are required, the section shall be effective even
though no signs are erected or in place.
(Prior Code, § 70.37) (Ord. 1781-1960, passed - -)
§ 72.004 SIGNAL LEGEND.
   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals exhibiting
different colored lights successively one at a time, or with arrows, the
following colors only shall be used, and the lights shall indicate and apply to
drivers of vehicles and pedestrians as stated below. However, where pedestrian
control signals are installed and maintained, pedestrians shall only proceed
pursuant to the pedestrian control signals as set forth in §
72.005.
   (A)   Green alone.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed straight through or
turn right or left unless a sign prohibits the turn. However, vehicular
traffic, including vehicles turning right or left, shall yield the right-of-way
to other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection or an
adjacent crosswalk at the time the signal is exhibited.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway within
any marked or unmarked crosswalk.
   (B)   Steady yellow alone.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal is warned that the red or
“stop” signal will be exhibited immediately thereafter and such vehicular
traffic shall not enter or be crossing the intersection when the red or “stop”
signal is exhibited.
      (2)   No pedestrians facing the signal shall enter the roadway until the
green or “go” is shown alone.
   (C)   Steady red alone.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if none, then before
entering the intersection and shall there remain until green or “go” is shown
alone.
      (2)   No pedestrian facing the signal shall enter the roadway until the
green or “go” is shown alone.
   (D)   Steady red with green arrow.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal may cautiously enter the
intersection only to make the movement indicated by the arrow but shall yield
the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within a crosswalk and to other
traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      (2)   No pedestrian facing the signal shall enter the road until the
green or “go” is shown alone.
   (E)   Applicability. In the event an official traffic-control signal is
erected and maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of
this section shall be applicable except as to those provisions which by their
nature can have no application. Any stop required shall be made at a sign or
marking on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made, but in the
absence of any such sign or marking, the stop shall be made at the signal.
(Prior Code, § 70.38) (Ord. 1781-1960, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 72.005 PEDESTRIAN-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever special pedestrian control signals exhibiting words or
symbols”Walk” or “Wait” or “Don’t Walk” are in place the signals shall indicate
as follows.
   (A)   “Walk” symbol or word. Pedestrians facing this signal may proceed
across the roadway in the direction of the signal and shall be given the right-
of-way by the drivers of all vehicles.
   (B)   “Wait” or “Don’t Walk” symbol or word. No pedestrian shall start to
cross the roadway in the direction of this signal, but any pedestrian who has
partially completed his or her crossing on the walk signal shall proceed to a
sidewalk or safety zone while the wait signal is showing.
(Prior Code, § 70.39) (Ord. 1781-1960, passed - -) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.006 FLASHING SIGNALS.
   (A)   Whenever an illuminated flashing red or yellow signal is used in a
traffic sign or signal it shall require obedience by vehicular traffic as
follows.
      (1)   Flashing red (stop signal). When a red lens is illuminated with
rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at a limit line when marked, or if
none, then before entering the intersection, and the right to proceed shall be
subject to the sections applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
      (2)   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or pass the signal only with caution.
   (B)   This section shall not apply at railroad grade crossings. Conduct of
drivers of vehicles approaching railroad grade crossings shall be governed by
the sections as set forth in Chapter 77.
(Prior Code, § 70.40) (Ord. 1781-1960, passed - -)
§ 72.007 PLAY STREETS; AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH.
   (A)   Authority to establish play streets. The Board shall have authority to
declare any street or part thereof a play street and to place appropriate signs
or devices in the roadway indicating and helping to protect the area.
(Prior Code § 70.41)
   (B)   Play streets. Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating any
street or part thereof as a play street, no person shall drive a vehicle upon
the street or portion thereof except drivers of vehicles having business or
whose residences are within such closed area, and then any driver shall
exercise the greatest care in driving on the street or portion thereof.
(Prior Code, § 70.42)
(Ord. 1781-1960, passed - -) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.008 SCHOOL CROSSINGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any pedestrian or driver of any motor vehicle to
disobey the directions of any adult school crossing guard while the school
crossing guard is controlling traffic at a school crossing.
(Prior Code, § 70.43) (Ord. 75-1978, passed - -) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.009 CROSSWALKS AND SAFETY ZONES.
   The Board is authorized:
   (A)   To designate and maintain appropriate devices, marks or lines on the
surface of the roadway, crosswalks or intersections where in its opinion there
is a particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway and at such other
places as it may deem necessary; and
   (B)   To establish safety zones of such kind and character and at such
places as it may deem necessary for the protection of pedestrians.
(Prior Code, § 70.44) (Ord. 1781-1960, passed - -)
§ 72.010 TRAFFIC LANES.
   (A)   The Board is authorized to mark traffic lanes on the roadway of any
street or highway where a regular alignment of traffic is necessary.
   (B)   Where such traffic lanes have been marked, it shall be unlawful for
the operator of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep the vehicle within the
boundaries of any lane except when lawfully passing another vehicle or
preparatory to making a lawful turning movement.
(Prior Code, § 70.45) (Ord. 1781-1960, passed - -; ????-1995, passed - -1995)
Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999.
   (B)   The fine for violation of §
72.008 is set forth in §
10.999, and the procedure for payment or trial is set forth in §
10.999. Any person guilty of an infraction of §
72.008 shall be liable for a penalty of not less than $50 nor more than $300.
(Prior Code, § 70.43) (Ord. 75-1978, passed - -)
CHAPTER 73: PEDESTRIANS
Section
   
73.001   Definitions
   
73.002   Pedestrians subject to traffic-control devices
   
73.003   Crossing at right angles
   
73.004   Prohibited crossing
   
73.005   Obedience to railroad signals
 
   
73.999   Penalty
§ 73.001 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions set forth in §
70.001 apply throughout
Chapter 72.
(Prior Code, § 72.00) (Ord. 98-1995, passed - -)
§ 73.002 PEDESTRIANS SUBJECT TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic-control signals as declared in §§
72.004 and
72.005, but at all other places pedestrians shall be granted those rights and
be subject to the restrictions stated in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 72.01) (Ord. 1781-1960, passed - -; Ord. 98-1995, passed - -)
§ 73.003 CROSSING AT RIGHT ANGLES.
   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway at any place other than by a route at
right angles to the curb or by the shortest route to the opposite curb except
in a crosswalk.
(Prior Code, § 72.02) (Ord. 1781-1960, passed - -; Ord. 98-1995, passed - -
) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.004 PROHIBITED CROSSING.
   (A)   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic-control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a crosswalk.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway other than in a crosswalk in any
business district.
(Prior Code, § 72.03) (Ord. 1781-1960, passed - -; Ord. 98-1995, passed - -
) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.005 OBEDIENCE TO RAILROAD SIGNALS.
   No pedestrian shall pass through, around, over or under any crossing gate or
barrier at a railroad grade crossing while the gate or barrier is closed or is
being opened or closed.
(Prior Code, § 72.04) (Ord. 1781-1960, passed - -; Ord. 98-1995, passed - -
) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any pedestrian violating this chapter shall be fined $5.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the police officers of the city to issue
tickets for violations of this chapter. The tickets shall include the name of
the pedestrian, his or her address, the section number of this chapter which
was violated or the violation number shown on the reverse side of the ticket,
and the date, time and place of the violation.
   (C)   All fines imposed by this chapter shall be paid to the City Clerk.
   (D)   Any fine not paid within 14 days of the date shown on the ticket shall
be increased by a late fee of $10.
   (E)   Failure to pay a fine within 30 days of the date shown on the ticket
shall result in an enforcement action being filed in County Superior Court No.
3, Small Claims Division.
(Prior Code, § 72.05) (Ord. 98-1995, passed - -)
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
   
74.001   Speed regulations
   
74.002   Turning movements
   
74.003   One-way streets and alleys
   
74.004   Stop and yield intersections
   
74.005   Following authorized emergency vehicles
   
74.006   Funerals, parades and other processions
   
74.007   Vehicle on sidewalks
   
74.008   Limitations on backing
   
74.009   Opening, closing vehicle doors
   
74.010   Load restrictions on certain highways
   
74.011   Open alcohol containers
 
   
74.999   Penalty
§ 74.001 SPEED REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Speed laws applicable.
      (1)   The state traffic laws regulating the speed of vehicles shall be
applicable on all streets within this city, except as this Traffic Code, as
authorized by state law, declares and determines on the basis of engineering
and traffic investigation that certain speed regulations shall be applicable on
specified streets or in certain areas. It shall be a violation for any person
to drive a vehicle in excess of the posted speed limit on any street in the
city. In this event, it shall be unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle at
a speed in excess of any speed so declared in this title when signs are in
place giving notice thereof.
      (2)   It is a violation for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to
perform any act required in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 71.01)
   (B)   Regulation of speed by traffic signals. The Board is authorized to
regulate the timing of traffic signals so as to permit the movement of traffic
in an orderly and safe manner at speeds slightly at variance from the speeds
otherwise applicable within the district or at intersections and shall erect
appropriate signs giving notice thereof.
(Prior Code, § 71.02) (Ord. 1781-1960, passed - -) Penalty, see §
74.999
Cross-reference:
   Speed on particular streets, see
Ch. 78, Schd. I
Statutory reference:
   Alteration of speed limits by local authorities, see I.C. 9-21-5-3
§ 74.002 TURNING MOVEMENTS.
   (A)   Required position and method of turning at an intersection. The driver
of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as follows.
      (1)   Right turns. Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn
shall be made as close as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the
roadway.
      (2)   Left turns on two-way roadways. At any intersection where traffic
is permitted to move in both directions on each roadway entering the
intersection, an approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the
right half of the roadway nearest the centerline and by passing to the right of
the centerline where it enters the intersection and after entering the
intersection to the right of the centerline of the roadway being entered.
Whenever practicable the left turn shall be made in that portion of the
intersection to the left of the center of the intersection.
      (3)   Left turns on other than two-way roadways. At any intersection
where traffic is restricted to one direction on one or more of the roadways,
the driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at any such intersection shall
approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand lane lawfully available to
traffic moving in the direction of travel of the vehicle and after entering the
intersection the left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection as
nearly as practicable, in the left-hand lane lawfully available to traffic
moving in the direction upon the roadway being entered.
(Prior Code, § 71.10)
   (B)   Turning markers.
      (1)   The Board is authorized to place markers, buttons or signs within
or adjacent to intersections indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles
turning at the intersections. and the course to be traveled as so indicated may
conform to or be other than as prescribed by law or ordinance.
      (2)   When authorized markers, buttons or other indications are placed
within an intersection, indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles
turning there, it shall be a violation to no driver of a vehicle shall disobey
the directions of the indications.
(Prior Code, § 71.11)
   (C)   Restricted turn signs. The Board is authorized to determine those
intersections at which drivers of vehicles shall not make a right, left or U-
turn, and shall place proper signs at the intersections. The making of such
turns may be prohibited between certain hours of any day and permitted at other
hours, in which event the hours shall be plainly indicated on the signs or they
may be removed when the turns are permitted.
(Prior Code, § 71.12)
   (D)   Obedience to no-turn signs. Whenever authorized signs are erected
indicating that no right or left or U-turn is permitted, it shall be a
violation and no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of any such
sign.
(Prior Code, § 71.13)
   (E)   Limitations on turning around. The driver of any vehicle shall not
turn the vehicles so as to proceed in the opposite direction on any street in a
business district and shall not upon any other street so turn a vehicle unless
the movement can be made in safety and without interfering with other traffic.
(Prior Code, § 71.14)
(Ord. 1781-1960, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.999
Statutory reference:
   Local authorities may regulate turns, see I.C. 9-21-1-3(a)(10)
§ 74.003 ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   Authority to sign one-way streets and alleys.
      (1)   Whenever this Traffic Code designates any one-way street or alley
the Board shall place and maintain signs giving notice thereof, and no such
regulation shall be effective unless the signs are in place. Signs indicating
the direction of lawful traffic movement shall be placed at every intersection
where movement of traffic in the opposite direction is prohibited.
      (2)   On those streets and in those alleys described in Chapter 78, Schd.
II, vehicular traffic shall move only in the indicated direction when signs
indicating the direction of traffic are erected and maintained at every
intersection where movement in the opposite direction is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 71.20)
   (B)   Authority to restrict direction of movement on streets during certain
periods.
      (1)   The Board is authorized to determine and designate streets, parts
of streets or specific lanes on which vehicular traffic shall proceed in one
direction during one period and the opposite direction during another period of
the day and shall place and maintain appropriate markings, signs, barriers or
other devices to give notice thereof. The Board may erect signs temporarily
designating lanes to be used by traffic moving in a particular direction,
regardless of the centerline of the roadway.
      (2)   It shall be a violation for any person to operate any vehicle in
violation of such markings, signs, barriers or other devices so placed in
accordance with this section.
(Prior Code, § 71.21)
(Ord. 1781-1960, passed - -) Penalty, see §
74.999
Statutory reference:
   Local authorities may designate one-way streets, see I.C. 9-21-1-3(a)(4)
§ 74.004 STOP AND YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Through streets designated. Those streets and parts of streets
described in
Chapter 78, Schd. III are declared to be through streets for the purpose of
this section.
(Prior Code, § 71.25)
   (B)   Signs required at through streets. Whenever this Traffic Code
designates and describes a through street it shall be the duty of the Board to
place and maintain a stop sign, or on the basis of an engineering and traffic
investigation at any intersection a yield sign, on each and every street
intersecting the through street unless traffic at an intersection is controlled
at all times by traffic-control signals. However, at the intersection of two
through streets, or at the intersection of a through street and a heavy traffic
street not so designated, stop signs shall be erected at the approaches of
either of the streets as may be determined by the Board on the basis of an
engineering and traffic study.
(Prior Code, § 71.26)
   (C)   Other intersections where stop or yield required. The Board is
authorized to determine and designate intersections where particular hazard
exists on streets other than through streets and to determine either that
vehicles shall stop at one or more entrances to the intersection, in which
event the Board shall cause to be erected a stop sign at each place where a
stop is required, or that vehicles shall yield the right-of-way to vehicles on
the other street as prescribed in division (F)(1) below. In this event the
Board shall cause to be erected a yield sign at every place where required.
(Prior Code, § 71.27)
   (D)   Stop signs and yield signs.
      (1)   Every stop sign shall bear the word “Stop” in letters not less than
eight inches in height. Every yield sign shall bear the word “Yield” in letters
not less than seven inches in height. Every stop sign and every yield sign
shall at nighttime be rendered luminous by internal illumination, or by a
floodlight projected on the face of the sign, or by efficient reflecting
elements in the face of the sign.
      (2)   Every stop sign and every yield sign shall be erected as near as
practicable to the nearest line of the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection or, if there is no crosswalk, then as near as practicable to the
nearest line of the intersecting roadway.
(Prior Code, § 71.28)
   (E)   Vehicle entering stop intersection.
      (1)   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic-
control signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection
indicated by a stop sign shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near
side of the intersection. In the event there is no crosswalk, the driver shall
stop at a clearly marked stop line, or, in the event there is no stop line, at
the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering the
intersection.
      (2)   After stopping, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to any
vehicle which has entered the intersection from another highway or which is
approaching so closely on the highway as to constitute an immediate hazard, but
the driver having so yielded may proceed and the drivers of all other vehicles
approaching the intersection shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle so
proceeding.
(Prior Code, § 71.29)
   (F)   Vehicle entering yield intersection.
      (1)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall in obedience
to such sign slow down to a speed reasonable for the existing conditions, or
shall stop if necessary, and shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian
legally crossing the roadway on which he or she is driving, and to any vehicle
in the intersection or approaching on another highway so closely as to
constitute an immediate hazard. After yielding, the driver may proceed, and the
drivers of all other vehicles approaching the intersection shall yield to the
vehicle so proceeding. A driver who enters a yield intersection without
stopping and has, or causes a collision with a pedestrian in a crosswalk or a
vehicle in the intersection shall prima facie be considered not to have yielded
as required herein. The foregoing shall not relieve the drivers of other
vehicles approaching the intersection at such distance as not to constitute an
immediate hazard from the duty to drive with due care to avoid a collision.
      (2)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign, if required for
safety to stop, shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of
the intersection. In the event there is no crosswalk, the driver shall stop at
a clearly marked stop line, or, in the event there is no stop line, then at the
point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway.
(Prior Code, § 71.30)
   (G)   Stop when traffic obstructed. No driver shall enter an intersection or
a marked crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on the other side of the
intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle he or she is operating
without obstructing the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians,
notwithstanding any traffic-control signal indication to proceed.
(Prior Code, § 71.31)
(Ord. 1781-1960, passed - -) Penalty, see §
74.999
Statutory reference:
   Local authorities may designate through streets, see I.C. 9-21-1-3(a)(6)
§ 74.005 FOLLOWING AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE.
   (A)   The driver of any motor vehicle other than one on official business
associated with the emergency response, shall not follow any emergency vehicle
closer than 500 feet while the flashers or sirens of the emergency vehicle are
in operation.
   (B)   EMERGENCY VEHICLES, as pertains to this section, are defined as
vehicles of the Police Department, ambulances operated by or for health and
hospital corporations, and ambulances and other vehicles used in emergency
service which are owned by persons, firms or corporations other than hospitals
which are designated as emergency vehicles. and are authorized to operate as
such by the State Public Service Commission.
(Prior Code, § 71.40) (Ord. 3022-1975, passed - -) Penalty, see §
74.999
§ 74.006 FUNERALS, PARADES AND OTHER PROCESSIONS.
   (A)   Driving through funeral or other procession. No driver of a vehicle
shall drive between the vehicles comprising a funeral or other authorized
procession while they are in motion and when the vehicles are conspicuously
designated as required in this Traffic Code. This provision shall not apply at
intersections where traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals or police
officers.
(Prior Code, § 71.41)
   (B)   Drivers in a procession. Each driver in a funeral or other procession
shall drive as near to the right-hand edge of the roadway as practicable and
shall follow the vehicle ahead as close as is practicable and safe.
(Prior Code, § 71.42)
   (C)   Funeral processions to be identified. A funeral composed of a
procession of vehicles shall be identified as such by displaying on the outside
of each vehicle a pennant or other identifying insignia.
(Prior Code, § 71.43)
   (D)   Permits for parades and processions. No procession or parade
containing 25 or more persons or five or more vehicles, except the forces of
the U.S. Defense Department or the forces of the Police and Fire Departments,
shall occupy, march or proceed along any street except in accordance and with
permission of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 71.44)
(Ord. 1781-1960, passed - -) Penalty, see §
74.999
Cross-reference:
   Traffic Division requires funeral procession to be identified, see §
71.009
Statutory reference:
   Local control over processions and assemblages, see I.C. 9-21-1-3(a)(3)
§ 74.007 VEHICLE ON SIDEWALKS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not drive within any sidewalk area except at a
permanent or temporary driveway.
(Prior Code, § 71.45) (Ord. 1781-1960, passed - -) Penalty, see §
74.999
§ 74.008 LIMITATIONS ON BACKING.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the vehicle unless the movement can
be made with reasonable safety and without interfering with other traffic.
(Prior Code, § 71.46) (Ord. 1781-1960, passed - -) Penalty, see §
74.999
§ 74.009 OPENING, CLOSING VEHICLE DOORS.
   No person shall open the door of a motor vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, nor shall any
person leave a door open on the side of a motor vehicle available to moving
traffic for a period of time longer than necessary to load or unload
passengers.
(Prior Code, § 71.47) (Ord. 1781-1960, passed - -) Penalty, see §
74.999
§ 74.010 LOAD RESTRICTIONS ON CERTAIN HIGHWAYS.
   No person shall operate any vehicle with a gross weight in excess of 7,000
pounds on any street, alley or highway in the city, including roadways, streets
or lanes in the parks of the city, but must operate the vehicle only on state
or U.S. routes, designated and marked as such, or a city truck route,
especially designated and marked as such. However, the vehicle may be operated
on city streets over the shortest practical route for the purpose of delivering
or picking up materials or merchandise or entering or leaving a terminal in the
city.
(Prior Code, § 71.48) (Ord. 1781-1960, passed - -) Penalty, see §
74.999
§ 74.011 OPEN ALCOHOL CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. A liquid or solid that is 0.5% or more alcohol by
volume, is fit for human consumption, and is reasonably likely or intended to
be used as a beverage.
      CONTAINER. A receptacle in which an alcoholic beverage is immediately
contained and with which the alcoholic beverage contained in it is in immediate
contact.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle that is self-propelled but shall not include a
chartered passenger vehicle licensed to operate within the State of Indiana or
a recreational vehicle designed to transport more than ten passengers.
(Prior Code, § 77.01)
   (B)   Possession or consumption prohibited. A person who knowingly does the
following while in a motor vehicle that is being operated upon a public highway
within the city limits commits a violation of this section:
      (1)   Consumes an alcoholic beverage; or
      (2)   Possesses a container:
         (a)   That has been opened;
         (b)   That has a broken seal; or
         (c)   From which some of the contents have been removed.
(Prior Code, § 77.02)
   (C)   Operator of a motor vehicle in violation.
      (1)   The operator of a motor vehicle who, while the motor vehicle is in
operation, knowingly keeps or allows to be kept in the motor vehicle in a place
that is accessible to the operator or a passenger a container that is the
following commits a violation of this chapter:
         (a)   That has been opened;
         (b)   That has a broken seal; or
         (c)   From which some of the contents have been removed.
      (2)   Notwithstanding division (B) above, the operator of a recreational
vehicle designed to transport more than ten passengers or chartered passenger
vehicle licensed to operate within the state, who, while the motor vehicle is
in operation, knowingly keeps or allows to be kept in an area of the
recreational vehicle or chartered passenger vehicle that is accessible to the
operator a container that is the following commits a violation of this chapter:
         (a)   That has been opened;
         (b)   That has a broken seal; or
         (c)   From which some of the contents have been removed.
(Prior Code, § 77.03)
   (D)   Signage. Signs giving notice of the prohibitions set forth in this
chapter shall be posted at all locations deemed appropriate by the City
Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 77.05) (Ord. 27-1992, passed - -)
§ 74.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999.
   (B)   All violations of §§
74.001 through
74.010 shall be subject to a fine of $10. The procedure for payment or trial is
set forth in §
10.999.
(Prior Code, § 71.01)
   (C)   An officer of the City Police Department may issue a notice of an
ordinance violation citation to a person who violates this chapter. The fine
for violation of this chapter shall be a $50 fine. The procedure for payment or
trial is set forth in §
10.999. Said fine shall be payable to the City Clerk. Failure to pay said fine
within ten days shall result in the issuance of a court summons.
(Prior Code, § 77.04)
CHAPTER 75: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
75.001   Definitions
   
75.002   Method of parking
   
75.003   Tickets; payments of fines
   
75.004   Hang tag replacement
Stopping, Standing or Parking
   
75.015   Application of provisions
   
75.016   Parking signs required
   
75.017   Parking prohibited at all times
   
75.018   Parking prohibited during certain hours
   
75.019   Stopping, standing or parking prohibited; no signs required
   
75.020   Parking not to obstruct traffic
   
75.021   Parking in alleys
   
75.022   Parking on narrow streets
   
75.023   Parking on one-way streets
   
75.024   Parking near hazardous or congested places
   
75.025   Parking adjacent to schools
   
75.026   Parking in excess of 72 continuous hours
   
75.027   Parking for certain purposes prohibited
   
75.028   Parking prohibited during cleaning, repair or maintenance
   
75.029   No-parking zones in business districts
   
75.030   Limited parking
   
75.031   Parking miscellaneous vehicles
   
75.032   Parking unlicensed vehicles
   
75.033   Parking in residential areas
   
75.034   Disability parking
   
75.035   Fire lanes
Loading and Unloading
   
75.050   Public carrier stops and stands
   
75.051   Buses and taxicabs; restricted use
   
75.052   Park and load permit
 
   
75.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 75.001 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions set forth in §
70.001 apply throughout this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 74.00)
§ 75.002 METHOD OF PARKING.
   (A)   Standing or parking close to curb. Every vehicle standing or parked on
a street where there are curbs shall be faced in the direction of travel on
that side of the street with the curb side wheels of the vehicle parallel to
and within 12 inches of the curb.
(Prior Code, § 74.01)
   (B)   Signs or markings indicating angle parking. The Board shall determine
on what streets angle parking shall be permitted and shall mark or sign such
streets. Angle parking shall not be indicated upon any federal-aid or state
highway within the city, unless the State Department of Transportation has
determined by resolution entered in its minutes that the roadway is of
sufficient width to permit angle parking without interfering with the free
movement of traffic.
(Prior Code, § 74.02)
   (C)   Obedience to angle parking signs or markings. On those streets which
have been signed or marked for angle parking, no vehicle shall be parked or
stood other than at the angle to the curb or edge of the roadway indicated by
the signs or markings.
(Prior Code, § 74.03)
   (D)   Removal of obstructing vehicles.
      (1)   The City Police Department or the City Fire Department may
authorize the removal of any vehicle or other object which may, in the
discretion and judgment of a properly authorized officer, constitute an
immediate hazard by way of its placement. The owner of such vehicle or object
shall be promptly notified of its removal, the method of removal, and the
location of the vehicle or object. The owner of the vehicle or other object
shall be responsible for any towing, removal, storage or other charges and fees
associated with the removal unless such removal is required by an emergency of
which the owner had no knowledge in which case the city shall pay such charges
and fees.
      (2)   The city, its officers, agents and employees shall not incur any
civil liability for damages incurred as a result of such removal. The removal
of any vehicle or object shall not relieve the owner from liability for any
fine due to the placement of said vehicle or object prior to its removal.
      (3)   It is the duty and responsibility of any private property owner to
remove any items, including motor vehicles, parked or left in designated
disability parking spaces or fire lanes. Such property owners are authorized to
tow and remove offending vehicles or other objects from disability parking
spaces or fire lanes and charge the owner of such vehicle or other item any
fees or charges related to the towing or removal. Such towing or removal shall
not relieve the owner of the vehicle or other item from any fine assessable as
a result of being parked unlawfully in a disability parking space or fire lane.
      (4)   It is the responsibility of a private property owner to properly
post any and all signs required by law to be posted on such private property
relating to restricted parking or traffic control.
(Prior Code, § 74.04) (Ord. 116-1997, passed - -; Ord. 34-2017, passed 1-2-
2018) Penalty, see §
75.999
§ 75.003 TICKETS; PAYMENT OF FINES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the police officers of the city to issue
tickets for violations of this chapter. The ticket shall include:
      (1)   The name of the operator of an attended vehicle;
      (2)   The state license number, make and color of the vehicle regardless
of whether it is attended or unattended;
      (3)   The officer’s name and badge number; and
      (4)   The section number of this code which was violated and a brief
description of the violation or the violation number shown on the reverse side
of the ticket.
   (B)   Each police officer shall attach the ticket to the vehicle if it is
unattended. If the vehicle is attended, the officer shall give the ticket to
the operator of the vehicle.
   (C)   All fines imposed by this chapter shall be paid to the City Clerk.
   (D)   All $40 fines in this chapter shall be reduced to $20 if paid within
three days of the date shown on the ticket.
   (E)   Any fine not paid within 14 days of the date shown on the ticket shall
be increased by a late fee of $15.
   (F)   Failure to pay a fine within 30 days of the date shown on the ticket
shall result in an enforcement action being filed in County Superior Court No.
3, Small Claims Division.
(Prior Code, § 74.50) (Ord. 116-1997, passed - -; Ord. 34-2017, passed 1-2-
2018) Penalty, see §
75.999
§ 75.004 HANG TAG REPLACEMENT.
   In the event it is necessary to replace a hang tag, a charge of $5 will be
assessed.
(Prior Code, § 74.51) (Ord. 34-2017, passed 1-2-2018)
STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING
§ 75.015 APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter prohibiting the standing or parking of
a vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or as
indicated on official signs except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or official traffic-control device.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter imposing a time limit on parking shall
not relieve any person from the duty to observe other and more restrictive
provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping, standing or parking of
vehicles in specified places or at specified times.
(Prior Code, § 74.10)
§ 75.016 PARKING SIGNS REQUIRED.
   Whenever any parking time limit is imposed or parking is prohibited on
designated streets, except for §
75.026, it shall be the duty of the Board to cause to be erected appropriate
signs giving notice thereof. No regulations shall be effective unless the signs
are erected and in place at time of any alleged violation.
(Prior Code, § 74.11)
§ 75.017 PARKING PROHIBITED AT ALL TIMES.
   When signs are erected giving notice, no vehicle shall be parked at any time
on any street, or portions thereof described in Chapter 78, Schd. IV.
(Prior Code, § 74.12) (Ord. 116-1997, passed - -; Ord. 34-2017, passed 1-2-
2018) Penalty, see §
75.999
§ 75.018 PARKING PROHIBITED DURING CERTAIN HOURS.
   When signs are erected giving notice, no vehicle shall be stopped, stood or
parked between the hours specified in Chapter 78, Schd. V of any day, except as
otherwise provided herein within the district or on any of the streets or parts
thereof described in Chapter 78, Schd. V.
(Prior Code, § 74.13) (Ord. 116-1997, passed - -; Ord. 34-2017, passed 1-2-
2018) Penalty, see §
75.999
§ 75.019 STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING PROHIBITED; NO SIGNS REQUIRED.
   No vehicle shall be stood or parked, except when necessary to avoid conflict
with other traffic or in compliance with law or the directions of a police
officer or traffic-control device, in any of the following places:
   (A)   On the sidewalk;
   (B)   In front of a public or private driveway;
   (C)   Within an intersection;
   (D)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
   (E)   On a crosswalk or within 20 feet thereof;
   (F)   Within 20 feet of an intersection;
   (G)   Within 30 feet on the approach to any flashing beacon light, sign or
traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
   (H)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless the
Board indicates a different length by signs or markings;
   (I)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
   (J)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and on the
side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75 feet of
the entrance; or
   (K)   On the curb or in the area between the curb and sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 74.14)
(Ord. 116-1997, passed - -; Ord. 97-1998, passed - -; Ord. 34-2017, passed 1-2-
2018) Penalty, see §
75.999
§ 75.020 PARKING NOT TO OBSTRUCT TRAFFIC.
   No vehicle shall be stood or parked on a street in such a manner or under
such conditions as to leave available less than 15 feet of the width of the
street for free movement of vehicular traffic.
(Prior Code, § 74.15) (Ord. 116-1997, passed - -; Ord. 34-2017, passed 1-2-
2018) Penalty, see §
75.999
§ 75.021 PARKING IN ALLEYS.
   No vehicle shall be parked within the traveled portion of a public alley
within the city and left unattended.
(Prior Code, § 74.16) (Ord. 34-2017, passed 1-2-2018) Penalty, see §
75.999
§ 75.022 PARKING ON NARROW STREETS.
   (A)   The Board is authorized to erect signs indicating no parking on any
street when the width of the roadway does not exceed 20 feet, or on one side of
a street as indicated by the signs when the width of the roadway does not
exceed 30 feet.
   (B)   When official signs prohibiting parking are erected on narrow streets
as authorized herein, no vehicle shall be parked on the street in violation of
the sign.
(Prior Code, § 74.17) (Ord. 116-1997, passed - -; Ord. 34-2017, passed 1-2-
2018) Penalty, see §
75.999
§ 75.023 PARKING ON ONE-WAY STREETS.
   The Board is authorized to erect signs on the left-hand side of any one-way
street to prohibit the standing or parking of vehicles. When the signs are in
place, no vehicle shall be stood or parked on the left-hand side in violation
of the sign.
(Prior Code, § 74.18) (Ord. 116-1997, passed - -; Ord. 34-2017, passed 1-2-
2018) Penalty, see §
75.999
§ 75.024 PARKING NEAR HAZARDOUS OR CONGESTED PLACES.
   (A)   The Board is authorized to determine and designate by proper signs or
appropriate markings hazardous or congested places not exceeding 300 feet in
length in which the stopping, standing or parking of vehicles would create an
especially hazardous condition or would cause unusual delay to traffic.
   (B)   When signs are erected at hazardous or congested places as authorized
herein, no vehicle shall be stopped, stood or parked in the designated place.
(Prior Code, § 74.19) (Ord. 116-1997, passed - -; Ord. 34-2017, passed 1-2-
2018) Penalty, see §
75.999
§ 75.025 PARKING ADJACENT TO SCHOOLS.
   (A)   The Board is authorized to erect signs indicating no parking on either
or both sides of any street adjacent to any school property when the parking
would, in its opinion, interfere with traffic or create a hazardous situation.
   (B)   When signs are erected indicating no parking on either side of a
street adjacent to any school as authorized herein, no vehicle shall be parked
in the designated place.
(Prior Code, § 74.20) (Ord. 116-1997, passed - -) Penalty, see §
75.999
§ 75.026 PARKING IN EXCESS OF 72 CONTINUOUS HOURS.
   (A)   No vehicle, with or without motive power, including, but not limited
to, mobile campers, boats, motorcycles, mopeds, trailers, wagons or any vehicle
designed for the conveyance of persons, property or animals, shall be parked on
a city street or city right- of-way for more than 72 continuous hours.
Enforcement officers may use any legal means necessary to identify vehicles
that have been parked on a city street or city right of way for more than 72
continuous hours in violation of this section.
   (B)   One notice tag shall be deemed sufficient for persistent violators who
engage in activities intended to frustrate or obstruct the officer’s
identification method. An enforcement officer who finds or is notified of a
vehicle or vehicle parts believed to be abandoned shall attach in a prominent
place a notice tag. This tag shall include the date and time of the tagging,
the address and phone number of the City Police Department, and the tagging
officer’s badge number, along with a statement that the vehicle or vehicle
parts are considered abandoned.
   (C)   This notice must also provide that the vehicle or vehicle parts must
be removed within 72 hours.
   (D)   One notice tag placed by the city code enforcement and/or law
enforcement officer on any given vehicle pursuant to this section shall be
deemed sufficient and the city code enforcement and/or law enforcement officer
shall have no further obligation to place additional tags on the same vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 74.21) (Ord. 50-1998, passed - -; Ord. 34-2017, passed 1-2-2018;
Ord. 12-2018, passed 5-21-2018) Penalty, see §
75.999
§ 75.027 PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES PROHIBITED.
   No vehicle shall be parked on any city street for the purpose of lubricating
or repairing the vehicle except repairs necessitated by an emergency.
(Prior Code, § 74.22) (Ord. 80-2002, passed - -; Ord. 34-2017, passed 1-2-2018)
Penalty, see §
75.999
§ 75.028 PARKING PROHIBITED DURING CLEANING, REPAIR OR MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The Board is authorized to delineate a specific area in the city to be
cleaned, repaired or otherwise maintained during a specific period of time.
   (B)   No resident vehicle owner or any other vehicle owner who should have
been reasonably put on notice shall park his or her vehicle or shall allow his
or her vehicle to be parked within an area to be cleaned, repaired or otherwise
maintained pursuant to order of the Board during a time designated by the
Board.
   (C)   Delineation of an area to be cleaned, repaired or otherwise maintained
pursuant to this section and the designation of the time of cleaning, repairing
or other maintenance shall be by an order of the Board in a regular public
meeting.
   (D)   Notice shall be deemed sufficient to resident vehicle owners if a
statement of the order of the Board specifying time and area is published one
time at least 24 hours in advance of the cleaning, repairing or otherwise
maintenance of the streets.
   (E)   Notice to any vehicle owner not a resident shall be deemed sufficient
if the presence of signs in the area designated should have reasonably put the
vehicle owner on notice or for any other reason the vehicle owner should in
fact have been put on notice of the cleaning, repairing or other maintenance
ordered.
   (F)   A resident vehicle owner shall be defined as any owner of a vehicle
whose certificate of registration with the Bureau of Motor Vehicles of the
state shows an address within the corporate limits of the city. The certificate
of registration shall be the certificate of registration for the current year.
   (G)   It shall not be a defense that a resident vehicle owner was outside
the corporate limits of the city on the date of the publication of notice, nor
shall it be a defense that the resident or non-resident vehicle owner did not
permit or in fact know that his or her car was being parked in violation of
this section. The term ALLOW shall be so construed so as to place an absolute
duty on any vehicle owner to see that his or her vehicle is not parked in the
designated area.
(Prior Code, § 74.23) (Ord. 116-1997, passed - -; Ord. 34-2017, passed 1-2-
2018) Penalty, see §
75.999
§ 75.029 NO-PARKING ZONES IN BUSINESS DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The Board is authorized to erect signs and place other necessary
markings indicating no or limited stopping, standing or parking in any area of
the city whenever the Board determines that such restrictions are in the best
interest of the city. Such restrictions may be for a continuous period or may
be for a certain time period. Such restrictions must be clearly identified by
the signs and/or markings.
   (B)   When signs or other markings are erected or placed in each block
giving notice thereof, no vehicle shall be stopped or parked in a manner
inconsistent with the signs or markings.
   (C)   The Common Council shall, by ordinance, have the right to supersede
the Board’s determination as to restricted parking in a given area of the city;
however, if no ordinance specifically applies to a given area of the city, the
Board’s determination as to restricted parking shall have the full force and
effect of law.
(Prior Code, § 74.24) (Ord. 58-2002, passed - -; Ord. 34-2017, passed 1-2-2018)
Penalty, see §
75.999
§ 75.030 LIMITED PARKING.
   (A)   There are established and fixed certain zones on the streets of the
city to be known as limited parking time zones. The zones on the streets and
the parking time limit shall be as described in
Chapter 78, Schd. VI.
   (B)   Within the limited time parking zones, the Board shall have lines or
markings painted or placed on the curb or on the street adjacent to the parking
spaces for the purpose of designating the parking spaces and each vehicle shall
park within the lines or markings so established. No vehicle shall be parked
across the line or marking or in such position that it shall not be entirely
within the area so designated by the line or marking.
   (C)   The Board shall cause to be erected in the limited parking time zones,
appropriate signs giving notice of the parking time limits. When the signs are
erected, no vehicle shall be parked in any limited time zone beyond the period
of legal parking time specified for the limited parking time zone and
designated on any sign erected in accordance with the provisions of this
section. It shall not be a violation of this section to park any vehicle or to
permit any vehicle to remain parked in any limited parking time zone for a
longer period than specified in this section on Sundays and holidays and
between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and 8:30 a.m. Monday through Saturday.
(Prior Code, § 74.25) (Ord. 116-1997, passed - -; Ord. 68-2015, passed 11-16-
2015; Ord. 34-2017, passed 1-2-2018) Penalty, see §
75.999
§ 75.031 PARKING MISCELLANEOUS VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BOATS. Any vehicle designed for transportation on the surface of water
and not being in excess of 88 inches in width.
      BOAT TRAILERS. Any vehicle designed to carry the weight of a boat and to
transport the boat, such trailers not to exceed 48 inches in height and 88
inches in width.
      MOBILE CAMPERS. Any motor vehicle which is designed in itself for
habitation or for shelter, is not designed for the towing of another vehicle,
and is of a minimum width of 72 inches and a maximum width of 88 inches.
      MOBILE HOMES. House trailers or any other vehicles without motive power,
designed for habitation or for shelter.
      UTILITY TRAILERS. Any trailer or any vehicle without motive power that
has an axle and a frame that can be used to transport or haul any type of
material or equipment, including, but not limited to, utility trailers hauling
or transporting lawn mowers, quad runners, all terrain vehicles (ATV), jet skis
and the like.
   (B)   Wide vehicles. No vehicle with an overall width in excess of 88
inches, except mobile homes, shall be parked at any time on any street, alley,
roadway or highway in the city, except for the immediate loading or unloading
of the vehicle. All such vehicles shall not be left unattended.
   (C)   Mobile homes. No mobile home of any size shall be parked on any
street, alley, roadway or highway in the city, except for emergency or
temporary stopping or parking. Emergency stopping or parking shall not exceed
two hours in one calendar week.
   (D)   Mobile campers, boats and boat trailers. No mobile campers, boats or
boat trailers shall be parked in any alley, street, roadway or highway in the
city at any time in such a manner or under such conditions as to constitute a
definite hazard or obstruction to the normal movement of traffic.
(Prior Code, § 74.26) (Ord. 116-1997, passed - -; Ord. 50-1998, passed - -;
Ord. 74-2006, passed - -) Penalty, see §
75.999
§ 75.032 PARKING UNLICENSED VEHICLES.
   (A)   No unlicensed vehicle or vehicle with an expired license plate shall
be parked on any street in the city.
   (B)   No unlicensed vehicle or vehicle with an expired license plate shall
be parked on any private property in such a way as to be visible from public
property. An enforcement officer shall, in a prominent place, tag vehicles in
violation of this section. This tag shall include the date and time of the
tagging, the address and phone number of the City Police Department, and the
tagging officer’s badge number. The tag shall further state that the vehicle
must be removed to a location not in public view within 23 days. One notice tag
shall be deemed sufficient for persistent violators who engage in activities
intended to frustrate or obstruct the city code enforcement and/or law
enforcement officer’s identification method. Any vehicle not removed within
this time period shall be towed, with the owner thereof responsible for the
cost of towing and impounding the vehicle. One notice tag placed by the city
code enforcement and/or law enforcement officer on any given vehicle pursuant
to this section shall be deemed sufficient and the city code enforcement and/or
law enforcement officer shall have no further obligation to place additional
tags on the same vehicle. Legally existing car lots shall be exempt from this
division (B).
(Prior Code, § 74.27) (Ord. 116-1997, passed - -; Ord. 80-2002, passed - -;
Ord. 34-2017, passed 1-2-2018; Ord. 12-2018, passed 5-21-2018) Penalty, see §
75.999
§ 75.033 PARKING IN RESIDENTIAL AREAS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning,
      CURBSIDE PARKING SPACE. Twenty linear feet of curb, exclusive of those
portions of the curb where parking, apart from the provisions of this section,
is not presently permitted.
      RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT. A contiguous or nearly contiguous area containing
public highways or parts thereof primarily abutted by residential property or
residential and nonbusiness property (such as schools, parks, churches,
hospitals and nursing homes).
      RESIDENTIAL PARKING PERMIT AREA. A residential district where curbside
parking on public highways is limited to not more than two consecutive hours
between 8.30 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. on weekdays except Saturdays, Sundays and
holidays, unless the vehicle properly displays a parking permit authorized by
division (E) below.
   (B)   Creation or termination of a residential parking permit area.
      (1)   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall, upon its own initiative
or upon a petition, signed by a majority of the households in the existing or
proposed district, conduct a public hearing to create or terminate the
existence of a residential parking permit area. Such public hearing shall be
held only after notice thereof has been published two times, seven days apart,
at least seven days but not more than ten days before the hearing in a daily
newspaper of general circulation in the city, and the mailing of notice by
first class mail to each household in the district listed in the most current
city directory. Such notice shall state the purpose, time and location of the
public hearing, the exact location and boundaries of the proposed or existing
residential parking permit area and the permit fee to be charged.
      (2)   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall, within 15 days, of the
public hearing, recommend in writing, to Common Council whether to create or
terminate a residential parking permit area. The written report should take
into account the following:
         (a)   The effect on the safety of the residents of the residential
parking permit area from intensive vehicle parking by non-residents;
         (b)   The difficulty or inability of residents of the residential
parking permit area to obtain adequate curbside parking adjacent to or near
their residences because of widespread use of available curbside parking spaces
by non-resident motorists;
         (c)   The likelihood that the residential parking permit area will
alleviate the non-availability of residential parking spaces;
         (d)   The willingness of the residents in the residential parking
permit area to purchase the permits required by division (E) below; and
         (e)   The need for some parking spaces to be available in the
residential parking permit area for the general public.
      (3)   Within 45 days following receipt of the report, Common Council
shall adopt or reject an ordinance creating the proposed residential parking
permit area or terminating the existing residential parking permit area.
   (C)   Posting of residential parking permit signs.
      (1)   Following Common Council’s affirmative vote to create a residential
parking permit area, signs shall be erected in the designated area.
      (2)   The signs shall readily inform that curbside parking on public
highways in the designated area is limited to not more than two consecutive
hours between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. on weekdays, excepting
Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, unless the vehicle properly displays a permit
required by divisions (E) and (F) below.
   (D)   Notice to residents of designation of residential parking permit area.
Following Common Council’s affirmative vote to designate a residential parking
permit area, the City Clerk’s office shall mail to every residence within the
designated residential parking permit area the following documents.
      (1)   A notice of designation which shall inform the residents in the
designated area of:
         (a)   The existence, exact location and numerical designation of the
residential parking permit area;
         (b)   The parking restrictions applicable to all vehicles in curbside
parking spaces along public highways in the designated area which do not
properly display a parking permit authorized by this section; and
         (c)   The procedures to obtain a residential parking permit.
      (2)   An application for residential parking permit on which the
applicant is to provide the following information for each vehicle to receive a
residential parking permit:
         (a)   The name and residential address of the owner of the vehicle;
         (b)   The name residential address and driver’s license number of the
principle operator of the vehicle;
         (c)   The make, model, license plate number and registration number of
the vehicle; and
         (d)   The signature of the applicant for the residential parking
permit.
   (E)   Issuance of residential parking permits.
      (1)   Upon the applicant’s payment of a $10 annual fee and submission of
a residential parking permit application or request for transfer of such a
permit to another motor vehicle, the applicant shall receive a residential
parking permit hang tag for the vehicle described in the application or request
for transfer. Such permit shall hang from the rear view mirror of the vehicle
and shall display the street address of the applicant and the numerical
designation of the residential parking permit area. Upon the purchase of
another vehicle, the permit holder shall have a maximum of 15 days to apply for
a transfer of the permit to such other vehicle from the vehicle described in
his or her original application or last transfer request. Any ordinance
violation citations issued during such 15-day period shall not be enforced.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this code, no residential parking
permit shall be issued to a vehicle whose owner and principal operator do not
reside within the designated residential parking permit area.
      (3)   The applicant for, and holder of, the residential parking permit
shall be the owner or principal operator of the vehicle receiving the parking
permit.
      (4)   A vehicle shall be issued a residential parking permit only if it
displays valid state license plates, unless the vehicle is not required to have
them.
      (5)   All maintenance, service and construction vehicles shall be exempt
from the time limitations established by this section while the drivers of such
vehicles are engaged in working on property within the designated area. Upon
request, a temporary parking permit shall be issued free of charge for any such
vehicles.
      (6)   The parking permit hang tag shall be returned to the City Clerk at
such time the resident no longer lives at the location.
      (7)   Upon request, a parking permit hang tag shall be issued free of
charge to any non-resident landlord who owns property within the designated
area. This permit may be used by the landlord or his or her agents while
engaged in maintenance or construction on property within the designated area.
   (F)   Use of residential parking permits.
      (1)   A parking permit shall not guarantee or reserve a parking space
within a designated residential parking permit area. A parking permit shall not
authorize the standing or parking of any vehicle in such places and during such
times as the stopping, standing or parking of vehicles is prohibited or set
aside for specified types of vehicles, and shall not excuse the observance of
any traffic regulation, other than the two-hour parking limit enforced in the
residential parking permit area.
      (2)   A parking permit shall be valid only in the residential parking
permit area for which it is issued.
      (3)   It shall be a violation of this section for the holder of a parking
permit to fail to surrender it when directed to do so.
      (4)   It shall be a violation of this section for any person to represent
in any fashion that a vehicle is entitled to a parking permit authorized by
this section when it is not so entitled. The display of a parking permit on a
vehicle not entitled to such a parking permit shall constitute such a
representation.
      (5)   It shall be a violation of this section for any person to duplicate
or attempt to duplicate, by any means, a parking permit authorized by this
section. It shall also be a violation of this section for any person to display
on any vehicle such a duplicate parking permit.
   (G)   Exemptions.
      (1)   Whenever metered parking is in effect in any portion of a
residential parking permit area, the parking spaces controlled by meters shall
be excepted from the provisions of this section so long as the control by
meters continues.
      (2)   A petition requesting the exemption of a particular street segment
of a residential parking permit area signed by a majority of the residents of
that street segment, will automatically exempt that particular street segment
from designation as a residential parking permit area.
   (H)   Termination of residential parking permit area. Following Common
Council’s adoption of an ordinance terminating a residential parking permit
area, the City Clerk shall send a notice by first class mail to each residence
in such area that the residential parking permit area has been terminated and
state that the effective date is 30 days after the adoption of said ordinance.
   (I)   Regulations. The Board of Public Works and Safety is authorized to
establish, after due notice and opportunity for interested parties to be heard,
all written regulations necessary to implement and enforce the provisions of
this section.
   (J)   Penalty. If a residential parking permit has expired, is fraudulent,
or if the permit holder no longer fulfills the qualifications for holding such
permit, such permit shall be null and void. Any vehicle not displaying a
current and valid permit, which has been parked in violation of the two-hour
parking restriction, shall be subject to the penalty for overtime parking,
pursuant to §
75.030.
   (K)   Separability. The provisions of this section are separable and if any
provision, clause, sentence, division, word or part thereof is held illegal,
invalid or unconstitutional, or inapplicable to any person or circumstance,
such illegality, invalidity or unconstitutionality, or inapplicability shall
not affect or impair any of the remaining provisions, clause, sentences,
divisions, words or parts of the regulation or their application to other
persons or circumstances. It is hereby declared to be the legislative intent
that this section would have been adopted if such illegal, invalid or
unconstitutional provisions, clause, sentence, division, word or part had not
been included therein, and if such person or circumstance, to which the
ordinance or part thereof is held inapplicable, had been specifically exempted
therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 74.28)
(Ord. 47-1984, passed - -; Ord. 11-1993, passed - -; Ord. 129-1996, passed - -;
Ord. 34-2017, passed 1-2-2018) Penalty, see §
75.999
§ 75.034 DISABILITY PARKING.
   (A)   The Board of Public Works and Safety may reserve parking spaces on
city owned parking lots or city streets for the exclusive use of persons with a
physical disability in accordance with I.C. 5-16-9.
   (B)   The Board of Public Works and Safety may reserve parking spaces on
city streets in residential areas for the exclusive use of a person with a
physical disability in accordance with I.C. 5-16-9.
   (C)   The owners or operators of privately owned parking lots within the
city may reserve parking spaces for the exclusive use of persons with a
physical disability in accordance with I.C. 5-16-9.
   (D)   Use of these designated parking spaces shall be limited to vehicles
displaying a placard, license or registration plate or other means of
identification issued by the Bureau of Motor Vehicles, the State Rehabilitative
Services Agency or any other authorized state, local or federal agency, which
designates the vehicle as one used to transport persons with a physical
disability, or as one registered to a Disabled American Veteran. Use of a
designed parking space on city streets in residential areas shall also be
limited for use by the person who requested a new or renewal designation that
is approved by the Board of Public Works and Safety as set forth in this
section.
   (E)   Persons requesting reserved accessible parking spaces in residential
areas shall meet the following requirements:
      (1)   The person requesting the reserved accessible parking space must
not have accessible off-street parking available at the site of the proposed
accessible parking space.
      (2)   (a)   The person requesting must either:
            1.   Be a person with a physical disability himself or herself;
            2.   Reside with the person with a physical disability and be
responsible for his or her transportation; or
            3.   Not reside with the person with a physical disability, but be
primarily responsible for his or her transportation.
         (b)   Requests meeting the criteria of divisions (A) or (B) above will
generally be in the nature of an accessible parking space, as near as possible
to the residence, and limited to one space per residence.
         (c)   Requests meeting the criteria of division (C) above may require
supporting evidence of frequency of transportation of the person with a
physical disability, and may be granted in the form of a “loading zone” type
limited-time accessible space where traffic flow would justify such. The space
is to be located at the residence of the person with a physical disability.
      (3)   The space cannot conflict with any parking restriction already in
place, or restrict the normal flow of traffic. Where existing parking
restrictions limit only the duration of parking (as in a two-hour limit), a
“loading zone” type limited-time accessible parking space may be issued. Where
no parking is allowed at all, or is not allowed during designated hours due to
restriction of traffic flow, no accessible parking space will be designated.
      (4)   The person requesting the accessible parking space shall notify the
Traffic Division of the City Police Department when the disability plate or
placard expires or when the person requesting or the person with a physical
disability moves, so that the sign designating a accessible parking space can
be removed.
      (5)   Requests for residential accessible parking spaces will be granted
for a term of one year, renewable annually by request in writing to the Board
of Public Works and Safety stating that the facts of the original request
remain true. The renewal request may be made by letter to the office of the
City Clerk during the period from 30 days prior to 30 days after the date one
year from the granting of the request. If no renewal has been received by the
Clerk’s office 30 days after this one year date, the accessible parking sign
may be removed by the Traffic Division without notice to the person requesting.
The Traffic Division shall keep accurate records of requests granted and dates
granted.
      (6)   Persons who are granted a residential accessible parking space
shall pay an initial fee of $40. Persons whose accessible parking spaces are
renewed shall pay a renewal fee of $5.
      (7)   After approval by the Board of Public Works and Safety of the new
or renewal designation, the designation tag issued by the City Clerk’s office
will contain the assigned number that matches the number posted on the sign
designating the reserved space. Upon complaint by a person who is granted a new
or renewal residential accessible parking space, unauthorized persons or owners
of unattended vehicles parking within said reserved residential space shall be
deemed to be in violation of this section and shall be fined as set forth in
division (F) below.
   (F)   Designation of parking space for the exclusive use of persons with a
physical disability shall not exempt the spaces nor the vehicles parked in such
spaces from any other applicable traffic or parking laws, ordinances and
regulations unless so determined by the Board of Public Works and Safety.
(Prior Code, § 74.29)
(Ord. 117-1984, passed - -; Ord. 49-1990, passed - -; Ord. 86-1994, passed - -;
Ord. 61-2014, passed - -; Ord. 34-2017, passed 1-2-2018) Penalty, see §
75.999
§ 75.035 FIRE LANES.
   (A)   No unauthorized vehicle shall be parked in any marked fire lane within
the city, regardless of whether it is located on private or public property.
   (B)   UNAUTHORIZED VEHICLE shall mean any vehicle other than emergency, fire
or police vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 74.30) (Ord. 86-1994, passed - -) Penalty, see §
75.999
LOADING AND UNLOADING
§ 75.050 PUBLIC CARRIER STOPS AND STANDS.
   The Board shall establish bus stops, bus stands and taxicab stands on public
streets in such places and in such numbers as it shall determine to be of the
greatest benefit and convenience to the public, and every such bus stop, bus
stand or taxicab stand shall be designated by appropriate signs or markings.
(Prior Code, § 74.35) (Ord. 1781-1960, passed - -)
§ 75.051 BUSES AND TAXICABS; RESTRICTED USE.
   (A)   Stopping, standing and parking of buses and taxicabs.
      (1)   The operator of a bus shall not stand or park the vehicle on any
street other than at a bus stand designated as provided herein.
      (2)   The operator of a bus shall not stop the vehicle on any street at
any place for the purpose of loading or unloading passengers other than at a
bus stop or bus stand designated as provided herein, except in case of an
emergency.
      (3)   The operator of a bus shall enter a bus stop or bus stand on a
public street in such a manner that the bus when stopped to load or unload
passengers shall be in a position with the right front wheel of the vehicles
not further than 18 inches from the curb and the bus approximately parallel to
the curb so as not to unduly impede the movement of other vehicular traffic.
      (4)   The operator of a taxicab shall not stand or park the vehicle on
any street at any place, other than in a taxicab stand designated as provided
herein. This provision shall not prevent the operator of a taxicab from
temporarily stopping in accordance with other stopping or parking regulations
at any place for the purpose of and while actually engaged in the expeditious
loading or unloading of passengers.
   (B)   Restricted use of bus and taxicab stands. No vehicle other than a bus
in a bus stop or a taxicab in a taxicab stand shall be stopped, stood or parked
in the stop or stand that has been officially designated and appropriately
signed. The driver of a passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the
purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading passengers when
the stop does not interfere with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter or about
to enter the zone.
(Prior Code, § 74.37)
(Ord. 1781-1960, passed - -; Ord. 116-1997, passed - -; Ord. 34-2017, passed 1-
2-2018) Penalty, see §
75.999
§ 75.052 PARK AND LOAD PERMIT.
   (A)   Generally. Where signs are erected designating loading zones, no
vehicle shall park, be stopped, stood or parked, unless for the express purpose
of loading or unloading multiple or heavy items associated with the business
district.
   (B)   Park and load permits. Any commercial vehicle which stops to load or
unload items associated with the business district on a regular basis, shall
have affixed on a rear door or glass window, a park and load permit. Any motor
vehicle displaying the park and load permit will be permitted to park in and
about the city for the purpose of loading and unloading. The vehicles shall not
be parked in any area which will cause a hazard to other motor vehicles or
pedestrians. The vehicles must display operating emergency flashers during the
stop.
   (C)   Classes of park and load permits.
      (1)   Class A. The permit is valid for commercial loading and unloading
throughout the city. In order to obtain a Class A permit, the applicant must
demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Police Department, Traffic Division,
that an unlimited park and load permit is necessary. If the Police Department,
Traffic Division finds to its satisfaction that loading and unloading in a
marked fire lane is necessary, a notation may be made on the permit to allow
loading and unloading in a fire lane. Vehicles may not be parked longer than 15
minutes. Fee is $10 per vehicle per year.
      (2)   Class B. The permit is valid for up to three specific locations for
commercial loading and unloading which are to be designated on the permit.
Vehicles may not park longer than 30 minutes. Fee is $40 per vehicle per two-
year period.
   (D)   Permit issuance. Permits shall be issued through the Police
Department, Traffic Division.
(Prior Code, § 74.40)
(Ord. 116-1997, passed - -; Ord 34-3017, passed - -) Penalty, see §
75.999
§ 75.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999.
   (B)   The operator of a vehicle or owner of an unattended vehicle shall be
liable for violation of §
75.002(A) and fined $25.
(Prior Code, § 74.01)
   (C)   The operator of a vehicle or owner of an unattended vehicle shall be
liable for violation of §
75.002(C) and fined $40.
(Prior Code, § 74.03)
   (D)   The operator of the vehicle or the owner of an unattended vehicle
shall be liable for violation of §
75.017 and fined $40.
(Prior Code, § 74.12)
   (E)   The operator of the vehicle or the owner of an unattended vehicle
shall be liable for violation of §
75.018 and fined $40.
(Prior Code, § 74.13)
   (F)   The operator of a vehicle or the owner of an unattended vehicle shall
be liable for violation of §
75.019 and fined $40.
(Prior Code, § 74.14)
   (G)   The operator of a vehicle or owner of an unattended vehicle shall be
liable for violation of §
75.020 and fined $40.
(Prior Code, § 74.15)
   (H)   The owner of the vehicle (violating § 75.021) shall be fined $40, plus
being responsible for the cost of towing and impounding the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 74.16)
   (I)   The operator of a vehicle or the owner of an unattended vehicle shall
be liable for violation of §
75.022 and fined $40.
(Prior Code, § 74.17)
   (J)   The operator of a vehicle or the owner of an unattended vehicle shall
be liable for violation of §
75.023 and fined $40.
(Prior Code, § 74.18)
   (K)   The operator of a vehicle or the owner of an unattended vehicle shall
be liable for violation of §
75.024 and fined $40.
(Prior Code, § 74.19)
   (L)   The operator of a vehicle or the owner of an unattended vehicle shall
be liable for violation of §
75.025 and fined $20.
(Prior Code, § 74.20)
   (M)   If a vehicle is not removed pursuant to the tag (§
75.026), the owner of the vehicle or vehicle parts shall be fined $50 and shall
be responsible for the cost of towing and impounding the vehicle. For each
subsequent offense, the fine shall be $150.
(Prior Code, § 74.21)
   (N)   The operator of the vehicle or the owner of an unattended vehicle
shall be liable for violation of §
75.027 and fined $40.
(Prior Code, § 74.22)
   (O)   Any vehicle owner violating §
75.028 shall be subject to a fine of $40, plus being responsible for the cost
of towing and impounding the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 74.23)
   (P)   The operator of the vehicle or the owner of an unattended vehicle
shall be liable for violation of §
75.029 and fined $40.
(Prior Code, § 74.24)
   (Q)   The operator of a vehicle or the owner of an unattended vehicle parked
in violation of §
75.030 shall be fined $50 (reduced to $25 if paid within 72 hours). If the same
vehicle is found in violation of §
75.030 three or more times in any 30-day period, the fine shall be $75 for each
additional violation.
(Prior Code, § 74.25)
   (R)   The operator of the vehicle or the owner of an unattended vehicle
shall be liable for violation of §
75.031 and fined $20.
(Prior Code, § 74.26)
   (S)   The operator of the vehicle or the owner of an unattended vehicle
shall be liable for violation of §
75.032(A) and fined $40. For each subsequent offense, the fine shall be $150.
Furthermore, the owner of the vehicle in violation of §
75.032(B) shall be fined $40. For each subsequent offense, the fine shall be
$150.
(Prior Code, § 74.27)
   (T)   The operator of a vehicle or the owner of an unattended vehicle parked
in violation of §
75.034 shall be fined $50.
(Prior Code, § 74.29)
   (U)   The operator of a vehicle or the owner of an unattended vehicle parked
in violation of §
75.035 shall be fined $50.
(Prior Code, § 74.30)
   (V)   The operator of a bus or taxicab who violates §
75.051 shall be fined $40.
(Prior Code, § 74.36)
   (W)   The operator of the vehicle or the owner of an unattended vehicle
shall be liable for violation of §
75.051 and fined $40.
(Prior Code, § 74.37)
   (X)   The operator of a vehicle or the owner of an unattended vehicle
(violating §
75.052) shall be liable for violation of this section and fined $40.
(Prior Code, § 74.40)
(Ord. 1781-1960, passed - -; Ord. 86-1994, passed - -; Ord. 116-1997, passed -
-; Ord. 50-1998, passed - -; Ord. 97-1998, passed - -; Ord. 80-2002, passed -
-; Ord. 74-2006, passed - -; Ord. 61-2014, passed - -; Ord. 68-2015, passed 11-
16-2015; Ord. 34-2017, passed 1-2-2018; Ord. 12-2018, passed 5-21-2018)
CHAPTER 76: SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES
Section
   
76.001   Definitions
   
76.002   Mayor’s declaration
   
76.003   Issuance of weather warnings and emergencies
   
76.004   Parking regulations during weather emergencies
   
76.005   Snow emergency routes designated
   
76.006   Clearing snow from sidewalks, driveways and mailboxes
 
   
76.999   Penalty
§ 76.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COLLECTOR STREETS. The central street or drive into each residential area.
   ROADWAY. The entire width of the road or street open to the use of the
public for purposes of vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder.
   SIDE STREETS. The residential streets or roadways that intersect the
collector streets.
   SNOW EMERGENCY. A particular type of travel emergency caused by winter
weather conditions including ice, freezing rain, sleet, snow, blowing and
drifting snow and/or blizzards.
   SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES. Those streets marked as such in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
   TRAVEL EMERGENCY. A situation, actual or impending, which represents
hazardous conditions for the normal use of roadways which may be caused by or
result from accumulations of ice, freezing rain, sleet, snow, blowing drifting
snow, blizzards, flood water, high water, wind caused damage, roadway damage or
any other hazardous event.
   TRAVEL WARNING. An advisory communication issued to warn vehicle operators
of conditions which present a hazard to the normal operation of motor vehicles
on roadways. A TRAVEL WARNING may be issued for a hazardous event which affects
the normal use of roadways.
(Prior Code, § 75.01)
§ 76.002 MAYOR’S DECLARATION.
   (A)   If the Mayor, or the Mayor’s designee, determines that actual or
expected weather conditions are creating or will create hazardous or dangerous
roadway conditions of sufficient severity to require specialized travel
procedures, the Mayor or the Mayor’s designee shall have the authority to
declare that any of the following conditions exists:
      (1)   Travel Warning; Level I;
      (2)   Travel Emergency; Level II or III; and
      (3)   Snow Emergency; Level II or III.
   (B)   All travel and snow emergencies shall be declared by the Mayor or, the
Mayor’s designee, by issuing an announcement on local radio, television and/or
other news services. Such declaration shall include the action taken by the
Mayor, the time the action became or will become effective, and areas affected.
Such declaration shall be recorded by the Mayor or Mayor’s designee indicating
the time and date when any declaration is announced to the public under this
section.
   (B)   Once declared, the travel or snow emergency shall continue until the
Mayor or the Mayor’s designee declares the prohibition terminated, in whole or
in part, in the same manner as provided for its declaration in division (A)
above.
(Prior Code, § 75.02)
§ 76.003 ISSUANCE OF WEATHER WARNINGS AND EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   Travel Warning; Level I. The following conditions, requirements or
restrictions apply under a Level I Travel Warning.
      (1)   Travel warnings may be issued whenever situations exist which may
present hazardous driving conditions for motor vehicles on city roadways.
Hazardous driving conditions which may affect roadways include high water, ice
or snow, trees or limbs down on roads, utility poles or power lines blocking
roads, damage debris on the roads or other situations.
      (2)   All warnings issued under this chapter shall be publicly announced
by means of television and radio broadcasts located within a normal operating
range covering the county.
      (3)   The termination of a travel warning shall be announced in the same
manner when the condition or conditions which gave rise to the warning no
longer exist.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided by this chapter, when a travel warning
is issued, no unusual restriction on travel or parking of motor vehicles on
city roadways are imposed or implied. Motorists are free to travel at their
discretion, but should exercise caution to ensure the safe operation of their
vehicle.
      (5)   A travel emergency issued pursuant to this chapter shall supersede
any travel warning issued for the same event, roadways or area.
   (B)   Travel Emergency; Level II: Essential Travel Only Permitted. The
following conditions, requirements or restrictions apply under a Level II
Travel Emergency or Snow Emergency:
      (1)   Under a travel emergency, essential travel only, roadways are, or
are expected to be, closed or impassable in major sections of the city and
travel represents a risk of injury to motorists. When the primary hazard
causing the travel emergency is a winter weather event, such as ice, freezing
rain or snow, this particular type of travel emergency will be announced as a
“Snow Emergency—Essential Travel Only”.
      (2)   Only essential travel shall be permitted. Essential travel includes
travel:
         (a)   To and from work;
         (b)   To obtain essential medical care;
         (c)   To obtain essential medications;
         (d)   To obtain essential supplies of food or fuel; and
         (e)   To a place of safe shelter.
      (3)   Employers shall use discretion in implementing an emergency
response plan for their employees.
      (4)   Travel or snow emergencies permitting only essential travel shall
be publicly announced, as shall their termination, in the manner described in §
76.002.
   (C)   Travel Emergency; Level III: Travel Prohibited. The following
conditions, requirements or restrictions apply under a Level III Travel
Emergency or Snow Emergency:
      (1)   Under a travel emergency - travel prohibited, a major portion of
the roadway network is closed or impassable, and conditions make it impossible
to safely operate motor vehicles on the roadway. When the primary hazard
causing the Travel Emergency is a winter weather event, such as ice, freezing
rain or snow, this particular type of Travel Emergency will be announced as a
“Snow Emergency—Travel Prohibited”.
      (2)   Travel is prohibited to all vehicles, except for the following
personnel who are at that time engaged in necessary emergency actions:
         (a)   Emergency personnel includes rostered members of law enforcement
agencies, fire departments, emergency medical services, search and rescue
organizations, rescue squads, military, disaster relief organizations, partner
organizations, emergency management and requested mutual aid personnel; and
         (b)   Critical occupations includes employees of utility companies,
highway departments, wrecker services, fuel suppliers, hospital and healthcare
organizations, news media and railroad employees.
      (3)   Travel or snow emergencies prohibiting travel shall be publicly
announced, as shall their termination, in the manner described in §
76.002.
(Prior Code, § 75.03) Penalty, see §
76.999
§ 76.004 PARKING REGULATIONS DURING WEATHER EMERGENCIES.
   The following conditions, requirements or restrictions apply under a Level
II or Level III Travel Emergency or Snow Emergency:
   (A)   Any vehicle parked, stalled, incapable of moving under its own power
or left unattended in a roadway designated as a snow emergency route shall be
issued a fine, towed and impounded; and
   (B)   The owner of any vehicle in violation of this section shall be
responsible for all fines, towing and storage fees.
(Prior Code, § 75.04)
§ 76.005 SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES DESIGNATED.
   (A)   The following streets or portions of streets within the city are
designated as snow emergency routes:
Roadways Location
Roadways             Location
2nd Street           South A Street to North E Street
4th Street           North E Street to South E Street
5th Street           North E Street to South E Street
6th Street           North E Street to South E Street
7th Street           North E Street to South E Street
10th Street          South A Street to North E Street
Abington Pike        G Street to Test Road
Backmeyer Road       Garwood Road to Henley Road
Bridge Avenue        From beginning to end
College Avenue       U.S. 40 to dead end
Crowe Road           Salisbury to Round Barn Road
Elks Road            U.S. 40 to city limits
Fort Wayne Avenue    From beginning to end
G Street Bridge      Hub Etchinson Avenue to South 5th
G Street             Hub Etchinson Avenue to College Avenue
Gaar Jackson Road    Salisbury to Round Barn Road
Garwood Road         U.S. 40 to Hodgin Road
Gravel Pit Road      U.S. 40 to city limits
Hayes Aboretum Road  U.S. 40 to city limits
Henley Road          East Main Street to Wernle Road
Hidden Valley Drive  U.S. 40 to end
Hodgin Road          Henley to Industrial Parkway
Hub Etchinson Avenue U.S. 40 to G Street
Indiana Avenue       NW 5th to State Hospital
Industrial Parkway   U.S. 40 to Hodgin Road
Industries           Road Round Barn Road to S.R. 27
Liberty Avenue       South 5th to city limits
Main Street          Salisbury Road to South 11th Street
North E Street       South 8th Street to Glen Miller Park
North D Street       Fort Wayne Avenue to North 5th Street
North 5th/South 5th  Richmond Avenue to South Q Street
North J Street       U.S. 27 to North E Street
North 10th Street    U.S. 27 to North E Street
North F Street       North 10th to North 19th Street
North 10th Street    North E Street to South A Street
North 22nd Street    North E Street to South E Street
North 20th Street    North E Street to East Main Street
North 20th Street    Hawkins Road to East Main Street
NW L Street          Bridge Avenue to Salisbury Road
NW 5th/SW 5th Street U.S. 40 to Williamsburg Pike
NW 11th Street       NW L to Rich Road
NW 18th/SW 18th      From U.S. 40 to State Hospital
NW 13th/SW 13th      From U.S. 40 to State Hospital
Oak Park Drive       From beginning to end
Peacock Road         NW 5th Street to Salisbury Road
Progress Drive       NW 5th to NW 11th
Rich Road            Williamsburg Pike to Salisbury Road
Richmond Avenue      North 5th to NW 9th Street
Round Barn Road      U.S. 40 to Gaar Jackson Road
Salisbury Road       Industries Road to U.S. 40
Service Drives       Downtown area
Sheridan Street      Richmond Avenue to end
Sim Hodgin Parkway   U.S. 27 to Hub Etchinson Avenue
South E Street       South 5th Street to Henley Road
South 23rd Street    Main Street to South L Street
South 37th Street    U.S. 40 to Hodgin Road
South L Street       Liberty Avenue to Henley Road
South 13th Street    Main Street to South 14th Street
South Q Street       Liberty Avenue to South 8th Street
South 14th Street    Boston Pike to South 13th Street
Southeast Parkway    Henley Road to South E Street
Sylvan Nook Drive    U.S. 27 to dead end
Test Road            Liberty Avenue to Abington Pike
Toschlog Road        U.S. 40 to city limits
Union Pike           NW 5th to Industries Road
University Blvd      U.S. 27 to end
Waterfall Road       From bridge to Sheridan Street
Wernle Road          South 9th to city limits
West Eaton Pike      East Main Street to city limits
Williamsburg Pike    To State Right of Way
 
   (B)   Snow removal crews will first work to keep the main roadways clear
during a declared snow emergency.
   (C)   After main roadways are cleared first, then snow removal crews will
next work to have snow removed from the collector streets in residential areas
during a declared snow emergency.
(Prior Code, § 75.05) Penalty, see §
76.999
§ 76.006 CLEARING SNOW FROM SIDEWALKS, DRIVEWAYS AND MAILBOXES.
   The following conditions, requirements or restrictions apply under a Level
II or Level III Travel Emergency or Snow Emergency.
   (A)   Driveways and areas around mailboxes may become impassable due to snow
removal operations. When this occurs it is the responsibility of the property
owner to remove the snow from the driveway and the area around a mailbox.
   (B)   It is the duty of the occupant, or owner if there is no occupant, of a
tenement, building, lot or parcel of land in the city, fronting on any improved
sidewalk to clean the sidewalk in front of the tenement, building, lot or
parcel of land, of snow or ice, by 10:00 a.m. of each day, and to keep it clean
of snow or ice.
   (C)   Private property using street for snow removal: persons shall not push
snow from parking lots, driveways or property into the street.
(Prior Code, § 75.06) Penalty, see §
76.999
§ 76.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   The owner or operator of any vehicle violating any provision of this
chapter shall be fined $50.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision other than division (A) above is
subject to a fine ranging from $10 to $100 per violation.
(Prior Code, § 75.99)
   (C)   Any motorists traveling when prohibited shall be in violation of §
76.003 and fined $50.
(Prior Code, § 75.03)
CHAPTER 77: RAILROADS
Section
   
77.001   Speed of trains
   
77.002   Bumpers on side tracks
   
77.003   Obstructing streets
   
77.004   Lights on engines
   
77.005   Riding on cars
   
77.006   Maintenance of crossings
   
77.007   Crossing signals
   
77.008   Flaggers or gates
   
77.009   Operating train on unprotected crossings
§ 77.001 SPEED OF TRAINS.
   (A)   No person or corporation shall permit or cause any locomotive engine,
car or train of cars, to pass along or on any unprotected grade level railroad
crossing of any city street within the city at a greater rate of speed than 40
mph. For purposes of this section, an UNPROTECTED GRADE LEVEL RAILROAD CROSSING
shall be one that crosses a city street at grade level which does not have an
operating automatic train activated warning signal with crossgates or
signalmen.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of any pedestrian or operator of any motor
vehicle, bus, car, truck, bicycle or motor bike to stop prior to crossing a
railroad, to look both ways and then proceed only with caution when the way is
clear.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to walk along any
railroad right-of-way within the city unless permission is granted from the
operating railroad.
   (D)   Each railroad that operates within the city shall permit the City
Engineer or his or her designee to conduct periodic inspections of the railroad
lines and crossings within the city to ensure that the lines meet federal and
state safety standards. The duty is upon the railroad pursuant to I.C. 8-6 to
maintain its railroad lines and crossings.
(Prior Code, § 118.01) (Ord. 1479-1953, passed - -; Ord. 126-1985, passed - -
) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 77.002 BUMPERS ON SIDE TRACKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or corporation to keep or maintain
within the city any railroad switch with the terminus thereof abutting on or
against any street, alley, sidewalk or property of another without a suitable
bumper or some other safe and suitable structure at the terminus, so as to
prevent any car or engine running off onto the street, sidewalk alley or
property.
(Prior Code, § 118.02) (Ord. 218-1910, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 77.003 OBSTRUCTING STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any railroad company, agent, employee or other
person to leave any locomotive engine, car or train of cars on or across any
street or sidewalk within the city longer than reasonably necessary, or for a
longer time than ten minutes, unless from some unavoidable accident it cannot
be removed within that space of time; nor shall any company, agent, employee or
other person use any railroad track, side track or switch within the city,
where it crosses any street, sidewalk or alley, by running locomotives,
engines, cars or train of cars, backward or otherwise so as to unreasonably
obstruct the travel of persons or vehicles on the street, sidewalk or alley.
(Prior Code, § 118.03) (Ord. passed 10-6-1879) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 77.004 LIGHTS ON ENGINES.
   On every locomotive engine, railroad car or train of cars, running in the
nighttime on any railroad track in the city, there shall be kept while so
running a brilliant and conspicuous light on the forward end of the locomotive
engine or train of cars. If any engine, car or train is run backward the light
or a proper guard shall be kept at the rear end thereof.
(Prior Code, § 118.04) (Ord. passed 10-6-1879)
§ 77.005 RIDING ON CARS.
   No unauthorized person shall ride on, or attempt to ride on, or to get on or
off of any railroad engine, tender, train or car, or any part thereof, while
standing on any railroad tracks or in motion within the limits of the city or
be on any part of the railroad yard between Ninth Street and a line crossing
the yard from north to south at the east end of the passenger depot.
(Prior Code, § 118.05) (Ord. passed 10-6-1879) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 77.006 MAINTENANCE OF CROSSINGS.
   It shall be the duty of railroad companies to grade and plank or pave the
street, alley and sidewalk where their tracks cross any street, alley or
sidewalk. The crossings shall be built and maintained as directed by the City
Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 118.06) (Ord. passed 10-6-1879)
§ 77.007 CROSSING SIGNALS.
   All railroad companies whose track or tracks cross South Sixth Street, South
H Street, South J Street, South L Street, South N Street, South O Street, or
Northwest Fifth Street in the city shall at each crossing maintain at all times
in good working order at their own expense a reliable and substantial standard
flasher light signal system of approved type, subject to the rules of the State
Highway Commission, and operated electrically as trains approach the crossing
so as to warn persons approaching or about to cross the tracks at the crossing
of the approach of a locomotive engine, car or train of cars or other impending
danger in connection with the running of trains. In place of the flasher light
signal at North Second Street, there may be maintained a reliable bell signal
such as is in general use by railroads.
(Prior Code, § 118.07) (Ord. 856-1926, passed - -; Ord. 1223-1941, passed - -)
§ 77.008 FLAGGERS OR GATES.
   All railroad companies, whose tracks cross Northwest Fifth Street, North
Sixth Street, North Eighth Street, Fort Wayne Avenue, North Twelfth Street,
North Thirteenth Street, North Fifteenth Street, and Williamsburg Pike in the
city shall at each of the crossings maintain, at their own expense and at all
times while any locomotive engine, car or train of cars are being run or are
liable to run over or across any of the crossings, a flagger, whose duty it
shall be to warn persons approaching or about to cross the tracks at any of the
crossings of the approach of any locomotive engine, car or train of cars, or
other impending danger connected with the running of trains. In place of a
flagger, the railroad companies may maintain proper and sufficient gates at any
crossing which shall be so operated as to warn persons of any approaching
locomotive, engine, car or train of cars.
(Prior Code, § 118.08) (Ord. 1372-1949, passed - -; Ord. 13105-1949, passed - -
) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 77.009 OPERATING TRAIN ON UNPROTECTED CROSSINGS.
   Any engineer, conductor or other person in the employ of any railroad
company shall not run any engine or train of cars across any crossing which is
not protected with a flagger, gates or signals as required by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 118.09) (Ord. 1372-1949, passed - -)
CHAPTER 78: TRAFFIC AND PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limits
      
II.   One-way streets and alleys
      
III.   Through streets
      
IV.   Parking prohibited at all times
      
V.   No parking at certain times
      
VI.   Parking time limits
      
VII.   Downtown parking garage
      
VIII.   Off-street parking facilities
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   Increasing state speed limits in certain zones. It is determined on
the basis of an engineering and traffic investigation that the speed permitted
by state law on the following streets is less than is necessary for safe
operation of vehicles thereon by reason of the designation and signposting of
the streets as through highways and by reason of widely spaced intersections.
It is declared that the maximum speed limit shall be as hereinafter set forth
on those streets or parts of streets herein designated at all times when signs
are erected giving notice thereof.
Street Description Limits Ord. No.
Street                       Description                     Limits Ord. No.
8th Street (one-way          From South A Street to South M  35 mph 3129-1976
southbound)                  Street
8th Street (one-way          From South M Street to South N  30 mph 3129-1976
southbound)                  Street
8th Street (one-way          From North A Street to South A  25 mph 3129-1976
southbound)                  Street
                             From South Q Street to junction
9th Street                   of State Rt. 227 and U.S. 27    40 mph 3129-1976
                             south of city
9th Street (two-way traffic) From North C Street to          35 mph 3129-1976
                             Waterfall Road
9th Street (one-way          From South N Street to 250 feet 35 mph 3129-1976
northbound)                  south of South E Street
9th Street (one-way          From a point 250 feet south of
northbound)                  South E Street to South A       30 mph 3129-1976
                             Street
9th Street (two-way traffic) From South N Street to South Q  30 mph 3129-1976
                             Street
9th Street (one-way          From South A Street to North A  25 mph 3129-1976
northbound)                  Street
                             From a point 450 Road south of
Chester Blvd.                University Blvd. north to the   45 mph 3129-1976
                             city limits
                             From Waterfall Road north to a
Chester Blvd.                point 450 feet south of         40 mph 3129-1976
                             University Blvd.
North A Street               From 8th Street to 9th Street   30 mph 3129-1976
South N Street               From 8th Street to 9th Street   30 mph 3129-1976
                             From a point 1,050 feet north
                             of the intersection of
                             Williamsburg Pike and Sheridan
Williamsburg Pike            Street and continuing north to  40 mph 12-1979
                             the present 40 mph zone, and
                             from 1585 feet south of the
                             northern city limits and
                             continuing south for 3,170 feet
 
   (B)   Decreasing state speed limits in certain zones. It is determined on
the basis of an engineering and traffic investigation that the speed permitted
by state law outside of business and residence districts as applicable on the
following streets is greater than is reasonable or safe under the conditions
found to exist on such streets. It is declared that the maximum speed limit
shall be as herein set forth on those streets or parts of streets herein
designated at the times herein specified when signs are erected giving notice
thereof.
Street Description Limits Ord. No.
Street               Description                              Limits Ord. No.
Bridge Avenue        From North 8th Street to Sheridan Street 20 mph 1781-1960
Capri Lane                                                   20 mph 2383-1969
Crestdale Drive                                              20 mph 2383-1969
Forest Drive                                                 20 mph 1781-1960
Glen Hills Drive                                             20 mph 1781-1960
Idlewild Drive                                               20 mph 2383-1969
Northwest L Street   From Sheridan Street to Northwest 5th    20 mph 1781-1960
                     Street
Northwood Drive                                              20 mph 2383-1969
Peacock Road         From Northwest 5th Street to Northwest   20 mph 1781-1960
                     8th Street
South 5th Street     From South A Street to South D Street    20 mph 1781-1960
South 6th Street     From South B Street to South D Street    20 mph 1781-1960
South 14th Street    From South B Street to South D Street    20 mph 1781-1960
Southeast Parkway    From 23rd Street to Henley Road south    20 mph 1781-1960
Southwest 1st Street From National Road West to Southwest E   20 mph 1781-1960
                     Street
Valley Drive                                                 20 mph 2383-1969
Whitewater Blvd.     From Southwest 1st Street to Southwest G 20 mph 1781-1960
                     Street
Woods Drive                                                  20 mph 1781-1960
 
(Prior Code, Schd. I)
SCHEDULE II. ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   One-way streets. 
      (1)   Generally:
Street Description Direction Ord. No.
Street            Description                                Direction Ord. No.
South 3rd Street  From Main Street to South A Street         South     88-1979
South 3rd Street  From South E Street to South A Street      North     88-1979
South 6th Street  From South E Street to South H Street      South     88-1979
8th Street        From North C Street to South N Street      South     88-1979
9th Street        From South N Street to North C Street      North     88-1979
10th Street       From South C Street to South E Street      South     88-1979
South 10th Street From Park Place to South C Street, east    North     88-1979
                  side of park
South 10th Street From park Place to South C Street, west    South     88-1979
                  side of park
11th Street       From North E Street to South E Street      North     88-1979
North 18th Street From Main Street to Railroad Street        South     88-1979
South 18th Street From Main Street to South A Street         North     88-1979
North 19th Street From Main Street to Railroad Street        North     88-1979
South 20th Street From Main Street to Reeveston Road         South     88-1979
North A Street    From North 3rd Street to North 16th Street West      88-1979
South A Street    From South 3rd Street to South 18th Street East      88-1979
North B Street    From North 6th Street to North 16th Street East      88-1979
 
      (2)   South B Street shall be two-way in the block between South 5th and
South 6th Street.
Street Description Direction Ord. No.
Street            Description                                Direction Ord. No.
North C Street    From North 3rd Street to North 5th Street  East      88-1979
North C Street    From North 7th Street to North 16th Street West      88-1979
South C Street    From South 5th Street to South 16th Street East      88-1979
North D Street    From North 3rd Street to North 4th Street  East      88-1979
Fort Wayne Avenue From North 5th Street to North 6th Street  North     88-1979
Railroad Street   From North 19th Street to North 18th       Two-way   88-1979
                  Street
Sailor Street     From North 11th Street to North 8th Street West      88-1979
 
   (B)   One-way alleys. Traffic on and along alleys within the central
business district of the up to and including 12th Street city shall be as
follows.
      (1)   Traffic on and along north and south alleys north of Main Street
shall be northbound only.
      (2)   Traffic on and along north and south alleys south of Main Street
shall be southbound only, with the following exceptions:
         (a)   The alley between the service drive and South 7th Street and
South 8th Street shall be a two-way alley; and
         (b)   The alley between the service drive south of the Promenade and
South A Street located between South 9th Street and South 10th Street, shall be
a two-way alley.
      (3)   Traffic on and along east and west alleys north of Main Street
shall be westbound only, with the following exceptions:
         (a)   The alley between 7th Street and 8th Street shall be a two-way
alley;
         (b)   The alley between 11th Street and 12th Street shall be a two-way
alley; and
         (c)   The alley between 12th Street and 13th Street shall be a two-way
alley.
      (4)   Traffic on and along east and west alleys south of Main Street
shall be eastbound only, with the following exceptions:
         (a)   The alley between 5th Street and 6th Street shall be a two-way
alley service drive;
         (b)   The alley between 6th Street and 7th Street shall be a two-way
alley service drive; and
         (c)   The alley immediately south of the Parking Garage between South
8th Street and South 7th Street shall be west-bound only.
(Prior Code, Schd. II) (Ord. 1781-1960, passed - -; Ord. 3129-1976, passed - -;
3269-1977, passed - -; Ord. 68-2008, passed - -)
SCHEDULE III. THROUGH STREETS.
   In accordance with the provisions of §§
74.004 and when signs are erected giving notice thereof drivers of vehicles
shall stop at every intersection before entering any of the following streets
or parts of streets:
Street Description Ord. No.
Street                         Description                           Ord. No.
Northwest 1st Street           From Main Street to Railroad Street   1781-1960
South 1st Street               From Main Street to South B Street    1781-1960
Southwest 1st Street           From Main Street to Lin Kay Place     1781-1960
North 2nd Street               From Main Street to C & O Railroad    1781-1960
                               yards
Northwest 2nd Street           From Lincoln Street to Northwest I    1781-1960
                               Street
South 2nd Street               From Main Street to South C Street    1781-1960
Southwest 2nd Street           From Main Street to Abington Pike     1781-1960
North 3rd Street               From Main Street to North D Street    1781-1960
Northwest 3rd Street           From Main Street to Northwest E       1781-1960
                               Street
South 3rd Street               From Main Street to South D Street    1781-1960
South 3rd Street               From South O Street to South Q Street 1781-1960
Southwest 3rd Street           From Main Street to Southwest G       1781-1960
                               Street
North 4th Street               From North A Street to North D Street 1781-1960
Northwest 4th Street           From Kinsey to Northwest E Street     1781-1960
South 4th Street               From Main Street to South E Street    1781-1960
South 4th Street               From South L Street to South Q Street 1781-1960
Southwest 4th Street           From Main Street to Southwest E       1781-1960
                               Street
North 5th Street               From Main Street to North D Street    1781-1960
Northwest 5th Street           From Main Street to Williamsburg Pike 1781-1960
South 5th Street               From Main Street to South Q Street    1781-1960
Southwest 5th Street           From Main Street to Southwest H       1781-1960
                               Street
North 6th Street               From Main Street to Washington Avenue 1781-1960
South 6th Street               From Main Street to South J Street    1781-1960
South 6th Street               From South M Street to South Q Street 1781-1960
North 7th Street               From Main Street to North D Street    1781-1960
Northwest 7th Street           From Main Street to Richmond Avenue   1781-1960
South 7th Street               From Main Street to South L Street    1781-1960
South 7th Street               From South O Street to South Q Street 1781-1960
Southwest 7th Street           From Main Street to National Road     1781-1960
                               West
North 8th Street               From Main Street to North I Street    1781-1960
                               except at North A Street
Northwest 8th Street           From Main Street to Richmond Avenue   1781-1960
South 8th Street               From Main Street to South Q Street    1781-1960
                               except at South A Street
North 9th Street               From Main Street to North G Street,   1781-1960
                               except at North A Street
South 9th Street               From Main Street to Boston Pike       1781-1960
                               except at South A Street
North 10th Street              From Main Street to Chester Boulevard 1781-1960
Northwest 10th Street          From Main Street to Peacock Road      1781-1960
South 10th Street              From Main Street to South O Street    1781-1960
North 11th Street              From Main Street to North J Street    1781-1960
Northwest 11th Street          From Main Street to Peacock Road      1781-1960
South 11th Street              From Main Street to South O Street    1781-1960
Southwest 11th Street          From Main Street to National Road     1781-1960
                               West
North 12th Street              From Main Street to New Paris Pike    1781-1960
South 12th Street              From Main Street to South O Street    1781-1960
North 13th Street              From Main Street to North J Street    1781-1960
Northwest 13th Street          From Main Street to north city limits 1781-1960
South 13th Street              From Main Street to south city limits 1781-1960
Southwest 13th Street          From Main Street to National Road     1781-1960
                               west
North 14th Street              From Main Street to North J Street    1781-1960
South 14th Street              From Main Street to South Q Street    1781-1960
Southwest 14th Street          From Main Street to National Road     1781-1960
                               West
North 15th Street              From Main Street to North J Street    1781-1960
Northwest 15th Street          From Main Street to Cartwright Drive  1781-1960
South 15th Street              From Main Street to South O Street    1781-1960
Southwest 15th Street          From Main Street to dead end          1781-1960
North 16th Street              From Main Street to North J Street    1781-1960
Northwest 16th Street          From Main Street to Peacock Road      1781-1960
South 16th Street              From Main Street to South O Street    1781-1960
Southwest 16th Street          From Main Street to dead end          1781-1960
North 17th Street              From Main Street to New Paris Pike    1781-1960
Northwest 17th Street          From Main Street to Peacock Road      1781-1960
South 17th Street              From Main Street to South J Street    1781-1960
Southwest 17th Street          From Main Street to dead end          1781-1960
North 18th Street              From Main Street to North J Street    1781-1960
Northwest 18th Street          From Main Street to north city limits 1781-1960
South 18th Street              From Main Street to South J Street    1781-1960
Southwest 18th Street          From Main Street to Southwest E       1781-1960
                               Street
South 19th Street              From Main Street to South L Street    1781-1960
Southwest 19th Street          From Western Drive to National Road W 1781-1960
North 20th Street              From Main Street to North J Street    1781-1960
North 20th Street              From Peacock Road to dead end         1781-1960
South 20th Street              From Main Street to South I Street    1781-1960
South 20th Street              From South L Street to South O Street 1781-1960
South 21st Street              From Main Street to South I Street    1781-1960
South 21st Street              From South L Street to South O Street 1781-1960
North 22nd Street              From Main Street to Glen Ct.          1781-1960
South 22nd Street              From Main Street to South G Street    1781-1960
South 22nd Street              From South L Street to South O Street 1781-1960
North 24th Street              From Main Street to Glen Ct.          1781-1960
North 24th Street              From North J Street to New Paris Pike 1781-1960
South 24th Street              From South A Street to South E Street 1781-1960
South 27th Street              From Southeast Parkway to South E     1781-1960
                               Street
South 28th Street              From Reeveston Road to South E Street 1781-1960
North 30th Street              From Main Street to Glen Miller Park  1781-1960
South 30th Street (Henley Road From Main Street to south city limits 1781-1960
South)
South 32nd Street              From Avon Lane to dead end            1781-1960
South 34th Street              From Main Street to dead end          1781-1960
North 36th Street              From Main Street to dead end          1781-1960
North A Street                 From North 2nd Street to North 16th   1781-1960
                               Street
South A Street                 From South 1st Street to South 27th   1781-1960
                               Street
Southwest A Street             From Southwest 5th Street to          1781-1960
                               Southwest 11th Street
Southwest A Street             From Southwest 16th Street to         1781-1960
                               Southwest 18th Street
Northwest B Street             From Northwest 18th Street to         1781-1960
                               Northwest 20th Street
South B Street                 From South 16th Street to South 23rd  1781-1960
                               Street
Southwest B Street             From Southwest 16th Street to         1781-1960
                               Southwest 18th Street
Southwest C Street             From Southwest 4th Street to College  1781-1960
                               Avenue
North D Street                 From North 5th Street to Fort Wayne   1781-1960
                               Avenue
North D Street                 From North 22nd Street to North 24th  1781-1960
                               Street
Northwest E Street             From Northwest 1st Street to          1781-1960
                               Northwest 5th Street
                               From South 4th Street to Henley Road
South E Street                 south except at 8th Street and 9th    1781-1960
                               Street
Southwest E Street             From Southwest 1st Street to College  1781-1960
                               Avenue
North F Street                 From North 8th Street to North 19th   1781-1960
                               Street
Northwest F Street             From Northwest 2nd Street to          1781-1960
                               Northwest 5th Street
North G Street                 From North 8th Street to North 10th   1781-1960
                               Street
North G Street                 From North 10th Street to North 12th  1781-1960
                               Street
Northwest G Street             From Sheridan Street to Ridge Street  1781-1960
Southwest G Street             From Sim Hodgin Pkwy. To College      1781-1960
                               Avenue
North H street                 From North 10th Street to North 12th  1781-1960
                               Street
Southwest H Street             From Southwest 2nd Street to          1781-1960
                               Southwest 5th Street
North I Street                 From North 10th Street to North 12th  1781-1960
                               Street
Northwest I Street             From Ridge Street to Hunt Street      1781-1960
North J Street                 From North 10th Street to Hawkins     1781-1960
                               Road
Northwest J Street             From Bridge Avenue to Northwest 5th   1781-1960
                               Street
Northwest L Street             From Bridge Avenue to west city       1781-1960
                               limits
South M Street                 From South 9th Street to South 13th   1781-1960
                               Street
Northwest N Street             From Harris Street to Ridge Street    1781-1960
South N Street                 From South 5th Street to South 8th    1781-1960
                               Street
South O Street                 From South 5th Street to South 13th   1781-1960
                               Street except at South 9th Street
South Q Street                 From Liberty Pike to the east city    1781-1960
                               limits except at South 9th Street
Abington Pike                  From Southwest 2nd Street to south    1781-1960
                               city limits
Boston Pike                    From South 9th Street to south city   1781-1960
                               limits
Boyer Street                   From Northwest G Street to            1781-1960
                               Williamsburg Pike
Bridge Avenue                  From Washington Avenue to Sheridan    1781-1960
                               Street
Cartwright Drive               From Northwest 15th Street to         1781-1960
                               Northwest 13th Street
Central Drive                  From Sylvan Nook Drive to North Drive 1781-1960
Chester Boulevard              From North 10th Street to north city  1781-1960
                               limits
College Avenue                 From National Road west to dead end   1781-1960
Elks Road                      From Main Street to north city limits 1781-1960
Flatley Road                   From Rich Road to north city limits   1781-1960
Fort Wayne Avenue              From Main Street to North 10th Street 1781-1960
Glen Court                     From North 20th Street to upper Drive 1781-1960
                               of Glen Miller Park
Grace Lane                     From Park Terrace Drive to Northwest  1781-1960
                               13th Street
Harris Street                  From Northwest J Street to Northwest  1781-1960
                               N Street
Hawkins Road                   From North 19th Street to North 24th  1781-1960
                               Street
Henley Road south (South 30th  From Main Street to south city limits 1781-1960
Street)
Hillcrest Avenue               From National Road west to dead end   1781-1960
Holsapple Road                 From Williamsburg Pike to Flatley     1781-1960
                               Road
Hunt Street                    From Northwest I Street to Northwest  1781-1960
                               N Street
Indiana Avenue                 From Northwest 5th Street to west     1781-1960
                               city limits
Kinsey Street                  From Northwest 1st Street to          1781-1960
                               Northwest 5th Street
Liberty Pike                   From South 5th Street to south city   1781-1960
                               limits
East Main Street               From South 1st Street to east city    1781-1960
                               limits
West Main Street               From 1st Street to west city limits   1781-1960
National Road West             From Southwest 1st Street to west     1781-1960
                               city limits
New Paris Pike                 From North 12th Street to North 24th  1781-1960
                               Street
Oakland Street                 From South O Street to South Q Street 1781-1960
Park Terrace Drive             From Peacock Road to Northwest 13th   1781-1960
                               Street
Parry Street                   From South 9th Street to South 13th   1781-1960
                               Street
Peacock Road                   From Northwest 5th Street to          1781-1960
                               Salisbury Road
Pearl Street                   From Northwest 5th Street to          1781-1960
                               Northwest 7th Street
Poplar Street                  From North J Street to Morton lake    1781-1960
Porterfield Avenue             From National Road West to dead end   1781-1960
Reeveston Road                 From South 16th Street to South 27th  1781-1960
                               Street
Richmond Avenue                From Sheridan Street to 900 block     1781-1960
                               (dead end)
Ridge Street                   From Northwest G Street to Northwest  1781-1960
                               N Street
Sheridan Street                From Northwest E Street to            1781-1960
                               Williamsburg Pike
Sylvan Nook Drive              From Chester Boulevard to east city   1781-1960
                               limits
Union Pike                     From Northwest 5th Street to north    1781-1960
                               city limits
Walnut                         From North J Street to dead end       1781-1960
Whitewater Boulevard           From Main Street to Southwest G       1781-1960
                               Street
Sim Hodgin Parkway             From Southwest 1st Street to North    1781-1960
                               10th Street
Williamsburg Pike              From Sheridan Street to north city    1781-1960
                               limits
 
(Prior Code, Schd. III)
SCHEDULE IV. PARKING PROHIBITED AT ALL TIMES.
   In accordance with §
75.017, and when signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall at
any time park a vehicle upon any of the following described streets or parts
thereof.
Street Description Side Ord. No.
Street               Description                                 Side Ord. No.
Northwest 1st Street From West Main Street to Kinsey Street      Both 1781-1960
Northwest 1st Street From Kinsey Street to Richmond Avenue       East 1781-1960
South 1st Street     From Main Street to South B Street          Both 1781-1960
Southwest 1st Street From Main Street to Whitewater Blvd.        Both 1781-1960
Northwest 2nd Street From Richmond Avenue to Northwest F Street  East 1781-1960
South 2nd Street     From South B Street to South C Street       West 1781-1960
North 3rd Street     From North C Street to North D Street       West 1781-1960
Northwest 5th Street From West Main Street to a point 250 feet   Both 1781-1960
                     north of Richmond Avenue
Northwest 5th Street From Randolph Street to Richmond Avenue     Both 1781-1960
Northwest 5th Street From Richmond Avenue to north city limits   Both 1781-1960
South 5th Street     600 block                                   Both 1781-1960
Southwest 5th Street From West Main Street to National Road West Both 1781-1960
North 6th Street     From North D Street to Pennsylvania         Both 1781-1960
                     Railroad tracks
South 6th Street     From South E Street to South H Street       East 1781-1960
                     From a point 150 feet north of the north
South 8th Street     building line of South A Street and thence  East 1781-1960
                     south to South A Street
                     From a point 150 north of the north curb
South 8th Street     line of South N Street and thence south to  East 1781-1960
                     South N Street
                     From a point 250 feet south of the south
9th Street           building line of Main Street (U.S. 40) and  Both 1781-1960
                     thence north to Main Street (U.S. 40)
Manor Drive          From Catalpa Drive to Mendelson Drive       West 7-2009
 
(Prior Code, Schd. IV)
SCHEDULE V. NO PARKING AT CERTAIN TIMES.
   In accordance with §
75.018, and when signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall stop,
stand or park a vehicle between the hours specified herein of any day except as
otherwise provided herein, within the district or upon any of the streets, or
parts of streets as follows.
 
Street               Description and Time                       Side  Ord. No.
                     From Southwest D Street to Southwest E
Southwest 1st Street Street; 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m., except     Both  1781-1960
                     Saturdays, Sundays and holidays
                     From Southwest 1st Street to Southwest 2nd
Southwest E Street   Street; 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m., except     North 1781-1960
                     Saturdays, Sundays and holidays
West Main            From 2nd Street to 5th Street; 3:00 p.m.   North 1781-1960
                     to 6:00 p.m., except Sundays and holidays
                     From National Road West to Southwest G
Sim Hodgin Parkway   Street; 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m., except     Both
                     Saturdays, Sundays and holidays. This
                     would be the parking next to the island
 
(Prior Code, Schd. V)
SCHEDULE VI. PARKING TIME LIMITS.
   In accordance with §
75.030, and when signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall park
a vehicle for a longer period than specified during the times when the limited
parking is in effect on any of the streets or parts of streets as follows.
Street Description Side Time Ord. No.
Street           Description                           Side  Time    Ord. No.
South 3rd Street From East Main Street to the basement East  1 hour  1781-1960
                 entrance of the County Courthouse
South 3rd Street From East Main Street to South A      Both  1 hour  1781-1960
                 Street
South 4th Street From Main Street to South A Street    Both  1 hour  1781-1960
East Main Street From 3rd Street to 4th Street         South 1 hour  1781-1960
6th Street       From North A Street to South A Street Both  2 hours 1781-1960
7th Street       From North A Street to South A Street Both  2 hours 1781-1960
8th Street       From North A Street to South A Street Both  2 hours 1781-1960
9th Street       From North A Street to South A Street Both  2 hours 1781-1960
10th Street      From North A Street to South A Street Both  2 hours 1781-1960
11th Street      From North A Street to Main Street    Both  2 hours 1781-1960
11th Street      From Main Street to South A Street    West  2 hours 1781-1960
North A Street   From North 7th Street to North 9th    North 2 hours 1781-1960
                 Street
North A Street   From North 10th Street to North 12th  North 2 hours 1781-1960
                 Street
Main Street      From 11th Street to 5th Street        Both  2 hours 44-2009
East Main Street From 11th Street to 12th Street       Both  2 hours 1781-1960
 
(Prior Code, Schd. VI)
SCHEDULE VII. DOWNTOWN PARKING GARAGE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to operate in the Downtown Parking
Garage any vehicle not licensed as a private passenger vehicle or private
pleasure vehicle as defined by motor vehicle statutes of the state; provided,
that the Board of Public Works and Safety may by appropriate resolution
designate a portion of the Downtown Parking Garage for use by bicycles or
motorcycles or other vehicles.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to operate in the Downtown Parking
Garage any vehicle which has a height in excess of seven feet or any vehicle
which has attached thereto or situated thereon any object the height of which,
in combination with the height of the vehicle, shall exceed seven feet.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person to operate in the Downtown Parking
Garage any vehicle which shall have a gross weight in excess of 7,000 pounds,
or a gross weight on any wheel of the vehicle in excess of 2,000 pounds.
   (D)   It is unlawful for any person to operate in the Downtown Parking
Garage any vehicle which contains or carries on the vehicle any highly
combustible or explosive material of any kind, except fuel for the vehicle
contained in tanks or storage compartments, which tanks or storage compartments
shall constitute an integral part of the vehicle and are located on the vehicle
solely for the purpose of carrying the fuel.
   (E)   It is unlawful for any person to operate in the Downtown Parking
Garage any vehicle at a speed greater than ten mph.
   (F)   It is unlawful for any person to park any vehicle in the Downtown
Parking Garage in any area except between lines which shall identify parking
spaces for vehicles in the Downtown Parking Garage.
   (G)   The penalty for violation of this section is a $40 fine.
(Prior Code, § 74.45) (Ord. 3091-1976, passed - -; Ord. 116-1997, passed - -;
Ord. 34-2017, passed 1-2-2018) Penalty, see §
10.999
SCHEDULE VIII. OFF-STREET PARKING FACILITIES.
   (A)   The following properties are either owned or leased by the city and
shall be known as off-street parking facilities:
      (1)   North 6th Street Lot (Lot A), located in the 100 block of North 6th
Street on the east side, extending east to the alley, bounded on the north by
North B Street, and bounded on the south by private property;
      (2)   North 7th Street Lot (Lot B), located in the first block of North
7th Street on the west side, extending west to North 6th Street, bounded on the
north by North A Street, and bounded on the south by the service drive;
      (3)   South 6th Street Lot (Lot C), located in the first block of South
6th Street on the east side, extending east to private property, bounded on the
north by the service drive, and bounded on the south by South A Street;
      (4)   Downtown Parking Garage (Lot D), located in the first block of
South 8th Street on the west side, extending west to South 7th Street, bounded
on the north by the alley, and bounded on the south by the service drive;
      (5)   South 9th Street Lot (Lot E), located in the first block of South
9th Street on the west side, across 9th Street from the “Leland” Lot, bounded
on the east by South 9th Street, on the west by the alley, and on the north and
south by private property;
      (6)   South 9th Street Lot (Lot F), located in the first block of South
9th Street on the east side, bounded on the south by the Leland Hotel, the east
by the alley, the west by South 9th Street, and the north by private property;
      (7)   South 9th Street Lot (Lot G), located in the 100 block of South 9th
Street on the east side, extending east to South 10th Street, bounded on the
north by private property and Park Place, and bounded on the south by private
property;
      (8)   North 10th Street Lot (Lot H), located in the first block of North
10th Street on the east side, extending east to the alley, bounded on the north
by the Richmond Power & Light Sub-Station, and bounded on the south by Sailor
Street;
      (9)   Corner Lot at North 10th and East Main Streets (Lot I), located in
the first block of North 10th Street, on the east side, bounded on the north by
Sailor Street, on the south by East Main Street, on the east by private
property, and on the west by North 10th Street;
      (10)   South G Street Lot (Lot K), located in the 700 block of South 6th
Street on the east side, extending south to private property, bounded on the
east and north by the railroad, and bounded on the west by South 6th Street;
      (11)   Municipal Building Lot (Lot L located in the 300 block of East
Main Street on the north side immediately west and south of the Municipal
Building; and
      (12)   South M Street Lot (“Fire Station #4" Lot M), located in the 800
block of South M Street on the north side, extending north to Fire Station No.
4, bounded on the east by the service drive, and bounded on the west by South
8th Street.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-9-11-7, the Board has established the following
charges for off-street parking facilities:
      (1)   North 6th Street Lot (Lot A):
         (a)   Three hours free parking; and
         (b)   Monthly parking pass for “Reserved” section, $15.
      (2)   North 7th Street Lot (Lot B) (Jack Elstro Plaza):
         (a)   Three hours free parking; and
         (b)   Monthly parking pass for “Reserved” section, $15.
      (3)   South 6th Street Lot (Lot C):
         (a)   Three hours free parking; and
         (b)   Monthly parking pass for “Reserved” section, $15.
      (4)   Parking Garage (Lot D):
         (a)   Three hours free parking; and
         (b)   Monthly parking pass for “Reserved section”, $15.
      (5)   South 9th Street Lot (Lot E):
         (a)   Three hours free parking; and
         (b)   Monthly parking pass for “Reserved” section, $15.
      (6)   South 9th Street Lot (Lot F):
         (a)   Monthly parking pass for “Reserved” section, $15; and
         (b)   Three hours free parking.
      (7)   South 9th Street Lot (100 Block - Lot G): public parking available
without time limits.
      (8)   North 10th Street Lot (Lot H):
         (a)   Monthly parking pass, $15; and
         (b)   Parking in these facilities by monthly parking pass only.
      (9)   Corner Lot at North 10th and East Main Streets (Lot I): three hours
free parking.
      (10)   South G Street Lot (Lot K): public parking available without time
limits subject to §
75.026.
      (11)   Municipal Building Lot (Lot L):
         (a)   Reserved parking for city employees as designated by the Board
of Public Works and Safety; and
         (b)   Three-hour parking limit throughout the remainder of the
facility.
      (12)   South M Street Lot (“Fire Station #4” Lot M): public parking
available without time limits subject to §
75.026.
   (C)   The Board shall paint lines for parking spaces in all off-street
parking facilities where possible and maintain signage consistent with division
(B) above.
   (D)   No vehicle shall be parked beyond the posted time limit in any off-
street parking facility or in violation of any terms of this schedule as they
relate to such off-street parking facility. The operator of the vehicle or the
owner of an unattended vehicle shall be liable for a violation of this section
and fined $50 (reduced to $40 if paid within 72 hours), unless it is ultimately
shown to be a violation of division (G) below, in which case the fine shall be
$20.
   (E)   No vehicle shall be parked across a parking space line in any off-
street parking facility. The operator of the vehicle or the owner of an
unattended vehicle shall be liable for violation of this section and fined $40.
   (F)   All provisions of Chapter 75 shall be enforced in off-street parking
facilities the same as if the violation had occurred on a city street. The
penalty for a violation in an off street parking facility shall be the same as
if the violation had occurred on a city street.
   (G)   Any annual or monthly parking pass issued pursuant to this chapter
must be displayed in the front windshield of the vehicle when parking in any
off-street parking facility. Failure to display said parking pass while parked
in a lot or an area reserved for those with such passes shall result in a fine
of $15, which must be paid prior to renewing the reserved parking pass.
   (H)   Yearly reserved parking passes shall be available in any off-street
parking facility at which monthly passes are available. The yearly passes shall
be for the calendar year, shall be available from November through January, and
shall be sold for 11 times the cost of a monthly pass for that parking facility
   (I)   New businesses (defined as any business moving into or starting as a
new business in the uptown area on or after December 1, 2016, which area shall
be bounded by the Whitewater River to the west, 11th Street to the east, North
A Street to the north and South A Street to the south) that agree to purchase
monthly parking passes for all their employees shall receive free parking
passes for the first year. Parking passes will be full price for the second and
following years.
   (J)   All monthly parking passes for the off-street parking facility
described within division (B)(6) above (Lot H), shall designate a specific
parking space applicable for such pass. The failure of the monthly parking pass
holder to park in that designated place shall be treated as a violation of
division (D) above.
   (K)   Residents of the downtown business district (bounded by the Whitewater
River to the west, 141th Street to the east, North A Street to the north and
South A Street to the south) will be assigned parking spaces at no charge in
any of the designated parking facilities.
   (L)   The number and location of reserved spaces within any off-street
parking facility shall be designated by the City Clerk. The City Clerk is also
hereby delegated the authority to impose any reasonable regulation in any off-
street parking facility as may be necessary for the efficient operation
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 74.47) (Ord. 116-1997, passed - -; Ord. 1-1998, passed - -; Ord.
34-1998, passed - -; Ord. 50-1998, passed - -; Ord. 17-1998, passed - -; Ord.
58-2002, passed - -; Ord. 1-2009, passed - -; Ord. 26-2012, passed - -; Ord.
36-2015, passed 7-20-2015; Ord. 47-2016, passed 11-7-2016; Ord. 34-2017, passed
1-2-2018)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMAL CONTROL
      
91.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
      
92.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
93.   PARKS AND RECREATION; LEISURE
      
94.   ALARM SYSTEMS
      
95.   FAIR HOUSING
CHAPTER 90: ANIMAL CONTROL
Section
General Provisions
   
90.001   Definitions
   
90.002   Enforcement
   
90.003   Unconstitutionality clause
   
90.004   Animal Control Fund
Conditions and Regulations
   
90.015   Registration
   
90.016   Owner identification registration, tag and collar
   
90.017   Restraint and quietude
   
90.018   Removal of excrement
   
90.019   Impoundment
   
90.020   Redemption of impounded animals
   
90.021   Rabies control
   
90.022   Reports of bite cases
   
90.023   State laws and regulations
   
90.024   Investigation
   
90.025   Records
   
90.026   Kennels, shelters and pet shops
   
90.027   Dangerous/vicious dogs
   
90.028   Humane care of animals
   
90.029   Breeding regulations
   
90.030   Free-roaming cats
 
   
90.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Health and Sanitation; Nuisance, see
Ch. 92
   Unified Development Code, see
Ch. 165
Statutory reference:
   Animals and Agriculture, see I.C. Title 15
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. A vertebrate animal not including any human being.
   ANIMAL SERVICES OFFICER or ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. The person or persons
employed by the city’s Police Department as its enforcement officer or the
humane society when its agents or employees are duly authorized to carry out
the Animal Services Officer’s or Animal Control Officer’s duties set forth
within this chapter.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any premises designated by action of the city or any
facility operated by a humane society, or its authorized agents, for the
purpose of impounding and caring for all animals held under this chapter or
held under state law.
   AT LARGE. An animal shall be deemed to be “at large” when it is off the
property of its owner and not under restraint, as defined herein.
   CITY. The City of Richmond, State of Indiana.
   COLONY. A group of one or more free-roaming cats.
   COLONY CARETAKER. A person who provides food, water, shelter and necessary
medical care for free-roaming cats in a managed colony. COLONY CARETAKERS shall
not be deemed to be owners, as defined hereby, of the cats within a managed
colony.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Cattle, calves, horses, mules, swine, sheep, goats, dogs,
cats, poultry or other bird, and any other animal deemed by the Health Officer,
after consultation with the state’s Board of Health, as not being a wild
animal.
   FREE-ROAMING CAT. Any homeless, stray, feral or untamed cat.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The Health Officer of Wayne County, State of Indiana, or his
or her duly authorized representative.
   HOARDING. Any action or condition in which a person keeps, harbors or homes
animals at their home or place of residence in a manner that creates health or
safety concerns for any person or animal residing in that same residence or
which may create a nuisance in the form of excessive barking or excessive odors
emanating from the residence.
   HUMANE SOCIETY. An organization that holds the status of an Internal Revenue
Service § 501(c)(3) non-profit organization, is affiliated with the National
Humane Society and has as its principal purpose the humane treatment of
animals.
   KENNEL. Any premises or portions thereof on which more than five dogs, cats
or other domestic animals over four months of age are kept, or on which more
than three such animals are maintained, boarded, bred or cared for, in return
for remuneration or are kept for the purpose of sale. The term KENNEL does not
include any outdoor location that is deemed by Animal Control to be a location
inhabited by a registered managed colony.
   MANAGED COLONY. A colony of free-roaming cats that is registered with the
Animal Control Officer of the city’s Police Department or its designee and is
maintained by a colony caretaker using trap-neuter- return methodology.
   OWNER. A person, partnership or corporation owning, keeping or harboring one
or more animals. An animal shall be deemed to be harbored if it is fed or
sheltered for three consecutive days or more.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co- partnership, firm, company,
corporation or any other legal entity or its legal representative or agent.
   PET SHOP. Any establishment or location used for the purpose of selling
small animals, including aviaries used to raise birds.
   RESTRAINT. Under the control of the owner or other competent person by means
of a leash, or with the owner or other competent person and obedient to the
person’s commands or confined in a pen, yard, cage, house or other secure
enclosure.
   SMALL ANIMALS. Any dogs, cats, fowl, rats, mice, fish, turtles, chickens,
ducks, rabbits, pigeons, reptiles, hamsters, gerbils or any other small animals
or birds.
   TETHERING. To attach an animal to a stationary object such as a fence, pole,
dog house, building, tree or other fixed object as a means of confinement.
   WILD ANIMALS. Any animal that is not a domestic animal.
(Prior Code, § 91.01)
§ 90.002 ENFORCEMENT.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced by the city’s Police
Department, the Animal Control Officer, duly authorized personnel of the humane
society or any other person authorized by the Board of Public Works and Safety.
(Prior Code, § 91.97)
§ 90.003 UNCONSTITUTIONALITY CLAUSE.
   Should any section, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this chapter be
properly declared unconstitutional or invalid for any reason, the remainder of
said chapter shall not be affected thereby.
(Prior Code, § 91.99)
§ 90.004 ANIMAL CONTROL FUND.
   (A)   Establishment of Fund. There is established an Animal Control Fund,
which is established as a non-reverting fund for the animal control program of
the city. Common Council shall review on an annual basis or as necessary any
percentages of amounts to be retained by agents registered with the Clerk’s
office under §
90.015 for yearly tags and registration.
   (B)   Sources. Sources of revenue for the Animal Control Fund shall be:
      (1)   Funds received by the Clerk’s office from the yearly registration
fees of dogs and cats;
      (2)   Forty percent of registration funds received from each premises
registered with the City Clerk under §
90.015 to accept applications for yearly registration fees of dogs and cats;
      (3)   Donations received from outside sources; and
      (4)   Specific appropriations by the city.
   (C)   Purpose. The purposes for which funds may be expended are limited to:
      (1)   Funding of the salary of the Animal Services Officer;
      (2)   Purchase of materials, supplies and services for the use and
benefit of the city animal control program or humane society;
      (3)   Funding of the animal shelter contract or the humane society
contract;
      (4)   Donations to animal shelters or humane societies located within the
city; and
      (5)   The city’s Police Department Emergency Animal Fund.
   (D)   Disbursement procedures. The City Controller’s office shall adopt
accounting and disbursement procedures in accordance with regulations and
guidelines of the state’s Board of Accounts to control and account for the
receipt and disbursement of moneys from this fund.
   (E)   Application of funds. Moneys obtained from the Clerk’s office for
purchase of breeder’s notations, intact notations and any fines that result
from §
90.030 shall be placed into a separate account within the Animal Control Fund
and applied specifically to sterilization procedures performed at a low-cost
spay/neuter clinic, licensed veterinary clinic or a humane society.
(Prior Code, § 91.13) (Ord. 44-2021, passed 10-18-2021)
CONDITIONS AND REGULATIONS
§ 90.015 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall own, keep or harbor a dog or cat within the city
limits unless such dog or cat is registered as herein provided. Applications
for such registration shall be made to any of the following: City Clerk;
veterinarians registered for this purpose with the City Clerk; any premises
designated by action of the city for the purpose of impounding and caring for
animals, held under this chapter or state law; the HELP Shelter; the Animal
Care Alliance; the humane society; any humane society registered for this
purpose with the City Clerk; and pet shops registered for this purpose with the
City Clerk. Such application shall state the name, address and telephone number
of the owner and the name, breed, color, age, sex and reproductive status of
the dog or cat and proof of rabies vaccination by a licensed veterinarian. The
registration fee shall be paid at the time of making application, a numbered
receipt given to the applicant and a numbered tag shall be issued to the owner.
      (2)   If a violation has been issued, tags must be current before
accepting payment.
   (B)   (1)   Any humane society as defined under this chapter which is
registered with the City Clerk to accept applications for registrations are
required to submit to the City Clerk’s office on a monthly basis a report
setting forth the information required under division (A) above along with the
tag and registration numbers assigned to each applicant.
      (2)   The humane society shall keep a percentage of any proceeds
collected as reflected in §
90.004 to assist the humane society with any administrative costs and costs
associated with its sterilization program.
   (C)   The yearly registration fee shall be $15, unless a certificate by a
veterinarian stating the dog or cat is sterilized is furnished to the person
issuing the license tag, in which case the fee shall be $8.
   (D)   (1)   All dog and cat registrations shall be issued for one calendar
year beginning with January 1. All residents who acquire new dogs or cats
during the calendar year shall register said dogs or cats within 30 days of
their acquisition. All new residents moving into the city with dogs or cats
shall register said dogs or cats within 30 days of residency.
      (2)   Registrations obtained on or after July 1 of each calendar year
shall pay one-half of the yearly registration fee; such registrations must then
be renewed each January at the regular yearly fee.
   (E)   In the event that the owner identification registration tag issued for
a dog or cat shall be lost, the owner may obtain a duplicate tag upon the
payment of $2.
   (F)   If there is a change in ownership of a dog or cat during the
registration year, the new owner may have the current registration transferred
to his or her name upon payment of a transfer fee of $2.
   (G)   No person shall use for any dog or cat a registration receipt, or
registration tag, issued for another dog or cat.
   (H)   Any premises designated by action of the city for the purpose of
impounding and caring for animals found at large in violation of this chapter
and properly licensed pet shops are exempt from the registration requirements
of this section.
(Prior Code, § 91.02) (Ord. 44-2021, passed 10-18-2021) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.016 OWNER IDENTIFICATION REGISTRATION, TAG AND COLLAR.
   (A)   Upon complying with the provision of §
90.015, there shall be issued to the owner a numbered registration tag, stamped
with the number and the year for which issued.
   (B)   In addition, an owner shall also affix to the dog’s or cat’s collar an
owner identification containing the name, address and telephone number of the
owner of the dog or cat.
   (C)   Every owner is required to see that the tag is securely fastened to
the dog’s or cat’s collar, which must be worn by the dog or cat at all times.
(Prior Code, § 91.03) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.017 RESTRAINT AND QUIETUDE.
   (A)   Dogs shall be kept under restraint, as defined in this chapter at all
times. At the discretion of the Animal Services Officer or an officer of the
city’s Police Department, an unrestrained cat which is creating a nuisance on
private property may be included under this section, following prior notice to
the owner.
   (B)   The owner shall not allow his or her animals(s), while outside, to
disturb the peace and quiet of any person within the city by barking, howling
or making noise of any kind for prolonged periods of time, either continuously
for ten minutes or intermittently over a period of at least 20 minutes between
the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. or continuously for 20 minutes or
intermittently for 30 minutes between the hours of 7:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m.,
without being intentionally provoked, so as to disturb the quiet of the
neighborhood or any citizen or citizens. An Animal Control Officer or police
officer may take steps immediately to correct the situation and cause the noise
to be abated, either through the issuance of a warning, citation or impounding
of the animal if no owner or agent can be found at the time of the disturbance.
It is understood this division (B) shall apply to a sheltering facility
maintained on a not-for-profit basis for homeless and unrestrained dogs;
provided, a more liberal standard shall be used regarding any violation of this
division (B) recognizing the special needs of such a shelter.
   (C)   An owner of an animal found running at large or found to be
responsible for a human or animal bite shall be required to:
      (1)   Obtain a city registration tag that includes an intact animal
notation for each animal in violation at a cost of $100 in addition to the cost
of any required city tag; or
      (2)   Have the animal spayed or neutered within 30 days of the violation
and obtain a city registration tag showing proof of the sterilization of the
animal in violation.
   (D)   After the third violation of division (A) above where an animal is
found to have been running at large, the owner of the animal shall be required
to release custody of the animal to an Animal Control Officer (unless that
animal has already been captured by the Animal Control Officer) so that the
officer may conduct a temperament evaluation upon the animal. If the Animal
Control Officer determines the animal is dangerous or vicious, the officer
shall then comply with §
90.027 to allow a public hearing to be held on the matter.
(Prior Code, § 91.04) (Ord. 1-2017, passed 3-20-2017) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.018 REMOVAL OF EXCREMENT.
   (A)   An owner of an animal shall be responsible to immediately remove such
animal’s excrement from any public lands or from the real estate of any other
person.
   (B)   In the event any person, guest or agent of an owner is in possession
of the animal in lieu of the owner, the owner shall still be responsible for
the actions of such person and the requirements of this section.
   (C)   To the extent a “family” is deemed to be an owner of an animal, the
duties and requirements of this section shall be the joint and several
responsibility of each adult member of the family, and each such adult may be
held jointly and severally responsible for any penalty herein.
   (D)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to a blind person
working with a guide dog or to a person with a physical disability utilizing a
wheelchair.
(Prior Code, § 91.05) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.019 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Animals found at large and appearing to be abandoned shall be
apprehended by the Animal Services Officer and impounded in an animal shelter
or humane society for a period of not less than five days (provided, such five
days must include at least one full weekend) and, thereafter, such animals may
be adopted out or disposed of in a humane manner, unless that animal has been
placed on hold status by an Animal Control Officer. The Animal Services Officer
shall attempt to contact the owner of any tagged animal by telephone within 48
hours of picking up such animal if the telephone number appears on the tag. The
animal shelter or humane society holding any impounded animal that has not been
placed on hold status by an Animal Control Officer shall attempt to contact the
owner of any tagged animal by telephone a minimum of three times prior to
adopting out or humanely disposing of the animal if the animal displays current
city registration tags or other identification.
   (B)   When an animal is found at large and its ownership is known to the
Animal Services Officer, such an animal does not have to be impounded. The
Animal Services Officer may cite the owner for violation of this code of
ordinances and return the animal to the owner.
(Prior Code, § 91.06)
§ 90.020 REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   (A)   An impounded animal shall be returned to its owner upon written
certification of intent to comply with §§
90.015 and
90.021 and upon payment of all fines and fees assessed or incurred under this
chapter and charges for care and medical treatment incurred by the animal
shelter or humane society in holding such animal, provided that any animal that
has bitten a person may not be returned to its owner unless authorized by the
Health Officer and/or Animal Services Officer. Prior to any non-immunized
animal being returned to its owner, the owner shall pay the cost of
immunization and an administrative fee to the animal shelter or humane society.
The owner will then receive a certificate, which certificate shall entitle the
owner to have the animal immunized at the veterinarian’s office, low-cost
sterilization clinic or humane society indicated on the certificate.
   (B)   Not withstanding any other section of this chapter, any animal shall
be promptly destroyed for public health considerations or humane reasons upon
the written order of the Health Officer or a licensed veterinarian by the
animal shelter or humane society holding such animal.
   (C)   In the event any owner fails or refuses to comply with division (A)
above after 14 days the impounded animal shall be sent to the humane society
for immunization, sterilization and adoption.
(Prior Code, § 91.07)
§ 90.021 RABIES CONTROL.
   (A)   No person shall own, keep, harbor or maintain a dog over six months of
age that has not been immunized, by a licensed veterinarian, against rabies.
Such immunizations and term of quarantine shall be in accordance with state
laws, rules and regulations.
   (B)   (1)   Every dog, or other animal, which bites a person or domesticated
animal shall be promptly reported to the city’s Police Department, and shall
thereupon be placed under quarantine by the Animal Services Officer at a
location to be determined at the discretion of the Animal Services Officer. In
cases of stray animals, in the cases of animals whose ownership is not known,
and in the cases of animals for which proof of immunization is not available,
such quarantine shall be at the Animal Shelter or humane society.
      (2)   If a domesticated animal is bitten by another animal, an Animal
Control Officer may request that the domesticated animal be placed under
quarantine by its owner for ten calendar days at a quarantine location to be
determined by the officer. Animals placed under quarantine shall not be
released from such quarantine until the Health Officer receives a signed
statement from the owner or custodian of the animal certifying that the animal
is alive and well. If the person bitten is a child, it shall be the duty of the
parent or the guardian to make such report immediately. If the person bitten is
an adult, such person shall, himself or herself, make the report or, if
incapacitated, it shall be reported by whoever is caring for the person bitten.
The Animal Services Officer shall promptly report all animal bite cases to the
Health Officer.
   (C)   The owner or custodian of an animal placed under quarantine shall not
permit the animal to leave the premises without the permission of the Health
Officer, shall keep the animal under restraint at all times, shall observe the
animal at least twice daily to see that it is alive and well and shall
immediately notify the Health Officer or Police Department if the animal should
escape, be killed, become ill or die.
   (D)   No person shall kill, or cause to be killed, any domestic animal
suspected of having been exposed to rabies, or any domestic animal biting a
person, or remove same from the city limits without written permission from the
Health Officer or Animal Services Officer.
   (E)   No person shall fail or refuse to surrender any animal for quarantine
or destruction as required herein when demand is made therefor by the Health
Officer or the city’s Police Department.
   (F)   If death should occur to an animal which has bitten a person within
the past ten days, the owner or person responsible for the animal shall retain
the body of the animal and immediately report the death to the Health Officer
or the city’s Police Department. In the case of a biting animal which is not
owned or a biting animal whose owner cannot be located or is unknown, the
person who has knowledge of the death of such an animal shall immediately
report it to the Health Officer or the city’s Police Department. Any wild
animal that bites a human and is able to be captured shall be humanely
euthanized at once.
   (G)   The Animal Shelter is exempt from this section.
   (H)   The state statutes and state regulations governing rabies,
immunization, impoundment and disposal of suspected rabid animals is hereby
incorporated by reference, including any subsequent changes as enacted by the
state legislature and/or the state’s Board of Health and any other appropriate
state or federal agencies. The county’s Health Officer and his or her
designated agents and the city’s Police Department and any other person or
persons as authorized by the city’s Board of Public Works and Safety are hereby
authorized to carry out the provisions of any city regulations, state laws and
federal laws or regulations governing rabies control, the impoundment of
animals and the disposal of suspected rabid animals.
(Prior Code, § 91.08) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.022 REPORTS OF BITE CASES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every physician, or other practitioner, to
promptly report to the Health Officer or Police Department the names and
addresses of persons treated for bites inflicted by animals, together with such
information as will be helpful in rabies control.
   (B)   Every veterinarian, law enforcement officer and any person involved,
shall promptly report to the Health Officer, or Police Department, all humans
and animals bitten by a dog or other animal. The report shall include all
information necessary to locate the person or animal bitten and the animal
responsible for the bite or bites.
(Prior Code, § 91.09)
§ 90.023 STATE LAWS AND REGULATIONS.
   The owner of any dog or other animal shall comply with all state laws, rules
and regulations pertaining to dogs and other animals.
(Prior Code, § 91.10)
§ 90.024 INVESTIGATION.
   No person shall interfere with, or hinder, the Health Officer or any member
of the city’s Police Department or humane society in the performance of their
duty to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 91.11) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.025 RECORDS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of any Animal Shelter or humane society to keep,
or cause to be kept, accurate and detailed records of the impoundment and
disposition of all animals coming into its custody. Such records shall be made
available to the city and/or Health Officer on request.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Health Officer and the city’s Police
Department to keep, or cause to be kept accurate and detailed records of all
animal bite cases reported to it, and its investigation of same.
(Prior Code, § 91.12)
§ 90.026 KENNELS, SHELTERS AND PET SHOPS.
   (A)   Licensing.
      (1)   No person shall operate a kennel or pet shop within the city
limits, without first securing a license therefor. Application for such license
shall be made to the Animal Services Officer or humane society. No license
shall be issued until approval is granted by the Animal Services Officer and
any other government agency having jurisdiction.
      (2)   A kennel or pet shop license shall be issued on an annual basis.
The fee for such license shall be $100 per year, payable into the Animal
Control Fund.
      (3)   If the applicant withholds or falsifies any information on the
application, no license shall be issued and any license previously issued on
false or withheld information shall be revoked. No person previously convicted
of cruelty to animals, animal neglect or animal abandonment shall be issued a
kennel license without prior review by the Board of Public Works and Safety.
      (4)   Any person who is denied a license or whose license is revoked may
seek reconsideration of the denial or revocation by the Board of Public Works
and Safety. All requests for appeals must be filed within ten days of the date
of the denial or revocation of the license. All requests for appeals must be in
writing and addressed to the Board of Public Works and Safety. The Board shall
set the appeal for hearing within 30 days of the receipt of the written
request.
   (B)   General requirements.
      (1)   Each kennel or pet shop shall be kept in a clean and sanitary
condition as so determined by the Animal Services Officer.
      (2)   Measures shall be provided to control insects, rodents and odors.
      (3)   All animal waste shall be disposed of at such times and in such a
manner as directed by the Animal Services Officer. Under no circumstances shall
animal waste remain on the premises for more than 24 hours unless stored by a
method approved by the Animal Services Officer.
      (4)   All garbage and refuse shall be stored in accordance with Ch. 52 of
this code of ordinances.
      (5)   The entire premises used in connection with the operation of a pet
shop or kennel shall be kept free of litter, articles, equipment and the like
that are not necessary for the operation and maintenance of same.
      (6)   (a)   No kennel or pet shop shall harbor a dog, cat or other
susceptible animal over eight weeks of age that has not been properly
vaccinated against contagious diseases. The timing and diseases vaccinated
against must meet generally accepted standards observed by area veterinarians.
         (b)   Dogs, cats and other susceptible animals shall be vaccinated
against rabies if on the premises after six months of age.
         (c)   Certificates of vaccination from a licensed veterinarian shall
be maintained on the premises and shall be made available to the Animal
Services Officer upon request.
      (7)   All cages and pens housing animals shall be well constructed and
cleaned daily with a detergent and chemical sanitizer which are safe for the
animals housed in and near the cage.
      (8)   Any animal that acts unusual or appears to be ill shall be isolated
from other animals and shall not be sold until it has recovered as authorized
by a licensed veterinarian. Medical care shall be provided by a licensed
veterinarian to animals displaying signs of illness or injury.
      (9)   Each kennel or pet shop shall be equipped with a conveniently
located hand washing facility for its employees, including a lavatory equipped
with hot and cold running water, hand- cleaning soap or detergent, and
individual sanitary towels or other hand-drying devices deemed by the Animal
Services Officer to be equally effective.
      (10)   The floor surfaces in all rooms where animals are housed shall be
of smooth, non-absorbent materials and so constructed as to be easily
cleanable.
      (11)   Records of previous ownership of animals shall be maintained on
the premises and shall be made available to the Animal Services Officer or law
enforcement agencies upon request.
      (12)   Drinking water shall be available to each animal at all times.
      (13)   All animals shall be provided with a daily well-balanced diet. The
Animal Services Officer may require that records be kept of the type and amount
of food that is provided each animal daily.
      (14)   Pens, cages and areas where animals are housed shall be maintained
at a temperature that will not be detrimental to the health of the animals.
      (15)   The owner of a pet shop or kennel shall comply with all applicable
local, state and federal laws, ordinances, rules and regulations in effect now
or as amended, or which may be enacted in the future.
      (16)   The Animal Services Officer shall inspect to make certain that all
caged animals have sufficient cage space to stand upright, to fully extend, and
to move about easily within the boundaries of the cage. In addition, the Animal
Services Officer shall inspect to ensure that animals are not overcrowded
within a cage.
      (17)   In order to be eligible to obtain a license, a kennel or pet shop
must be in compliance with the city zoning laws.
      (18)   City shelters and humane societies are required to provide the
name and address of any owner reclaiming an animal from their facility that has
been caught running loose, as well as the description of the animal to Animal
Control. Animal Control is responsible for making certain that the owner is in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
      (19)   City shelters and establishments selling pet animals are required
to provide the name and address of any owner selling or surrendering puppies or
kittens to their facility to Animal Control. Animal Control is responsible for
making certain the owner of the female animal that gave birth to the litter
reported is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
      (20)   Animals without identification that are not reclaimed within 72
hours are subject to sterilization at the holding facility. Owners wishing to
reclaim following sterilization shall be required to pay for the cost of
sterilization in addition to any impound fees incurred.
      (21)   Animals that are owned by persons living outside of the city or
residing in city for less than 30 days are exempt from this chapter. Such
owners are required to provide proof of residency upon the request of animal
control. Failure to provide adequate proof of residency shall result in the
owner’s requirement to submit to the applicable provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Records. It shall be the duty of every pet shop operator to cause to
be kept accurate and detailed records of all animals received and sold.
      (1)   Records shall include the name, address and telephone number of
each person from whom an animal had been received and each person who has
purchased an animal; a description (species, breed, sex, size, color and the
like) and medical history of each animal and any other information that may be
required by the Animal Services Officer.
      (2)   Records shall be maintained on the premises for one year and shall
be made available to the Animal Services Officer upon request.
      (3)   Sales of fish are exempt from the record keeping provision of this
section.
   (D)   Inspection.
      (1)   At least once every 12 months, or as often as deemed necessary to
ensure compliance, with this chapter, the Animal Services Officer shall inspect
each kennel and pet shop for which a license is required under the provisions
of this section.
      (2)   The person operating a kennel or pet shop shall, upon the request
of the Health Officer, permit such Animal Services Officer access to all parts
of the kennel or pet shop and shall permit the Animal Services Officer to
collect evidence and to copy any or all records relative to the enforcement of
this section.
   (E)   Exemptions. Hospitals, common clinics and other premises operated by
licensed veterinarians for the care and treatment of animals and charitable
not- for-profit organizations are exempt from the provisions of this section,
except those provisions in divisions (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(5),
(B)(7), (B)(8), (B)(9), (B)(10), (B)(12), (B)(13), (B)(14) and (B)(15) above.
(Prior Code, § 91.14) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.027 DANGEROUS/VICIOUS DOGS.
   (A)   The definition of a DANGEROUS/VICIOUS DOG shall include the following:
      (1)   Any dog that because of its individual temperament or because of
its breed has a known propensity, tendency or disposition to cause injury or to
otherwise endanger the safety of human beings or domestic animals;
      (2)   Any dog that has inflicted severe injury on a human being without
provocation;
      (3)   Any dog that has killed a domestic animal without provocation;
      (4)   Any dog owned or harbored primarily or in part for the purpose of
dog fighting or any dog trained for dog fighting; or
      (5)   Any dog not owned by a governmental or law enforcement unit used
primarily to guard public or private property.
   (B)   Determination of a dangerous/vicious dog.
      (1)   Upon a sworn complaint signed by a resident of the city, the city’s
Police Department shall investigate the complaint to determine if the animal is
dangerous or vicious. The city’s Police Department may initiate an
investigation on its own if it has information leading it to believe that the
dog may be dangerous or vicious. Any dog inflicting severe injury shall be
impounded until a hearing is held pursuant to this section.
      (2)   (a)   After its investigation, if the city’s Police Department
believes that a dog is dangerous or vicious, the Department shall forward a
recommendation regarding such determination and if any further action pursuant
to division (D) below is required, to the Board of Public Works and Safety.
         (b)   The Board shall thereafter hold a hearing to:
            1.   Determine whether the dog is indeed dangerous or vicious; and
            2.   To determine if any additional action pursuant to division (D)
below is required.
         (c)   If the city’s Police Department believes that a dog is not
dangerous or vicious, the victim of any dog attack occurring in the city may
nevertheless request that the Board of Public Works and Safety hold a hearing
on the matter, which Board shall determine if a hearing should be held. All
hearings held pursuant to this section shall be held within 20 calendar days
after receipt of said recommendation or request. The city’s Police Department
may impound the dog until said hearing if the Department determines that
impoundment of the dog is necessary to protect the public safety. If the dog is
determined to be dangerous or vicious, all costs associated with the
impoundment of the dog shall be the responsibility of the animal’s owner.
      (3)   The owner of the dog in question shall be notified prior to the
meeting at which the Board of Public Works and Safety schedules said hearing,
and must be notified in writing at least ten calendar days prior to said
hearing date, unless they waive this requirement in writing or on the record at
a public meeting of the Board. The owner shall have the opportunity to be
represented by counsel, and to present evidence, witnesses and other
information to dispute the recommendation of the city’s Police Department and/
or the complaining victim. The city’s Police Department and/or complaining
victim shall have the burden of proof in any hearing held pursuant to this
section.
      (4)   The owner of any dog declared to be dangerous or vicious shall have
seven calendar days to comply with the automatic requirements outlined herein
for dangerous or vicious dogs and 20 calendar days to comply with any other
requirements imposed by the Board of Works pursuant to division (D) below,
during which 20-day period, they may appeal such determination and/or required
action to the county’s circuit or superior court.
   (C)   Compliance requirements. An owner of a dog who has knowledge of the
dog’s vicious or dangerous characteristics or knowledge of the dog’s propensity
for dangerousness or viciousness, or an owner whose dog has been determined to
be vicious or dangerous by a court of competent jurisdiction or the Board of
Public Works and Safety shall comply with the following requirements.
      (1)   While on owner’s property, the dog must be securely confined
indoors or in a securely enclosed and locked pen or structure, suitable to
prevent the entry of unauthorized persons and designed to prevent the animal
from escaping. The pen or structure must have minimum dimension of five feet by
ten feet and must have secure sides and top. If it has no bottom secured to the
sides, the sides must be embedded into the ground no less than two feet. The
enclosure must also provide protection from the elements for the dog.
      (2)   Confinement indoors, on a porch, patio or any part of a house or
structure that would allow the dog to exit the building is not permitted.
      (3)   The dog may not go outside its kennel or pen unless the dog is
securely leashed with a leash not longer than four feet in length. The dog may
not be kept on a chain, rope or other type of leash outside its kennel or pen
unless a person is in physical control of the leash. A dangerous or vicious dog
on a leash outside the dog’s kennel shall be muzzled by a muzzling device
sufficient to prevent the dog from biting persons or other animals
      (4)   The owner shall display a sign on the premises warning that there
is a dangerous or vicious dog on the premises. The sign must contain a symbol
warning children, and must be capable of being read from the public highway.
      (5)   The owner must comply with all laws concerning the care of dogs.
      (6)   The owner must at all times have a collar upon the dog of a color
(yellow) designating the dog as dangerous or vicious.
      (7)   The owner must advise the city’s Police Department of any change of
status of the dog within 24 hours of the change. Change of status shall include
that which could affect the public health or safety, including, but not limited
to, being loose, unconfined, has attacked another animal or human, has died or
been sold or given away. If the dog has been sold or given away, the owner must
give the city’s Police Department, the name, telephone number and address of
the new owner, who in turn must comply with this section.
      (8)   The owner shall maintain a policy of insurance in an amount not
less than $100,000, insuring the owner against any claim, loss, damage or
injury to persons, domestic animals or property resulting from the acts,
whether intentional or unintentional of the dangerous or vicious dog. The owner
shall provide evidence of insurance to the city’s Police Department and the
Board of Public Works and Safety.
   (D)   Additional powers of Board.
      (1)   In addition to any other fines imposed pursuant to this chapter,
and in addition to the above- listed compliance requirements, the Board of
Pubic Works and Safety or a court of competent jurisdiction may impose the
following sanctions with respect to a dog determined to be dangerous or vicious
when it determines those sanctions are necessary to protect the public’s
safety:
         (a)   Order the dog immediately impounded until the owner meets the
requirements of this section (including sterilization or destruction). The
owner shall be liable for the costs of impoundment. The court or Board of
Public Works and Safety may require that the animal not be released from
impoundment until the owner has paid the costs of impoundment and any fines or
fees assessed or incurred under this chapter;
         (b)   Order the dog sterilized; except that, no dog shall be
sterilized without the owner’s consent until the time during which said order
may be appealed has expired; or
         (c)   Order the dog destroyed; except that, no dog shall be destroyed
without the owner’s consent until the time during which said order may be
appealed has expired.
      (2)   In deciding whether to impound, sterilize or destroy a dog, the
court or Board of Public Works and Safety shall make findings of fact to
support its determination that such sanctions are necessary to protect the
public safety. In ordering impoundment, sterilization or destruction, the court
or Board of Public Works and Safety shall consider the following factors:
         (a)   The nature of any injury inflicted by the dog, and whether the
injury was inflicted on property or on a human being;
         (b)   Prior acts of viciousness or dangerousness of a dog, and the
owner’s knowledge of the dangerous or vicious characteristics of the dog and
the dog’s propensity toward dangerousness or viciousness; and
         (c)   The likelihood that the owner will comply with the requirements
of this section.
(Prior Code, § 91.15) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.028 HUMANE CARE OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   Humane treatment of animals.
      (1)   Every owner or keeper of an animal:
         (a)   Shall ensure his or her animal:
            1.   Has wholesome, nutritious food that is appropriate for the
species in adequate amounts to maintain good health and adequate fresh potable
water and fresh air compatible with that animal’s biological requirements to
maintain body weight and hydration;
            2.   Has shelter and protection from adverse weather (heat, cold,
wind, rain, snow) of such design (e.g., dog house with three walls, a roof and
floor) that the animal(s) can be completely dry and out of the wind, can heat
the enclosed space with its own body heat with the assistance of bedding (e.g.,
straw or blanket), and has adequate ventilation to provide fresh air. If the
animal is placed into an outdoor enclosure (e.g., kennel or pen) the enclosure
must be a minimum of 100 square feet in size (ten feet by ten feet) and be
constructed of material that is sturdy enough to prevent escape and must
contain within it a dog house or shelter as described above. The outdoor
enclosure must be tall enough to prevent escape and must have a top of such a
design that escape is prevented but ventilation and daylight can penetrate
(e.g., chain-link top);
            3.   Is provided the reasonably necessary medical care, and if
diseased, distressed or injured or exhibiting symptoms of disease, distress or
injury, receives proper care and is segregated from other animals so as to
prevent transmittal of disease; and
            4.   Is kept in a clean and sanitary manner and is not so confined
so as to be forced to sit, stand or lie in its own excrement, mud or puddles,
and shall ensure that the animal’s area is maintained and cleaned.
         (b)   Shall not tether any animal, as defined under this chapter, as a
permanent means of confinement. An animal may be temporarily tethered, only if
the following conditions are met.
            1.   The animal must be attached by a tether no shorter than 12
feet that is free from entanglement and it must be attached by a non-choke
buckle collar or harness. The tether must be of a reasonable weight such that
the animal may move freely about. The animal shall not be attached by use of a
choke collar, snap collar or any collar made out of chain, or any collar too
small for the size and age of the animal, or by any rope, chain, cable or cord
directly attached to the animal’s neck.
            2.   The animal’s owner or custodian is outside and in visual
contact with the animal or the animal is tethered only for the reasonable time
necessary for the animal’s owner or custodian to complete a temporary task
(e.g., work shift) not to exceed a maximum of 12 hours in any 24- hour period.
            3.   Food, water and appropriate shelter must be available to the
animal while it is tethered.
            4.   The animal must be monitored periodically.
            5.   If there are multiple tethered animals, each animal must be
tethered separately in a manner that prevents the tethers from becoming
entangled with each other or any other object, and animal must have separate
water and shelter.
            6.   If the animal is attached to a trolley system, the running
line must be at least 12 feet in length and the tether length must be greater
than the height of the running line.
            7.   The tether is located so as not to allow the animal to
trespass on public or private property, nor in such a manner as to cause harm
or danger to persons or other animals.
         (c)   Shall not abandon or neglect his or her animal:
            1.   Every owner or keeper of an animal(s) shall protect such
animal(s) from abuse, cruelty, neglect, torment, overload, overwork or any
other mistreatment. The failure to adhere to this provision shall be determined
by a reasonably prudent person standard under the circumstances then existing;
or
            2.   Torture, mutilation or killing an animal.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly or intentionally:
         (a)   Torture, beat or mutilate an animal resulting in serious injury
to the animal; or
         (b)   Kill an animal.
      (3)   It is a defense to a violation of division (A)(2) above that an
accused person reasonably believed that the conduct or action in question was
necessary to:
         (a)   Prevent injury to the accused person or another person;
         (b)   Protect the property of the accused person from destruction or
substantial damage; or
         (c)   Prevent a seriously injured or seriously ill animal from
prolonged suffering.
      (4)   Destruction of an animal is authorized under this section only if
the animal is destroyed by a veterinarian, the Animal Services Officer, an
approved animal shelter or humane society under acceptable veterinary practices
after it has been determined by the Animal Control Officer, veterinarian,
animal shelter or humane society that it is in the best interest of the animal
that it should be destroyed.
      (5)   Every owner or keeper of an animal must ensure that the animal is
not exposed to conditions of excessive heat or cold, or when a heat advisory,
wind chill warning or tornado warning has been issued by local, state or
national authority, except when the animal is in visual range of a competent
adult who is outside with the animal. Further, every owner or keeper of an
animal must adhere to standards consistent with that of a reasonably prudent
person in determining whether an animal is articulable signs of distress due to
the weather conditions, taking into account all relevant circumstances, such as
the animal’s breed and shelter, and shall take reasonable measures to alleviate
any such distress.
   (B)   Impoundment.
      (1)   A law enforcement officer or any other person authorized to enforce
the provisions of this section or to impound animals may take custody of the
animal if he or she has probable cause to believe:
         (a)   There has been a violation of this section; or
         (b)   That the animal is being exposed to hazardous or inhumane
conditions so as to pose a public nuisance or substantial threat to the animal.
      (2)   The animal shall be properly cared for pending disposition of
charges under this section.
      (3)   If the owner requests, a hearing shall be held before the Board of
Public Works and Safety to determine if the animal should be returned to the
owner. If the Board determines that probable cause does not exist to establish
the conditions of this section, the Board shall order the animal returned to
its owner. Notwithstanding a finding that probable cause does not exist, the
Board, in its discretion, may return the animal to its owner with the
imposition of reasonable requirements as may be necessary to ensure future
compliance by the owner with this section.
      (4)   If a person is determined to be in violation of this section, the
court or the Board of Public Works and Safety may impose the following
additional penalties against the person:
         (a)   A requirement that the person pay the cost of caring for the
animal involved in the offenses that are incurred during a period of
impoundment authorized under this section; or
         (b)   An order terminating the person’s right to possession, title,
custody or care of an animal that was involved in the offense, if the court or
the Board of Public Works and Safety find that the animal may continue to be
exposed to hazardous or inhumane conditions so as to pose a public nuisance or
substantial threat to the animal.
      (5)   If a person’s right to possession, title, custody or care of an
animal is terminated under division (B)(4) above, the court or the Board of
Public Works and Safety may award the animal to a humane society or other
organization that has as its principal purpose the humane treatment of animals.
   (C)   Animal hoarding. Animal hoarding is prohibited.
   (D)   Exceptions. Except as provided for in division (A) above, the
provision of this section do not apply to the following:
      (1)   Fishing, hunting, trapping or any other conduct authorized under
I.C. 14-22;
      (2)   Conduct regarding livestock authorized under I.C. 15-20-2;
      (3)   Veterinary practice authorized by standards adopted under I.C. 25-
38.1-2-8 et seq.;
      (4)   Acceptable farm management practices;
      (5)   Conduct authorized by the state’s Meat and Poultry Inspection and
Humane Slaughter Act, I.C. 15-17-5, and rules adopted under I.C. 15-17-5, for
state or federally inspected livestock slaughtering facilities;
      (6)   A research facility registered with the United States Department of
Agriculture under the Animal Welfare Act; and
      (7)   Conduct which is otherwise authorized by a duly adopted ordinance
of the city or statute of the state or the United States.
   (E)   Provoking. It shall be a violation of the code of ordinances for any
person to intentionally provoke or tease an animal.
   (F)   Animals and vehicles. No animal shall be left unattended in a vehicle
when the conditions in that vehicle would constitute a health hazard to the
animal.
   (G)   Injury caused by a motor vehicle to animals. Any person operating a
vehicle who causes injury or death to an animal shall stop at once, assess the
extent of injury, and immediately notify the owner, Police Department or the
Animal Services Officer of the location of the animal.
(Prior Code, § 91.16) (Ord. 1-2017, passed 3-20-2017; Ord. 1-2018, passed 1-16-
2018) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.029 BREEDING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Breeder’s notation on the animal’s city tag shall be obtained by any
person who:
      (1)   Intentionally or accidentally causes the breeding of a cat or dog;
      (2)   Makes a cat or dog available for breeding purposes;
      (3)   Offers a dog or a cat for sale; and
      (4)   Sells, trades or receives other compensation for a litter of
puppies or kittens (except in the event the litter is taken to the humane
shelter).
   (B)   Such person required to obtain a breeder’s notation shall:
      (1)   Be in compliance with the city zoning laws;
      (2)   Be limited to one notation per female animal per year;
      (3)   Be required to register with the City Clerk’s office the name,
address and telephone number of each buyer or new owner of any dog or cat sold
or transferred within five days after the date of such sale or transfer;
      (4)   Transmit to the new owner or buyer the litter number of the animal
acquired, and the breeder’s city tag number in order that the new owner has
assurance and proof that the animal was legally bred (bred by a permitted
breeder);
      (5)   Immunize all cats and dogs offered for sale, trade or other
compensation or for free giveaway (except an animal taken to the humane
shelter) against common disease; in the case of dogs, against canine distemper,
adeno-virus parainfluenza, parvovirus, coronavirus and leptospirosis, and in
the case of cats, against feline rhinotracheitis and panleucopenia; and
      (6)   Not offer a puppy or kitten under the age of eight weeks for sale,
trade, other compensation or for free giveaway (except in the event the puppy,
kitten or litter is taken to an Animal Shelter or humane society). Any fees
incurred by city for animals taken to the Animal Shelter or humane society will
be charged to the pet owner for all animal(s) taken.
   (C)   Such person required to obtain a breeder’s notation shall be required
to purchase breeder’s notation at the rate of $100 per litter, such funds to be
deposited into the Animal Control Fund set forth by §
90.004.
   (D)   Such person required to obtain a breeder’s permit shall update any
change in the information, under which the breeder’s permit was issued. Such
person shall report the change to the City Clerk’s office.
   (E)   Any such owner who fails to obtain a breeder’s permit and who
accidentally causes the animal to be bred shall immediately seek to obtain a
breeder’s permit or have the pet sterilized (immediately if male and within 30
days of weaning if female) and obtain a city registration tag showing proof of
sterilization. All other provisions herein shall apply and the accidental
litter must be cared for accordingly.
   (F)   If such person required to obtain a breeder’s permit shall be found in
violation of the breeding permit requirement, the person shall not be permitted
to advertise the litter for sale, nor shall the owner be permitted to obtain a
subsequent breeding permit for the particular female animal, in addition to the
penalty assessed in §
90.999.
   (G)   The Board of Public Works and Safety may bring any action permitted by
state law to enforce the breeding regulations including, but not limited to, an
action seeking an injunction.
(Prior Code, § 91.17) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.030 FREE-ROAMING CATS.
   (A)   Care for unmanaged colonies prohibited. It shall be unlawful for a
person to provide food, water or shelter to a colony of free-roaming cats,
unless the colony is a managed colony defined under this chapter.
   (B)   Managed free-roaming cats.
      (1)   The Animal Control Division or its designee, in order to encourage
the stabilization of the free-roaming cat population in the city, may:
         (a)   Trap any free-roaming cat in a humane manner;
         (b)   Have the cat surgically sterilized, ear-tipped and vaccinated
against rabies by a licensed veterinarian; and
         (c)   Release the cat to the Animal Control Division for adoption or
other disposition in accordance with law, or to a colony caretaker who will
maintain the cat as part of a managed colony of free-roaming cats.
      (2)   The enforcement authority may impound free-roaming cats in
violation of this chapter. Any free-roaming cat impounded by the enforcement
authority that bears an appropriate ear-tipping indicating it belongs to a
managed colony may, at the discretion of the Animal Control Division, be
returned to its managed colony unless illness or injury presents an imminent
danger to public health or safety.
   (C)   Colony caretaker responsibilities. It shall be a violation of this
chapter if the colony caretaker does not abide by the following.
      (1)   Colony caretakers shall abide by all required standards for each
cat, according to this chapter, as it relates to the provision of food, water,
shelter and veterinary care for cats within the managed colony and the like.
      (2)   During the sterilization and immunization procedure, colony
caretakers shall have a licensed veterinarian evaluate the health of each cat
prior to their release back into the colony. Seriously ill or injured cats with
no reasonable prognosis for recovery or the ability to survive outdoors shall
be humanely euthanized.
      (3)   Colony caretakers are required to have proof of a three-year anti-
rabies immunization from a licensed veterinarian for each cat within their
colony and must provide proof of immunization to the Animal Control Division,
upon request.
      (4)   (a)   Should a cat within a managed colony become the subject of a
complaint to Animal Control, the caretaker will be notified by Animal Control
of the nature of the complaint.
         (b)   If the problem cannot be remedied by the caretaker, Animal
Control has the authority to remove and/or relocate the cat.
      (5)   (a)   Compliance with this section must occur within 90 days of
arrival of a free-roaming cat to the colony.
         (b)   Cats that have not been ear-tipped shall remain subject to
trapping and impoundment by Animal Control.
         (c)   Cats which have been ear-tipped and are part of a managed colony
shall be permitted to remain within their designated colony area unless illness
or injury presents an imminent danger to public health or safety.
(Prior Code, § 91.18) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   In addition to any other penalties imposed by this chapter, any person
violating the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of $100 for
the first offense, $250 for the second offense, $500 for the third offense and
$1,000 for the fourth and each subsequent offense (except when fined pursuant
to divisions (B) or (C) below). Further, any person violating §
90.028(C), which may result in the removal of the animal(s) as more
specifically set forth within that section.
   (B)   In addition to any other penalties imposed by this chapter, any person
violating the provisions of §
90.017(C) shall be subject to a fine of $100 for the first offense, in addition
to the requirement to either obtain a city registration tag with an intact
notation or proof of sterilization. The second offense shall result in a fine
of $250 and impoundment of the animal. After the second offense, the owner must
produce a city registration tag with an intact notation or a prepaid spay/
neuter certificate from a licensed veterinarian or spay/neuter clinic to
reclaim the animal. Failure to reclaim within five days shall result in the
animal becoming the property of the sheltering facility.
   (C)   In addition to any other penalties imposed by this chapter, any
kennel, shelter or pet shop which violated the provisions of §
90.026 shall be subject to a fine of $500 for the first offense and a fine of
$1,000 for any subsequent offense.
   (D)   In addition to any other penalties imposed by this chapter, any person
violating the provisions of §§
90.027 or
90.029 shall be subject to a fine of $150 for the first offense within a
calendar year and $250 for the second and each subsequent offense.
   (E)   In addition to any other penalties imposed by this chapter, any person
violating the provision of §
90.030 shall be subject to a fine of $25 per cat in violation and the cat shall
be impounded by Animal Control. Impounded cats may, at the discretion of Animal
Control, be released to an alternate managed colony or be humanely euthanized.
   (F)   In addition to any other penalties imposed by this chapter, any owner
of an animal which bites a person or another animal without provocation while
running loose shall be fined $100.
   (G)   All fines shall be payable to the City Clerk. Failure to remit the
fine within 15 days of the issuance of the ordinance violation citation shall
result in doubling the fine and the filing of an enforcement action in county
court.
(Prior Code, § 91.98) (Ord. 1-2017, passed 3-20-2017; Ord. 1-2018, passed 1-16-
2018)
CHAPTER 91: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
General Provisions
   
91.001   Definitions
   
91.002   Districts in which storage of explosives and blasting agents
prohibited
   
91.003   Districts in which storage of flammable liquids in outside, above-
ground tanks prohibited
   
91.004   Limits in which bulk storage of liquefied petroleum gases restricted
   
91.005   Modifications
   
91.006   Appeals
   
91.007   New materials, processes or occupancies which may require permits
Fire Prevention Code
   
91.020   Adoption of Fire Prevention Code
   
91.021   Amendments to Fire Prevention Code
   
91.022   Duties of Bureau of Fire Prevention
Smoke Detectors
   
91.035   Definitions
   
91.036   General requirements
   
91.037   Locations
   
91.038   Equipment
   
91.039   Installation
   
91.040   Maintenance
   
91.041   Permits
   
91.042   Private residences
Hazardous Material Spills
   
91.055   Definitions
   
91.056   Assessment of charges for hazardous waste mitigation
   
91.057   Billing of costs
   
91.058   Impoundment
 
   
91.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUREAU OF FIRE PREVENTION. Used in the Fire Prevention Code, it shall mean
the Fire Inspection Unit of the Fire Department.
   CORPORATION COUNSEL. Used in the Fire Prevention Code, it shall mean the
City Attorney.
   MUNICIPALITY. Used in the Fire Prevention Code, it shall mean the City of
Richmond, Indiana.
(Prior Code, § 92.04) (Ord. 2241-1966, passed - -1966)
§ 91.002 DISTRICTS IN WHICH STORAGE OF EXPLOSIVES AND BLASTING AGENTS
PROHIBITED.
   The limits referred to in § 12.5b of the Fire Prevention 1981 Code, in which
storage of explosives and blasting agents is prohibited, will be established by
the Board of Public Works and Safety, and a copy of the limits filed in the
office of the City Clerk together with copies of this code.
(Prior Code, § 92.05) (Ord. 2241-1966, passed - -1966)
§ 91.003 DISTRICTS IN WHICH STORAGE OF FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS IN OUTSIDE, ABOVE-
GROUND TANKS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The limits referred to in § 16.22a of the Fire Prevention Code in
which storage of flammable liquids in outside above-ground tanks is prohibited,
will be established by the Board of Public Works and Safety and a copy of the
limits filed in the office of the City Clerk.
   (B)   The limits referred to in § 16.61 of the Fire Prevention Code, in
which new bulk plants for flammable or combustible liquids are prohibited, will
be established by the Board of Public Works and Safety and a copy of the limits
filed in the office of the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 92.06) (Ord. 2241-1966, passed - -1966)
§ 91.004 LIMITS IN WHICH BULK STORAGE OF LIQUIFIED PETROLEUM GASES RESTRICTED.
   The limits referred to in § 21.6a of the Fire Prevention Code, in which bulk
storage of liquefied gas is restricted, will be established by the Board of
Public Works and Safety, and a copy of the limits filed in the office of the
City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 92.07) (Ord. 2241-1966, passed - -1966)
§ 91.005 MODIFICATIONS.
   The Chief of the Fire Department shall have power to modify any of the
provisions of the Fire Prevention Code on application in writing by the owner
or lessee, or his or her duly authorized agent, when there are practical
difficulties in the way of carrying out the strict letter of the code; provided
that, the spirit of the code shall be observed, public safety secured and
substantial justice done. The particulars of the modification when granted or
allowed, and the decision of the Chief of the Fire Department shall be entered
on the records of the Department and a signed copy shall be furnished the
applicant. The powers conferred on the Chief of the Fire Department under this
section may be delegated by the Chief of the Fire Department to the Fire
Marshal of the Fire Prevention Bureau.
(Prior Code, § 92.08) (Ord. 2241-1966, passed - -1966)
§ 91.006 APPEALS.
   Whenever the Chief of the Fire Department shall disapprove of an application
or refuse to grant a permit applied for, or when it is claimed that the
provisions of the code do not apply or that the true intent and meaning of the
code have been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal
from the decision of the Chief of the Fire Department to the Board of Public
Works and Safety within 30 days from the date of the decision appealed.
(Prior Code, § 92.09) (Ord. 2241-1966, passed - -1966)
§ 91.007 NEW MATERIALS, PROCESSES OR OCCUPANCIES WHICH MAY REQUIRE PERMITS.
   (A)   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall determine and specify,
after giving affected persons an opportunity to be heard, any new materials,
processes or occupancies which shall require permits, in addition to those now
enumerated in the code.
   (B)   The Chief of the Fire Department shall post the list in a conspicuous
place in his or her office, and he or she shall deliver to the City Clerk two
copies of the list to be filed with the copies of this code provided for in §
91.020.
(Prior Code, § 92.10) (Ord. 2241-1966, passed - -1966)
FIRE PREVENTION CODE
§ 91.020 ADOPTION OF FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   There is adopted by the Common Council for the purpose of prescribing
regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and property from fire and
explosion, the Fire Prevention Code recommended by the American Insurance
Association, being particularly the applicable edition with applicable
revisions. Not less than three copies of this code have been and now are filed
in the office of the City Clerk. The codes are adopted and incorporated as
fully as if set out at length herein.
(Prior Code, § 92.01) (Ord. 2688-1972, passed - -1972)
§ 91.021 AMENDMENTS TO FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   The Fire Prevention Code, as adopted by this chapter is revised as follows:
Appendix B, Abandonment or Removal of Underground Tanks, Part Three, Tanks
Rendered Temporarily out of Service, shall read:
A.   With tanks rendered “temporarily out of service”.
(1)   The fill line, gage opening, and pump suction shall be capped and secured
against tampering.
(2)   The vent line shall be left open.
(3)   Tanks shall be temporarily filled with water and carbon tetrachloride
with a ratio of one quart carbon tetrachloride to every five hundred gallons of
water.
(Prior Code, § 92.02) (Ord. 2688-1972, passed - -1972)
§ 91.022 DUTIES OF BUREAU OF FIRE PREVENTION.
   (A)   (1)   The Fire Prevention Code shall be enforced by the Bureau of Fire
Prevention in the Fire Department.
      (2)   The Bureau shall be under the supervision of the Chief of the Fire
Department.
   (B)   The Chief or Fire Marshal in charge of the Bureau of Fire Prevention
shall be appointed by the Board of Public Works and Safety on the
recommendation of the Chief of the Fire Department.
   (C)   The Chief of the Fire Department may detail such members of the Fire
Department as inspectors from time to time as necessary.
   (D)   A report of the Bureau of Fire Prevention shall be made annually and
transmitted to the chief executive officer of the municipality. It shall
contain all proceedings under this code, with such statistics as the Chief of
the Fire Department may wish to include. The Chief of the Fire Department shall
also recommend any amendments to the code which, in his or her judgment, shall
be desirable.
   (E)   Any third-party inspectors who perform inspections upon life safety
systems which are under the jurisdiction of the Fire Department’s Fire
Prevention Bureau shall coordinate the inspections on behalf of their clients
as specifically directed by the Fire Marshal of the city in order to ensure
uniform monitoring and in the event the city utilizes a single-point repository
service company, and the following provisions shall also apply to the
inspectors and their clients.
      (1)   All certified contractors providing services, testing,
installations, repair or maintenance of fire prevention systems to commercial
facilities within the city are required to enroll in and utilize the city-
approved single point repository services company (hereinafter “SRSC”) for
reporting the rendered service information. This reporting information must be
filed with the SRSC within five business days of the completion of the services
to the commercial facility.
      (2)   If utilized by the city, the SRSC will be a third-party records
repository which shall organize, maintain and monitor the received records,
providing information to the city and the commercial facility pertaining to the
records status and timely notifications on required inspection timetables. Fees
for this provided services shall be paid directly from the certified
contractors to the city-approved SRSC.
      (3)   In addition, a copy of the record of each periodic inspection,
test, servicing, repairs and maintenance, shall be maintained on the commercial
facilities premises, or other approved location, for a period of not less than
seven years, unless a greater period of time is specified in the state fire
prevention laws and rules, except that any original acceptance test reports
shall be maintained for the life of the system. The records shall be made
immediately available to the Fire Marshal or Fire Department Fire Prevention
Bureau upon request.
(Prior Code, § 92.03) (Ord. 2241-1966, passed - -1966; Ord. 83-1984, passed - -
1984; Ord. 45-2022, passed 10-3-2022)
SMOKE DETECTORS
§ 91.035 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DWELLING UNIT. A structure, building, area, room or combination of rooms
occupied by persons for sleeping or living excluding privately owned and
occupied single-family dwellings until the time of sale.
   HOSPITAL. A building or part thereof used for medical, psychiatric,
obstetrical or surgical care, on a 24-hour basis, of inpatients. The term
HOSPITAL includes general hospitals, mental hospitals, tuberculosis hospitals,
children’s hospitals and other such facilities providing inpatient care.
   NURSING HOME. A building or part thereof used for the lodging, boarding and
nursing care, on a 24-hour basis, of persons who, because of mental or physical
incapacity, may be unable to provide for their own needs and safety without the
assistance of another person. The term NURSING HOME includes nursing and
convalescent homes, skilled nursing facilities, intermediate care facilities
and infirmaries or homes for the aged.
   OWNER.
      (1)   Any person who, alone, jointly or severally with other persons has
legal title to any premises; any person who has the charge, care or control
over any premises as an agent, officer, fiduciary or employee of the owner; the
committee, conservator or legal guardian of an owner who is non compos mentis,
a minor or otherwise under a disability; a trustee, elected or appointed, or a
person required by law to execute a trust, other than a trustee under a deed of
trust to secure the payment of money; or an executor, administrator, receiver,
fiduciary, officer appointed by any court or other similar representative of
the owner or his or her estate.
      (2)   OWNER does not include a lessee, sublessee or other person who
merely has the right to occupy or possess a premises.
   RESIDENTIAL-CUSTODIAL CARE FACILITY.
      (1)   A building, or part thereof, used for the lodging or boarding of
persons who are incapable of self-preservation because of age or physical or
mental limitations, or who are detained for correctional purposes; this
includes homes for the aged, nurseries (custodial care for children under six
years of age), institutions for the mentally retarded (care institutions) and
halfway houses, as well as sheltered living facilities and halfway houses.
      (2)   RESIDENTIAL-CUSTODIAL CARE FACILITY does not include day-care
facilities that do not provide lodging or boarding for institutional occupants.
   SLEEPING AREA.
      (1)   A bedroom or room intended for sleeping, or a combination of rooms
or rooms intended for sleeping within a dwelling unit, which are located on the
same floor and are not separated by another habitable room, such as a living
room, dining room or kitchen, but not a bathroom, hallway or closet.
      (2)   A dwelling unit may have more than one SLEEPING AREA. SLEEPING AREA
does not include common usage areas in structures with more than one dwelling
unit, such as corridors, lobbies and basements.
   SMOKE DETECTOR. A device which detects visible or invisible particles of
combustion.
   SUBSTANTIALLY REHABILITATED. Any improvement to a structure which is valued
greater than one-half of the assessed valuation of the property including the
land.
(Prior Code, § 92.15) (Ord. 81-1980, passed - -1980; Ord. 10-1988, passed - -
1988)
§ 91.036 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The owner of an existing dwelling unit, hotel, motel, hospital,
nursing home and residential- custodial care facility shall install smoke
detectors as required by this section.
   (B)   The owner of each dwelling unit, hotel, motel, hospital, nursing home,
jail, prison and residential-custodial care facility which is constructed or
substantially rehabilitated under a building permit issued after 11-5-1980
shall install smoke detectors as required by law.
   (C)   The owner of each dwelling unit, hotel, motel, hospital, nursing home,
jail, prison and residential-custodial care facility, except as provided in
division (B) above, shall install smoke detectors as required by this section
within 180 days from 11-5-1980.
(Prior Code, § 92.15) (Ord. 81-1980, passed - -1980)
§ 91.037 LOCATIONS.
   (A)   The owner of each dwelling unit shall install at least one smoke
detector to protect each sleeping area. In an efficiency, the owner shall
install the smoke detector in the room used for sleeping. In all other dwelling
units, the owner shall install the smoke detector outside the bedrooms, but in
the immediate vicinity of the sleeping area.
   (B)   (1)   The owner of each hotel and motel shall install at least one
smoke detector to protect each guest room or guest suite.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division (B), GUEST SUITE means a
combination of rooms that are always occupied as a single unit.
      (3)   The owner of the hotel or motel shall install the smoke detectors
as directed by the Fire Chief of the city.
   (C)   The owner of each hospital, nursing home, jail, prison and
residential-custodial care facility shall install smoke detectors as directed
by the Fire Chief of the city, and in each corridor that is adjacent to a room
used for sleeping, but in no case spaced further apart than 30 feet or more
than 15 feet from any wall; or in each room used for sleeping.
   (D)   An owner subject to the provisions of this section shall install each
smoke detector on the ceiling at a minimum of six inches from the wall, or on a
wall at a minimum of six inches from the ceiling. He or she may not install a
smoke detector in a dead air space, such as where the ceiling meets the wall.
   (E)   In addition to any other structures listed in this subchapter, smoke
detectors shall be installed beginning 10-1-1988 in all structures which have
rooms used for sleeping.
(Prior Code, § 92.15) (Ord. 81-1980, passed - -1980; Ord. 10-1988, passed - -
1988) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.038 EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   An owner subject to the provisions of this subchapter shall install a
smoke detector which is capable of sensing visible or invisible particles of
combustion and emitting an audible signal.
   (B)   The owner shall install a smoke detector which is of a type approved
by the Fire Chief of the city consistent with any appropriate federal
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 92.15) (Ord. 81-1980, passed - -1980) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.039 INSTALLATION.
   (A)   The owner of each dwelling unit, hotel, motel, hospital, nursing home,
jail, prison and residential-custodial care facility may directly wire the
smoke detector to the power supply of the building.
   (B)   In each dwelling unit, hotel, motel, hospital, nursing home, jail,
prison and residential-custodial care facility which is in existence on 11-5-
1980, or which is constructed under a building permit issued 180 days before
11-5-1980, or which is substantially rehabilitated, the owner may install a
smoke detector which operates from a plug-in outlet fitted with a plug
restrainer device if the outlet is not controlled by an on-off switch and if
the cord connecting the smoke detector with the outlet is not controlled by an
on-off switch.
   (C)   In each dwelling unit, hotel, motel, hospital, nursing home, jail,
prison and residential-custodial care facility which is in existence on 11-5-
1980, the owner may install a monitored battery powered smoke detector.
(Prior Code, § 92.15) (Ord. 81-1980, passed - -1980) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.040 MAINTENANCE.
   An owner subject to the provisions of this subchapter shall maintain each
smoke detector in a reliable operating condition and shall make periodic
inspections and tests to ensure that each smoke detector is in proper working
condition, unless the owner and occupant have otherwise agreed in writing
between themselves, in which event the occupant shall assume maintenance
responsibility.
(Prior Code, § 92.15) (Ord. 81-1980, passed - -1980; Ord. 16-1988, passed - -
1988) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.041 PERMITS.
   No owner may permanently wire a smoke detector to the electrical system of a
structure without first obtaining an electrical permit from the Building
Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 92.15) (Ord. 81-1980, passed - -1980) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.042 PRIVATE RESIDENCES.
   No residential proxy may be sold or traded in the city unless and until the
seller installs or provides for the installation of smoke detectors in
accordance with §
91.036, as applicable. This requirement may be met by the seller placing in the
escrow account for the use of the buyer sufficient funds to pay for the
installation.
(Prior Code, § 92.15) (Ord. 81-1980, passed - -1980) Penalty, see §
91.999
HAZARDOUS MATERIAL SPILLS
§ 91.055 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MITIGATE. To take action to reduce the hazard.
   SPILL. Any unexpected, unintentional or unapproved dumping, discharge or
other loss of oil, hazardous or otherwise objectionable substance that damages
or threatens to damage the public health, safety and welfare.
(Prior Code, § 92.17) (Ord. 73-1991, passed - -1991)
§ 91.056 ASSESSMENT OF CHARGES FOR HAZARDOUS WASTE MITIGATION.
   Whenever the city’s Fire Department mitigates a spill, any party responsible
for the spill shall be responsible for and shall be assessed the following
charges:
   (A)   Two hundred fifty dollars per hour for the first hour for each aerial
apparatus and $150 per hour for each hour thereafter;
   (B)   Two hundred fifty dollars per hour for the first hour for each pumper,
rescue unit, hazardous material response vehicle and any support vehicles and
$150 per hour for each hour thereafter;
   (C)   The city’s Fire Department’s actual labor costs; and
   (D)   The actual replacement costs of any expendable materials such as
absorption materials or other agents used in clean-up operations.
(Prior Code, § 92.17) (Ord. 73-1991, passed - -1991)
§ 91.057 BILLING OF COSTS.
   (A)   The Fire Department shall refer all information concerning the cost of
the cleanup to the City Controller.
   (B)   The City Controller shall prepare and send a statement of the charges
to each responsible party, who shall be jointly and severally liable for the
cost of the spill.
   (C)   The responsible party shall remit the charges to the Controller within
30 days after receipt of the statement of charges from the City Controller.
(Prior Code, § 92.17) (Ord. 73-1991, passed - -1991)
§ 91.058 IMPOUNDMENT.
   The Fire Department may impound any material or property involved in the
spill when necessary for the protection of the public safety and to accomplish
the purposes set forth in §§
91.056 and
91.057.
(Prior Code, § 92.17) (Ord. 73-1991, passed - -1991)
§ 91.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of the Fire
Prevention Code adopted or fail to comply therewith, or who shall violate or
fail to comply with any order made thereunder, or who shall build in violation
of any detailed statement of specifications or plans submitted and approved
thereunder, or any certificate or permit issued thereunder, and from which no
appeal has been taken, or who shall fail to comply with such an order as
affirmed or modified by the Chief of the Fire Department; or by a court of
competent jurisdiction, within the time fixed herein, shall severally for each
and every violation and non-compliance respectively, be in violation of this
chapter and subject to be guilty of an infraction punishable by a fine of $100.
The procedure for payment is set forth in §
10.999. The imposition of one penalty for any violation shall not excuse the
violation or permit it to continue, and all persons shall be required to
correct or remedy the violation or defects within a reasonable time period.
When not otherwise specified, each ten days that prohibited conditions are
maintained shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   The application of the above penalty shall not be held to prevent
the enforced removal of prohibited conditions.
(Prior Code, § 92.16) (Ord. 2241-1966, passed - -1966; Ord. 12-1987, passed - -
1987)
CHAPTER 92: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
92.001   Offensive industries
   
92.002   Swine
   
92.003   Weeds
   
92.004   Storage of machinery and parts
   
92.005   Real estate used for illegal sale of drugs
Abandoned Vehicles
   
92.020   Adoption of state law
   
92.021   Conformance with state law
   
92.022   Towing and storage charges
   
92.023   Administration
   
92.024   Abandoned Vehicle Account
   
92.025   Assessment of vehicles
Smoke
   
92.040   Dense smoke nuisance
   
92.041   Inspection
   
92.042   Permit to construct furnace
   
92.043   Responsibility for violations
   
92.044   Soft coal furnaces
   
92.045   Stoking furnace
   
92.046   Reports; orders to remedy defects
 
   
92.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.001 OFFENSIVE INDUSTRIES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall establish or build for use or operation a
stockyard or slaughterhouse within one-half mile of a built-up residence
section, or within such distance of a factory, store, church, schoolhouse or
other building where persons are employed or where they regularly assemble, or
within 500 feet of a public street.
      (2)   This regulation concerning the establishment of a stockyard or
slaughterhouse shall apply whether it is inside of the city, or within a
distance of two miles from the corporate limits thereof.
   (B)   No stockyard or slaughterhouse within the above described area which
has not been built and operated prior to 12-1-1944 shall be used or operated
for the keeping, buying, selling or slaughtering of livestock.
   (C)   This section shall apply to fertilizer plants and other establishments
constructed after 2-9-1945, whose business, trade or the occupations connected
therewith are of such a character as to make the plant or establishment noxious
or injurious to public comfort or health.
(Prior Code, § 94.01) (Ord. 1283-1944, passed - -1944) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.002 SWINE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep any live swine within the city,
except when they are kept for immediate shipment or immediate slaughter, and
are kept in sanitary, clean and secure pens within a distance of three city
blocks from the corporate limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 94.02) (Ord. 529-1918, passed - -1918) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.003 WEEDS.
   (A)   Owners of real property located within the corporate limits of the
city shall cut and remove weeds and other rank vegetation growing on such
property, including street parks, improved sidewalks and along alleys, unless
such vegetation is part of an established agricultural enterprise and is
currently being used for pasture or the production of hay.
   (B)   The Department of Infrastructure and Development shall be responsible
for the administration of this section.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CONTINUOUS ABATEMENT NOTICE. A notice that:
         (a)   Is issued for compliance or abatement and that remains in full
force and effect on a property without further requirements to seek additional
compliance and abatement authority; or seek additional orders for the same or
similar violations;
         (b)   Authorizes specific ongoing compliance and enforcement
activities if a property requires re-inspection or additional periodic
abatement;
         (c)   Can be enforced, including assessment of fees and costs, without
the need for additional notice or hearing; and
         (d)   Authorizes the Department of Infrastructure and Development to
assess and collect ongoing costs for continuous abatement notice activities
from any party that is subject to the Department’s notice.
      IMPROVED SIDEWALKS. Sidewalks abutting any lot or land of an owner or
occupant.
      RANK VEGETATION. Vegetation growing with excessive luxuriance and vigor
which is at least eight inches high or higher and/or overgrown bushes, trees,
shrubs and the like and may also be defined as dead bushes, trees, shrubs and/
or weeds.
      STREET PARKS. The planted area between the curb and sidewalk directly
adjacent to a property.
      WEEDS. Grass and other undesirable, unattractive or unattended vegetation
that are eight inches high or higher.
   (D)   Weeds and other rank vegetation subject to removal under this section
shall be those which are eight inches high or higher. All trash and debris
discovered when removing weeds and other rank vegetation must be removed at the
time of mowing. All cut weeds and other cut rank vegetation left on sidewalks
and/or streets must be removed. The property owner must maintain trees and
shrubs within the minimum height clearance requirements of eight feet over
sidewalks and street parks and within the minimum height clearance requirements
of 14 feet over streets and alleys.
   (E)   Any property owner who fails to remove weeds and other rank
vegetation, as defined in divisions (C) and (D) above, shall be deemed to be in
violation of division (A) above and may be issued a continuous abatement notice
as set forth in this section. Notice of violation by the Department of
Infrastructure and Development shall be mailed to the property owner’s address
shown on the records of the County Auditor by the method required by I.C. 36-7-
10.1-3, or an equivalent service permitted under I.C. 1-1-7-1, to the owner of
record of real property with a single owner or to at least one of the owners of
real property with multiple owners, at the last address of the owner for the
property as indicated in the records of the County Auditor on the date of the
notice. One letter within a calendar year shall be deemed sufficient notice for
each and every lot, parcel and lands owned by the offender within the corporate
limits of the city in case of party’s failure to comply with the terms of
division (A) above. The city shall have the right to cut and remove weeds and
rank vegetation upon the property owner’s failure to do so within ten days
after the mailing of notice of violation. A continuous abatement notice may be
posted at the property at the time of abatement in the event the city initially
obtains service upon the property owner as required by I.C. 36-7-10.1-3. Said
continuous abatement notice shall serve as notice to the real property owner
that each subsequent violation during the same calendar year for which the
initial notice of the violation was provided may be abated by the city or its
contractors.
   (F)   The Department of Infrastructure and Development shall issue a bill to
the property owner at the address shown on the records of the County Auditor.
The bill shall include the actual cost incurred by the city either by using its
own employees or an independent contractor, plus administrative costs.
Administrative costs of $70 shall be charged for the first cut order during a
calendar year. Second and subsequent cut orders during a calendar year shall
include the administrative cost of $100. If a property owner owns more than one
property, the property owner will be charged the administrative cost of $70 for
the first property cut and the administrative cost of $100 for each and every
lot, parcel and land subsequently cut during the calendar year.
   (G)   In the event a property owner disputes a notice of violation issued
under division (F) above or a bill issued under division (H) below, such
property owner may file a written appeal with the Board of Public Works and
Safety for rescission or adjustment of such notice or bill within 14 days after
the date of such notice or bill.
   (H)   If the property owner fails to pay a bill under this division (H)
within 15 days, the Department of Infrastructure and Development shall certify
to the County Auditor the amount of the bill, plus an additional administrative
cost of $70 (of which, $25 will be retained by the county government) incurred
in the certification. The County Auditor shall place the total amount certified
on the tax duplicate for the property affected, and the total amount including
any accrued interest, shall be collected as delinquent taxes are collected and
shall be disbursed to the General Fund of the city as provided in I.C. 36-7-
10.1-4.
   (I)   Should any paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this section be
properly declared unconstitutional or invalid for any reason, the remainder of
said section shall not be affected thereby. In the event the provisions of this
section conflict with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-10.1-1 et seq., including any
amendments, the provisions of the I.C. 36-7-10.1-1 et seq. shall be
controlling. This section is not intended to interfere with, abrogate or annul
any other ordinance, rule, regulation, statute or other provision of the law.
The requirements of this section should be considered minimum requirements, and
where any provision of this section imposes restrictions different from those
imposed by any other ordinance, rule, regulation or other provision of law, the
more restrictive provisions or those provisions that impose higher protective
standards for human health or the environment, shall be considered to take
precedence.
(Prior Code, § 94.03) (Ord. 67-1985, passed - -1985; Ord. 63-1991, passed - -
1991; Ord. 23-1993, passed - -1993; Ord. 36-2011, passed - -2011; Ord. 13-2015,
passed - -2015; Ord. 13-2018, passed 4-16-2018) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.004 STORAGE OF MACHINERY AND PARTS.
   (A)   The presence of inoperable storage of inoperable machinery, motor
vehicles and appliances, in active construction excavation and wrecking
projects, uninhabitable mobile homes and accumulations of junk and used
materials of whatever description on any premises within view of any public
street or way and within the corporate limits of the city is hereby declared to
be a public nuisance unless such presence is a permitted use under Chapter 165
of this code of ordinances, junk vehicles and parts of machinery on any
premises within view of any public premises or public street or highway, and
not a licensed business to store junk vehicles, within the corporate limits of
the city shall be a nuisance.
   (B)   Any Code Enforcement Officer or police officer may issue a notice of
violation upon observing a public nuisance as defined in division (A) above.
Such violation is subject to a fine of $20. The procedure for payment or trial
is set forth is §
10.999 of this code of ordinances. The person or officer of the city including,
but not limited to, zoning inspectors and police officers, shall, on finding a
nuisance as defined in division (A) above, file a complaint of the maintaining
of a nuisance against the person on whose property the nuisance exists with the
Board of Public Works and Safety.
   (C)   The Board of Public Works and Safety, upon being advised such a notice
of violation was admitted or adjudged to exist, may cause the on receiving the
complaint, shall cause the owner of the premises on which the nuisance is
maintained, to be given notice to appear before the Board and to show cause at
a hearing, why the nuisance should not be removed from the premises. The
hearing is to be held not less than seven days, nor more than 21 days, after
receipt of a complaint.
   (D)   If, at the hearing, the owner of the premises shall not show
sufficient reason why the nuisance should not be removed or should such owner
of the premises on which the nuisance is maintained, fail to appear, at the
hearing, the Board of Public Works and Safety may order the nuisance removed.
   (E)   Should the owner of the premises on which the nuisance is maintained
fail to remove the nuisance within 30 days, the Board of Public Works and
Safety may cause the nuisance to be removed and charge the expense against the
owner. The expense involved may be made a lien against the property pursuant to
I.C. 36-1-6-2. That cost shall constitute a lien on the real estate from which
the nuisance is removed.
   (F)   A list of persons who fail to comply with the foregoing requirements
together with the description of their property on which a lien is created, and
the cost and charges shall be furnished to the City Controller. It shall be his
or her duty to collect the same as assessments for street and sewer
improvements are collected.
(Prior Code, § 94.04) (Ord. 16-1978, passed - -1978)
§ 92.005 REAL ESTATE USED FOR ILLEGAL SALE OF DRUGS.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, the use of non-owner occupied real
property to commit an act constituting an offense under I.C. 35-48-4 shall be
deemed a civil nuisance.
   (B)   The provisions of I.C. 32-30-8, as amended from time to time, are
hereby incorporated by reference and shall be utilized by the city in the
abatement of a drug-related civil nuisance.
   (C)   The procedures hereinafter set forth shall be followed prior to the
city initiating an action pursuant to I.C. 32-30-8.
   (D)   No owner of real estate located in the city shall knowingly allow that
real estate to be used in such a manner so as to constitute a civil nuisance,
as defined herein. An owner of such real estate is deemed to have knowledge of
such activity upon receipt of notice as provided in division (F) below. For
purposes of this section, an OWNER OF REAL ESTATE is defined as any person or
entity that, alone or with others, has legal or equitable title to any real
property. When any real property is owned by more than one person or entity, or
when legal and equitable title is held by different persons or entities, all
such persons or entities shall be jointly and severally liable for any
violations of this section.
   (E)   Upon receipt of any report or complaint of suspected activity
constituting a civil nuisance, as defined herein, the city’s Police Department
shall conduct such investigation as it deems necessary. At any time prior to or
during said investigation, the Department shall, when deemed appropriate under
the circumstances, send an initial warning letter to the owner and/or occupant
of the property that it suspects such activity may be occurring and that an
investigation is about to commence or is ongoing. The initial warning letter
shall inform the recipient that:
      (1)   If it is determined that a civil nuisance is occurring, it is a
violation of both state and local law;
      (2)   If it is determined that a civil nuisance is occurring, it may
result in fines being assessed pursuant to this code of ordinances;
      (3)   If it is determined that a civil nuisance is occurring, the owner
must abate the suspected nuisance to avoid any fines being assessed under this
section by evicting those responsible;
      (4)   If it is determined that a civil nuisance is occurring, the city’s
Police Department will, at the owner’s request, deliver an eviction notice to
the responsible tenant;
      (5)   If its investigation reveals that a civil nuisance is in fact
taking place, the city and the Police Department intend to take further legal
action; and
      (6)   If it is determined that a civil nuisance is occurring, the
property owner will be notified and given the opportunity to abate the nuisance
before any fines are assessed.
   (F)   Whenever the city’s Police Department determines that a civil
nuisance, as defined in division (A) above, exists, which determination must be
made by the Chief of Police or a designated officer and approved by the city’s
Law Department, the police shall, when deemed appropriate under the
circumstances, cause written notice to be served on the owner and occupant that
a present occupant or tenant of that property has been using the property so as
to constitute a civil nuisance as defined herein or has been allowing the
property to be so used. Said notice shall contain a copy of this section and
shall inform the recipient of the following:
      (1)   A civil nuisance exists on the property;
      (2)   The date and time the civil nuisance was first discovered;
      (3)   The location on the property where the civil nuisance is allegedly
occurring;
      (4)   Such activity is a violation of both state and local law;
      (5)   Such activity may result in fines being assessed pursuant to the
code of ordinances;
      (6)   The owner must abate the civil nuisance by evicting those
responsible to avoid any fines being assessed under this section;
      (7)   If the owner chooses to abate the civil nuisance by evicting those
responsible, he or she must so inform the Police Department in writing and
commence said eviction within 30 days of receipt of this notice;
      (8)   The city’s Police Department will, at the owner’s request, deliver
an eviction notice to the property; and
      (9)   If the owner fails to abate the civil nuisance, the city and the
Police Department may take further legal action, including, but not limited to,
filing suit pursuant to I.C. 32-30-8.
   (G)   After receiving an initial warning letter or second notification under
this section, if a property owner so requests, an eviction notice signed by the
property owner shall be delivered to the responsible tenant by the city’s
Police Department. (The Police Department shall inform the property owner that,
if the tenant or occupant refuses to leave, it will be necessary to file an
eviction proceeding through the proper court.)
   (H)   (1)   The notice required pursuant to division (F) above shall be
given by:
         (a)   Sending a copy of the notice by registered or certified mail to
the residence or place of business or employment of the person to be notified,
with return receipt requested;
         (b)   Delivering a copy of the order or statement personally to the
person to be notified; or
         (c)   Leaving a copy of the order or statement at the dwelling or
usual place of abode of the person to be notified.
      (2)   If, after a reasonable effort, service is not obtained by a means
described in division (H)(1) above, service may be made by publishing the
notice in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1.
      (3)   Notice is deemed given to the owner, upon receipt of notice as
indicated above, by the owner of record pursuant to the records and files of
the County Assessor’s office.
   (I)   Within 30 days of receipt of notice in accordance with division (F)
above, the owner must initiate such legal action as is necessary to evict all
persons responsible for or permitting the civil nuisance (which shall include,
at a minimum, a notice of eviction delivered by the city’s Police Department or
the property owner by serving notice pursuant to I.C. 32-30-8-5), and must
diligently prosecute such legal action to a conclusion.
   (J)   In the case of a multiple unit dwelling, the only person necessary to
name in an eviction proceeding is the tenant/occupant occupying the actual unit
involved with the nuisance, as defined herein.
   (K)   Charging an owner of real estate with a violation of this section
shall be adjunct to, and not a substitution for, any criminal charges filed
against occupants or tenants of that owner’s real estate for any illegal
activity.
   (L)   The Chief of Police shall use reasonable efforts to train, educate and
assist owners of real estate in evicting, and avoiding the placement of,
tenants or occupants in their real estate who are known violators of illegal
activities under I.C. 35-48-4.
   (M)   (1)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to encourage or
authorize the discrimination by lessors against any persons based upon race,
creed, religion, sex, age or national origin.
      (2)   Rather, it is the intent of this section to hold persons
accountable for acquiescing in or participating in the continued use of his or
her property as the location of illegal drug activity.
(Prior Code, § 94.40) Penalty, see §
92.999
ABANDONED VEHICLES
§ 92.020 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW.
   The provisions of I.C. 9-13-2-1 and I.C. 9-22-1-0.3 et seq., including any
amendments thereto, are declared to be in full force and effect for the city
and those provisions of the law are incorporated herein by reference.
(Prior Code, § 94.10) (Ord. 3-1982, passed - -1982)
§ 92.021 CONFORMANCE WITH STATE LAW.
   (A)   All provisions of this subchapter shall be in conformance with and not
in conflict with I.C. 9-22-1-0.3 through 9-22-6-3.
   (B)   Any provision found to be in conflict with the statute shall be deemed
amended to conform to the statute.
   (C)   This subchapter is passed pursuant to I.C. 9-22-1-0.3 through 9-22-6-
3 for the purpose of facilitating the removal, and disposition of abandoned
vehicles in the city.
(Prior Code, § 94.11) (Ord. 3-1982, passed - -1982)
§ 92.022 TOWING AND STORAGE CHARGES.
   The city’s Police Department, in cooperation with the Purchasing Department
of the city, shall be authorized to develop and implement a system for rotation
calling of wreckers to tow vehicles which are not removed by owners direction
or pursuant to other contract or agreement. The Police Department, in
conjunction with the Purchasing Department, shall be authorized to develop
standards for the implementation of such program and shall be authorized to
establish a rate applicable to the wrecker services listed on such rotation
service and shall be authorized to establish a standard fee based upon the
complexity of the services requested and the time period of the services
requested. Such fee shall be reasonable in light of all circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 94.12) (Ord. 25-1986, passed - -1986)
§ 92.023 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall promulgate such rules and
regulations as it deems necessary for the operation and maintenance of the
impoundment area.
   (B)   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall be the public agency
responsible for the storage and disposal of abandoned vehicles and may enter
into bid contracts as necessary for the purpose of storage and disposition of
abandoned vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 94.13) (Ord. 3-1982, passed - -1982; Ord. 28-1982, passed - -
1982)
§ 92.024 ABANDONED VEHICLE ACCOUNT.
   (A)   There is created an abandoned vehicle account to be administered by
the City Controller in conformance with I.C. 9-22-1-27.
   (B)   The proceeds of the sale or disposition of any abandoned vehicle, or
parts thereof, shall be paid directly to the towing service contracted by the
city for its unreimbursed towing, storage and disposal expenses of abandoned
vehicles or parts thereof.
(Prior Code, § 94.14) (Ord. 3-1982, passed - -1982)
§ 92.025 ASSESSMENT OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   If a tagged vehicle or parts are not removed within 72 hours of
tagging and the police officer (“officer”) suspects the market value of the
vehicle is $750 or less, the officer shall prepare a written abandoned vehicle
report of the vehicle or parts, including information on the condition, missing
parts and other facts that might substantiate the estimated market value of the
vehicle or parts. Photographs shall be taken to describe the condition of the
vehicle or parts.
   (B)   (1)   This assessment, described in division (A) above, shall be
performed by an officer designated by the city’s Chief of Police. If the
assessment confirms the market value of the vehicle is $750 or less, the
officer shall provide for the immediate disposal of the vehicle to the
contracted towing service. A copy of the abandoned vehicle report and
photographs relating to the abandoned vehicle shall be forwarded to the Bureau
of Motor Vehicles.
      (2)   The towing service may dispose of the abandoned vehicle not less
than 30 days after the date on which the towing service removed the abandoned
vehicle and after the assessment has been made by the city’s Police Department.
   (C)   The city’s Police Department shall retain a copy of the assessment and
any photographs for two years after the disposal of the vehicle or parts.
   (D)   If the assessment indicates the market value of the vehicle is greater
than $750, the notification and disposal procedures in I.C. 9-22-1-23 et seq.
shall be followed.
(Prior Code, § 94.15) (Ord. 51-2007, passed - -2007)
SMOKE
§ 92.040 DENSE SMOKE NUISANCE.
   The emission of dense, black or gray smoke from any smokestack or chimney
used in connection with any stationary steam boiler, locomotive or furnace, of
any description, within the city, in any apartment house, office building,
hotel, theater, place of public amusement, school building, institution,
locomotive or any other structure in the city, or in any building used as a
factory, or for any purpose of trade, or for any other purpose, except as a
private residence, is a public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 94.30) (Ord. 231-1910, passed - -1910) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.041 INSPECTION.
   The Chief of the Fire Department shall have authority to inspect, supervise
and require all steam boilers or furnaces, either stationary or locomotive, and
all other furnaces within the city, to be so constructed or, if already
constructed, to be so altered or have attached thereto such efficient smoke
preventatives as to prevent the production and emission of dense black and gray
smoke. He or she shall further have authority to supervise the igniting,
stoking, feeding and attending of such steam boiler or other furnace fires. He
or she, or his or her assistant, if any, shall have authority to enter any
steam boiler or engine room, or building not occupied exclusively as a private
residence. No person shall hinder or obstruct him or her in the performance of
his or her duty.
(Prior Code, § 94.31) (Ord. 231-1910, passed - -1910) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.042 PERMIT TO CONSTRUCT FURNACE.
   When any person shall be desirous of constructing or altering any steam
boiler, locomotive or furnace within the city, he or she shall make application
at the office of the Chief of the Fire Department for a certificate for that
purpose, and shall furnish a written statement giving the style and dimensions
of the boiler and furnace, together with the height and size of stack or
chimney, and the method or device to be adopted for preventing the emission of
dense black or gray smoke. If, in the opinion of the Chief of the Fire
Department, it shall appear necessary, drawings of the apparatus may be
required.
(Prior Code, § 94.32) (Ord. 231-1910, passed - -1910)
§ 92.043 RESPONSIBILITY FOR VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The owner, agent, lessee or occupant of any building or structure of
any description, and the general manager or superintendent having charge of any
boiler or locomotive within the city, from the smokestack or chimney of which
there shall issue dense black or gray smoke, shall be deemed guilty of creating
a public nuisance and of violating the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   The general manager, superintendent or other officer of any railroad
or other company, having charge or control of the operation of any locomotive
or engine within the city, who shall cause, permit or allow dense black or gray
smoke to be emitted from the engine, shall be deemed guilty of creating a
public nuisance and of violating the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 94.33) (Ord. 231-1910, passed - -1910)
§ 92.044 SOFT COAL FURNACES.
   Every boiler or other furnace, except in a private residence, used within
the city and in which bituminous coal is burned as fuel, shall be constructed
or altered or have attached thereto efficient preventatives which shall prevent
the production and emission of dense black or gray smoke. No owner, lessee or
person having control of a steam boiler or other furnace shall use or allow the
use of the steam boiler or other furnace if not constructed accordingly or not
having the efficient smoke preventatives in good and efficient order and
operation.
(Prior Code, § 94.34) (Ord. 231-1910, passed - -1910) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.045 STOKING FURNACE.
   Every person having charge of the igniting, feeding, stoking or attending to
any steam boiler or other furnace, or any smoke preventive attached thereto,
shall ignite, stoke, feed or attend the furnace fire and keep the furnace and
smoke preventatives attached thereto in good and efficient order so that dense
black and gray smoke shall not be produced or emitted therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 94.35) (Ord. 231-1910, passed - -1910)
§ 92.046 REPORTS; ORDERS TO REMEDY DEFECTS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Chief of the Fire Department to
personally inspect all chimneys, steam generating plants and apparatus in use,
make written reports to the Board of Public Works and Safety, and keep a
permanent record of all essential facts.
      (2)   If, in the opinion of the Chief of the Fire Department, smoke
emitted is a nuisance, he or she shall make complaint to the persons
maintaining the nuisance defining its cause.
      (3)   If the cause is unskillful hand stoking, he or she shall make
immediate complaint against all persons violating this subchapter.
      (4)   If the nuisance is caused by the construction of the furnace, size
or height of stack, connections or engineering details relating to boiler or
furnace construction or connection, he or she shall make a statement of the
cause of the nuisance and report to the owners or operators as to necessary
changes, alterations or additions and fix a limit of time for the changes,
alterations or additions to be made. The time shall not exceed three months.
   (B)   (1)   In the event, however, that it is necessary to install stokers,
the time shall not exceed six months. If it is apparent from the inspection of
the Chief of the Fire Department that no change, appliances or alteration of
the furnace, boilers, connections, stack or appurtenances thereto would
eradicate the smoke nuisance, and that the nuisance is caused by the steam
generating plant being worked in excess of its normal capacity or, for other
organic reasons, cannot be converted to eliminate the nuisance, then he or she
shall report to the owners or operators the conditions of the plant and the
required changes or additions necessary so that it will not operate as a
nuisance.
      (2)   Notices shall be in writing, and at the expiration of the time
allowance the Chief of the Fire Department shall report as to the conditions of
the plant.
      (3)   In the event it is maintained as a nuisance, he or she shall make
complaint against all persons violating this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 94.36) (Ord. 231-1910, passed - -1910)
§ 92.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   In addition to the charges listed in §
92.003(F), a property owner may be subject to a fine up to $2,500 per
occurrence for violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 94.03)
   (C)   (1)   Any owner of real estate violating §
92.005, which violation causes the city to begin its own eviction process
pursuant to I.C. 32-30-8-5, shall be fined $50 to assist with costs associated
in utilizing state law. No fines shall be assessed until at least 30 days after
receipt of notice required by §
92.005(F).
      (2)   Each day such violation continues shall be deemed a separate
violation, beginning with the thirty-first day following receipt of notice as
required by §
92.005(F).
(Prior Code, § 94.40)
(Ord. 67-1985, passed - -1985; Ord. 63-1991, passed - -1991; Ord. 23-1993,
passed - -1993; Ord. 36-2011, passed - -2011; Ord. 13-2015, passed - -2015;
Ord. 13-2018, passed 4-16-2018)
CHAPTER 93: PARKS AND RECREATION; LEISURE
Section
General Provisions
   
93.001   Definitions
   
93.002   Construction and scope of regulations
   
93.003   Permits
Conditions and Regulations
   
93.015   Advertising and commercial activity
   
93.016   Alcoholic beverages
   
93.017   Animals
   
93.018   Aviation
   
93.019   Camping
   
93.020   Construction work
   
93.021   Damage or destruction to park property
   
93.022   Disorderly conduct
   
93.023   Explosives, firearms, weapons and missiles
   
93.024   Fires; lighted cigars
   
93.025   Gambling
   
93.026   Littering, rubbish, refuse and pollution
   
93.027   Meetings, exhibitions, parades and racing
   
93.028   Picnics and outings
   
93.029   Water activities
Traffic Control
   
93.040   Traffic control generally
   
93.041   Restrictions on vehicles
   
93.042   Reckless driving
   
93.043   Restricted areas
   
93.044   Driving instructions
   
93.045   Obstructing traffic
   
93.046   Parking at night
   
93.047   Towing and projecting articles
   
93.048   Driving off pavement
   
93.049   Working on vehicles
   
93.050   Equipment on vehicles
   
93.051   U-turns
   
93.052   Skate park facility
 
   
93.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BATHING AREA. Any area maintained for the use of bathers, including, but not
limited to, water area and land under water adjacent to the bathing beaches,
swimming pools or any other area maintained or used for bathing areas, under
the jurisdiction of the Board.
   BICYCLE PATH. Any path, road or trail maintained for persons riding
bicycles.
   BOARD. The Board of Park Commissioners of the city.
   BRIDLE PATH. Any path or road maintained for persons riding on horseback.
   DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION. The Department of Parks and Recreation
of the city or the department of the city as may be under the jurisdiction of
the Board.
   FOOTPATH or TRAIL. Any path or trail maintained for pedestrians.
   LITTER. All uncontained human-made waste materials. It includes all
inoperable or disposed material commonly referred to as JUNK.
   OWNER. Any person owning, operating or having the use or control of a
vehicle, animal, thing or other property under a lease or otherwise.
   PARK. Includes all parks, parkways, playgrounds, athletic fields, tennis
courts, golf courses, swimming pools, beaches, boardwalks, parking areas and
other recreation areas, museums, zoological and botanical gardens, places,
squares, circles, spurs, open places, boulevards, roads, waters and lands under
water, and also entrances and approaches thereto, docks and piers, channels and
bridges, leading to or connecting, such park or parks or parts thereof, which
are under the jurisdiction of the Board and such other rights and appurtenances
as the Board shall utilize whether they are now or hereafter owned or acquired
by the city in fee or otherwise, including all land under and space above the
surface of the ground.
   PARK STREET. Street property in the park for the full width thereof.
   PARKWAY. Only the area as may lie within or between two public streets.
   PERMIT. Any written authorization issued by or under the authority of the
Board for a specified park privilege, activity or event or permitting the
performance of a specified act or acts in any park or park street.
   PLAYGROUND AREA. Any area maintained or designated as a playground and
including all territory under the jurisdiction of the Board.
   POLICE OFFICER. Any member of the Police Department or police officer
assigned to the Board, or appointed by the Board, as a park police officer or
any other city employee sworn in as a peace officer by the city or the Board,
pursuant to law.
   RULES or REGULATIONS. Any rules or regulations of the Board.
   SAFETY ZONE. Any space within any park or park street so designated by
appropriate signs as a safety zone.
   SERVICE ROAD. Any park street adjacent to the main roadway of a parkway.
   UNNECESSARY STOPPING. Bringing a vehicle to a complete stop on a road in a
park other than at a parking place, or other than in conformity with traffic
regulations or other than because of an emergency.
(Prior Code, § 95.01) (Ord. 1853-1961, passed - -1961; Ord. 3-1991, passed - -
1991)
§ 93.002 CONSTRUCTION AND SCOPE OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Construction. In the interpretation of this chapter affecting parks,
its provisions shall be construed as follows:
      (1)   Any requirement or provisions of this chapter relating to any act
shall respectively extend to and include the causing, procuring, aiding or
abetting, directly or indirectly, of such act, or the permitting or the
allowing of any minor in the custody of any persons, doing any act prohibited
by any provision;
      (2)   No provision shall make unlawful any act necessarily performed by
any officers or employee of the Department of Parks and Recreation in the line
of duty or work as such, or by any person, his or her agents, or employees, in
the proper and necessary execution of the terms of any agreement with the
Board;
      (3)   Any act otherwise prohibited by this chapter, provided it is not
otherwise prohibited by law or ordinance, shall be lawful if performed under,
by virtue of, and in compliance with, the provisions of a permit and to the
extent authorized thereby; and
      (4)   This chapter is in addition to and supplemental to all municipal,
state and federal laws and ordinances.
   (B)   Territorial scope. This chapter shall be effective in all areas under
the jurisdiction of the Board and shall regulate the use thereof by all
persons.
(Prior Code, § 95.02) (Ord. 1853-1961, passed - -1961; Ord. 3-1991, passed - -
1991)
§ 93.003 PERMITS.
   (A)   A permit to do any act shall authorize it only insofar as it may be
performed in accordance with the written terms and conditions thereof.
   (B)   Any violation of any law, ordinance or rule or regulation of the Board
or of any other city department by the holder of any permit or any term or
condition thereof, shall constitute grounds for revocation by the Board or by
its authorized representative, whose action shall be final.
   (C)   In case of revocation of any permit, all moneys paid or on account
shall, at the option of the Board, be forfeited and retained by the city.
   (D)   The holder of the permit, together with his or her agents and
employees who violated the terms and conditions, shall be jointly and severally
liable to the city for all damages and loss suffered by it in excess of moneys
forfeited and neither the retention by the city of the whole or any part of the
moneys, nor the recovery or collection of damages or both, shall relieve the
person or persons from liability to punishment for any violation of any law,
ordinance or rule or regulation of the Board or the city.
(Prior Code, § 95.03) (Ord. 1853-1961, passed - -1961)
CONDITIONS AND REGULATIONS
§ 93.015 ADVERTISING AND COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY.
   (A)   General. No person shall distribute or display any flag, banner, sign
or other matter for advertising purposes within any park. No person shall
display, by means of aircraft, kite, balloon, aerial bomb or any other device,
any flag, banner, sign or any other matter for advertising purposes above the
surface of any park. No person shall operate any musical instrument, drum, loud
speaker, amplifier or siren, or cause any noise to be made within any park for
advertising purposes or for the purpose of attracting to any exhibition,
performance or other spectacle.
   (B)   Peddling, sales, photographs.
      (1)   No person shall sell, exhibit or offer for sale, hire or lease any
object, merchandise, service or any thing in any park or to any person in any
park, except under a permit. No person shall, for advertising or commercial
purposes, take moving pictures or photographs within any park, or buy or sell
or publish the negatives or the prints or exhibit the negatives or prints in
public, or use pictures or photographs of any park, or park structure, or
perform any personal service for hire in any park, except under a permit, or
otherwise in accordance with the terms of the permit. Possession of objects or
merchandise in quantities, packages or containers customarily associated with
peddling shall be deemed to be prima facie evidence of exhibiting or offering
for sale.
      (2)   Nothing contained herein shall forbid the Board, in its discretion,
granting concession contracts and privileges to any concessionaire or permittee
on such terms and conditions as the Board may determine.
   (C)   Vendors. No vendor, hawker or huckster shall stop or remain on any
part of the right-of-way of service roads or entrances.
(Prior Code, § 95.10) (Ord. 1853-1961, passed - -1961) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.016 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   No person shall bring beer, ale or other alcoholic beverages into any park,
or consume, have in possession, sell, give away or handle any intoxicating or
alcoholic beverages in any park, with the exception that beer may be sold for
consumption by a duly authorized licensee of the Park Board at the Highland
Lake Golf Club and McBride Stadium and with the exception that beer or wine may
be sold for consumption by a licensed individual or entity under a state
temporary beer/wine permit, at a special event held at the Starr Gennett
facility, Rose Garden Reception Lawn, Jack Elstro Plaza, Middlefork Reservoir,
Glenn Miller Golf Course Clubhouse or the Charles House; provided that, a local
alcohol use permit is obtained and approved by the city’s Parks Department, and
all requirements imposed by the state upon the licensed individual or entity
are met prior to the special event.
(Prior Code, § 95.11) (Ord. 1853-1961, passed - -1961; Ord. 2850-1973, passed -
-1973; Ord. 84-1994, passed - -1994; Ord. 33-2010, passed - -2010; Ord. 31-
2013, passed - -2013; Ord. 51-2020, passed 9-21-2020) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.017 ANIMALS.
   (A)   Protection of animals. No person shall, within any park, molest, kill,
wound, trap, hunt, chase, shoot or throw missiles at, remove or have in his or
her possession any feral animal, reptile, bird, bird’s nest or squirrel’s nest
or remove the young of any animal or the eggs or young of any reptile or bird,
or knowingly buy, receive, have in his or her possession, sell or give away any
animal, reptile, bird or eggs killed or taken.
   (B)   Animals at large. No person owning or being custodian or having
control of any animal shall cause or permit the animal to go at large in any
park. A dog may be brought into a park; provided that, the dog is continuously
restrained by a leash not exceeding six feet in length. However, no dog will be
permitted in or on buildings, playgrounds, bathing areas, swimming pools,
stands, concert areas, seats, seating areas, sun decks adjacent to swimming
pools, areas where food is purveyed, kept or prepared or other areas designated
by signs as prohibited areas. Any animal found at large may be seized and
impounded or disposed of pursuant to law or ordinance. No person having the
care of any dog or other animal shall permit the animal to enter or drink the
water of any drinking fountain or swimming pool in any park, except at places
designated or maintained therefor.
   (C)   Horses. No person shall use, ride or drive a horse in any park unless
authorized to do so by the Board.
(Prior Code, § 95.12) (Ord. 1853-1961, passed - -1961) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.018 AVIATION.
   (A)   No person shall voluntarily bring, land or cause to descend or alight
within or on any park, any airplane, balloon, parachute or other apparatus for
aviation. VOLUNTARILY, in this section, shall mean anything other than a forced
landing.
   (B)   Any landing other than one caused by mechanical or structural failure
of the aircraft or any of its parts shall be deemed to have been made
voluntarily, and this shall include landings by error or oversight, negligence
or failure to comply with any Civil Aeronautics Authority regulations or
rulings.
(Prior Code, § 95.13) (Ord. 1853-1961, passed - -1961) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.019 CAMPING.
   No person shall tent or maintain a tent, shelter or camp in any park without
a permit from the Board or its duly authorized officers.
(Prior Code, § 95.14) (Ord. 1853-1961, passed - -1961) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.020 CONSTRUCTION WORK.
   No person shall perform construction work of any kind or work incidental
thereto in any park without a permit or under a contract with the Board.
(Prior Code, § 95.15) (Ord. 1853-1961, passed - -1961) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.021 DAMAGE OR DESTRUCTION TO PARK PROPERTY.
   (A)   Injuring park property. No person shall injure or destroy any property
under the supervision of the Board. No person shall alter or remove any park
property. No person shall suspend any wires or other objects over any part of
any park.
   (B)   Damaging plants. No person shall alter or destroy any plants on any
property under the supervision of the Board, or permit any animal under the
control of that person to alter or destroy any plants. No person shall bring
into any park any plant or portion thereof.
(Prior Code, § 95.16) (Ord. 3-1991, passed - -1991) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.022 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   No person shall, in any park or park street:
   (A)   Disobey an order of a police officer or any park employee designated
by the Board to give orders, or disobey or disregard the notices, prohibitions,
instructions or directions on any park sign, including rules and regulations of
swimming pools, playground areas, civic center, shelter houses, museums or
zoological or botanical gardens posted on the grounds or buildings or
structures connected with or used for any purpose under jurisdiction, control,
operation or supervision of the Board;
   (B)   Use threatening, abusive or insulting language;
   (C)   Do, engage in or aid or abet any obscene or indecent act;
   (D)   Throw, cast or propel stones or other missiles;
   (E)   Solicit alms, subscriptions or contributions for any purpose;
   (F)   Molest or annoy any persons;
   (G)   Interfere with, encumber, obstruct or render dangerous, any part of a
park or park street;
   (H)   Climb or lie upon any wall, fence, shelter, seat or other structure;
   (I)   Do any act tending to or amounting to a breach of peace;
   (J)   Enter any park without paying the admission charged when an admission
fee has been fixed by the Board;
   (K)   Engage in, instigate or encourage a contention or fight;
   (L)   Do, aid, abet or assist in doing any act injurious to any person,
animal or property within any park or park street;
   (M)   Dress or undress behind shrubs or other structures or in any place not
designated by the Board for these purposes;
   (N)   Act as crier, or advertiser, through the media of voice, public
address system, amplifier, loud speaker or other mechanical device, in parks,
park streets or beaches;
   (O)   Appear in or on any park or park street while intoxicated or under the
influence of intoxicating liquor; and/or
   (P)   Pick up, remove, carry away or steal any article or object having to
do with the park or an agent thereof or person connected therewith such as, but
not limited to, golf balls, golf flags, cups, tee markers and so forth.
(Prior Code, § 95.17) (Ord. 1853-1961, passed - -1961; Ord. 3-1991, passed - -
1991) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.023 EXPLOSIVES, FIREARMS, WEAPONS AND MISSILES.
   (A)   No person shall bring into or have in his or her possession in any
park any firearms, slingshots, firecrackers, torpedoes, fireworks or other
missile- propelling instruments or explosives, including any substance,
compound, mixture or article having properties that alone or in combination or
contiguity with other substances, mixtures, compounds or articles may propel
missiles or may decompose suddenly and generate sufficient heat, sound, gas or
pressure or any or all of these to produce rapid flames, combustion or noxious
or dangerous odors or sounds such as to annoy any other person or to injure any
person or property.
   (B)   No person shall shoot or propel any missile, pellet, shot, arrow, dart
or other thing by means of any firearm, compressed air or gas propulsion
device, bow, slingshot or propelling device of any kind in or into any park,
except under a permit granted by the Board or within a regularly conducted
event authorized by, or conducted by, the Board or the Superintendent of Parks
and Recreation of the Department of Parks and Recreation.
(Prior Code, § 95.18) (Ord. 1853-1961, passed - -1961; Ord. 3-1991, passed - -
1991) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.024 FIRES; LIGHTED CIGARS.
   No person shall kindle, build, maintain or use a fire, except in fireplaces
provided for the purpose or under special permit. Any fire shall be
continuously under the care and direction of a competent person over 21 years
of age from the time it is kindled until it is extinguished, and no fire shall
be built within ten feet of any tree or building, or beneath the branches of
any trees or in any underbrush. No person shall throw away or discard any
lighted match, cigar or cigarette in any park.
(Prior Code, § 95.19) (Ord. 1853-1961, passed - -1961) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.025 GAMBLING.
   No person shall play games of chance, sell fortunes or futures, participate
in the conduct of a lottery, or use any slot machine, gaming table or
instrument or bring into the park or have in his or her possession while there
any implements or devices commonly used, or intended to be used, for gambling
purposes.
(Prior Code, § 95.20) (Ord. 1853-1961, passed - -1961) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.026 LITTERING, RUBBISH, REFUSE AND POLLUTION.
   (A)   Littering. No person shall discard litter in any park.
   (B)   Spitting. No person shall in any park spit on any walk, crossing,
safety zone, structure, bridge, platform, stairway or floor of any building.
   (C)   Pollution of waters. No person shall throw, cast, lay or drop or
discharge into or leave in the waters used for bathing or waters in any park or
in any storm sewer, or drain flowing into said waters, any substance, matter or
thing, liquid or solid, which may or shall result in the pollution of the
waters.
   (D)   Drains and sewers. No person shall discharge directly or indirectly,
into any opening or into any gutter leading into any sewer, receiving basin or
drain, in or leading into any park, any gas or vapor or any substance which may
form a deposit tending to choke it, or any volatile liquid which will emit a
flammable vapor, or any steam or hot water above 100°F.
(Prior Code, § 95.23) (Ord. 1853-1961, passed - -1961; Ord. 3-1991, passed - -
1991) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.027 MEETINGS, EXHIBITIONS, PARADES AND RACING.
   (A)   No person shall erect any structure, stand or platform, or exhibit any
dramatic performance, or the performance in whole or in part of any
entertainment, motion picture, public fair or show of any kind, or parade,
drill or maneuver of any kind, or run or race any animal or vehicle, or hold
any athletic contest, in any park or on any park street, except by permit.
   (B)   The Board may, in its discretion, issue a permit on application when
it is consistent with the proper use and protection of the park property under
its jurisdiction and refuse a permit when inconsistent with proper use and
protection of park property.
   (C)   No person shall erect any structure, stand or platform, hold any
meeting, perform any ceremony, make a speech, address or oration, or exhibit or
distribute any sign, placard, notice, declaration or appeal in any park, except
by permit of the Board.
   (D)   (1)   On application, a permit shall be issued unless:
         (a)   The use for which the permit is sought is of a commercial
nature;
         (b)   The location selected is not suitable because it is inconsistent
with one of the specialized park use areas such as skating rinks, ball
diamonds, camping areas, athletic fields, landscaped areas, limited use areas,
swimming pools, recreational areas; or
         (c)   The date and time requested has previously been allocated by
permit, or would obstruct and interfere substantially with park use and
enjoyment by the public. However, no permit shall be issued for any unlawful
purpose or for any person, group or organization which is subversive or
disloyal to the United States, or who might incite a riot, or who are engaged
in activities calculated to provoke racial or religious discrimination
prejudices.
      (2)   Whenever a permit is denied by reason of divisions (D)(1)(a), (D)
(1)(b) or (D)(1)(c) above, alternative suitable locations and dates shall be
offered to the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 95.24) (Ord. 1853-1961, passed - -1961) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.028 PICNICS AND OUTINGS.
   Any person conducting an organized picnic or outing shall obtain permits
prior to entering any park for such purposes.
(Prior Code, § 95.25) (Ord. 1853-1961, passed - -1961) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.029 WATER ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   Boating.
      (1)   No boat or vessel shall be laid up, stored, repaired or placed for
any other purpose on park land, except by permit.
      (2)   No person shall operate a boat or raft on any waters under the
jurisdiction of the Board, unless able to control or handle it with safety to
himself or herself or other occupants, or otherwise in a careful and prudent
manner and at a rate of speed so as not to molest, annoy, disturb or endanger
the life, limb, property or reasonable comfort or safety of others.
      (3)   Boating of any kind in a bathing area is forbidden.
   (B)   Fishing.
      (1)   Fishing is prohibited in any waters under the jurisdiction of the
Board, except such areas as are designated or maintained as fishing areas. No
person shall have in his or her possession or take or attempt to take any fish
in any waters, except in designated areas, or at any time throw missiles at any
fish, or place in the waters any piscivorous fish, poison or other substances
injurious to fish.
      (2)   Ice fishing, while situated on the ice layer of any waters under
the jurisdiction of the Board, is prohibited.
   (C)   Bathing.
      (1)   No person shall bathe, wade or swim in any waters under the
jurisdiction of the Board, except at such times and in such places as the Board
may designate or maintain as bathing areas and except in bathing costume or
other than ordinary attire.
      (2)   No person shall bathe, wade or swim, or appear, in a bathing area
unless covered with a bathing suit, having trunks, properly supported with
straps or other devices which must be kept in place at all times.
      (3)   No person shall dress or undress in any park, except in such places
as may be designated or maintained for the purpose.
(Prior Code, § 95.26) (Ord. 1853-1961, passed - -1961; Ord. 19-1990, passed - -
1990) Penalty, see §
93.999
TRAFFIC CONTROL
§ 93.040 TRAFFIC CONTROL GENERALLY.
   (A)   A rate of speed in excess of 20 mph is prohibited in any park unless
specifically provided for by traffic signs erected by an authorized state or
city official, board or commission.
   (B)   All persons shall heed and comply with directions of the police
officers indicated by gesture or otherwise in using parks or park streets and
shall further comply with directions on traffic signs along the routes in the
parks and along park streets. Directions on the traffic signs may be
disregarded only on an order of a police officer. In parking spaces, all
persons shall comply with the directions of a park employee.
(Prior Code, § 95.30) (Ord. 1853-1961, passed - -1961) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.041 RESTRICTIONS ON VEHICLES.
   (A)   Commercial vehicles. Vehicles constructed or adapted for or engaged in
the carrying of merchandise and trucks and trailers are prohibited from using
any park, except under permit where necessary to make deliveries in the park.
Wherever service roads adjoin the main roadway to a park, the vehicles are
required to use the service roads set apart for such use. In all cases, the
vehicles must enter the park from the nearest street intersection or entrance,
in the direction of traffic, and leave by the nearest intersecting street or
exit in the direction of traffic.
   (B)   Refuse or heavy materials. No garbage, ashes, manure or other
offensive material shall be carried through any park. When such refuse is to be
removed from premises fronting on any park or park street, the vehicle
collecting it must leave the park or park street as soon as the collection has
been accomplished.
   (C)   On certain land.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any motor-powered
vehicle, including, without limitation, any two-wheeled or three-wheeled
motorcycle, motor scooter, snowmobile or all-terrain vehicle, upon any land
which is reasonably identifiable as the property of the city, or any agency or
department thereof, other than public roads and streets, except in such areas
and at such time as may be expressly permitted by the Board of Park
Commissioners or order of the governing board or director of the particular
department or agency which has jurisdiction and control over any particular
land area.
      (2)   The Board or Director of every department or agency of the city is
authorized, by resolution or order duly adopted, after a finding that the
public safety and convenience and the intended use of the affected land will
not be unduly impaired, to permit vehicles of any type described above, to be
operated on certain specified land areas within the jurisdiction and control of
such department or agency. The resolution or order may permit operation of all
such vehicles or only certain specified types, and may set time limits for
operation.
      (3)   No provision of this section shall be deemed or construed to
prohibit or limit the operation of any licensed motor vehicle on any public
roadway by a duly licensed operator.
(Prior Code, § 95.31) (Ord. 1853-1961, passed - -1961) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.042 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   No person shall, in any park, operate, drive or propel, or cause or permit
to be operated, driven or propelled, any vehicle recklessly or negligently or
at a speed or in such a manner as to endanger the life, limb, safety, comfort
or property of any person.
(Prior Code, § 95.32) (Ord. 1853-1961, passed - -1961) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.043 RESTRICTED AREAS.
   No person shall, in any park, drive or operate a vehicle within or on a
safety zone, walk or any part of any park designated or customarily used for
such purposes. No person shall ride a bicycle or motor scooter in any park,
except in places designated for riding, but persons may push the machines in
single file to and from the places. No person may park any vehicle in front of
and within 20 feet of the entrance or exit of any field house, stadium,
swimming pool, bathhouse or other building or structure where accommodations
are provided for seating people.
(Prior Code, § 95.33) (Ord. 1853-1961, passed - -1961) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.044 DRIVING INSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   Instruction on operating automobiles or motorcycles is prohibited in
parks and on park streets.
   (B)   No person, who may not lawfully operate a vehicle within the state or
city, shall drive or operate a vehicle within any park.
(Prior Code, § 95.34) (Ord. 1853-1961, passed - -1961) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.045 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   No person shall cause or permit any vehicle to obstruct traffic in any park
or park street, or to stop a vehicle, except at those places specifically
designated or maintained for the purpose of stopping or parking, except in
cases of emergency.
(Prior Code, § 95.35) (Ord. 1853-1961, passed - -1961) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.046 PARKING AT NIGHT.
   No person shall, between 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m., park a vehicle in any
park except at places designated or maintained therefor.
(Prior Code, § 95.36) (Ord. 1853-1961, passed - -1961) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.047 TOWING AND PROJECTING ARTICLES.
   (A)   No person shall cause or permit a vehicle to be towed by another
vehicle in any park; except that, in case of a breakdown, a disabled vehicle
may be towed to the nearest exit.
   (B)   No person shall operate or drive in any park a vehicle containing any
person or object projecting or hanging outside of or on the top of it except
outdoor sports and recreation equipment such as fishing poles, beach chairs,
beach umbrellas, tent poles and sleds which may be carried on the rear of the
vehicles or on a rack designed for the purpose and attached to the vehicle top.
In all cases, fastenings shall be secure and substantial, and the equipment
carried shall in no case project more than 12 inches above the top, over either
side, or the front, of the vehicle. If the equipment projects to the rear of
the vehicle, it shall not obscure the tail or stop lights or directional
signals, extremity of the projection objects.
(Prior Code, § 95.37) (Ord. 1853-1961, passed - -1961) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.048 DRIVING OFF PAVEMENT.
   No vehicle shall be operated or driven off the improved or paved roadways of
any park. Disabled vehicles may be driven off the roadway so as to prevent
obstruction of traffic, but no disabled vehicle shall be permitted to remain in
a park for a longer period than two hours.
(Prior Code, § 95.38) (Ord. 1853-1961, passed - -1961) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.049 WORKING ON VEHICLES.
   No person in any park shall clean, polish, grease, lubricate or make repairs
to any vehicle, except those of a minor nature and then only in cases in
emergency.
(Prior Code, § 95.39) (Ord. 1853-1961, passed - -1961) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.050 EQUIPMENT ON VEHICLES.
   No person shall drive or operate in any park a vehicle not equipped as
provided by law or which may not lawfully be operated within the state or use
any cut out, fitting, apparatus or device which allows its exhaust gases to
escape without first passing through a muffler or silencer, or drive a vehicle
emitting offensive quantities of smoke, oil, gas or disagreeable odors or use
any gong, siren or whistle on any vehicle not operated by a public authority.
(Prior Code, § 95.40) (Ord. 1853-1961, passed - -1961) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.051 U-TURNS.
   U-turns are prohibited in any park, except when specifically allowed by an
officer or by a traffic direction sign.
(Prior Code, § 95.41) (Ord. 1853-1961, passed - -1961) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.052 SKATE PARK FACILITY.
   (A)   The Parks and Recreation Board of the city is hereby authorized to
adopt rules governing the use of the skate park facility located in Glen Miller
Park.
   (B)   All rules and regulations adopted by the Parks and Recreation Board
pursuant to this section shall be posted at all entrances to the skate park
facility.
   (C)   The skate park facility shall be open only to skateboards and inline
skates. No bicycles or scooters shall be permitted.
   (D)   No graffiti or tagging shall be permitted within the skate park
facility.
   (E)   Alcohol, tobacco, illegal drugs and weapons are prohibited.
   (F)   Horseplay, roughhousing, fighting, violence and profanity are
prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 95.40) (Ord. 1853-1961, passed - -1961; Ord. 95-2001, passed - -
2001) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Violators of §
93.052(C), (D), (E) and/or (F) may be fined $50 for each violation, which fine
may be issued by any member of the city’s Police Department or any employee of
the city so authorized by the Parks and Recreation Board.
(Prior Code, § 95.40) (Ord. 1853-1961, passed - -1961; Ord. 95-2001, passed - -
2001)
CHAPTER 94: ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
Burglary and Robbery Alarm Systems
   
94.001   Definitions
   
94.002   Permit required
   
94.003   Permit application
   
94.004   Issuance of alarm system permit
   
94.005   Testing equipment
   
94.006   Change in information
   
94.007   Log of alarm activity
   
94.008   Identification cards required
   
94.009   Consumer protection
   
94.010   Prohibited activity
   
94.011   Notice of violations
   
94.012   Service of notice and contents
   
94.013   Effect of failure to appear
   
94.014   Fee and violation proceeds
   
94.015   Procedure for notification of fine, revocation of alarm permit and
reinstatement of alarm permit
   
94.016   Other provisions
   
94.017   Severability
   
94.018   Effective date
Fire Alarm Systems
   
94.030   No more than three false alarms in 12 months
   
94.031   Fire Department to keep records
 
   
94.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Unified Development Code, see
Ch. 165
Statutory reference:
   Fire protection, see I.C. 36-8
BURGLARY AND ROBBERY ALARM SYSTEMS
§ 94.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM BUSINESS. Any individual, partnership, corporation or other entity who
in addition to selling alarm systems, also leases, maintains, services,
repairs, alters, replaces, moves or installs any alarm system or causes to be
sold, leased, maintained, serviced, repaired, altered, replaced, moved or
installed any alarm system in or on any building, structure, facility or
grounds.
   ALARM SYSTEM.
      (1)   Any device used for the detection of an unauthorized entry or
attempted entry into a building, structure or facility or for alerting others
of the commission of an unlawful act within a building, structure, facility or
grounds, which when activated causes notification to be made directly or
indirectly to the city’s Police Department.
      (2)   ALARM SYSTEM shall not include:
         (a)   An alarm installed on a motor vehicle;
      (b)   An alarm system designated so that no notification is given to the
police until after the occupants, an agent of the owner or lessee, or an agent
of an alarm system business have visually checked the alarm site and determined
that the alarm was the result of criminal activity of the kind for which the
alarm system was designated to give notice; and
         (c)   An alarm installed upon premises occupied by the United States,
the state or any political subdivision thereof.
   FALSE ALARM. An event in which a police response was the result of an
external alarm and no intrusion or evidence of attempted entry was evident. (No
exceptions.)
   PERMIT HOLDER. The individual, corporation, partnership or other legal
entity to whom an alarm system permit is issued.
   REGULATED BURGLAR ALARM SYSTEM. Any burglar alarm system which uses an
external signaling device to summon the police either directly or indirectly.
An EXTERNAL SIGNALING DEVICE is any bell, siren, horn, flashing light,
automatic dialer or other device intended to summon a police response either
directly or indirectly by signaling an alert outside of a building. Every
burglar alarm system equipped with any external signaling device shall be
deemed to be a REGULATED BURGLAR ALARM SYSTEM and must have a permit.
   RESPONSE. An alarm which precipitates a police officer arrival at the alarm
site.
(Prior Code, § 120.01) (Ord. 47-1985, passed - -1985)
§ 94.002 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for a person in control of property to operate, cause
to be operated or permit the operation of an alarm system on that property
unless a current permit has been obtained from the City Clerk or his or her
designee. Failure to secure a permit within 72 hours of installation will
constitute violation of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 120.01) (Ord. 47-1985, passed - -1985; Ord. 10-2000, passed - -
2000)
§ 94.003 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   Application for a permit for the operation of an alarm system shall be
made by a person or legal entity having control over the property on which the
alarm system is to be installed and operated. Such applications shall be made
in writing to the City Controller or his or her designee on a form designated
by the city for that purpose.
   (B)   The application shall include the following information:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of each person in control of
the property, and who is responsible for the operation, maintenance and use of
the alarm system;
      (2)   The street address of the property on which the alarm system is to
be installed and operated;
      (3)   Any business name used for the premises on which the alarm system
is to be installed and operated;
      (4)   The name of the person or alarm system business who will install or
monitor the alarm system, and the installation date, as applicable;
      (5)   The name and telephone number of two persons or of an alarm system
business which are able to and have agreed:
         (a)   To receive notification at any time;
         (b)   To come to the alarm site within 30 minutes after receiving a
request from the city’s Police Department to do so; and
         (c)   To grant access to the alarm site and to deactivate the system
if such becomes necessary.
      (6)   The name and model of the alarm system components used; and
      (7)   The information herein, as well as a statement that contact
information is available from dispatch, shall be displayed on the permit
itself.
(Prior Code, § 120.03) (Ord. 39-2001, passed - -2001)
§ 94.004 ISSUANCE OF ALARM SYSTEM PERMIT.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall issue an alarm system permit to the person or
other legal entity in control of the property upon submission of an application
therefor in accordance with this section, unless the City Clerk finds that any
statement made in the application was incomplete or false. Should the property
in which an alarm system is located change ownership, or should the entity in
control of the property change, a new application for a permit must be made.
Such permits are not transferable.
   (B)   The fee for an alarm system permit will be $10 for the first term of
the permit. Such permit may be renewed upon expiration upon a payment of $10
for a new term.
   (C)   Immediately after receipt of the application for a permit and payment
of the permit fee, the City Clerk shall forward the application to the Police
Department. The Police Department shall protect all information on such
application as confidential information; provided, however, nothing in this
subchapter shall prohibit the use of such information for legitimate law
enforcement purposes and for the enforcement of this subchapter.
   (D)   A permit issued pursuant to this subchapter shall be valid for two
years from the date of issuance.
   (E)   A permit issued pursuant to this subchapter shall be personal to the
permit holder and is not transferable.
   (F)   A person or legal entity having control of an alarm system at the time
this subchapter becomes effective shall have 90 days to obtain a permit as set
out herein.
   (G)   All permits must be prominently displayed at a location near the
entrance to the facility utilizing an alarm system and in such a manner that
they can be viewed by law enforcement without having to enter the premises.
(Prior Code, § 120.04) (Ord. 47-1985, passed - -1985; Ord. 10-2000, passed - -
2000; Ord. 39-2001, passed - -2001) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.005 TESTING EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Any permit holder or alarm business may test its alarm system with the
city’s Police Department provided that the permit holder or alarm business has
notified the Police Department dispatcher in advance at least 30 minutes prior
to conducting the test and has received the approval of the Police Department
to conduct such test prior to the test being performed.
   (B)   Such testing shall be subject to the sole discretion of the Police
Department.
   (C)   The city’s Police Department shall log all requests for alarm testing
and all alarm tests conducted.
(Prior Code, § 120.05) (Ord. 47-1985, passed - -1985)
§ 94.006 CHANGE IN INFORMATION.
   The permit holder shall promptly notify the City Clerk or his or her
designee in writing of any change in the information contained in the permit
application.
(Prior Code, § 120.06) (Ord. 47-1985, passed - -1985; Ord. 10-2000, passed - -
2000)
§ 94.007 LOG OF ALARM ACTIVITY.
   It shall be the duty of the alarm permit holder and alarm business to
record, to the best extent possible, a log, the date and time of each alarm
activity, the cause and nature of each alarm and the dates and nature of any
service, installation or maintenance of the alarm system and its components.
Such information shall be made available to the city’s Police Department upon
its request.
(Prior Code, § 120.07) (Ord. 47-1985, passed - -1985)
§ 94.008 IDENTIFICATION CARDS REQUIRED.
   Every agent of an alarm business shall carry on his or her person at all
times, while engaged in the alarm business, an identification card which shall
be displayed to any law enforcement officer upon request. In addition, the
employees of commercial alarm businesses shall file photograph, fingerprint and
identification records with the city’s Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 120.08) (Ord. 47-1985, passed - -1985) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.009 CONSUMER PROTECTION.
   It shall be the obligation of businesses selling alarm systems and doing
business with the city to inform customers at the point of sale that local
ordinance requires anyone in control of an alarm system, as defined by this
subchapter, to obtain a permit for such alarm.
(Prior Code, § 120.09) (Ord. 47-1985, passed - -1985)
§ 94.010 PROHIBITED ACTIVITY.
   It shall be unlawful for a person who controls property on which an alarm
system is installed to issue, cause to be issued, allow or permit the issuance
of false alarms.
(Prior Code, § 120.10) (Ord. 47-1985, passed - -1985) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.011 NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS.
   Whenever a police officer of the city, or a person so authorized by the
Board of Public Works and Safety, shall find that the owner or operator of any
alarm system has committed any of the acts which have been declared unlawful by
any provision of this subchapter, the officer shall give notice to the person
of the violation in the manner directed in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 120.11) (Ord. 47-1985, passed - -1985)
§ 94.012 SERVICE OF NOTICE AND CONTENTS.
   (A)   A police officer shall notify the owner or operator of an alarm
system, or his or her representative, of any violation subject to this
subchapter by presenting such person found in possession of in charge of the
alarm system with a written notice. If the officer shall not find any such
person in possession of in charge of the premises, or if the person is a child
or incapable of receiving the notice, the officer shall notify such owner or
operator thereof by posting or attaching a written notice of the violation in a
conspicuous place upon the premises and such person shall be bound thereby.
   (B)   All notice of violations, as required to be served by this section
shall be executed by the police officer or other authorized person, in
quadruplicate. One copy shall be served upon the violator, one copy shall be
filed by the officer with the Police Records Division and one copy shall be
filed in the office of the City Attorney, which copy shall also be for the use
of the officer. The latter two copies shall be filed in the respective office
by the officer at his or her earliest opportunity before or when he or she goes
off duty for the particular day on which such notice was served on the
violator. In the event an alarm is operated by an alarm business, one copy of
the notice of violation shall be served on the person who controls the property
on which the alarm system is installed and a copy shall also be served upon the
alarm business.
   (C)   All notices provided for in this section shall be numbered and shall
contain the following information:
      (1)   The specific violation with which the violator is charged;
      (2)   The name and address of the person who controls property on which
the alarm system is installed;
      (3)   The location of the violation;
      (4)   The signature of the officer;
      (5)   The badge number, if any, of the officer; and
      (6)   The date of the violation.
   (D)   (1)   The copy of the notice served upon the violator or his or her
representative, or the owner of the premises, shall also state that the
violator respond, in writing, at the office of the City Attorney, within ten
days of the date of the violation appearing upon the notice; and the violator
so appearing shall have the privileges accorded by law.
      (2)   However, if the period of ten days shall expire upon a Sunday or a
legal holiday, then the period of time in which the violator must appear shall
be extended 24 additional hours. Contents of the response shall contain an
explanation of any known reason for the cause of the false alarm and the
remedial action taken.
(Prior Code, § 120.12) (Ord. 47-1985, passed - -1985)
§ 94.013 EFFECT OF FAILURE TO APPEAR.
   All alarm system components in use with any regulated alarm system must be
of an approved type to obtain a permit. (All component types will be approved
when the ordinance first becomes effective). Alarm system components found to
be responsible for an excessive number of false alarms may be restricted or
prohibited on new permits and restricted or prohibited from further use with
existing permits by written notice to the affected permit holders. The permit
holder shall have 30 days to make necessary changes and submit a revised permit
application form using only acceptable alarm system components. If the permit
holder fails to respond, the permit shall be revoked by notice sent by
registered mail.
(Prior Code, § 120.14) (Ord. 47-1985, passed - -1985) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.014 FEE AND VIOLATION PROCEEDS.
   (A)   All sums generated by reason of the terms of this subchapter shall be
deposited in the General Fund of the city.
   (B)   The offending permit holder shall be responsible for the payment of
any penalties assessed.
(Prior Code, § 120.15) (Ord. 47-1985, passed - -1985)
§ 94.015 PROCEDURE FOR NOTIFICATION OF FINE, REVOCATION OF ALARM PERMIT AND
REINSTATEMENT OF ALARM PERMIT.
   In the event three or more citations for false alarms are issued to any
permit holder within a calendar year, the procedure in §
94.999(D) shall be used for assessing a fine and determining whether the alarm
permit for such offending system should be revoked.
(Prior Code, § 120.16) (Ord. 47-1985, passed - -1985; Ord. 10-2000, passed - -
2000) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.016 OTHER PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Any alarm system must be equipped to automatically disconnect or turn
itself off within 15 minutes after it has been activated.
   (B)   Any alarm system which features an automatic telephone dialing device
may only be connected to an approved telephone number and must automatically
release the telephone line upon completion of the call.
(Prior Code, § 120.17) (Ord. 47-1985, passed - -1985) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.017 SEVERABILITY.
   All ordinances or parts of ordinances inconsistent with this subchapter are
hereby repealed.
(Prior Code, § 120.18) (Ord. 47-1985, passed - -1985)
§ 94.018 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be in full force and effect 60 days after passage by
the Common Council.
(Prior Code, § 120.17) (Ord. 47-1985, passed - -1985)
FIRE ALARM SYSTEMS
§ 94.030 NO MORE THAN THREE FALSE ALARMS IN 12 MONTHS.
   No person shall allow, cause or fail to prevent the transmission by
automatic fire detection system used by him or her or any system serving a
premises occupied and controlled by him or her of more than three false alarm
signals within any 12-month period. An alarm triggered by electrical
thunderstorms or other inclimate weather shall not be considered a false alarm.
(Prior Code, § 120.20) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.031 FIRE DEPARTMENT TO KEEP RECORDS.
   The Administrative Office of the city’s Fire Department or the Fire
Prevention Chief shall keep current records of all violations.
(Prior Code, § 120.21)
§ 94.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Operating an alarm system without a permit. It shall be a
violation to operate, in the city, an alarm system without permit, per §§
94.001 through
94.018. Upon such citation, the fine shall be $100.
      (2)   False alarms.
         (a)   Any permit holder that receives four or more citations for false
alarms within a calendar year shall be assessed a fine of $50 for the fourth
and each subsequent citation. Any permit holder that receives seven or more
citations for false alarms within a calendar year shall be assessed a fine of
$100 for the seventh and each subsequent citation. This shall not preclude
revocation of the alarm permit as provided herein.
         (b)   Any fine not paid within 14 days of the date shown on the notice
of violation and fine required under division (D)(2) below shall be increased
by a late fee of $25.
         (c)   Failure to pay a fine within 30 days of the date shown on the
notice of violation and fine required under division (D)(2) below shall result
in an enforcement action being filed in county court.
         (d)   The provisions of this division (B) shall not apply for the
first three months after an alarm system is initially installed. No false alarm
violations received during these first three months shall result in a fine, nor
shall they be taken into consideration when tabulating the number of false
alarms received in any given period.
         (e)   An alarm triggered by electrical thunderstorms or inclement
weather shall not be considered a false alarm.
(Prior Code, § 120.13)
   (C)   The permit holder of any regulated alarm system which causes a false
alarm while using any prohibited alarm system components, per §
94.013, shall be fined $100.
(Prior Code, § 120.14)
   (D)   (1)   Upon the third citation, per §
94.015, the Department of Law shall deliver to the permit holder by first class
mail a notice that the permit holder will be subject a fine of $50 upon the
occurrence of each subsequent (fourth or more) false alarm within said 12-month
period.
      (2)   Upon the fourth and each subsequent citation within a calendar
year, the Department of Law shall deliver to the permit holder by first class
mail a notice violation and fine. Said notice shall contain the following:
         (a)   The number of violations for which the permit holder has
received a citation during the current calendar year;
         (b)   The fine being assessed and time- frame within which said fine
must be paid;
         (c)   Notice that upon the seventh citation within the current
calendar year, the permit holder shall be fined $100 for the seventh and each
subsequent citation, and may be subject to revocation of the alarm system
permit; and
         (d)   A copy of §§
94.001 through
94.018.
      (3)   Upon the seventh or any subsequent citation within a calendar year,
the Department of Law may deliver to the permit holder by personal service or
certified mail a notice of intent to revoke the alarm system permit to the
alarm permit holder. When such notice is sent, the Department of Law shall also
schedule a hearing before the city’s Board of Public Works and Safety to
determine whether the permit for that alarm system should be revoked. Notice of
the hearing date shall be given to the permit holder, along with information
that the permit holder may appear at the permit revocation hearing with counsel
and witnesses and may present evidence on the permit holder’s behalf.
      (4)   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall conduct a hearing no
less than 21 days after notice is sent to the permit holder. The Board of
Public Works and Safety shall hold such permit revocation hearing, under oath,
and shall consider the evidence presented before it. If the Board finds, by a
preponderance of the evidence, that seven or more false alarms have resulted
from an alarm system within any calendar year, the permit for that system may
be revoked. Notice of the revocation shall be delivered to the system holder by
personal service or certified mail and the revocation becomes effective
immediately upon such delivery.
      (5)   An alarm holder whose permit has been revoked may petition the
Board of Public Works and Safety for reinstatement of the alarm permit upon a
showing that the alarm system has been inspected, repaired and tested. If the
Board finds satisfactory evidence that the alarm system has been adequately
inspected, repaired and tested, the Board may reinstate the alarm permit upon
the submission of a $25 reinstatement fee by the alarm holder.
(Prior Code, § 120.16)
   (E)   Per §§
94.030 and
94.031, the fourth and each subsequent false fire alarm within a calendar year
shall result in a fine of $100. The provisions of §§
94.030 and
94.031 shall not apply for the first three months after an alarm system is
initially installed. No false alarm violations received during these first
three months shall result in a fine, nor shall they be taken into consideration
when tabulating the number of false alarms received in any given period.
(Prior Code, § 120.22)
(Ord. 47-1985, passed - -1985; Ord. 10-2000, passed - -2000)
CHAPTER 95: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
95.001   Policy statement
   
95.002   Definitions
   
95.003   Unlawful practice
   
95.004   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
95.005   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
95.006   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage service
   
95.007   Interference, coercion or intimidation
   
95.008   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
95.009   Equal access to housing in HUD programs
   
95.010   Exemptions
   
95.011   Administrative enforcement
   
95.012   Additional powers and duties of the Human Rights Commission
   
95.013   Separability of provisions
Cross-reference:
   Human Rights Commission, see §
32.019
§ 95.001 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the city to provide, within constitutional
limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for
under the Federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended (being 42 U.S.C. §§ 3601
et seq.), the Federal Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended
(being 42 U.S.C. §§ 5301 et seq.), and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq., as amended.
(Prior Code, § 32.5101) (Ord. 28-1995, passed - -1995; Ord. 52-1995, passed - -
1995; Ord. 72-2013, passed - -2013)
§ 95.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-2)
   COMMISSION. The Indiana Civil Rights Commission, created pursuant to I.C.
22-9-1-4 et seq.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-3)
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-4)
   DISABILITY.
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person’s major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment;
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment; and
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the Federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq.
      (2)   The term DISABILITY shall not include current illegal use of or
addictions to a controlled substance as defined in 21 U.S.C. § 802; nor does
the term DISABILITY includes an individual solely because that individual is a
transvestite.
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
95.004 through
95.008 or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure or part of a building or structure that is
occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families (I.C. 22-9.5-2-8).
   FAMILIAL STATUS.
      (1)   One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18 years
being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of such
individual or the written permission of such parent or other person.
      (2)   The protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of
familial status shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process
of securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18
years.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual (I.C. 22-9.5-2-9), with the status of
such family being further defined herein.
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, non- incorporated organizations, trustees,
trustees in cases under U.S.C. Title 11, receivers and fiduciaries.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the rights to occupy the premises not owned by the occupant.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-13)
(Prior Code, § 32.5102) (Ord. 28-1995, passed - -1995; Ord. 52-1995, passed - -
1995; Ord. 72-2013, passed - -2013)
§ 95.003 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of division (A)(2) below, §
95.009 and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale
or rental of housing set forth in §
95.004 and I.C. 22-9.5-5-1 shall apply to:
      (1)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (A)(2) below and I.C.
22-9.5-3; and
      (2)   Other than the provisions of division (B) below, nothing in §
95.004 shall apply to:
         (a)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that, in the sale of such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or the
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24-month period. The
private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or
reserved on his or her behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the
proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses
at any one time. The sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be
exempted from application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
            1.   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental
facilities or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesperson, or any
person in the business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or
agent of any such broker, agent or salesperson, or person; and
            2.   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
95.004, but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstracters, title companies and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title.
         (b)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied
or intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently
of each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (B)   For the purposes of division (A)(2) below, a person shall be deemed to
be in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as agent,
other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in providing sales
or rental facilities or services in two or more transactions involving the sale
or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   They are the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Prior Code, § 32.5103) (Ord. 28-1995, passed - -1995; Ord. 52-1995, passed - -
1995; Ord. 72-2013, passed - -2013)
§ 95.004 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   (A)   As made applicable by §
95.003 and except as exempted by §§
95.003(A)(2) and
95.009, it shall be unlawful:
      (1)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or
to refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable
or deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status or national origin;
      (2)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services of
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status or national origin;
      (3)   To make, print or publish, or cause to be made, printed or
published any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or
rental of a dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation or
discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, disability, familial status
or national origin, or an intention to make any such preference, limitation or
discrimination;
      (4)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status or national origin that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is in fact so
available;
      (5)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or
rent any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry
into the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color,
religion, sex, disability, familial status or national origin;
      (6)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a disability
of:
         (a)   That buyer or renter;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (7)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a disability of:
         (a)   That person;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, discrimination includes:
      (1)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the disabled person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises; except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may where it is reasonable to do so condition permission for a modification on
the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
      (2)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
      (3)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after 9-
13-1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a manner
that;
         (a)   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by disabled persons;
         (b)   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
disabled persons in wheelchairs; and
         (c)   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
            1.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
            2.   Light switches, electrical outlets, thermostats and other
environmental controls in accessible locations; and
            3.   Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
   (C)   Compliance with the appropriate requirement Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq. and of the American
National Standard for Buildings and Facilities providing accessibility and
usability for physically disabled people; (commonly cited as ANSI A117.1)
suffices to satisfy the requirements hereof.
   (D)   Nothing in this section requires that a dwelling be made available to
an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health or
safety of other individuals of whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
(Prior Code, § 32.5104) (Ord. 28-1995, passed - -1995; Ord. 52-1995, passed - -
1995; Ord. 72-2013, passed - -2013) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 95.005 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, disability, familial status or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED
TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, disability or familial
status.
(Prior Code, § 32.5105) (Ord. 28-1995, passed - -1995; Ord. 52-1995, passed - -
1995; Ord. 72-2013, passed - -2013) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 95.006 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICE.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers’
organization or other service, organization or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her
in the terms or conditions of such access, membership or participation, on
account of race, color, religion, sex, disability, familial status or national
origin.
(Prior Code, § 32.5106) (Ord. 28-1995, passed - -1995; Ord. 52-1995, passed - -
1995; Ord. 72-2013, passed - -2013) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 95.007 INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
95.003 through
95.006.
(Prior Code, § 32.5107) (Ord. 28-1995, passed - -1995; Ord. 52-1995, passed - -
1995; Ord. 72-2013, passed - -2013) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 95.008 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under code or law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempt to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status or national origin and because he or she is or has
been selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings;
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, disability, familial status or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A)
above; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
   (C)   Any citizen because he is or has been, or in order to discourage such
citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or encouraging other persons
to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color, religion,
sex, disability, familial status or national origin, in any of the activities,
services, organizations or facilities described in division (A) above, or
participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any denial of
the opportunity to participate shall be fined according to local, state and
federal law; and if bodily injury results shall be fined not more than $10,000
or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both; and if death results shall be
subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for life.
(Prior Code, § 32.5108) (Ord. 28-1995, passed - -1995; Ord. 52-1995, passed - -
1995; Ord. 72-2013, passed - -2013)
§ 95.009 EQUAL ACCESS TO HOUSING IN HUD PROGRAMS.
   Pursuant to Federal Register, Volume 77, Number 23, published on 2-3-2012,
being 24 CFR Parts 5, 200, 203, 236, 400, 570, 574, 882, 891, and 982, the
definition of “family” is revised to include families regardless of the actual
or perceived sexual orientation, gender identity or marital status of its
members.
(Prior Code, § 32.5109) (Ord. 28-1995, passed - -1995; Ord. 52-1995, passed - -
1995; Ord. 72-2013, passed - -2013)
§ 95.010 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color or national
origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact
open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes
provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to its members
or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons. As used in this section, HOUSING FOR
OLDER PERSONS means housing:
      (1)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary of
the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the State Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly person (as defined in the state or federal program);
      (2)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, persons 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years
of age or older per unit.
(Prior Code, § 32.5110) (Ord. 28-1995, passed - -1995; Ord. 52-1995, passed - -
1995; Ord. 72-2013, passed - -2013)
§ 95.011 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commissioner as set forth
in division (B) below shall be vested in the Human Rights Commission of the
city.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the city, because
of lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under this chapter, herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of the articles of this
chapter by complainants to the state’s Civil Rights Commission for
administrative enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6 and the Mayor of
the city shall refer all said complaints to the Commission as provided for
under division (A) above to said Commission for purposes of investigation,
resolution and appropriate relief as provided for under I.C. 22-9.5-6. The
Mayor has the option to first refer said complaints to the local City Human
Rights Commission.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the city shall administer
their departments, programs and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter
and shall cooperate with the Mayor and the Commission to further such purposes.
   (D)   The Mayor of the city, or the Mayor’s designee, shall provide
information on remedies available to any aggrieved person or complainant
requesting such information.
(Prior Code, § 32.5111) (Ord. 28-1995, passed - -1995; Ord. 52-1995, passed - -
1995; Ord. 72-2013, passed - -2013)
§ 95.012 ADDITIONAL POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION.
   In addition to those powers and duties as assigned in §
32.019 of this code of ordinances, the Commission shall have the following
powers and duties in regard to enforcement of these provisions regarding fair
housing: to accept grants or other payments to help finance its activities. The
Commission may receive federal or state funds by work-sharing or cooperative
agreements or grants with such funds deposited in designated non-reverting
funds.
(Prior Code, § 32.5112) (Ord. 28-1995, passed - -1995; Ord. 52-1995, passed - -
1995; Ord. 72-2013, passed - -2013)
§ 95.013 SEPARABILITY OF PROVISIONS.
   If any provision of this chapter or the application thereof to any person or
circumstances shall be determined to be invalid, the remainder of this chapter
and the application of its provisions to other persons not similarly situated
or to other circumstances shall not be affected thereby.
(Prior Code, § 32.5113) (Ord. 28-1995, passed - -1995; Ord. 52-1995, passed - -
1995; Ord. 72-2013, passed - -2013)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   LICENSE REQUIREMENTS
      
111.   AMUSEMENTS AND LEISURE
      
112.   COAL DEALERS
      
113.   AUCTIONS AND SALES
      
114.   MASSAGE PARLORS AND HEALTH SALONS
      
115.   TAXICABS AND OTHER VEHICLES
      
116.   TRANSIENT VENDORS
      
117.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
118.   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
CHAPTER 110: LICENSE REQUIREMENTS
Section
   
110.001   Licenses required
   
110.002   Application
   
110.003   Payment of fee
   
110.004   Bond and insurance
   
110.005   Prior approval required
   
110.006   License certificates
   
110.007   License term
   
110.008   Exhibition of license certificate
   
110.009   Transfer of license
   
110.010   License renewal
   
110.011   Revocation of licenses
   
110.012   Inspections
   
110.013   Procedure following complaint of violation
§ 110.001 LICENSES REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in any trade, profession, business or privilege in
the city for which a license is required by any provision of this code without
first obtaining the license from the city in the manner provided in this
chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided.
(Prior Code, § 110.01)
§ 110.002 APPLICATION.
   Unless otherwise provided, application for a license shall be made in
writing to the City Controller on forms provided by the city. The applicant
shall state the location of the proposed activity and other facts as may be
required for or be applicable to the granting of a license.
(Prior Code, § 110.02)
§ 110.003 PAYMENT OF FEE.
   The fees required for any license shall be paid at the office of the City
Controller before the granting of the license. The Controller shall issue a
receipt for the fee and the license to the applicant. Unless otherwise
provided, no license fee shall be prorated for a portion of a year, and no
license fee paid shall be refunded unless the license is denied.
(Prior Code, § 110.03)
§ 110.004 BOND AND INSURANCE.
   (A)   All required bonds for licenses shall be executed by two sureties, or
a surety company, and shall be subject to the approval of the Mayor and
Council.
   (B)   Where policies of insurance are required, the policies shall be
approved as to substance and form by the City Attorney.
   (C)   Satisfactory evidence of coverage by bond or insurance shall be filed
with the City Controller before the license is issued.
(Prior Code, § 110.04)
§ 110.005 PRIOR APPROVAL REQUIRED.
   Where the approval of any city officer or state officer is required prior to
the issuance of any license, the approval must be presented to the City
Controller before any license is issued.
(Prior Code, § 110.05)
§ 110.006 LICENSE CERTIFICATES.
   License certificates shall show the date of issue, the activity licensed,
the term of the license, and shall be signed in the name of the city by the
Mayor and City Controller, and impressed with the city seal.
(Prior Code, § 110.06)
§ 110.007 LICENSE TERM.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided, the term of the license year shall begin
and end with the calendar year.
   (B)   Where the issuance of licenses for periods of less than one year is
permitted, the effective date of the license shall commence with the date of
issuance.
(Prior Code, § 110.07)
§ 110.008 EXHIBITION OF LICENSE CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   Every licensee shall carry his or her license certificate on his or
her person at all times when engaged in the activity for which the license was
granted, except where the activity is conducted at a fixed place or
establishment, in which instance the license certificate shall be exhibited at
all times in some conspicuous place in the place of business.
   (B)   The licensee shall exhibit the license certificate when applying for a
renewal and on demand of any police officer or person representing the issuing
authority.
(Prior Code, § 110.08)
§ 110.009 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   Unless otherwise provided, no license shall be transferable.
(Prior Code, § 110.09)
§ 110.010 LICENSE RENEWAL.
   License renewals shall be issued in the same manner and be subject to the
same conditions as original licenses.
(Prior Code, § 110.10)
§ 110.011 REVOCATION OF LICENSES.
   Any license issued by the city may be suspended or revoked for any of the
following causes:
   (A)   Fraud, misrepresentation or incorrect statement contained in the
application for license or made in carrying on the licensed activity;
   (B)   Expiration or cancellation of any required bond or insurance;
   (C)   Actions unauthorized or beyond the scope of the license granted;
   (D)   Violation of any regulation or provision of this code applicable to
the activity for which the license has been granted, or any regulation or law
of the state so applicable; and
   (E)   Failure to continuously comply with all conditions required as
precedent to the approval of the license.
(Prior Code, § 110.11)
§ 110.012 INSPECTIONS.
   City officials may enter on the premises where any licensed activity is
being conducted for the purpose of inspection.
(Prior Code, § 110.12)
§ 110.013 PROCEDURE FOLLOWING COMPLAINT OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   This procedure shall be followed in the event that there is a
complaint of alleged violation of any licensing provision or ordinance of the
city wherein a permit or license is required to allow the licensed business to
operate. The complaint shall be filed with the Board of Public Works and
Safety.
   (B)   On receipt of a complaint by the Board of Public Works and Safety that
there exists a violation of the provisions of any ordinance wherein a license
is required to be issued, the Board shall send a “Notice” by registered mail to
the licensee, setting out the alleged violation and provisionally revoking the
license of licensee ten days after receipt of notice.
   (C)   The notice shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Date of notice;
      (2)   Address of Board of Public Works and Safety and when the Board may
be contacted by licensee;
      (3)   A statement of the particular sections of the ordinance which are
alleged to have been violated and how these sections have been violated;
      (4)   That the licensee to whom notice is sent shall have ten days to
correct the alleged violation at which time an inspection shall be made to
determine if the alleged violation has been corrected; and
      (5)   That in the event the licensee, receiving notice, believes the
“notice” is sent in error, the licensee may, by notifying the Board, request a
hearing before the Board to determine whether or not there has been a
violation. The hearing shall be held within ten days of receipt of application
for the hearing.
   (D)   On receipt of the notice, the licensee may request a hearing before
the Board to determine whether or not there was a violation.
   (E)   If the licensee makes a request for a hearing before the Board, a
hearing shall be held within ten days of the application for a hearing, but not
less than five days from the application. Notice thereof shall be sent to
licensee.
   (F)   The Board shall hear evidence given under oath and shall determine
after hearing all the evidence whether or not there was a violation.
   (G)   If the Board determines there has been a violation, it shall notify
the licensee that the license is revoked, or will be revoked if a violation
found to exist is not corrected within ten days. If the Board determines that
there was no violation, the license will be reinstated.
   (H)   If no hearing is requested by the licensee and an inspection made ten
days after receipt of the notice by the licensee reveals that the violation
complained of has not been corrected then the provisional revocation shall
become permanent.
   (I)   The decision and findings of the Board shall be in writing and a copy
delivered to the licensee within 24 hours of the making of the decision.
   (K)   A license revoked cannot be reissued for six months.
   (L)   There shall be no refund of any license fee.
(Prior Code, § 110.13) (Ord. 17-1978, passed - -1978)
CHAPTER 111: AMUSEMENTS AND LEISURE
Section
Dance Halls
   
111.001   Definitions
DANCE HALLS
§ 111.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC DANCE. A dance to which admission can be had by payment of a fee, or
by the purchase, possession or presentation of a ticket or token, at which a
charge is made for the care of clothing or other property, to which the public
generally may gain admission with or without payment of a fee, or where an
individual fee is charged or collected for participation in any individual
dance.
   PUBLIC DANCE HALL. Any room, place or space in which a public dance shall be
held, or a hall or academy in which classes in dancing are held and
instructions in dancing are given for hire, where admission can be held by
payment of a fee, or by the purchase, possession or presentation of a ticket or
token, in which a charge is made for the care of clothing or property, or where
the public generally may gain admission with or without payment of a fee.
(Prior Code, § 111.10) (Ord. 727-1922, passed - -1922; Ord. 729-1922, passed -
-1922)
CHAPTER 112: COAL DEALERS
Section
   
112.001   Scope of chapter
   
112.002   Misrepresentation
   
112.003   Mixing fuels
   
112.004   Delivery tickets; records
   
112.005   Weighing coal
 
   
112.999   Penalty
§ 112.001 SCOPE OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   This chapter does not apply to the sale of fuel, to recognized and
regularly licensed coal dealers in carload lots, nor to the sale of fuel in
carload lots to industries, institutions, firms, individuals or other
purchasers that receive delivery for their own use and consumption.
   (B)   This chapter shall not apply to a manufacturer or other employer of
labor who sells coal to any of his or her employees.
(Prior Code, § 112.01) (Ord. 1016-1932, passed - -1932)
§ 112.002 MISREPRESENTATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale or delivery,
any fuel by any name which is not the true, usual and customary name of the
fuel, or in doing so to misrepresent to the purchaser the state where it is
mined, or the name, number of the district, mine or seam from which it was
mined, or the size of the lumps composing the coal or fuel, or the character of
its preparation, or as to whether it is shoveled or forked lump or egg, nut,
pea, mine run, slack or screenings.
(Prior Code, § 112.06) (Ord. 1016-1932, passed - -1932) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.003 MIXING FUELS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to substitute or mix fuels, or to cause
the substitution or mixing of fuels, except when the fuel has been sold as such
and is clearly understood by the purchaser, and clearly indicated on the
delivery ticket.
(Prior Code, § 112.07) (Ord. 1016-1932, passed - -1932) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.004 DELIVERY TICKETS; RECORDS.
   (A)   Every licensee operating under this chapter shall compute the delivery
ticket weight by using the last tare weight of deliver equipment, taken at
least once a day of every day of dry weather and twice a day in rainy or wet
weather.
   (B)   The daily record of tare weights of equipment shall be kept for
reference by the dealer covering a period of the past ten days at all times.
Dealers daily tare weight records of hauling equipment shall be subject to
inspection by the Inspector of Weights and Measures or his or her deputies.
(Prior Code, § 112.08) (Ord. 1016-1932, passed - -1932)
§ 112.005 WEIGHING COAL.
   (A)   Any person retaining coal in the city shall send, with each load, a
certificate showing, separately, the weight of the vehicle and the weight of
the coal. The certificate shall be signed by the person selling the coal and
shall be delivered with the load of coal to the purchaser.
   (B)   Before the unloading or discharging of any load of coal on or near the
premises of the proposed purchaser, the purchaser or the Inspector of Weights
and Measures may demand of the seller or his or her agent, driver or other
person in charge of the load, a certificate of weight, as herein provided for.
The seller, agent, driver or other person shall surrender the certificate to
the purchaser or the Inspector, who may, if he or she doubts the correctness of
the certificate require the seller, agent, driver or other person to reweigh
any load of coal at any suitable scales in the city. The purchaser or Inspector
shall pay the keeper of the scales for weighing the same.
(Prior Code, § 112.09) (Ord. 1016-1932, passed - -1932)
§ 112.999 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall, on conviction
for the first offense, be fined in any sum not to exceed $100. For the second
or any subsequent offense, be fined not less than $25 nor more than $200, and
in case of the second or any subsequent violation the person’s license under
this chapter may, in the discretion of the court, be revoked.
(Prior Code, § 112.99) (Ord. 1016-1932, passed - -1932)
CHAPTER 113: AUCTIONS AND SALES
Section
Pawnbrokers and Secondhand Dealers
   
113.001   Definitions
   
113.002   Records
   
113.003   Inspections
   
113.004   Reports
   
113.005   Redemption or sale
   
113.006   Minors
 
   
113.999   Penalty
PAWNBROKERS AND SECONDHAND DEALERS
§ 113.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PAWNBROKER. Any person who loans money on deposit or pledge, or personal
property or other valuable thing, or who deals in the purchasing of personal
property or other valuable thing, on condition of selling the same back again
at its stipulated price.
   SECONDHAND DEALER. Any person, firm or corporation that purchases, receives
or exchanges secondhand articles of any kind for the purpose of selling,
exchanging, remanufacturing or refabrication of the article.
(Prior Code, § 116.01)
§ 113.002 RECORDS.
   (A)   (1)   Every pawn broker and secondhand dealer shall keep a record book
in which shall be legibly written in ink in the English language at the time of
receiving any goods the following:
         (a)   The name, address, Social Security number, date of birth and a
description of the person’s color, height, weight, complexion, hair style and
any visible distinguishing marks; and
         (b)   A complete and accurate description of the article purchased,
received or exchanged, including the name of the maker or manufacturer,
initials, serial numbers, model numbers or other identifying features and the
price the dealer paid for each article.
      (2)   The dealer shall require the seller of any article to sign his or
her name on the page on which that person’s transaction is recorded. The book
or record shall be open to inspection by any police officer during normal
business hours.
   (B)   (1)   Each page of the book or record shall consist of one or more
sequentially and consequently numbered forms which shall contain appropriate
blanks for furnishing all of the aforementioned information required.
      (2)   The pages containing these forms shall be permanently bound into
the book.
   (C)   In addition to the record book required by this section, all
pawnbrokers and secondhand dealers shall fill out forms submitted by the city’s
Police Department, which shall be in substantially the following form:
 
RICHMOND POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECONDHAND DEALER REPORT
 
Date:                Time:                Dealer:             
 
NAME:                                                                          
ADDRESS:                                                                     
CITY:                                               STATE:                
SSN:                                   Photo Taken: Yes        No       
DOB:                                                                             
DRIVER’S LICENSE OR I.D. NUMBER                          
Color:            Ht:            Wt:           Complexion:          
Hair Style:                          Other Info:                             
Item Make or Mfg.   Model/Serial #   I.D. Marks $$
1.                                                                          
2.                                                                          
 
The customer shall write in his or her own handwriting his or her name and address on the back of the card and place his or her right thumb print in the
space provided. The back side of the card shall be in the following form:
 
SIGNATURE:                                                                  
ADDRESS:                                                                      
 
Right Thumb Print
 
 
   (D)   Before purchasing, receiving or exchanging any articles, the
pawnbroker or secondhand dealer shall examine the seller’s driver’s license,
Indiana identification card or other valid photo identification typically used
for identification purposes.
(Prior Code, § 116.02)
§ 113.003 INSPECTIONS.
   The record book, as well as every article or other thing of value, pawned,
pledged or purchased shall at all reasonable times be open to the inspection of
any police officer.
(Prior Code, § 116.03) (Ord. 230-1910, passed - -1910) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.004 REPORTS.
   It shall be the duty of every pawnbroker or secondhand dealer to make out
and deliver to the Chief of Police each day before 12:00 noon a legible and
correct copy from the book required in §
113.002, of all personal property and other valuable things received on deposit
or purchased during the preceding day, together with the time when they were
purchased.
(Prior Code, § 116.04) (Ord. 230-1910, passed - -1910) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.005 REDEMPTION OR SALE.
   No personal property received on deposit, purchase or pledge to any
pawnbroker or secondhand dealer shall be sold or permitted to be redeemed or
removed from the place of business for five days after the statement required
to be delivered to the police has been delivered to the police. If the
pawnbroker or dealer is notified of an adverse claim to the property, the
property shall be held for a period of 20 days, during which legal proceedings
may be commenced to determine who is entitled to the property.
(Prior Code, § 116.05) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.006 MINORS.
   No person shall take or receive in pawn or pledge, or by purchase from money
loaned, any property, article or thing from any person under the age of 18
years or which may be in the possession or under the control of any person
under the age of 18 years.
(Prior Code, § 116.06) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person found guilty of violating §§
113.001 through
113.006 shall be fined $50 for the first offense and $100 for each subsequent
offense. Violations of §§
113.001 through
113.006 may be enjoined pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-4.
(Prior Code, § 116.07) (Ord. 77-1990, passed - -1990)
CHAPTER 114: MASSAGE PARLORS AND HEALTH SALONS
Section
General Provisions
   
114.001   Definitions
   
114.002   Violation
Licensing Regulations
   
114.015   Permit and license required
   
114.016   Exemptions
   
114.017   Application for massage establishment license
   
114.018   Application for massagists’ permits
   
114.019   Issuance of license or permit
   
114.020   Approval or denial of application
   
114.021   Posting of license
   
114.022   Register of employees and patrons
   
114.023   Revocation or suspension of license
   
114.024   Revocation of masseur or masseuse permit
   
114.025   Revocation of license
   
114.026   Sale or transfer of license
Conditions
   
114.040   Facilities necessary
   
114.041   Operating requirements
   
114.042   Persons under age 18 prohibited on premises
   
114.043   Employment of massagist
   
114.044   Inspection required
   
114.045   Name and place of business
Cross-reference:
   Amusements and Leisure, see
Ch. 111
   Health and Sanitation; Nuisances, see
Ch. 92
   License Requirements, see
Ch. 110
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 114.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person over 18 years of age, other than a massager, who
renders any service in connection with the operation of a massage business and
receives compensation from the operator of the business or patrons.
   LICENSEE. The person to whom a license has been issued to own or operate a
public bath, steam bath, health club, reducing salon or massage establishment
as defined herein.
   MASSAGE. Any method of pressure on or friction against, or stroking,
kneading, rubbing, tapping, pounding, vibrating or stimulating of the external
parts of the human body with the hands or with the aid of any mechanical
electrical apparatus or appliances with or without such supplementary aids as
rubbing alcohol, liniments, antiseptics, oils, powder, creams, lotions,
ointment or other similar preparations commonly used in the practice of
massage, under such circumstances that is reasonably expected that the person
to whom the treatment is provided or some third person on his or her behalf
will pay money or give any other consideration or any gratuity therefor.
   MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT. Any establishment having a source of income or
compensation derived from the practice of massage and which has a fixed place
of business where any person, firm, association or corporation engages in or
carries on any of the activities defined as “massage”.
   MASSAGIST, MASSEUR or MASSEUSE. Any person who, for any consideration
whatsoever, engages in the practice of massage.
   OUTCALL MASSAGE SERVICE. Any business, the function of which is to engage in
or carry on massages at a location designated by the customer or client rather
than at a massage establishment.
   PATRON. Any person over 18 years of age who receives a massage under such
circumstances that it is reasonably expected that he or she will pay money or
give any other consideration therefor.
   PERMITTEE. The person to whom a permit has been issued to act in the
capacity of a massagist.
   RECOGNIZED SCHOOL. Any school or educational institution licensed to do
business as a school or educational institution in the state in which it is
located, or any school recognized by or approved by or affiliated with the
American Massage and Therapy Association, Inc., and which has for its purpose
the teaching of the theory, method, profession or work of massage, and requires
a resident course of study not less than 70 hours before the student shall be
furnished with a diploma or certificate of graduation from the school or
institution of learning following the successful completion of the course of
study or learning.
(Prior Code, § 115.01) (Ord. 3267-1977, passed - -1977)
§ 114.002 VIOLATION.
   Every person, except those specifically exempted by this chapter, whether
acting as an individual owner, employee of the owner, operator or employee of
the operator, or as a mere agent or independent contractor for the owner,
employee or operator, or as a participant or worker directly or indirectly in
any way, who gives massages, is a licensee as defined herein, or gives any of
the services defined in this chapter without first obtaining a license or
permit and paying a fee to do so to the office of the City Controller, or shall
violate any provisions of this chapter, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 115.20) (Ord. 3267-1977, passed - -1977) Penalty, see §
10.999
LICENSING REGULATIONS
§ 114.015 PERMIT AND LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Business license required. No person shall engage in or carry out the
business of giving steam baths or operating public baths, health clubs,
reducing salons or operating a massage establishment unless he or she has a
valid massage business license issued by the city pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter for each and every separate office or place of business conducted
by the person.
   (B)   Massagist’s permit required. No person shall practice massage as a
massagist, employee or otherwise, unless he or she has a valid and subsisting
massagist’s permit issued to him or her by the city pursuant to the provisions
of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 115.02) (Ord. 3267-1977, passed - -1977) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 114.016 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   This chapter shall not apply to the following individuals while
engaged in the personal performance of the duties of their respective
professions:
      (1)   Physicians, surgeons, chiropractors, osteopaths or physical
therapists who are duly licensed to practice their respective professions in
the state;
      (2)   Nurses who are registered under the laws of the state or licensed
practical nurses or persons employed by an accredited hospital or nursing home;
and/or
      (3)   Barbers and beauticians who are duly licensed under the laws of the
state; except that, this exemption shall apply solely to the massaging of the
neck, face, scalp and hair of the customer or client for cosmetic or
beautifying purposes.
   (B)   This chapter shall not apply to organizations which are qualified
under I.R.C. § 501(c)(3) and to which organizations contributions by
individuals are deductible, for federal income tax purposes as a charitable
contribution, and shall not apply to individuals while acting in the employ of
these organizations.
(Prior Code, § 115.03) (Ord. 3267-1977, passed - -1977)
§ 114.017 APPLICATION FOR MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT LICENSE.
   (A)   Every applicant for a license to be a licensee, or to maintain,
operate or conduct a massage establishment, shall file an application under
oath with the city on a form provided by the City Controller and pay a non-
refundable annual license fee of $100 per year or any part thereof. Licensees
who have already paid the license fee for the current period shall not be
required to pay an additional fee hereunder.
   (B)   The application, once accepted, shall be referred to the Board of
Public Works and Safety for investigation. Copies of the application shall
within five days also be referred to the Department of Buildings, the Fire
Department and the Health Department. The Departments shall within 30 days
inspect the premises proposed to be operated as a massage establishment and
shall make written verification to the Board of Public Works and Safety
concerning compliance with the codes of the city that they administer. The
application shall also be referred to the Police Department for investigation
of the applicant’s character and qualifications.
   (C)   Each application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   A definition of service to be provided;
      (2)   The location, mailing address and all telephone numbers where the
business is to be conducted;
      (3)   The name and residence address of each applicant (hereinafter, all
provisions which refer to applicant include an applicant which may be a
corporation or partnership):
         (a)   If applicant is a corporation, the names and residence addresses
of each of the officers and directors of the corporation and of each
stockholder owning more than 10% of the stock of the corporation, and the
address of the corporation itself, if different from the address of the massage
establishment; and
         (b)   If applicant is a partnership, the names and residence addresses
of each of the partners, including limited partners, and the address of the
partnership itself, if different from the address of the massage establishment.
      (4)   The two previous addresses immediately prior to the present address
of the applicant;
      (5)   Proof that the applicant is at least 18 years of age;
      (6)   Individual or partnership applicant’s height, weight, color of eyes
and hair and sex;
      (7)   Copy of identification such as driver’s license and Social Security
card;
      (8)   One portrait photograph of the applicant at least two inches by two
inches and a complete set of applicant’s fingerprints which shall be taken by
the Police Chief or his or her agent. If the applicant is a corporation, one
portrait photograph at least two inches by two inches of all officers and
managing agents of the corporation and a complete set of the officers’ and
agents’ fingerprints which shall be taken by the Police Chief or his or her
agent. If the applicant is a partnership, one front-face portrait photograph at
least two inches by two inches in size of each partner, including a limited
partner in the partnership, and a complete set of each partner or limited
partner’s fingerprints which shall be taken by the Police Chief or his or her
agents;
      (9)   Business, occupation or employment of the applicant for the three
years immediately preceding the date of application;
      (10)   The massage or similar business license history of the applicant,
whether the person in previously operating in this or another city or state has
had a business license revoked or suspended, the reason therefor and the
business activity or occupation subsequent to such action of suspension or
revocation;
      (11)   All criminal convictions other than misdemeanor traffic
violations, including the dates of convictions, nature of the crimes and place
convicted;
      (12)   The name and address of each massagist who is or will be employed
in the establishment;
      (13)   A diploma or certificate of graduation from a recognized school or
other institution of learning wherein the method, profession and work of
massage is taught; provided that, if the applicant will not himself or herself
engage in the practice of massage defined herein, he or she need not possess
the diploma or certificate of graduation from a recognized school or other
institution of learning wherein the method, profession and work of massage is
taught;
      (14)   The name and address of any massage business or other
establishment owned or operated by any person whose name is required to be
given in division (C)(3) above wherein the business or profession of massage is
carried on;
      (15)   A description of any other business to be operated on the same
premises or on adjoining premises owned or controlled by the applicant;
      (16)   Authorization for the city, its agents and employee to seek
information and conduct an investigation into the truth of the statements set
forth in the application and the qualification of the applicant for the permit;
      (17)   Any other identification and information necessary to discover the
truth of the matters required to be set forth in the application; and
      (18)   The names, current addresses and written statement of at least
three bona fide permanent residents of the United States that the applicant is
of good moral character; if the applicant is able, the statement must first be
furnished from residents of the city, then the county, then the state and
lastly from the rest of the United States. These references must be persons
other than relatives and business associates.
   (D)   On the completion of the form and the furnishing of all foregoing
information, the Board of Public Works and Safety shall accept the application
for the necessary investigations. The holder of the license shall notify the
Board of Public Works and Safety of each change in any of the dates required to
be furnished by this section within ten days after the change occurs.
(Prior Code, § 115.04) (Ord. 3267-1977, passed - -1977)
§ 114.018 APPLICATION FOR MASSAGISTS’ PERMITS.
   (A)   Application for a massagist’s business permit shall be made to the
Board of Public Works and Safety in the same manner a provided in §
114.017 accompanied by the annual non-refundable, massagist’s permit fee of $75
per year or part thereof. Massagists who have already paid the permit fee for
the current period shall not be required to pay an additional fee hereunder.
   (B)   The application shall contain, but not be limited to the following:
      (1)   The business address and all telephone numbers where the massage is
to be practiced;
      (2)   Name and residence address and all names, nicknames and aliases by
which the applicant has been known, including the two previous addresses
immediately prior to the present address of the applicant;
      (3)   Social Security number, driver’s license number, if any, and date
of birth;
      (4)   Applicant’s weight, height, color of hair and eyes and sex;
      (5)   Written evidence that the applicant is at least 18 years of age;
      (6)   A complete statement of all convictions of the applicant for any
felony or misdemeanor or violation of a local ordinance, except misdemeanor
traffic violations;
      (7)   Fingerprints of the applicant taken by the Police Department;
      (8)   Two front-face portrait photographs taken within 30 days of the
date of application and at least two inches by two inches in size;
      (9)   The name and address of the recognized school attended, the dates
attended and a copy of the diploma or certificate of graduation awarded the
applicant showing the applicant has completed not less than 70 hours of
instruction. For persons presently employed as a masseur or masseuse in the
city, this section shall not apply until 1-1-1978. Present employment shall be
established by sworn affidavit from the employer after which time the person
must be actively engaged, enrolled or participating in a course of study
designed to fulfill the requirements of this section and which is certified to
be an official of the approved school. The burden of establishing active
engagement, enrollment or participation shall be on the person seeking a permit
herein. For persons not so employed, this section shall be effective on
passage. In no event shall any person, within the purview of this chapter, act
as aforesaid without satisfying the training requirement set forth within the
city after 1-1-1978;
      (10)   The massage or similar business history and experience prior to
the date of application, including, but not limited to, whether or not the
person was previously operating in this or another city or state under license
or permit, has had a license or permit denied, revoked or suspended and the
reasons therefor, and the business activities or occupations subsequent to the
action of denial, suspension or revocation;
      (11)   The names, current addresses and written statements of at least
three bona fide permanent residents other than relatives, of the United States
that the applicant is of good moral character; if the applicant is able, the
statement must first be furnished from residents of the city, then the county,
then the state and last from the rest of the United States;
      (12)   A medical certificate signed by a physician, licensed to practice
in the state, within seven days of the date of the application. The certificate
shall state that the applicant was examined by the certifying physician and
that the applicant is free of communicable disease. The additional information
required by this section shall be provided at the applicant’s expense;
      (13)   Any other information, identification and physical examination of
the person deemed necessary by the Police Chief in order to discover the truth
of the matters hereinbefore required to be set forth in the application;
      (14)   Authorization for the city, its agents and employee to seek
information and conduct an investigation into the truth of the statements set
forth in the application and the qualification of the applicant for the permit;
and
      (15)   Written declaration by the applicant, under penalty of perjury,
that the foregoing information contained in the application is true and
correct, with the declaration being duly dated and signed in the city.
(Prior Code, § 115.05) (Ord. 3267-1977, passed - -1977)
§ 114.019 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE OR PERMIT.
   The city shall issue a license for a public bath, steam bath, health club,
reducing salon or massage establishment or a permit for a masseur or masseuse,
after ratification by the Board of Public Works and Safety, if all requirements
for a massage establishment or massagist permit described in this chapter are
met unless the Board finds:
   (A)   The correct permit or license fee has not been tendered to the city
and, in the case of a check or bank draft, honored with payment on
presentation;
   (B)   The operation, as proposed by the applicant, if permitted, would not
comply with all applicable laws, including, but not limited to, the city’s
building, zoning and health regulations;
   (C)   The applicant, if an individual, or any of the stockholders holding
more than 10% of the stock of the corporation, any of the officers and
directors, if the applicant is a corporation, or any of the partners, including
limited partners, if the applicant is a partnership, or the holder of any lien,
of any nature, on the business or the equipment used therein and the manager or
other person principally in charge of the operation of the business, have been
convicted of any of the following offenses or convicted of an offense without
the state that would have constituted any of the following offenses if
committed within the state:
      (1)   An offense that amounts to a felony or misdemeanor, except traffic
violations; and
      (2)   The city may issue a license or permit to any person convicted of
any crime described in division (C)(1) above if it finds that the conviction
occurred at least five years prior to the date of the application.
   (D)   The applicant has knowingly made any false, misleading or fraudulent
statement of fact in the permit application or in any document required by the
city in conjunction therewith;
   (E)   The applicant has had a massage business, massagist or other similar
permit or license denied, revoked or suspended by the city or any other state
or local agency within five years prior to the date of the application; and
   (F)   The applicant, if an individual, or any of the officers and directors,
if the applicant is a corporation, or any of the partners, including limited
partners, if the applicant is a partnership, and the manager or other person
principally in charge of the operation of the business, is not over the age of
18 years.
(Prior Code, § 115.06) (Ord. 3267-1977, passed - -1977)
§ 114.020 APPROVAL OR DENIAL OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   The city shall act to approve or deny an application for a license or
permit under this chapter within a reasonable period of time and in no event
shall the city act to approve or deny the license or permit later than 90 days
from the date that the application was accepted by the Board of Public Works
and Safety.
   (B)   Every license or permit issued pursuant to this chapter will terminate
at the expiration of one year from the date of its issuance unless sooner
suspended or revoked.
(Prior Code, § 115.07) (Ord. 3267-1977, passed - -1977)
§ 114.021 POSTING OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Every massagist shall post the permit required by this chapter in his
or her work area.
   (B)   Every person, corporation, partnership or association licensed under
this chapter shall display the license in a prominent place.
(Prior Code, § 115.08) (Ord. 3267-1977, passed - -1977) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 114.022 REGISTER OF EMPLOYEES AND PATRONS.
   (A)   The licensee or person designated by the license of a public bath,
steam bath, health club, reducing salon or massage establishment shall maintain
a register of all persons employed at any time as masseurs or masseuses and
their permit numbers. The register shall be available at the public bath, steam
bath, health club, reducing salon or massage establishment to representatives
of the city during regular business hours.
   (B)   The licensee or person designated by the licensee of public bath,
steam bath, health club, reducing salon or massage establishment shall maintain
a register of all patrons receiving massage. The register shall include name,
driver’s license number or Social Security number and age of the patron and
shall be maintained for a period of not less than one calendar year and shall
be available for inspection during regular business hours by representatives of
the city.
(Prior Code, § 115.09) (Ord. 3267-1977, passed - -1977)
§ 114.023 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Any license issued for a public bath, steam bath, health club,
reducing salon or massage establishment may be revoked or suspended by the city
after notice and a hearing, for good cause, in any case where any of the
provisions of this chapter are violated or where any employee of the licensee,
including a masseur or masseuse is engaged in any conduct which violates any of
the state or local laws or ordinances at licensee’s place of business and the
licensee has actual or constructive knowledge by due diligence.
   (B)   The permit may also be revoked or suspended by the city after notice
and hearing, on the recommendations of the Board of Public Works and Safety and
the county’s Health Department that the business is being managed, conducted or
maintained without regard to proper sanitation and hygiene.
(Prior Code, § 115.10) (Ord. 3267-1977, passed - -1977)
§ 114.024 REVOCATION OF MASSEUR OR MASSEUSE PERMIT.
   A masseur or masseuse permit issued by the Police Chief shall be revoked or
suspended where it appears that the masseur or masseuse has been convicted of
any offense which would be cause for denial of a permit on an original
application, has made a false statement on an application for a permit or has
committed an act in violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 115.11) (Ord. 3267-1977, passed - -1977)
§ 114.025 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Any license issued for a licensee as defined herein may be revoked or
suspended by the Board of Public Works and Safety after notice and a hearing,
in any case where any of the provisions of this chapter have been violated or
that any statement made on the application for license would now be made false.
The license shall be revoked should there exist any violation of the rules and
regulations of the Health Department of the county or the state.
(Prior Code, § 115.17) (Ord. 3267-1977, passed - -1977)
§ 114.026 SALE OR TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   Any license granted herein is non-transferable except on death of licensee.
Any heir or devisee of a deceased licensee, or any guardian of an heir or
devisee of a deceased licensee, may continue the business of the public bath,
steam bath, health club, reducing salon or massage establishment for a
reasonable period of time not to exceed 60 days to allow for an orderly
transfer of the license.
(Prior Code, § 115.18) (Ord. 3267-1977, passed - -1977)
CONDITIONS
§ 114.040 FACILITIES NECESSARY.
   No license to conduct a public bath, steam bath, health club, reducing salon
or massage establishment shall be issued unless an inspection by the city
reveals that the establishment complies with each of the following minimum
requirements.
   (A)   Construction of rooms used for toilets, rubs, steam baths and showers
shall be made water-proof with approved waterproofed materials and shall be
installed in accordance with the city’s Building Code. Plumbing fixtures shall
be installed in accordance with the Uniform Plumbing Code.
      (1)   Steam rooms and shower compartments shall have water-proof floors,
walls and ceilings approved by the city.
      (2)   Floors of wet and dry heat rooms shall be adequately pitched to one
or more floor drains properly connected to the sewer. Exception: dry heat rooms
with wooden floors need not be provided with pitched floors and floor drains.
      (3)   A source of hot water must be available within the immediate
vicinity of dry and wet heat rooms to facilitate cleaning.
   (B)   The premises shall have adequate equipment for disinfecting and
sterilizing non-disposable instruments and materials used in administering
massages. The non-disposable instruments and materials shall be disinfected
after use on each patron.
   (C)   Closed cabinets shall be provided and used for the storage of clean
linen, towels and other materials used in connection with administering
massages. All soiled linens, towels and other materials shall be kept in
properly covered containers or cabinets, which shall be kept separate from the
clean storage areas.
   (D)   Toilet facilities shall be provided in convenient locations. When
employees and patrons of different sexes are on the premises at the same time,
separate toilet facilities shall be provided for each sex. A single water
closet per sex shall be provided for each 20 or more employees or patrons of
that sex on the premises at any one time. Urinals may be substituted for water
closets after one water closet has been provided. Toilets shall be designated
as to the sex accommodated therein.
   (E)   Lavatories or washbasins provided with both hot and cold running water
shall be installed in either the toilet room or a vestibule. Lavatories or wash
basins shall be provided with soap and a dispenser and with sanitary towels.
   (F)   All electrical equipment shall be installed in accordance with the
requirements of the National Electrical Code.
(Prior Code, § 115.12) (Ord. 3267-1977, passed - -1977) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 114.041 OPERATING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Every portion of the licensed premises, including appliances and
apparatus, shall be kept clean and operated in a sanitary condition.
   (B)   Price rates for all services shall be prominently posted in the
reception area in a location available to all prospective customers.
   (C)   All employees, including masseurs and masseuses, shall be clean and
wear clean garments whose use is restricted to the public bath, steam bath,
health club, reducing salon or massage establishment. A separate dressing room
for each sex must be available on the premises with individual lockers for each
employee.
   (D)   All public baths, steam baths, health clubs, reducing salons or
massage establishments shall be provided with clean, laundered sheets and
towels in sufficient quantity and shall be laundered after each use and stored
in a sanitary manner.
   (E)   No public bath, steam bath, health club, reducing salon or massage
establishment granted a license under the provisions of this chapter shall
place, publish or distribute or cause to be placed, published or distributed
any advertisement, picture or statement which is known or through the exercise
of reasonable care should be known to be false, deceptive or misleading in
order to induce any person to purchase or utilize any professional massage
services.
(Prior Code, § 115.13) (Ord. 3267-1977, passed - -1977) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 114.042 PERSONS UNDER AGE 18 PROHIBITED ON PREMISES.
   No person shall permit any person under the age of 18 years to come or
remain on the premises of any massage business establishment, as masseur,
employee or patron, unless the person is on the premises on lawful business.
(Prior Code, § 115.14) (Ord. 3267-1977, passed - -1977) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 114.043 EMPLOYMENT OF MASSAGIST.
   No person shall employ as a massagist any person unless the employee has
obtained and has in effect a permit issued pursuant to this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 115.16) (Ord. 3267-1977, passed - -1977) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 114.044 INSPECTION REQUIRED.
   The Chief of Police or his or her authorized representative shall from time
to time make inspection of each public bath, steam bath, health club, reducing
salon or massage establishment for the purposes of determining that the
provisions of this chapter are fully complied with. It shall be unlawful for
any permittee to fail to allow the inspection officer access to the premises or
hinder the officer in any manner.
(Prior Code, § 115.17) (Ord. 3267-1977, passed - -1977) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 114.045 NAME AND PLACE OF BUSINESS.
   No person granted a license pursuant to this chapter shall operate under a
name not specified in his or her license, nor shall he or she conduct business
under any designation or location not specified in his or her license.
(Prior Code, § 115.19) (Ord. 3267-1977, passed - -1977) Penalty, see §
10.999
CHAPTER 115: TAXICABS AND OTHER VEHICLES
Section
Garage and Auto Sales
   
115.001   Garage, yard and porch sales
   
115.002   Auto sales
Taxicabs
   
115.015   Definition
   
115.016   Regulations applicable
   
115.017   License required
   
115.018   Application for licenses
   
115.019   Mechanical and safety inspections
   
115.020   License fees for vehicles
   
115.021   Issuance and display of inspection emblem
   
115.022   Permanent office required
   
115.023   Adding vehicles to the fleet
   
115.024   Soliciting fare
   
115.025   Parking taxicab
   
115.026   Use of alcoholic beverages or controlled substances
   
115.027   Taxicab driver’s license
   
115.028   Application for driver’s license
   
115.029   Convictions of driver applicant; false statements
   
115.030   Revocation of driver’s license for conviction
   
115.031   Liquor violations
   
115.032   Lost articles
   
115.033   Information to passengers
   
115.034   Baggage
   
115.035   Passenger violation of law
   
115.036   Passenger refusing to pay fare
   
115.037   Disabled taxicab
   
115.038   Rate card posted
   
115.039   Liability insurance
   
115.040   Taxicabs to be clean
   
115.041   Revocation of license
   
115.042   Fare
   
115.043   Transfer of license
   
115.044   Markings
 
   
115.999   Penalty
GARAGE AND AUTO SALES
§ 115.001 GARAGE, YARD AND PORCH SALES.
   (A)   A garage, yard or porch sale operated by the owner or tenant of a
property in a residential district, independent of any other business
enterprise, shall be permitted.
   (B)   However, such garage sale shall be limited to a period of one to four
consecutive days five times per year.
(Prior Code, § 125.01) (Ord. 54-1994, passed - -1994) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.002 AUTO SALES.
   The offering for sale of no more than five motor vehicles per year from a
residential property shall be permitted.
(Prior Code, § 125.02) (Ord. 54-1994, passed - -1994) Penalty, see §
115.999
TAXICABS
§ 115.015 DEFINITION.
   A TAXICAB is every motor driven vehicle used within the city for public hire
and carrying passengers for hire, along or over public streets in the city, the
destination or route of which is under the direction of a passenger transported
therein. This shall include any shuttle or limousine service operated within
the city.
(Ord. 28-2017, passed 8-21-2017)
§ 115.016 REGULATIONS APPLICABLE.
   No person shall drive, stand or park any taxicab on any street, except in
accordance with the conditions established by this subchapter.
(Ord. 28-2017, passed 8-21-2017) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.017 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate a taxicab service on any street in the city without
first securing a license to do so.
(Ord. 28-2017, passed 8-21-2017) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.018 APPLICATION FOR LICENSES.
   (A)   Any person desiring to operate a taxicab service shall, before
providing the service, file with the City Clerk a written signed application
for a license, sworn to by the applicant, which application shall show the
following:
      (1)   The name of the person, partnership, firm or corporation desiring
the license; if a firm, the full names of each of the partners;
      (2)   The place of residence and principal place of business of the
applicant;
      (3)   The applicant intends to and will, if issued a license to do so,
operate the taxicabs as shall be necessary in the service and that he or she
owns and is the sole owner of the described taxicabs and intends to and will
operate the taxicabs in such service;
      (4)   The age, sex and the residence of each person who will drive a
taxicab for the applicant;
      (5)   The make, model and serial number of each vehicle which will be
operated by the taxicab service; and
      (6)   The location and address of the office of the applicant.
   (B)   Each taxicab to be operated within the city must be licensed annually.
The license shall be issued by the City Clerk after payment of a fee and
presentation of proof of insurance and mechanical inspection as required by
this subchapter. The license shall contain the make, model and serial number of
the taxicab and shall have four spaces for a member of the Traffic Division of
the city’s Police Department to certify that the taxicab has passed the safety
inspections required by this subchapter. Each license shall be valid for the
calendar year and must be carried in the taxicab at all times. A taxicab
license shall be revoked upon failure to pass any inspection required by this
subchapter, and may not be reissued until a member of the Traffic Division of
the city’s Police Department certifies that the taxicab in question has been
satisfactorily repaired and/or any substandard conditions corrected.
(Ord. 28-2017, passed 8-21-2017)
§ 115.019 MECHANICAL AND SAFETY INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   In addition to providing an application properly executed, each
applicant shall present a certificate mechanical inspection for each taxicab,
to be provided by the City Clerk, certifying that each of the applicant’s
vehicles has been inspected by a mechanic licensed by the state and found to be
mechanically safe. Said mechanic must be certified by the National Institute
for Automotive Service Excellence, or ASE, and must be certified as either a
Master Technician or have certifications in the areas of A-4 (Suspensions/
Steering), A-5 (Brakes) and A-6 (Electrical Systems). Each taxicab must pass
such an inspection annually before a license will be given to operate said
taxicab.
   (B)   Each taxicab shall be inspected for safety a minimum of four times
each year at times designated by the Traffic Division of the city’s Police
Department. It shall be certified on the license for each taxicab that the
taxicab was inspected by a member of the Traffic Division of the city’s Police
Department. In order to pass this safety inspection, each taxicab must be
inspected by a member of the Traffic Division of the city’s Police Department
and found to be:
      (1)   Equipped with safe tires;
      (2)   Equipped so that all its operating and functional parts are in
proper working order;
      (3)   Equipped with any additional necessary safety devices such as hand
brakes, rear view mirror, turn signals, safety glass, horns and so forth;
      (4)   In a clean and sanitary condition;
      (5)   Equipped with seats and interior in a good state of repair so as
not to cause injury or damage to any passenger or his or her property; and
      (6)   Clearly marked as required by this subchapter.
   (C)   Failure to present the taxicab license upon request by a member of the
Traffic Division of the city’s Police Department shall subject both the driver
and the taxicab company to fines as set forth in this subchapter.
   (D)   Each taxicab shall at all times be subject to random inspections by
the city’s Police Department to ensure compliance with the provisions of this
subchapter.
   (E)   Each taxicab must, at all times, be maintained in a safe condition as
set forth above. Should any taxicab fail to meet these criteria at any time, it
shall be immediately removed from service until properly repaired by a licensed
mechanic and re-inspected by a member of the Traffic Division of the city’s
Police Department. Failure to meet these criteria shall subject the taxicab
company to fines as set forth in this subchapter.
(Ord. 28-2017, passed 8-21-2017) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.020 LICENSE FEES FOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   The applicant, on presentation of the application to operate a taxicab
service and of a certificate of mechanical inspection for each taxicab, shall
purchase a license for each taxicab covered by the application from the City
Clerk.
   (B)   The license fee for each taxicab for the calendar year shall be $100.
   (C)   This fee must, thereafter, be paid annually and must be presented with
a certificate of mechanical inspection and the properly certified license from
the previous year.
   (D)   This fee shall be pro-rated on a monthly basis for any taxicabs
brought into service during the calendar year.
(Ord. 28-2017, passed 8-21-2017)
§ 115.021 ISSUANCE AND DISPLAY OF INSPECTION EMBLEM.
   Upon presentation of a valid taxicab license for each vehicle, the Traffic
Division of the city’s Police Department shall issue to the applicant an
appropriate emblem certifying inspection for each vehicle, as required by this
subchapter. The emblem shall be valid for the quarter in which it is issued,
shall be displayed in the interior left hand corner of the rear window and
shall be re-issued quarterly upon inspection as required by this subchapter.
The emblem certifying inspection on each licensed taxicab shall not be removed
from the rear window, except by a member of the Traffic Division of the Police
Department.
(Ord. 51-1998, passed - -1998; Ord. 28-2017, passed 8-21-2017)
§ 115.022 PERMANENT OFFICE REQUIRED.
   No license shall be granted to any person to operate any taxicab unless the
person has a permanent office from which to control and regulate the operation
of his or her taxicabs.
(Ord. 28-2017, passed 8-21-2017)
§ 115.023 ADDING VEHICLES TO THE FLEET.
   (A)   No additional vehicle shall be added to or used by the holder of any
license until he or she has first reported the addition to the City Clerk, made
application for a license for the additional vehicle, paid the required fee,
presented proof of insurance and mechanical inspection as required by this
chapter and received the license and an inspection emblem.
   (B)   (1)   In the event of an emergency wherein extra taxicabs would be
necessary for the transportation of passengers and subject to the approval of
the City Clerk, temporary operating permits, good for seven days from and
including the date of issuance, may be issued to the applicant on the proper
application for and on the payment at the time of application of a fee of $10
for each temporary operating permit.
      (2)   This temporary operating permit shall apply only to taxicab
operators having already secured the regular city license for operation of a
taxicab service; provided that, each vehicle has been properly inspected as
required by this subchapter.
   (C)   In the event of any disaster or emergency such as flood, riot, war,
evacuation or any catastrophe, the City Clerk shall have the right to suspend
the foregoing requirement for a temporary operating permit during the
emergency.
(Ord. 28-2017, passed 8-21-2017)
§ 115.024 SOLICITING FARE.
   (A)   (1)   The driver of any taxicab shall not seek employment or patrons
by repeatedly and continuously driving his or her taxicab to and fro along a
street which any theater, hotel, railway station or other place of public
gathering is located, and shall not in any other manner obstruct or impede
traffic in any of the streets, alleys or public places of the city.
      (2)   A driver of a taxicab may solicit employment by driving through any
street or public place without stopping, at such speed and in such manner as
not to interfere with or impede traffic, and may pass and re-pass any theater,
hotel, railway station or other place of public resort or public gathering in
the pursuit of the ordinary business of conveying passengers along and on the
public streets or other places.
   (B)   The driver of a taxicab shall not request or solicit persons to take
passage in the taxicab when the persons are waiting to take passage on a city
bus at a regular loading point, nor shall a driver of a taxicab drive in
between a city bus which has stopped for the purpose of taking on passengers,
and the curb adjacent to the bus or stop immediately in the rear thereof, for
the purpose of soliciting passengers into the taxicab while the city bus has
stopped to take on passengers.
   (C)   A taxicab driver shall not solicit passengers for a public taxicab on
the streets and public places in the city by out-cry or the blowing of a horn;
except that, at a railroad station, the operator may solicit by word-of-mouth
while within ten feet of his or her cab.
(Ord. 28-2017, passed 8-21-2017) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.025 PARKING TAXICAB.
   No person driving a taxicab or operating a taxicab business shall stand,
park or permit the parking of a taxicab on any street with or without a driver,
for a longer period than five minutes at any one time, unless the taxicab has
been engaged and is under the direction of a passenger engaging the taxicab or
unless the taxicab is standing or parking at a designated taxicab stand.
(Ord. 28-2017, passed 8-21-2017) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.026 USE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES OR CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall drive a taxicab while intoxicated or while
consuming or having been consuming any alcoholic beverages.
      (2)   No operator of a taxicab business shall permit any person who is
intoxicated, or who has been consuming alcoholic beverages or has the smell or
odor of alcoholic beverages on his or her breath to drive a taxicab.
      (3)   The same shall apply to the use or possession of any controlled
substance.
   (B)   A violation of this section shall subject both the driver and the
operator of the taxicab service to fines as set forth in this subchapter.
(Ord. 28-2017, passed 8-21-2017) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.027 TAXICAB DRIVER’S LICENSE.
   (A)   No person shall drive a taxicab within the city without first securing
a license from the city.
   (B)   The license shall be carried on his or her person while driving a
taxicab.
   (C)   The fee payable on the issuance of the taxi driver’s license shall be
$15 for each driver’s fee for the first year and $10 per year thereafter.
(Ord. 28-2017, passed 8-21-2017) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.028 APPLICATION FOR DRIVER’S LICENSE.
   Every person desiring to drive a taxicab in the city shall, before
undertaking to do so, file with the City Clerk an application in writing for a
taxicab driver’s license, sworn to by the applicant and including the
following:
   (A)   The name and address of applicant;
   (B)   The address of each place of residence of the applicant during the
three years prior to the date of the application;
   (C)   The place of employment, the kind of employment and the name of each
employer of applicant for the two years immediately preceding the date of the
application;
   (D)   The age and sex of applicant;
   (E)   Applicant’s experience in general motor vehicle operation;
   (F)   Whether or not the applicant has ever been convicted in any court of
any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the facts concerning each conviction;
   (G)   Whether or not the applicant uses intoxicating liquors;
   (H)   The applicant’s state chauffeur license number; and
   (I)   On the face of the application, a certificate of the Police Chief that
the applicant has been examined as to his or her ability to drive a motor
vehicle, the traffic ordinances of the city and the traffic laws of the state,
and as to conviction of any crime or misdemeanor and that in the opinion of the
officer, the applicant is a fit and proper person to receive a taxicab driver’s
license.
(Ord. 28-2017, passed 8-21-2017)
§ 115.029 CONVICTIONS OF DRIVER APPLICANT; FALSE STATEMENTS.
   (A)   No taxicab driver’s license shall be issued to any applicant who has
been convicted of a crime of violence felony, or who has been convicted of a
misdemeanor at any time within a period of two years prior to the date of the
filing of his or her application, or who has three or more times been convicted
of a misdemeanor, except overtime parking violations. The Police Chief and the
Mayor may, nevertheless, issue a license where there has been a conviction of a
misdemeanor or misdemeanors as hereinbefore set out, if in their opinion, the
issuance of the license would not be detrimental to the safety or welfare of
the traveling public. Any taxicab driver’s license shall be revoked if the
license was obtained by a false statement, either voluntarily or involuntarily,
made in the application, and the driver may be fined as provided in §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   The operator of a taxicab business shall not knowingly hire any person
as a driver or permit any person to drive any taxicab in his or her service who
has been convicted of a crime of violence, or who has been refused a permit
pursuant to this section.
(Ord. 28-2017, passed 8-21-2017) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.030 REVOCATION OF DRIVER’S LICENSE FOR CONVICTION.
   (A)   If a taxicab driver is convicted of a felony, his or her license shall
be immediately and automatically revoked. If he or she is convicted of a
misdemeanor, he or she shall surrender his or her license to the Police Chief
and that license shall be immediately and automatically revoked. No new license
shall be granted within a period of two years thereafter, except a license may
be renewed on the approval of the Police Chief and the Mayor, if they find that
the issuance or renewal of the license will not be detrimental to the safety or
welfare of the traveling public.
   (B)   The operator of a taxicab business shall not knowingly permit any
person who has been convicted of a felony or misdemeanor after the issuance of
a taxicab driver’s license to the employee, whether the driver’s license has
been revoked or not, to drive any taxicab in his or her service.
(Ord. 28-2017, passed 8-21-2017) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.031 LIQUOR VIOLATIONS.
   If any person holding a license under this subchapter is convicted of
violating any provision of the state liquor laws, the license shall be revoked
and the person shall not be granted a new license within three years of the
date of the revocation.
(Ord. 28-2017, passed 8-21-2017)
§ 115.032 LOST ARTICLES.
   It shall be the duty of every person operating a taxicab business to
promptly notify the Police Department of any article found in any vehicle
operated by him or her and give a description of the article, and where it is
kept and may be recovered so it may be returned to the owner.
(Ord. 28-2017, passed 8-21-2017)
§ 115.033 INFORMATION TO PASSENGERS.
   Every driver of a taxicab, on request by any person who is, or has been, or
is about to become, a passenger in the vehicle, shall give to the person his or
her name, his or her taxicab driver’s license number, his or her state
chauffeur’s number and the license number of the vehicle.
(Ord. 28-2017, passed 8-21-2017) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.034 BAGGAGE.
   Every passenger in any taxicab shall be allowed to have conveyed with him or
her in the vehicle, without charge therefor, his or her ordinary light
traveling baggage in an amount not to exceed in weight 100 pounds.
(Ord. 28-2017, passed 8-21-2017) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.035 PASSENGER VIOLATION OF LAW.
   Any passenger in a taxicab who violates any law, ordinance or rule of the
Board of Public Works and Safety, may be ejected from the vehicle by the
driver. If the passenger has paid his or her fare in advance, the driver shall
return to him or her the unearned balance of the fare.
(Ord. 28-2017, passed 8-21-2017) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.036 PASSENGER REFUSING TO PAY FARE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who employs any taxicab and who has been
conveyed therein to refuse to pay for the passage. Whoever, with intent to
defraud the owner or driver of any public vehicle, engages the vehicle shall be
fined not more than $75. Refusal to pay the lawful charge for carriage or
absconding without payment or offer to pay shall be evidence of the intent to
defraud.
(Ord. 28-2017, passed 8-21-2017) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.037 DISABLED TAXICAB.
   In case any vehicle used as a taxicab becomes disabled for any reason, or
there arises a condition that the driver is unable to convey the passenger in
whose employ the vehicle may be at the time of the disability, and the
disability cannot be remedied so that the carriage of the passenger may be
continued within 15 minutes, no fare shall be charged or collected for any
service rendered up to the time of the disability. If the passenger elects to
remain in the vehicle or continue the employment after the disability is
remedied, full rates for the distance or time traveled shall be charged as if
no disability had occurred.
(Ord. 28-2017, passed 8-21-2017)
§ 115.038 RATE CARD POSTED.
   The operator of a taxicab business shall have printed on a card the maximum
fare and rate for transportation of passengers, together with the prevailing
schedule of rates for the taxicab. The card shall be prominently displayed in
each taxicab so that it can readily be seen and read by all passengers.
(Ord. 28-2017, passed 8-21-2017) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.039 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   No license shall be issued and no taxicab shall be operated on any street in
the city until there has been filed with the City Clerk an indemnity
undertaking or policy of insurance, executed by an insurance company authorized
to execute the instruments in the state, and running for the year of the
license to be issued to the applicant, all subject to the approval of the City
Clerk. The policy shall provide for the payment of any final judgment that may
be rendered against the insured for damages to property or for bodily injury or
death of passengers or other persons resulting from collision or other accident
for which the person may be found liable while operating the taxicab described
in the applications, in a sum up to $300,000 per accident.
(Ord. 28-2017, passed 8-21-2017) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.040 TAXICABS TO BE CLEAN.
   Every taxicab shall be kept in as good a state of repair and in as clean and
sanitary a condition as on the date of the issuance of its certificate of
inspection. The Traffic Division of the Police Department may make additional
and separate inspections of any licensed vehicle at any time during the term of
the license. If a taxicab is not in a good state of repair or is not being
maintained in a clean and sanitary condition, the Inspector may order the
operator to remove the vehicle from service until the conditions are corrected.
In the event that the vehicle is not immediately removed from service, the
Police Chief shall file a complaint with the county court, for the revocation
or suspension of the license of the operator of the taxicab business.
(Ord. 28-2017, passed 8-21-2017) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.041 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   A license issued to any driver or operator of a taxicab business may
be revoked or indefinitely suspended by the Board of Public Works and Safety
if:
      (1)   Any provision of this chapter is violated by any license holder
whether operator or driver;
      (2)   There is repeated or flagrant violation of any ordinance of the
city or the laws of the state regulating or controlling traffic on the streets
of the city;
      (3)   On report of the Police Chief, it appears to the satisfaction of
the Board of Public Works and Safety that the vehicle so licensed is not
properly constructed, is not in good mechanical repair and condition or is not
a safe conveyance for the transportation of passengers; or
      (4)   On it being shown to the satisfaction of the Board of Public Works
and Safety that any representation made by the licensee in the application for
the license is false.
   (B)   No license may be revoked or suspended until the Board of Public Works
has held a public hearing on the matter with the license holder receiving ten
days’ written notice prior to said hearing. Notice shall be delivered to the
address on file with the City Clerk and may be hand delivered by a member of
the Police Department or sent by certified mail return receipt requested. The
city or Police Department shall have the burden of proof in any such hearing.
(Ord. 28-2017, passed 8-21-2017)
§ 115.042 FARE.
   The operator of a taxicab business or the driver of any taxicab shall not
collect, as a fare for the use of a taxicab owned or operated by him or her, a
fee or charge of more than the rate schedules approved by the Board of Public
Works and Safety for any single and continuous trip within the city. The
operator or driver may charge for standing or waiting time at the rate as
approved by the Board of Public Works and Safety.
(Ord. 28-2017, passed 8-21-2017) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.043 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   (A)   In the event a taxicab service is sold or transferred to a new owner,
the license to operate said taxicab service shall be transferred to the new
owner upon the following:
      (1)   The filing with the City Clerk of a written signed application to
transfer a license; and
      (2)   The payment of all taxicab license transfers fees as set forth in
division (C) below.
   (B)   The application to transfer a license to operate a taxicab service
shall be sworn to by the applicant and shall contain the following:
      (1)   The name of the person, partnership, firm or corporation desiring
the license; if a firm, the full names of each of the partners;
      (2)   The name of the person, partnership, firm or corporation
transferring the license; if a firm, the full names of each of the partners;
      (3)   The place of residence and principal place of business of the
applicant;
      (4)   The applicant intends to and will, if issued a license to do so,
operate the taxicabs as shall be necessary in the service and that he or she
owns and is the sole owner of the described taxicabs, and intends to and will
operate the taxicabs in such service;
      (5)   The age, sex and the residence of each person who will drive a
taxicab for the applicant;
      (6)   The make, model and serial number of each vehicle for which a
license is applied; and
      (7)   The location and address of the office of the applicant.
   (C)   (1)   All existing taxicab licenses shall be transferred to the new
owner upon payment of a $15 transfer fee for each vehicle. This fee must be
paid before any license will be transferred under this section.
      (2)   Annual license fees shall thereafter be assessed pursuant to §
115.020.
(Ord. 28-2017, passed 8-21-2017)
§ 115.044 MARKINGS.
   (A)   All taxicabs operated within the city shall be clearly marked with the
name and phone number of the taxicab company on both the driver’s side and
passenger side front doors in permanent lettering no smaller than five inches.
   (B)   Stretched limousines shall be exempt from this section.
(Ord. 28-2017, passed 8-21-2017) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   The penalty for exceeding the restrictions of §§
115.001 and
115.002 shall be $25 for each day of violation.
(Prior Code, § 125.99)
   (C)   Unless a section provides otherwise, any violations of §§
115.015 through
115.044 shall result in a fine in the amount of $250 being assessed against the
taxicab company (and/or the driver as authorized in §§
115.015 through
115.044). Any taxicab that is found not to be in compliance with any of the
provisions of §§
115.015 through
115.044 shall be immediately removed from service and may not be operated again
within the city until such time as said taxicab is certified by a member of the
Traffic Division of the city’s Police Department to be in full compliance with
§§
115.015 through
115.044.
(Ord. 54-1994, passed - -1994; Ord. 28-2017, passed 8-21-2017)
CHAPTER 116: TRANSIENT VENDORS
Section
   
116.001   Definitions and regulations
   
116.002   Applications
   
116.003   Deposits and bond
   
116.004   Fees
   
116.005   Exemptions
   
116.006   Notice of requirements
   
116.007   Severability
 
   
116.999   Penalty
§ 116.001 DEFINITIONS AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   All transient merchants and dealers, as defined in division (B) below,
unless exempted by division (C) below, shall procure a license from the City
Controller, or his or her designee, prior to engaging in business within the
city. Said license shall be valid for a maximum of 45 days.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      TRANSIENT MERCHANTS OR DEALERS. All persons, both principals and agents,
who engage or conduct in the city either in one locality or in traveling from
place to place or from door to door or from telephone sources located within
the city the business of selling or soliciting orders for the sale of goods,
wares or merchandise to the general public with the intention of continuing in
said business in said city for a period of not more than 45 days or who rent,
lease, use or occupy, either in whole or in part, for the purpose of carrying
on such business use, any room, building, area within the city or other public
or privately owned building, any lot or parcel of land, any motor vehicle
including trucks and semi-trailers for the exhibition and sale of such goods,
wares and merchandise.
   (C)   No city license shall be required of auctions conducted pursuant to
law, nor of sales made to commercial dealers by commercial travelers or selling
agents in the usual course of business, or where no license may be collected
under the provisions of the Constitution or laws of the United States, nor of
any sales by or sponsored through societies acting for charities, religious or
public purposes, or other legally established not-for-profit organizations, nor
of any sales in conjunction with community events given approval by either the
city’s Park Board or the city’s Board of Public Works and Safety.
   (D)   This chapter shall not be applicable to residential garage or yard
sales conducted at the seller’s permanent place of residence.
   (E)   No sales of goods, wares or merchandise shall be made on public
property or right-of-way unless specifically permitted by either the Board of
Public Works and Safety or the city’s Park Board.
   (F)   A transient dealer, whether subject to city license or exempt, shall
not advertise, represent or hold forth a sale of goods, wares or merchandise as
an insurance, bankrupt, insolvent, assignee, trustee, executor, administrator
receiver manufacturer’s wholesale, cancelled order or misfit sale or closing-
out, or a sale of any goods damaged by smoke, fire or water otherwise, unless,
before so doing, he or she shall state in writing under oath to the City
Controller of the city at the time he or she makes application for a license
all the facts relating to the reason and character of such special sales, so
advertised, held forth or represented, including a statement of the names of
persons from whom said goods, wares or merchandise were purchased, and the date
of delivery of same to the person applying for license, the place where said
goods, wares or merchandise were taken last, and such details necessary to
exactly locate and fully identify all goods, wares or merchandise to be sold,
and make such further disclosure to and give such information as may be
required by the City Controller. Such transient dealer shall also include in
said statement names and residences of the owners in whose interest the
business is conducted and whether conducted as an individual, firm, association
or corporation.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any transient dealer to sell or exhibit for
sale either at public or private sale any goods, wares or merchandise without
first complying with the provisions of this section, or to make any false
statements in references to the matter required in divisions (C) and (F) above,
or to fail or refuse to comply with the requirements of any of the provisions
of this section, and every person, whether principal or agent, who by circular,
handbills, newspaper, poster or in any manner advertises such sales as herein
contemplated before proper license is issued to said transient dealer and
before he or she has complied with the provisions of this section, shall be
guilty of a violation of this section; provided, however, that, nothing in this
section contained shall be construed as abridging or denying the right and
power of the Board of Public Works and Safety of the city to refuse or withhold
the granting of any license or to revoke the same, if granted, to a transient
dealer upon any hearing thereof when, in the discretion of said Board, on the
basis of the disclosures as aforesaid, or from other information deemed by them
sufficient, such action may be deemed necessary or proper to protect or
safeguard the public from imposition, mischief of fraud.
   (H)   It shall be the duty of the prospective vendor to obtain a copy of
these licensing provisions to determine its requirements. All questions of
coverage shall be directed to the City Attorney.
(Prior Code, § 122.01) (Ord. 130-1985, passed - -1985)
§ 116.002 APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   At least 20 days prior to holding of such sale or solicitation, every
such transient dealer shall furnish to the City Controller a verified license
application setting out the following:
      (1)   Name and address of the applicant and also the name of the true
owner if the applicant is not such true owner of the goods, wares or
merchandise to be sold;
      (2)   Name, location and time of the proposed sale or solicitation along
with the zoning designation of the proposed sale site as determined by the
enforcement authority. The enforcement authority must approve the sale site as
to zoning, prior to the issuance of a license;
      (3)   Inventory of the goods, wares or merchandise, on hand and on order,
which the applicant intends to offer for sale at such sale. The inventory shall
show the quantity, kind or grade of each item, the price at which each item is
proposed to be sold and the total wholesale and retail value of the inventory
based on the foregoing and, if sales are to be made other than from inventory,
a copy of the catalogue or other sales materials and/or a listing of the sample
to be displayed;
      (4)   Such other information as the City Controller or the Board of
Public Works and Safety may prescribe;
      (5)   Verifiable street address and telephone number of any permanent
place of business in the state or, if there be no permanent place of business
in the state, a copy of a certificate of the Secretary of the State evidencing
the fact that the dealer has qualified to do business in this state and the
name and address of its agent for the service of process in the state;
      (6)   Written consent of owner or lessee of real property of the site on
which sale or business is proposed to be conducted; and
      (7)   The above information shall also be displayed at each site of
business activity.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to relieve any person or
other legal entity from any license fee liability, tax liability, interest
penalty or forfeiture incurred as of the effective date.
(Prior Code, § 122.02) (Ord. 130-1985, passed - -1985)
§ 116.003 DEPOSITS AND BOND.
   (A)   Every applicant for a transient dealer’s license shall execute and
file with the City Controller, or his or her designee, a good and sufficient
bond in the sum of $5,000 or 10% of anticipated sales, whichever is greater,
with the surety thereon a surety company authorized to do business in the state
approved by said City Controller and shall be payable to the city to the extent
that any taxes or fines as determined by the Controller of the city to be due
are not paid, upon judicial determination those authorized to file suit
thereunder, and shall be conditioned upon faithful observance of all the
condition of this section, and the payment of city, county and state license,
sales, use, income or occupational license taxes due or to be withheld and paid
by the licensee hereunder, and shall also indemnify any purchaser at such sale
who suffers any loss by reason of defective merchandise or any
misrepresentation is said sale. Said bond shall also provide that the city,
county and state may file suit in their own name against the licensee and/or
the surety on said bond for any taxes, fees or fines due from the licensee
which are not paid within 30 days of the termination of the sale and that any
purchaser at such sale may maintain an action against the licensee and/or said
surety for claims arising from such a sale. Said bond shall also provide that
it shall continue in effect for one year after the termination of the sale for
which it is made and until all actions are concluded and the judgment or
judgments, if any, have been paid and fully satisfied or the amount of the bond
exhausted by such payments. This bond shall be in addition to all deposits
required under other ordinances of the city, including, but not limited to, the
sales and use tax ordinances.
   (B)   The above bond and certificate of qualification to do business in this
state shall be public records open to examination upon request and copies
thereof shall be furnished on request upon payment of a fee of $0.25 per page.
(Prior Code, § 122.03) (Ord. 130-1985, passed - -1985)
§ 116.004 FEES.
   The license fee shall be $100 for each 45-day period.
(Prior Code, § 122.05) (Ord. 130-1985, passed - -1985)
§ 116.005 EXEMPTIONS.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
116.001, farmers who sell fruit, vegetables and other farm produce grown and
raised by themselves shall be exempt from the city license requirement for
sales conducted at the city farmer’s market and for sales conducted at an
established private property location provided that the sales are in
conformance with zoning laws and the seller has written commitment with the
private property owner to remain at the location at least 25 days of a 45-day
consecutive period for the purpose of selling fruit, vegetable and farm
produce.
(Prior Code, § 122.06) (Ord. 130-1985, passed - -1985)
§ 116.006 NOTICE OF REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Board of Public Works and Safety may cause to be erected, at its
discretion, signs at various locations in the city giving notice of the
requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   In addition to the above requirements, transient merchants must
adhere to all applicable federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations
and must comply with all requirements for licenses, permits, registration,
taxes and zoning laws. Violations of other applicable laws or failure to comply
with other applicable laws shall be deemed to be a violation of this code
chapter.
      (2)   The granting of an exemption under this section shall not relieve
the exempted person, group or organization from complying with other applicable
laws and regulations.
   (C)   Persons or organizations claiming an exemption from licensing under
this chapter must display such information supporting an exemption at each
point of sale or solicitation, and must make such information available upon
request to city officials.
   (D)   Any business intending to remain 45 days or more shall be considered a
“permanent resident business” and must strictly comply with all applicable
zoning and other laws.
(Prior Code, § 122.06) (Ord. 130-1985, passed - -1985)
§ 116.007 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter are severable.
   (B)   If any section, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this chapter
is declared invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, such declarations
of invalidity shall not affect the remainder of this chapter, which shall
continue in effect.
(Prior Code, § 122.07) (Ord. 130-1985, passed - -1985)
§ 116.999 PENALTY.
   Violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be punishable by a
fine of $1,000 for each offense. Each day such violation occurs shall be deemed
a separate offense. In addition, a business activity violating this chapter
shall be subject to expulsion from the city. The Police Department and such
other persons as authorized by the Board of Public Works and Safety are hereby
authorized to enforce this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 122.04) (Ord. 130-1985, passed - -1985)
CHAPTER 117: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
Surveillance
   
117.001   Prohibition of surveillance
   
117.002   Complaints
 
   
117.999   Penalty
SURVEILLANCE
§ 117.001 PROHIBITION OF SURVEILLANCE.
   All surveillance activities by the Ohio Department of Liquor Control which
inhibit, threaten or impede interstate commerce and, in particular, the
purchase of liquor, beer or wine by Ohio residents at stores located within the
city are hereby prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 123.01) Penalty, see §
117.999
§ 117.002 COMPLAINTS.
   A verified complaint for such an ordinance violation may be filed with the
Department of Law by a person who has observed such surveillance activity,
which complaint will be filed in County Superior Court No. 3, as an ordinance
violation.
(Prior Code, § 123.03) (Ord. 89-1993, passed - -1993)
§ 117.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   The prohibited activities described in §
117.001 shall constitute an ordinance violation subject to a fine of not less
than $50, nor more than $500. Each activity shall constitute a separate
ordinance violation.
(Prior Code, § 123.02)
CHAPTER 118: SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
General Provisions
   
118.001   Definitions
   
118.002   Classification
   
118.003   Regulations
   
118.004   Obscenity
   
118.005   Public nudity
   
118.006   Exemptions
   
118.007   Severability
Licensing Regulations
   
118.020   License required
   
118.021   Issuance of license
   
118.022   License fee
   
118.023   Inspection
   
118.024   Expiration of license
   
118.025   Suspension
   
118.026   Revocation
   
118.027   Hearing; license denial, suspension, revocation; appeal
   
118.028   Transfer of license
 
   
118.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 118.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISTINGUISHED OR CHARACTERIZED BY AN EMPHASIS UPON. The dominant or
principal theme of the object referenced. For instance, when the phrase refers
to films “which are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis upon the
exhibition or display of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas”, the films so described are those whose dominant or principal character
and theme are the exhibition or display of “specified anatomical areas” or
“specified sexual activities”.
   EMPLOYEE, EMPLOY and EMPLOYMENT. Describe and pertain to any person who
performs any service on the premises of a sexually-oriented business on a full-
time, part-time or contract basis, regardless of whether the person is
denominated as an employee, independent contractor, agent or by another status.
EMPLOYEE does not include a person exclusively on the premises for repair or
maintenance of the premises, or for the delivery of goods to the premises.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The Department of Metropolitan Development or such
person as may be designated by the Director of the Department of Metropolitan
Development.
   ESCORT. A person who, for consideration, and for another person, agrees or
offers:
      (1)   To act as a companion, guide or date;
      (2)   To privately model lingerie; or
      (3)   To privately perform strip shows or other gyrational choreography,
which performances are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
specified sexual activities or by exposure of specified anatomical areas.
   ESCORT AGENCY. A person or business association that for a fee, tip or other
consideration, furnishes, offers to furnish or advertises to furnish, escorts
as one of its primary business purposes.
   ESTABLISH or ESTABLISHMENT.
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any sexually-oriented business as a
new business;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually-
oriented business, to any sexually-oriented business;
      (3)   The addition of any sexually-oriented business to any other
existing sexually-oriented business; or
      (4)   The relocation of any sexually-oriented business.
   LICENSEE. A person in whose name a license to operate a sexually-oriented
business has been issued, as well as the individual listed as an applicant on
the application for a license; and, in the case of an employee, a person in
whose name a license has been issued authorizing employment in a sexually-
oriented business.
   NUDE, NUDITY or A STATE OF NUDITY. The showing of the human male or female
genitals, pubic area, vulva, anus or anal cleft with less than a fully opaque
covering, the showing of the female breast with less than a fully opaque
covering of any part of the nipple or the showing of the covered male genitals
in a discernibly turgid state.
   OPERATE or CAUSE TO BE OPERATED. To cause to function or to put or keep in a
state of doing business. OPERATOR means any person on the premises of a
sexually-oriented business who is authorized to exercise operational control of
the business, or who causes to function or who puts or keeps in operation, the
business. A person may be found to be OPERATING OR CAUSING TO BE OPERATED a
sexually-oriented business regardless of whether that person is an owner, part
owner or licensee of the business.
   PERSON. An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation, association
or other legal entity.
   REGULARLY FEATURES or REGULARLY SHOWN. A consistent or substantial course of
conduct, such that the films or performances exhibited constitute a substantial
portion of the films or performances offered as a part of the ongoing business
of the sexually-oriented business.
   SEMI-NUDE or IN A SEMI-NUDE CONDITION. The showing of the female breast
below a horizontal line across the top of the areola at its highest point or
the showing of the male or female buttocks. This definition shall include the
entire lower portion of the human female breast, but shall not include any
portion of the cleavage of the human female breast, exhibited by a dress,
blouse, skirt, leotard, bathing suit or other wearing apparel, provided the
areola is not exposed in whole or in part.
   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS. An adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult novelty
store, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion picture
theater, adult theater, escort agency, semi- nude model studio or sexual
encounter center.
      (1)   ADULT ARCADE.
         (a)   Any building or structure which contains or is used for
commercial entertainment where the patron directly or indirectly is charged a
fee to view from an enclosed or screened area or booth a series of live dance
routines, strip performances or other gyrational choreography, which
performances are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified
sexual activities or by exposure of specified anatomical areas; or
         (b)   Any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein
coin or slug-operated or electronically, electrically or mechanically
controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors or other image-
producing devices are maintained to show images to five or fewer persons per
machine at any one time, and where the images so displayed are distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting or describing specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (2)   ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE. An
establishment having at least 25% of: its retail floor space used for the
display of adult products; or stock in trade consisting of adult products; or
weekly revenue derived from adult products, for any form of consideration, of
any one or more of the following:
         (a)   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, digital video discs,
compact discs, slides or other visual representations, which are characterized
by their emphasis upon the exhibition or display of specified sexual activities
or specified anatomical areas; and/or
         (b)   Instruments, devices or para- phernalia which are designed for
use or marketed primarily for stimulation of human genital organs or for
sadomasochistic use or abuse of the user or others.
      (3)   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, restaurant or similar commercial
establishment, whether or not alcoholic beverages are served, which regularly
features:
         (a)   Persons who appear nude or semi- nude;
         (b)   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities; or
         (c)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other
photographic reproductions which are characterized by the exhibition or display
of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (4)   ADULT MOTEL. A hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment,
which:
         (a)   Offers accommodations to the public for any form of
consideration; provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions,
films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other photographic
reproductions which are characterized by the exhibition or display of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; and has a sign visible from
the public right-of-way which advertises the availability of this adult type of
photographic reproductions; and either:
         (b)   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is
less than ten hours; or
         (c)   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to sub-rent the
room for a period of time that is less than ten hours.
      (5)   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER.
         (a)   An enclosed building with a capacity of more than five, but less
than 50, persons, used for presenting films, motion pictures, video cassettes,
slides or similar photographic reproductions in which a preponderance of the
total presentation time is devoted to the showing of materials which are
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing
or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for
observation by patrons therein; or
         (b)   An enclosed building with a capacity of 50 or more persons used
for presenting films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or similar
photographic reproductions in which a preponderance of the total presentation
time is devoted to showing of materials which are distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for observation by
patrons therein.
      (6)   ADULT THEATER.
         (a)   A theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features persons who appear in a state of nudity
or semi-nude or live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities; or
         (b)   An open lot or part thereof, with appurtenant facilities,
devoted primarily to the presentation of motion pictures, films, theatrical
productions and other forms of visual productions, for any form of
consideration, to persons in motor vehicles or on outdoor seats in which a
preponderance of the total presentation time is devoted to the showing of
materials distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting,
describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas for observation by patrons.
      (7)   SEMI-NUDE MODEL STUDIO. A commercial establishment which regularly
features a person (or persons) who appears semi-nude and is provided to be
observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured or photographed by other persons
who pay money or any form of consideration, but shall not include a proprietary
school licensed by the state or a college, junior college or university
supported entirely or in part by public taxation; a private college or
university which maintains and operates educational programs in which credits
are transferable to a college, junior college or university supported entirely
or partly by taxation.
      (8)   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. A business or commercial establishment
that as one of its principal business purposes, offers for any form of
consideration, a place where two or more persons may congregate, associate or
consort for the purpose of specified sexual activities. The definition of
sexual encounter establishment or any sexually-oriented businesses shall not
include an establishment where a medical practitioner, psychologist,
psychiatrist or similar professional person licensed by the state engages in
medically approved and recognized sexual therapy.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
      (1)   The human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered; or
      (2)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks or a female breast below a point immediately above the top of
the areola.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Any of the following:
      (1)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
      (2)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy;
      (3)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic regions,
buttocks or female breasts;
      (4)   Masochism, erotic or sexually-oriented torture, beating or the
infliction
      (5)   Flagellation or torture, in the context of a sexual relationship,
or pain;
      (6)   Erotic touching, fondling or other such contact with an animal by a
human being; or
      (7)   Human excretion, urination, menstruation, vaginal or anal
irrigation as part of or in connection with any of the activities set forth in
divisions (1) through (6) above.
   SUBSTANTIAL ENLARGEMENT OF A SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS. The increase in
floor areas occupied by the business by more than 25%, as the floor areas exist
on the date this chapter takes effect.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF A SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS.
      (1)   The sale, lease or sublease of the business;
      (2)   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling interest
in the business, whether by sale, exchange or similar means; or
      (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift or other similar legal devise
which transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for transfer
by bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing
the ownership or control.
(Ord. 50-2006, passed 11-6-2006)
§ 118.002 CLASSIFICATION.
   Sexually-oriented businesses are classified as follows:
   (A)   Adult arcades;
   (B)   Adult bookstores, adult novelty stores or adult video stores;
   (C)   Adult cabarets;
   (D)   Adult motels;
   (E)   Adult motion picture theaters;
   (F)   Adult theaters;
   (G)   Escort agencies;
   (H)   Semi-nude model studios; and
   (I)   Sexual encounter centers.
(Ord. 50-2006, passed 11-6-2006)
§ 118.003 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Premises requirements.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to own or operate a sexually-oriented business
that is not in compliance with the requirements stated in this section;
provided that, sexually-oriented businesses in operation on the effective date
of this chapter shall have 60 days from such effective date to come into
compliance with divisions (A)(2) through (A)(9) below.
      (2)   Upon application for a sexually-oriented business license or a
renewal of such a license, the application shall be accompanied by a diagram of
the premises showing a plan thereof specifying the location of one or more
manager’s stations and the location of all overhead lighting fixtures and
designating any portion of the premises in which patrons will not be permitted.
A manager’s station may not exceed 32 square feet of floor area. The diagram
shall also designate the place at which the license will be conspicuously
posted, if granted. A professionally prepared diagram in the nature of an
engineer’s or architect’s blueprint shall not be required; however, each
diagram should be oriented to the north or to some designated street or object
and should be drawn to a designated scale or with marked dimensions sufficient
to show the various internal dimensions of all areas of the interior of the
premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches. The City Clerk may waive
the foregoing diagram for renewal applications if the applicant adopts a
diagram that was previously submitted and certifies that the configuration of
the premises has not been altered since the diagram was prepared.
      (3)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from a manager’s station of every area of
the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose, excluding
restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment. If the
premises has two or more manager’s stations designated, then the interior of
the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an unobstructed
view of each area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for
any purpose from at least one of the manager’s stations. The view required in
this division (A)(3) must be by direct line of sight from the manager’s
station.
      (4)   It shall be the duty of the licensee to ensure that the view area
(specified in division (A)(3) above) remains unobstructed by any doors,
curtains, partitions, walls, merchandise, display racks or other materials and,
at all times, to ensure that no patron is permitted access to any area of the
premises which has been designated as an area in which patrons will not be
permitted in the application filed pursuant to division (A)(2) above.
      (5)   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager’s
station may be made without the prior approval of the City Clerk.
      (6)   It shall be the duty of the owners and operator, and it shall also
be the duty of any agents and employees present in the premises, to ensure that
no patron is permitted access to any area of the premises that has been
designated as an area in which patrons will not be permitted in the application
filed pursuant to division (A)(2) above.
      (7)   Except for those premises identified in division (A)(8) below, the
premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of sufficient
intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted access at an
illumination of not less than ten footcandles as measured at the floor level.
It shall be the duty of the owners and operator, and it shall also be the duty
of any agents and employees present in the premises, to ensure that the
illumination described in this division (A)(7) is maintained at all times that
any patron is present in the premises.
      (8)   With respect to a sexually-oriented business that has individual
booths.
         (a)   Each booth shall have a rectangular shaped entranceway of not
less than two feet wide and six feet high.
         (b)   There shall be no door, curtain or other obstruction blocking or
closing off such entranceway so as to obstruct the visibility of a patron.
         (c)   There shall be no openings of any kind existing between viewing
rooms or booths. Thus, the licensee shall, during each business day, regularly
inspect the walls between the viewing booths or rooms to determine if any
openings or holes exist.
         (d)   It is the duty of the owners and operator of the premises to
ensure that at least one employee is on duty and situated in each manager’s
station at all times that any patron is present inside the premises.
         (e)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a
manner that there is an unobstructed view from a manager’s station of every
area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose,
excluding restrooms. If the premises has two or more manager’s stations
designated, then the interior of the premises shall be configured in such a
manner that there is an unobstructed view of each area of the premises to which
any patron is permitted access for any purpose, excluding restrooms, from at
least one of the manager’s stations. The view required in this division (A)(8)
(e) must be by direct line of sight from the manager’s station. Viewing booths
must be separated at least 12 inches from the exterior walls of any other
viewing booths by open space.
         (f)   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures
of sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are
permitted access at an illumination of not less than ten footcandles as
measured at the floor level. However, if a lesser level of illumination shall
be necessary to enable a patron to view the adult entertainment in a booth, a
lesser amount of illumination may be maintained in the booth; provided,
however, at no time shall there be less than two footcandles of illumination,
as measured from the floor. It shall be the duty of the owners and operator,
and it shall also be the duty of any agents and employees present in the
premises to ensure that the illumination described in this division (A)(8)(f)
is maintained at all times that any patron is present in the premises.
      (9)   No adult product shall be advertised or displayed in such a manner
that the adult product may be viewed by the public who is not a patron of the
sexually-oriented business.
      (10)   A person having a duty under divisions (A)(2) through (A)(9) above
commits a violation if he or she knowingly fails to fulfill that duty.
      (11)   A sexually-oriented business shall not be located within 1,000
feet of a:
         (a)   Residence;
         (b)   Place of worship or building that is used primarily for
religious worship and related religious activities;
         (c)   Public or private educational facility including, but not
limited to, a child day care facility, nursery schools, preschools,
kindergartens, elementary schools, private schools, intermediate schools,
junior high schools, middle schools, high schools, vocational schools,
secondary schools, continuation schools, special education schools, junior
colleges and universities; school includes the school grounds, but does not
include facilities used primarily for another purpose and only incidentally as
a school; or
         (d)   Public park or recreational area which has been designated for
park or recreational activities including, but not limited to, a park,
playground, nature trails, swimming pool, reservoir, athletic field, basketball
or tennis courts, pedestrian/ bicycle paths, wilderness areas or other similar
public land within the city which is under the control, operation or management
of the city park and recreation authorities.
      (12)   A sexually-oriented business shall not be located within 500 feet
of another sexually-oriented business.
      (13)   A sexually-oriented business lawfully operating:
         (a)   Subsequent to adoption of this chapter by the city’s Common
Council shall be restricted to C-4 Zone Districts, as provided in
Ch. 165 of this code of ordinances; and
         (b)   Prior to adoption of this chapter by the city’s Common Council
shall be deemed a non- conforming use, as provided in §§
165.435 through
165.440 of this code of ordinances.
      (14)   All premises requirements of this section must be inspected
annually by the Enforcement Officer and a recommendation of approval or denial
of application forwarded to the City Clerk.
   (B)   Operational requirements.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to own or operate a sexually-oriented business
that is not in compliance with the requirements stated in this section.
      (2)   A sexually-oriented business shall be kept in a sanitary condition
at all times. As a condition of licensure under this chapter, the Enforcement
Officer shall have the right to enter any licensed premises during business
hours without notice to ensure compliance with this chapter, and it shall be
unlawful for a person to prevent or deny any such entry. The Enforcement
Officer shall have the power to determine if such business is in a sanitary
condition. For such purpose, the Enforcement Officer may, upon request, forward
such information to the county’s Health Department. If the Enforcement Officer
shall determine, after an investigation by the county’s Health Department, that
an unsanitary condition exists within a sexually-oriented business, the City
Clerk shall suspend the license for such premises until such unsanitary
condition is rectified.
      (3)   No licensee under this section, or his or her employee, shall
violate any state statute or city ordinance, or allow any other person to
commit such a violation, within such business or on parking areas or other
property immediately adjacent to or normally used for purposes of parking for
such business, which property is under the control of the business owner or
owners or their lessee or lessor.
      (4)   Sexually-oriented businesses shall not be open between the hours of
midnight and 10:00 a.m. and shall not be open on Sundays.
      (5)   Sexually-oriented businesses shall not prepare or serve food to its
patrons.
(Ord. 50-2006, passed 11-6-2006) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.004 OBSCENITY.
   (A)   What constitutes obscenity. Material under this section shall be
considered obscene and unlawful if:
      (1)   The average person applying contemporary community standards would
find that the material, taken as a whole, appeals to the prurient interests;
      (2)   The material depicts or describes patently offensive
representations or descriptions of ultimate sex acts, normal or perverted,
actual or simulated, or patently offensive representations or descriptions of
masturbation, excretory functions and lewd exhibition of the genitals; and
      (3)   The material, taken as a whole, lacks serious literary, artistic,
political or scientific value.
   (B)   Dealing in, sale, loan, rent or lease of obscene film and material is
unlawful. It shall be unlawful for any person, corporation or officer, agent,
director or employee of a corporation, knowingly to deal in, sell, loan, rent
or lease any material in the form of a motion picture film, or other material
defined by this section to be obscene.
   (C)   Public possession, exhibition and performance of obscene film and live
material is unlawful. It shall be unlawful for any person, corporation, or
officer, agent, director or employee of a corporation, knowingly to possess in
public or exhibit or perform in any public place a motion picture film, stage
show, live act or production defined in this section to be obscene.
   (D)   Sale, loan, exhibition or public possession of obscene literature is
unlawful. It shall be unlawful for any person, corporation or officer, agent,
director or employee of a corporation, knowingly to sell, loan, exhibit or
possess in public any book, magazine, pamphlet, paper, writing, card,
advertisement, circular, print, picture, photograph, instrument, statue,
drawing or other similar material defined by this section to be obscene.
   (E)   Judicial determination before seizure of obscene material and
provision for adversary proceedings available after seizure.
      (1)   Upon request from the City Attorney, or the City Attorney’s
designee, a circuit or superior court judge may view the film, movie, motion
picture, videocassette, digital video disc, slides or other photographic
reproductions and focus searchingly on the question of obscenity.
         (a)   If the judge views the material and determines that probable
cause exists that the material is obscene, the judge shall issue a warrant to
seize the material.
         (b)   After the seizure warrants are executed, all material and
necessary equipment housing the material, if the material cannot be segregated,
shall be preserved as evidence.
      (2)   After seizure of the material, but before a requested adversary
proceeding, upon a showing to the trial court that other copies of the material
are not available to the exhibitor, the trial court shall permit the seized
material to be copied so that showing can be continued pending a judicial
determination of the obscenity issue in an adversary proceeding.
         (a)   The trial court shall, upon granting a request to so copy,
permit the seized material to be copied, under circumstances which assure that
there will be no tampering with the material.
         (b)   The trial court shall order the original material to be returned
within 24 hours after the granting of the request to copy.
         (c)   The copy shall be preserved by the city as evidence.
      (3)   After seizure of the material, a prompt judicial determination of
the obscenity issue shall be available in an adversary proceeding, before a
trial court, at the request of an interested party. Adversary proceedings shall
also be available at the request of an interested party, where there has been
no seizure of the material, pursuant to a prior judicial determination.
         (a)   The adversary proceeding shall occur within 20 days after
request.
         (b)   All parties may subpoena witnesses and present evidence.
         (c)   If the trial court finds the material obscene at the adversary
proceeding, the cause shall proceed on the court docket to trial, and he or she
shall issue a warrant to seize the original material and any copies not being
preserved by the city as evidence.
         (d)   If the trial court finds the material not to be obscene at the
adversary proceeding, all charges pending against any party for violation of
this section shall be dismissed, and he or she shall order the return of the
original material being preserved by the city as evidence.
   (F)   Adversary proceedings available before seizure of any book, magazine,
pamphlet, paper, writing, card, advertisement, circular, print, picture,
photograph, instrument, statue, drawing or other similar material. An adversary
proceeding for judicial determination of obscenity shall be conducted by the
trial court before seizure of any book, magazine, pamphlet, writing, card,
advertisement, circular, print, picture, photograph, instrument, statue,
drawing or other similar material, at the request of an interested party.
      (1)   The adversary proceeding shall occur within ten days after request.
      (2)   All parties may subpoena witnesses and present evidence.
      (3)   If the trial court finds the book, magazine, pamphlet, writing,
card, advertisement, circular, print, picture, photograph, instrument, statue,
drawing or other similar material to be obscene, the cause shall proceed on the
court docket to trial and the trial court shall issue a warrant for the seizure
of such material found to be obscene and any copy thereof. All of such material
seized shall be preserved by the city as evidence and disposed of in accordance
with the provisions of this section.
      (4)   If the trial court finds such material not to be obscene at the
adversary proceeding, all charges pending against any party for violation of
this section shall be dismissed.
   (G)   Destruction of obscene material. After a trial and a finding that any
material enumerated under this section is obscene and after exhaustion of
appellate remedies, if such finding of obscenity is unchanged, the trial court
may order the material destroyed upon petition of the City Attorney or his or
her designee.
   (H)   Preemption by state law as to minors. This section shall be
inapplicable to the exhibition of obscenity in the form of a motion picture
film or sale or loan for monetary consideration of obscenity in the form of a
picture, photograph, drawing, sculpture, book, pamphlet, magazine, sound
recording or similar material to minors 17 years of age or younger, as this is
made unlawful by state law.
(Ord. 50-2006, passed 11-6-2006) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.005 PUBLIC NUDITY.
   (A)   It shall be a violation for a person who knowingly and intentionally,
in a sexually-oriented business, appears in a state of nudity or engages in
specified sexual activities.
   (B)   It shall be a violation for a person who knowingly or intentionally,
in a sexually-oriented business, appears in a semi-nude condition unless the
person is an employee who, while semi-nude, shall be at least six feet from any
patron or customer and on a stage at least two feet from the floor.
   (C)   It shall be a violation for an employee, while semi-nude in a
sexually-oriented business, to receive directly any pay or gratuity from any
patron or customer, or for any patron or customer to pay or give any gratuity
directly to any employee, while that employee is semi-nude in a sexually-
oriented business.
   (D)   It shall be a violation for an employee, while semi-nude, to knowingly
and intentionally touch a customer or the clothing of a customer.
(Ord. 50-2006, passed 11-6-2006) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 118.006 EXEMPTIONS.
   It is a defense to prosecution under §
118.006 that a person appearing in a state of nudity did so in a modeling class
operated:
   (A)   By a proprietary school, licensed by the state; a college, junior
college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation;
   (B)   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
   (C)   In a structure:
      (1)   Which has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and no
other advertising that indicates a nude person is available for viewing;
      (2)   Where, in order to participate in a class, a student must enroll at
least three days in advance of the class; and
      (3)   Where no more than one nude model is on the premises at any one
time.
(Ord. 50-2006, passed 11-6-2006)
§ 118.007 SEVERABILITY.
   In the event any section, division, clause, phrase or portion of this
chapter is for any reason held illegal, invalid or unconstitutional by any
court of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate,
distinct and independent provision, and such holding shall not affect the
validity of the remainder of this chapter. It is the legislative intent of the
Common Council that this chapter would have been adopted if such illegal
provision had not been included or any illegal application had not been made.
(Ord. 50-2006, passed 11-6-2006)
LICENSING REGULATIONS
§ 118.020 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to operate a sexually-oriented business
without a valid sexually- oriented business license issued by the City Clerk’s
office pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   An application for a license must be made on a form provided by the
City Clerk. All applicants must be qualified according to the provisions of
this chapter.
   (C)   An application shall be considered complete if it includes the
information required in this section. All premises requirements outlined in
this section must be inspected by the Enforcement Officer and a recommendation
of approval or denial of application forwarded to the City Clerk within 45 days
from the time the application is filed. The applicant shall be qualified
according to the provisions of this chapter. All applications for licenses
shall be made to the City Clerk. The application for a license required by this
section shall include the information called for in divisions (C)(1) through
(C)(12) below, as follows:
      (1)   The full true name and any other names used in the preceding five
years;
      (2)   The name, business location, legal description, business mailing
address and phone number of the proposed sexually-oriented business;
      (3)   Telephone number of the applicant;
      (4)   The applicant’s citizenship;
      (5)   The state of incorporation (where applicable); the names of
partners or corporate officers (where applicable);
      (6)   The registered agent name, registered agent’s address and the
principal office of the corporation (where applicable);
      (7)   The length of time the business has been in the city;
      (8)   Any previous location or location change of the business within two
years;
      (9)   The issuing jurisdiction and the effective dates of any license or
permit held by the applicant relating to a sexually-oriented business, and
whether any such license or permit has been denied, revoked or suspended and,
if so, the reason or reasons wherein;
      (10)   Whether all county and state taxes have been paid;
      (11)   The seating capacity of the establishment; and
      (12)   The number of business locations, stages, motion picture or video
screens, closed circuit televisions and motion picture or video screens,
projectors or other image-producing devices.
   (D)   The application shall be accompanied by a sketch or diagram showing
the configuration of the premises, including a statement of total floor space
occupied by the business. The sketch or diagram need not be professionally
prepared, but shall be drawn to a designated scale or drawn with marked
dimensions of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six
inches.
   (E)   The application shall be accompanied by a site plan prepared by a land
surveyor who is licensed by the state. The site plan shall show all the
relevant features of the proposed sexually-oriented business premises and the
surrounding area, including, but not limited to:
      (1)   The current zoning districts of all property within 1,000 feet of
the property to be licensed;
      (2)   The property lines of any established park, school or place of
worship as described in §
118.003(D)(11);
      (3)   The property lines of any residence within 1,000 feet of the
property to be licensed; and
      (4)   The property lines of any established sexually-oriented business
within 500 feet of the property to be licensed.
   (F)   The application shall be notarized. If the person who wishes to
operate a sexually-oriented business is an individual, he or she shall sign the
application for a license as applicant. If the person that wishes to operate a
sexually-oriented business is other than an individual (such as a corporation),
each officer, director, general partner or other person who will participate
directly in decisions relating to management of the business shall sign the
application for a license as the applicant. Each applicant must be qualified
under §
118.021, and each applicant shall be considered as a licensee if a license is
granted.
   (G)   A person who possesses a valid business license is not exempt from the
requirement of obtaining any required sexually-oriented business license. A
person who operates a sexually-oriented business and possesses a business
license shall comply with the requirements and provisions of this chapter,
where applicable.
   (H)   The information provided by an applicant in connection with the
application for a license under this chapter shall be maintained by the City
Clerk on a confidential basis, and may be disclosed only:
      (1)   To other governmental agencies in connection with a law enforcement
or public safety function; or
      (2)   As may otherwise be required by law or a court order.
   (I)   The information provided in the license application shall be
supplemented in writing by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the
City Clerk within ten working days of a change of circumstances which would
render the information originally submitted false or incomplete.
(Ord. 50-2006, passed 11-6-2006)
§ 118.021 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon the filing of a completed application for a sexually-oriented
business license, the City Clerk shall issue a temporary license to the
applicant, which temporary license shall expire upon the final decision of the
City Clerk to deny or grant the license. Within 45 days after the receipt of a
completed application, the City Clerk shall either issue a license or issue a
written notice of denial to the applicant. If the City Clerk fails to act by
either granting or denying the license within 45 days, the license shall be
granted by operation of law. If the City Clerk denies the request to issue a
license, the City Clerk shall issue a conditional license to operate if a
timely petition for judicial review is filed within ten days of receipt of
notice of the city’s decision. Such a conditional license shall operate in all
respects as a license until judicial review is completed by a trial court of
competent jurisdiction. A conditional license shall not permit the applicant to
operate in violation of any zoning requirement set forth in
Ch. 165 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall approve the issuance of a license unless one or
more of the following is found to be true:
      (1)   An applicant is less than 18 years of age;
      (2)   An applicant is delinquent in the payment to the city of taxes,
fees, fines or penalties assessed against or imposed upon the applicant in
relation to a sexually-oriented business;
      (3)   An applicant has failed to provide information as required by §
118.020 regarding application requirements;
      (4)   The license application fee required by this chapter has not been
paid;
      (5)   An applicant has falsely answered a question or request for
information on the application form; and
      (6)   The proposed sexually-oriented business is located in a zoning
district other than a district in which sexually-oriented businesses are
allowed to operate under
Ch. 165 of this code of ordinances, or is not in compliance with the location
restrictions established for sexually-oriented businesses in the appropriate
zoning district(s).
   (C)   The license, if granted, shall state on its face the name of the
person or persons to whom it is granted, the number of the license issued to
that applicant, the expiration date and the name and address of the business.
The license shall be posted in a conspicuous place at or near the entrance to
the sexually-oriented business so that it may be easily read at any time.
(Ord. 50-2006, passed 11-6-2006)
§ 118.022 LICENSE FEE.
   Every sexually-oriented business that is granted a license (initial or
renewal) shall pay to the city an annual non-refundable license fee of $500,
currently this is the amount determined to be sufficient to pay the cost of
administration and enforcement of this chapter. The annual license fee shall be
due for any existing sexually-oriented business within 60 days of passage of
this chapter.
(Ord. 50-2006, passed 11-6-2006)
§ 118.023 INSPECTION.
   (A)   For the purpose of ensuring compliance with this chapter, an
applicant, operator or licensee shall permit representatives of the city and
any other federal, state, county or city agents in the performance of any
function connected with the enforcement of this chapter, normally and regularly
conducted by such agencies, to inspect, at any time, the business is occupied
or open for business, those portions of the premises of a sexually-oriented
business which patrons or customers are permitted to occupy.
   (B)   The provisions of this section do not apply to areas of an adult motel
which are currently being rented by a customer for use as a permanent or
temporary habitation.
(Ord. 50-2006, passed 11-6-2006)
§ 118.024 EXPIRATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Each license shall expire on December 31 and may be renewed only by
making application as provided in §
118.020. An application for renewal shall be made at least 60 days before the
expiration date.
   (B)   When the city denies renewal of a license, the applicant shall not be
issued a license for one year period.
(Ord. 50-2006, passed 11-6-2006)
§ 118.025 SUSPENSION.
   The city shall issue a written intent to suspend a license for a period not
to exceed 60 days if it determines that a licensee or an employee of a licensee
has:
   (A)   Violated or is not in compliance with any section of this chapter;
   (B)   Refused to allow an inspection of the sexually-oriented business
premises as authorized by this chapter;
   (C)   Conducted the business or maintained the premises in such a manner as
to create a nuisance to the public; or
   (D)   Known or should have known of illegal conduct or practices taking
place on the business premises or in the conduct of the business.
(Ord. 50-2006, passed 11-6-2006)
§ 118.026 REVOCATION.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall issue a written statement of intent to revoke a
sexually-oriented business license if a cause of suspension in §
118.025 occurs and the license has been suspended within the preceding 12
months.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall issue a written statement of intent to revoke a
sexually-oriented business license if the Clerk determines that:
      (1)   A licensee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted during the application process;
      (2)   A licensee knew or should have known that the possession, use or
sale of controlled substances occurred on the premises;
      (3)   A licensee knew or should have known that prostitution occurred on
the premises;
      (4)   A licensee knew or should have known that the operation of the
sexually-oriented business occurred during a period of time when the licensee’s
license was suspended;
      (5)   A licensee knew or should have known that acts of sexual
intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation or other sex acts occurred
in or on the licensed premises. This division (B)(5) will not apply to an adult
motel, unless the licensee knew or should have known that sexual activity
occurred either:
         (a)   In exchange for money; or
         (b)   In a public place or within public view.
   (C)   The fact that an action is being appealed shall have no effect on the
revocation of the license.
   (D)   When, after the notice and hearing procedure described in §
118.027, the City Clerk revokes a license, the revocation shall continue for
one year from the date revocation becomes effective.
(Ord. 50-2006, passed 11-6-2006)
§ 118.027 HEARING; LICENSE DENIAL, SUSPENSION, REVOCATION; APPEAL.
   (A)   If the City Clerk determines that facts exist for denial, suspension
or revocation of a license under this chapter, the City Clerk shall notify the
applicant or licensee (respondent) in writing of the intent to deny, suspend or
revoke the license, including the grounds for the action, by personal delivery,
or by certified mail. The notification shall be directed to the most current
business address on file with the City Clerk. Within five working days of
receipt of such notice, the respondent may provide to the Board of Public Works
and Safety, in writing, a response that shall include a statement of reasons
why the license or permit should not be denied, suspended or revoked. Within
five days of the receipt of respondent’s written response, the Board of Public
Works and Safety shall notify the respondent in writing of the hearing date on
the respondent’s denial, suspension or revocation proceeding.
   (B)   Within 20 working days of the receipt of respondent’s written
response, the Board of Public Works and Safety shall conduct a hearing at which
respondent shall have the opportunity to be represented by counsel and present
evidence and witnesses on his or her behalf. The Board of Public Works and
Safety shall issue written findings within five days of the hearing. If a
response is not received by the Board of Public Works and Safety in the time
stated or, if after the hearing, the Board of Public Works and Safety finds
that grounds as specified in this chapter exist for denial, suspension or
revocation, then such denial, suspension or revocation shall become final five
days after the Board of Public Works and Safety sends, by certified mail,
written notice that the license has been denied, suspended or revoked. Such
notice shall include a statement advising the applicant or licensee of the
right to appeal such decision to the county’s circuit or superior courts within
ten days of the Board’s determination.
   (C)   If the Board of Public Works and Safety finds that no grounds exist
for denial, suspension or revocation of a license, then within five days after
the hearing, the Board of Public Works and Safety shall withdraw the intent to
deny, suspend or revoke the license, and shall so notify the respondent in
writing by certified mail of such action and shall contemporaneously issue the
license.
   (D)   The appeal of a denial, suspension or revocation under this chapter
shall be subject to the same rules and procedures, and shall be conducted in
the same manner, as prescribed for judicial review under I.C. 4-21.5-5, as the
same shall be amended from time to time; provided, however, that,
notwithstanding the provisions of those statutes, the following requirements
apply to a petition for judicial review filed under this chapter.
      (1)   The petition must be filed within ten days of the issuance of the
Board of Works and Public Safety’s decision.
      (2)   Within 14 days from the date the city was served with the petition,
the Board shall prepare the city’s record for the petitioner to transmit to the
court.
(Ord. 50-2006, passed 11-6-2006) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 118.028 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A licensee shall not transfer his or her license to another, nor shall a
licensee operate a sexually- oriented business under the authority of a license
at any place other than the address designated in the application.
(Ord. 50-2006, passed 11-6-2006)
§ 118.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, business or corporation violating any provision of this
chapter shall be guilty of an ordinance violation and shall be subject to a
fine not to exceed $2,500. Each day a sexually-oriented business continues to
operate is a separate offense or violation.
   (B)   A person, business or corporation who operates or causes to be
operated a sexually-oriented business without a valid license or transfers a
license (in violation of § 118.028) is also subject to a suit for injunction.
(Ord. 50-2006, passed 11-6-2006)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   PROHIBITED BEHAVIOR
      
131.   LITTERING
      
132.   SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES
CHAPTER 130: PROHIBITED BEHAVIOR
Section
Offenses Against Public Safety
   
130.001   Air guns or compressed gas devices, projectiles
   
130.002   False alarms
   
130.003   Fireworks
   
130.004   Meter readers
   
130.005   Throwing stones
   
130.006   Unused refrigerators
   
130.007   Open cisterns, wells and septic tanks
   
130.008   Curfew
Offenses Against Property
   
130.020   Fire hydrants and equipment
   
130.021   Painting or posting advertisements or bills
   
130.022   Trespassing on railroad bridge
Offenses Against Peace
   
130.035   Horns on vehicles
   
130.036   Loitering
   
130.037   Noise control
 
   
130.999   Penalty
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC SAFETY
§ 130.001 AIR GUNS OR COMPRESSED GAS DEVICES, PROJECTILES.
   (A)   The firing or use of any gun, revolver or pistol of any description,
shotgun or rifle which may be used for the explosion of cartridges, or any
airgun, BB-gun, gas operated gun or spring gun, or any instrument, toy or
weapon, commonly known as a “slingshot” or “Beanie”, or any bow made for the
purpose of throwing or projecting missiles of any kind by any means whatsoever,
whether such instrument has been called by any name set forth above or by any
other name, or the launching of any object or projectile by means of compressed
gas or air, or by mechanical device within the corporate limits of the city by
any person who recklessly, knowingly or intentionally creates a substantial
risk of bodily injury to another person or damage to another person or injury
or death to an animal is prohibited.
   (B)   (1)   No items listed in division (A) above shall be stored or
transported in the passenger compartment of any motor vehicle or any area
readily accessible to the passengers and/or the operator of the vehicle.
      (2)   Any person carrying on foot, or other than while in a motor
vehicle, any item listed in division (A) above, shall transport it in an
unloaded state and in an appropriate case.
      (3)   Duly authorized law enforcement officials shall be exempt from the
provisions of this division (B).
      (4)   The provisions of any valid license or permit shall also be exempt
of this division (B).
   (C)   Every person convicted of a violation of this section shall forfeit to
the city such weapon or other object so used.
   (D)   Any person owning a gun, airgun, pellet gun or mechanical device or
any other object prohibited by division (A) above who permits another person to
fire or use the gun or device or as to allow the person other than the owner to
be guilty of a violation of divisions (A) or (B) above shall be guilty of that
violation also.
   (E)   Any person who is found guilty of the violation of divisions (A), (B)
or (C) above shall forfeit all right to ownership of any gun, airgun, pellet
gun or other device used in the violation of this section.
   (F)   Every police officer, upon making any arrest and taking a weapon used
in violation of this section, shall deliver the weapon to the court or other
official designated by either the court or the Board of Public Works and Safety
to be held by him or her until the final determination of the prosecution for
said offense, and upon the finding of guilt, it shall then be the duty of said
judge or other official to deliver said weapon forthwith to the Chief of Police
who shall make disposition of the weapon in accordance with any applicable
legal provisions.
   (G)   Every physician or surgeon duly admitted to the practice of medicine
or surgery in the state, whenever he or she shall treat any person in the city
for a wound inflicted by a dangerous or deadly weapon of any kind, shall notify
the city’s Police Department within one hour of the time when he or she
rendered such professional service or is called upon to render the same.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful to discharge any firearm or airgun, BB gun or any
toy gun projecting lead or any missiles, excepting in a regularly licensed
shooting gallery; provided that, this section shall not be construed to
prohibit any officer of the law from discharging a firearm in the performance
of his or her duty, nor to any citizen from discharging a firearm when lawfully
defending person or property.
   (I)   (1)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the Board of Public Works
and Safety from designating certain locations within the city as areas wherein
archery sessions may be held, upon proper petition to the Board by the person
or group requesting such designation.
      (2)   Any petitioner shall show to the Board evidence of the following in
a manner satisfactory to the Board:
         (a)   Name and address of person or group requesting designation of an
archery session area;
         (b)   Location of area to be designated;
         (c)   Name, address and telephone number of individual person(s) who
shall be responsible for monitoring, supervising and administering the area
during an archery session and are capable and qualified to properly monitor and
supervise the archery sessions;
         (d)   Evidence of liability insurance to protect life and property in
an amount approved by the Board;
         (e)   A written agreement to indemnify and hold harmless the city, its
employees and agencies from any liability for injury, damage or claims arising
out of the designation and use of a location for archery sessions; and
         (f)   Consent from the Police Department and residents of immediately
adjoining properties. Such designations shall be effective for one year and may
be renewed upon proper petition. This section shall not affect the provisions
of §
93.023 of this code of ordinances, as it pertains to city parks.
   (J)   Any retail establishment which offers for sale to the general public
any of the devices listed in division (A) above shall post a copy of this
section in a prominent place or, in the alternative, make copies of this
section available to purchasers of such devices.
(Prior Code, § 130.01) (Ord. 153-1984, passed - -1984) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.002 FALSE ALARMS.
   No person shall falsely report any fire, or set off any fire alarm of the
city, except for the purpose of actually reporting a fire.
(Prior Code, § 130.02) (Ord. 1153-1937, passed - -1937) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.003 FIREWORKS.
   (A)   No person shall display, sell or offer for sale within the city, any
firecracker, torpedo, skyrocket, Roman candle or any other kind of fireworks.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall discharge or explode any firecracker, torpedo,
bomb, skyrocket, Roman candle, blank cartridge or any other kind of fireworks
within the city.
      (2)   However, in case of any public celebration, the Mayor may grant any
person or organization the right to discharge fireworks on such conditions as
the Mayor may deem safe and proper.
(Prior Code, § 130.03) (Ord. 968-1930, passed - -1930) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.004 METER READERS.
   Every person employed by any utility in the city whose duties require him or
her to go on or into the premises of any resident of the city, for the purpose
of inspecting pipes or wires of the company, or taking or reading any water,
gas or electric light meter, shall, when employed about the business, wear on
the lapel of his or her coat or otherwise exposed to plain view, a badge with
the character of his or her employment or business plainly painted or lettered
thereon, and shall also carry with him or her a certificate, certifying to his
or her authority to act, which certificate shall be signed and attested by the
seal of the company.
(Prior Code, § 130.05) (Ord. 217-1910, passed - -1910) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.005 THROWING STONES.
   (A)   No person shall throw any stone, snowball or any other missile upon or
at any vehicle, building, tree or other public or private property or upon or
at any person in any public or private way or place or enclosed or unenclosed
ground, nor injure or frighten any bird or birds within the city, or throw any
stones or other missiles where they might injure any person or property.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be a defense to division (A) above in a situation
involving snowballs if the thrower and the designated target of a snowball have
consented to or have mutually engaged in the throwing of snowballs.
      (2)   No snowballs shall, in any event, contain stones or other hard
objects within them.
(Prior Code, § 130.06) (Ord. 153-1984, passed - -1984) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.006 UNUSED REFRIGERATORS.
   (A)   No person shall store, place or permit any discarded, abandoned or
unused icebox, refrigerator or similar container of an air-tight character in
any place where it is accessible to children without first removing and
rendering completely inoperable all catches or locks on the exterior of all
doors so as to prevent any person or child from becoming imprisoned therein.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to the delivery, transfer or removal of
any icebox, refrigerator or container from one location to another while in
transit; provided, the icebox, refrigerator or container is not left unattended
for longer than 15 minutes at any one time, and shall be checked for the
presence of persons or children therein.
(Prior Code, § 130.07) (Ord. 1492-1953, passed - -1953) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.007 OPEN CISTERNS, WELLS AND SEPTIC TANKS.
   All cisterns, wells, septic tanks, pits or other storage areas for the
disposal or storage of liquids, sewage or other waste, unless otherwise
authorized by law, must be completely and securely covered and sealed in such a
manner as to prevent access by children, animals and debris and to prevent
escape to the ground surface of any liquid, sewage or other waste contained
therein.
(Prior Code, § 130.08) (Ord. 39-1985, passed - -1985) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.008 CURFEW.
   (A)   (1)   It is a curfew violation for a child 15, 16 or 17 years of age
to be in a public place:
         (a)   Between 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. on Saturday or Sunday;
         (b)   After 11:00 p.m. on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday or
Thursday; or
         (c)   Before 5:00 a.m. on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or
Friday.
      (2)   A law enforcement officer may not detain a child or take a child
into custody based on a violation of this section unless the law enforcement
officer, after making a reasonable determination and considering the facts and
surrounding circumstances, reasonably believes that:
         (a)   The child has violated this section; and
         (b)   There is no legal defense to the violation.
   (B)   (1)   It is a curfew violation for a child less than 15 years of age
to be in a public place after 11:00 p.m. or before 5:00 a.m. on any day.
      (2)   A law enforcement officer may not detain a child or take a child
into custody based on a violation of this section unless the law enforcement
officer, after making a reasonable determination and considering the facts and
surrounding circumstances, reasonably believes that:
         (a)   The child has violated this section; and
         (b)   There is no legal defense to the violation.
      (3)   The other compromise is that a child can be out after curfew if
they have written permission from a parent or guardian. (See I.C. 31-37-3-3.5
(b)(4).)
   (C)   (1)   It is a defense to a violation under this section that the child
was emancipated:
         (a)   Under I.C. 31-37-19-27 or I.C. 31-6-4-15.7 (before its repeal);
         (b)   By virtue of having married; or
         (c)   In accordance with the laws of another state or jurisdiction; at
the time that the child engaged in the prohibited conduct.
      (2)   It is a defense to a violation under this section that the child
engaged in the prohibited conduct while:
         (a)   Accompanied by the child’s parent, guardian or custodian;
         (b)   Accompanied by an adult specified by the child’s parent,
guardian or custodian;
         (c)   Participating in, going to or returning from:
            1.   Lawful employment;
            2.   A school sanctioned activity;
            3.   A religious event;
            4.   An emergency involving the protection of a person or property
from an imminent threat of serious bodily injury or substantial damage;
            5.   An activity involving the exercise of the child’s rights
protected under the First Amendment to the United States Constitution or Art.
1, § 31, of the Constitution of the state, or both, such as freedom of speech
and the right of assembly; or
            6.   An activity conducted by a non-profit or governmental entity
that provides recreation, education, training or other care under the
supervision of one or more adults.
         (d)   Participating in an activity undertaken at the prior written
direction of the child’s parent, guardian or custodian; or
         (e)   Engaged in interstate or international travel from a location
outside this state to another location outside this state.
(Prior Code, § 130.09) Penalty, see §
130.999
OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
§ 130.020 FIRE HYDRANTS AND EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   No person shall deposit or cause to be deposited any obstruction
within ten feet of any fire hydrant.
   (B)   No unauthorized person shall open any fire hydrant or in any manner
injure or tamper with any fire hydrant.
   (C)   No person, for the purpose of opening or closing any fire hydrant, or
for any other purpose, shall use a wrench thereon other than the regulation
pentagon or five-sided wrench.
   (D)   No unauthorized person shall take water from any fire hydrant for
domestic, business or any other use.
   (E)   No person shall sprinkle any lawn, street, walk or use a hand hose for
any other purpose during the time of a fire.
   (F)   No person shall drive over a fire hose with a vehicle or tamper with
any fire equipment of the city.
(Prior Code, § 130.15) (Ord. passed 8-20-1894; Ord. 1153-1937, passed - -1937)
Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.021 PAINTING OR POSTING ADVERTISEMENTS OR BILLS.
   No person shall paint, mark, post or in any way affix to or on any curb,
sidewalk, street, sign post, utility pole or tree or any street, pavement,
monument, fountain, fire hydrant or lamp post, any sign, bill, notice or
announcement, or other advertising medium. This does not apply to any legal
notice or announcement required to be made or given by any officer under any
law of the state, or any ordinance of the city, nor to the marking of any pole
or post by permission of the Board of Public Works and Safety by appropriate
sign so as to properly preserve or designate the ancient course of an
historical way, road or public thoroughfare.
(Prior Code, § 130.16) (Ord. passed 8-12-1895; Ord. 379-1914, passed - -1914)
Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.022 TRESPASSING ON RAILROAD BRIDGE.
   Any person not a passenger on any railroad train, or not in the employ of
any railroad company, shall not cross or attempt to cross the Whitewater River
on the railroad bridge over the river, or be on the bridge, or any part
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 130.17) (Ord. passed 3-1-1880) Penalty, see §
130.999
OFFENSES AGAINST PEACE
§ 130.035 HORNS ON VEHICLES.
   The operator of any vehicle shall not sound any horn or other warning
device, except when reasonably necessary for the prevention of an accident.
(Prior Code, § 130.25) (Ord. 1215-1940, passed - -1940) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.036 LOITERING.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LOITERING. Remaining idle in essentially one location and shall include
the concept of spending time idly; to be dilatory; to linger; to stay; to
saunter; to delay; to stand around; and shall also include the colloquial
expression hanging around.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which the general public has access and a
right to resort for business, entertainment or other lawful purpose, but does
not necessarily mean a place devoted solely to the uses of the public. It shall
also include the front or immediate area of any store, shop, restaurant, tavern
or other places of business as well as public grounds, areas, parks, schools or
school grounds.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter, loaf, wander, stand or
remain idle either alone or in consort with others in a public place in such a
manner as to do the following:
      (1)   Obstruct any public street, public highway, public sidewalk or any
other public place or building by hindering, impeding or tending to hinder or
impede the free and uninterrupted passage of vehicles, traffic or pedestrians;
and
      (2)   Commit in or on any public street, public highway, public sidewalk
or any other public place or building any act or thing which is an obstruction
or interference to the free and uninterrupted use of property or with any
business lawfully conducted by anyone in, on, facing or fronting on any public
street, public highway, public sidewalk or any other public place or building,
all of which prevents the free and uninterrupted ingress, egress and regress,
therein, thereon and thereto.
(Prior Code, § 130.26) (Ord. 6-1981, passed - -1981) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.037 NOISE CONTROL.
   (A)   General prohibition.
      (1)   No person shall make or cause to be made any noise that
unreasonably annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose,
health, peace, safety or welfare of any person or precludes his or her
enjoyment of property or affects his or her property’s value.
      (2)   This general prohibition is not limited by the specific
prohibitions listed in division (B) below.
   (B)   Specific prohibitions.
      (1)   No person shall operate a device for the amplification of sound
where the sound is emitted directly into the public streets, ways or parks,
either for the purposes of advertising, personal fulfillment or attracting
attention, so loudly that the sound emitted can be heard to the annoyance or
discomfort of persons in passing or stopped vehicles, neighboring premises or
such public streets, ways or parks.
      (2)   No person shall operate a radio, television set, musical
instrument, tape, compact disc or phonograph record player, amplifier and
similar device in such a manner as to be plainly audible beyond the sound
source’s property boundaries or through walls common to two or more dwelling
units within a building. This includes, but is not limited to, the operation of
such devices from or within vehicles.
      (3)   No person shall operate a domestic power tool outdoors between the
hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. on weekdays and 9:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. on
weekends and holidays in such a manner that will disturb or annoy any
reasonable person nearby.
      (4)   No person shall operate a tool or equipment used in construction,
drilling or demolition between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. on weekdays
and 9:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. on weekends and holidays in such a manner that will
disturb or annoy any reasonable person nearby.
      (5)   No person shall operate a horn or other audible signal device on
any motor vehicle or motorcycle in such a manner that will disturb or annoy any
reasonable person nearby; provided that, this provision shall not apply to an
emergency vehicle operated by an ambulance service or governmental unit.
      (6)   No person shall participate in any party or gathering between the
hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. giving rise to noise that is plainly audible
beyond the sound source’s property boundaries or through walls common to two or
more dwelling units within a building.
      (7)   No person shall operate a motorcycle or motor vehicle in such a
manner which causes excessive noise as a result of a defective or modified
exhaust system or as a result of unnecessary acceleration, deceleration, engine
revving or tire squealing.
      (8)   No person shall operate a sound amplification device in such a
manner as to cause vibrations perceptible without the aid of instruments beyond
the sound source’s property boundaries. This includes, but is not limited to,
the operation of such devices from or within vehicles.
      (9)   No person shall yell, shout, hoot, whistle or sing in the public
streets so as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of persons in
any dwelling, hotel or other type of residence.
      (10)   No person shall keep an animal which causes frequent or continued
noise that disturbs the comfort or repose of persons in any dwelling, hotel or
other type of residence.
   (C)   Exemptions and permits.
      (1)   The provisions set forth in divisions (A) and (B) above shall not
apply to the emission of sound for the purpose of alerting persons to the
existence of an emergency or the emission of sound in the performance of work
to prevent or alleviate physical or property damage threatened or caused by
calamity or other exceptional circumstances.
      (2)   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall have the authority to
issue permits for the following situations notwithstanding the foregoing
prohibitions:
         (a)   Holidays, celebrations, concerts, parades or other special
events, both public and private; and
         (b)   Persons who demonstrate that the foregoing prohibitions
constitute an unreasonable hardship due to temporary circumstances.
      (3)   Permits may contain any conditions that are necessary to minimize
the adverse impact of the activity including a time limit.
      (4)   Non-compliance with any condition of a permit shall terminate the
permit and subject the person holding same to the provisions of this section.
      (5)   The Board of Public Works and Safety may issue guidelines defining
the procedures to be followed in applying for a permit and the criteria to be
considered in the issuance of a permit.
(Prior Code, § 130.27) (Ord. 21-1998, passed - -1998) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   The first violation of §
130.001 shall subject the offender to a fine of $100 payable in the City
Clerk’s office in addition to forfeiture of the gun or other device. Any person
who shall commit a second or more violation of §
130.001 shall be cited in court by the police officer and, upon conviction for
violation of §
130.001, shall be fined in an amount of not less than $250 or more than $1,000.
(Prior Code, § 130.01)
   (C)   Failure to conform to §
130.007 shall result in the imposition of a $500 fine to the property owner
upon whose property such a non-conforming cistern, well, septic tank or pit
exists. In addition to such fine, the Board of Public Works and Safety, upon
proper petition by its authorized officials, and after notice to the property
owner and hearing before the Board, may order such corrective action be
performed as is necessary to bring such a cistern, well, septic tank or pit
into compliance with §
130.007. The cost incurred as a result of such action shall be assessed as a
lien upon the property owner’s land within the city.
(Prior Code, § 130.08)
   (D)   The custodial parent or legal guardian of any child who commits a
curfew ordinance violation, as defined in §
130.008, violates §
130.008 and shall be subject to the following fines:
      (1)   Twenty-five dollars for a first offense;
      (2)   One hundred dollars for a second offense within a one-year period;
or
      (3)   Two hundred dollars for a third offense and every subsequent
offense within a one-year period.
(Prior Code, § 130.09)
   (E)   (1)   Any person owning a motor vehicle with sound amplification
devices which violate §
130.037 shall be in violation of this code as well as the operator of such
devices.
      (2)   Any person found in violation of §
130.037(A) and (B) shall be fined $50.
      (3)   Each day that a violation occurs shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 130.27) (Ord. 39-1985, passed - -1985; Ord. 88-1994, passed - -
1994; Ord. 21-1998, passed - -1998)
CHAPTER 131: LITTERING
Section
   
131.001   Title
   
131.002   Definitions
   
131.003   Moving violations
   
131.004   Stationery violations and enforcement
   
131.005   Litter generated from the improper handling of solid waste
   
131.006   Government-authorized clean-up
   
131.007   Litter receptacles
   
131.008   Enforcement
   
131.009   Variances
   
131.010   Severability
   
131.011   Conflict with other ordinances or regulations
   
131.012   Effective date for compliance
 
   
131.999   Penalty
§ 131.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Richmond Litter Control
Ordinance”.
(Prior Code, § 99.01) (Ord. 89-1990, passed - -1990)
§ 131.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LITTER. All uncontained human-made waste materials, but not including the
properly disposed waste of industrial processing. It includes all inoperable or
disposed material commonly referred to as “junk”.
   LITTER RECEPTACLE. A container with a capacity of not less than ten gallons,
constructed and placed for use as a depository for litter.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, association, syndicate, company, firm,
trust, corporation, government corporation, department, bureau, agency or any
entity recognized by law.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Property owned and used for private purposes.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any area that is used or held out for use by the public,
whether owned or operated by public or private interests.
   VEHICLE. Every device capable of being moved upon a public highway or public
waterway or upon rails or tracks and aircraft.
(Prior Code, § 99.01) (Ord. 89-1990, passed - -1990)
§ 131.003 MOVING VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Indiscriminate litter disposal and dumping.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to dispose of litter upon any
public or private property, except in authorized receptacles or in an area
designated by the state as a permitted disposal site.
      (2)   When litter has been ejected from a motor vehicle in violation of
this section, the owner or operator of the vehicle shall be presumed to have
ejected the litter.
   (B)   Uncovered vehicles; escape of load.
      (1)   No vehicle shall be operated on any highway unless the vehicle is
constructed and loaded to prevent its load from escaping from the vehicle.
      (2)   Any person operating a vehicle, from which any matter escaped that
would obstruct or damage a vehicle or otherwise endanger travelers, shall
immediately remove the matter from the public property and pay any costs
incurred.
(Prior Code, § 99.02) (Ord. 89-1990, passed - -1990) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.004 STATIONERY VIOLATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Keeping property clean. Each owner and occupant of real property shall
keep the property and adjacent sidewalks, roads, parking lots and alleys free
of litter. The occupant shall have primary responsibility. When a violation
occurs, if a tenant- occupant cannot be located or identified, the owner-
landlord may be cited. To avoid responsibility under this section, the landlord
shall forward the citation to the tenant, and shall send the name and address
of the tenant to the City Attorney’s office.
   (B)   Sweeping litter into the street. It shall be unlawful to sweep or push
litter from sidewalks into streets or alleys. Such litter shall be deposited in
a proper receptacle which shall be covered to prevent scattering by wind and
animals.
   (C)   Construction and demolition sites.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, agent or contractor to permit
the accumulation of litter, before, during or after completion of any
construction or demolition project.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the owner, agent or contractor in charge of
a construction or development site to furnish adequate litter receptacles, to
collect and contain bulk litter on a daily basis. All litter shall be removed
from such site not less that once a week.
      (3)   All demolition and construction materials shall be separated and
disposed of by prior permit from the city’s Sanitary District.
   (D)   Handbills, advertising material and litter identification.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person distributing leaflets, or other
information material to distribute the material so that it litters property.
      (2)   Any litter bearing a person’s name or address, found on the
property of another, shall be presumed to be the property of the person whose
name or address appears thereon, and that such person is responsible for the
placement of the litter.
(Prior Code, § 99.03) (Ord. 89-1990, passed - -1990) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.005 LITTER GENERATED FROM THE IMPROPER HANDLING OF SOLID WASTE.
   (A)   Use of solid waste containers.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to dispose of any solid waste
by any means, except into an approved solid waste container designated for that
person’s use, unless other means are provided by law.
      (2)   Reusable solid waste containers shall be fully covered at all times
with proper fitting lids in such a manner as to prevent any escape of contents.
      (3)   (a)   Disposable solid waste containers, such as plastic bags, may
be used only as approved by the Sanitary District.
         (b)   Such disposable containers must be completely and securely
closed or tied with twine or a fastening device in such a manner as to prevent
the escape of any contents, and in accordance with Sanitary District
requirements.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove any item from a
reusable solid waste container or open a disposable waste container, except the
owner and those persons whose duty it is to service the container.
      (5)   It shall be unlawful to use a solid waste container of any kind to
dispose of any materials not defined as “municipal solid waste” by the city’s
Sanitary District.
      (6)   All households, commercial establish- ments and institutions must
provide solid waste containers adequate for their own use, as prescribed by the
city’s Sanitary District.
   (B)   Indiscriminate dumping or discarding of litter and solid waste. Any
unauthorized accumulation of refuse or trash items on any lot, property,
premises, public street, alley or other public or private place is hereby
declared to be a public nuisance and is prohibited. Failure of owner and/or
occupant to remove and correct any such unauthorized accumulation of refuse
shall be deemed a violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 99.04) (Ord. 89-1990, passed - -1990) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.006 GOVERNMENT-AUTHORIZED CLEAN-UP.
   (A)   Ten days after due notice is given to any owner, agent, occupant or
lessee of any private property to remove litter from the premises, the city is
authorized to clean up the private property and bill the owner, or his or her
agent, for the costs thereof. If the bill has not been paid within 30 days,
execution may be issued by the city against the person for the amount expended
in the cleaning work, and such execution shall constitute a lien on the
property until the claim has been satisfied.
   (B)   Execution of the notice to remove litter shall be in writing and shall
be in the form of a registered letter.
(Prior Code, § 99.05) (Ord. 89-1990, passed - -1990)
§ 131.007 LITTER RECEPTACLES.
   (A)   Use of litter receptacles. It shall be unlawful to deposit any item or
items, except litter, in any receptacle placed for public use as a depository
for litter.
   (B)   Litter receptacles required.
      (1)   Litter receptacles are required on or in:
         (a)   Public streets;
         (b)   Parks;
         (c)   Camp grounds and trailer parks;
         (d)   Drive-in restaurants;
         (e)   Quick service or fast-food restaurants;
         (f)   Self-service refreshment areas;
         (g)   Construction sites;
         (h)   Gasoline service stations;
         (i)   Shopping centers;
         (j)   Parking lots operated for public use;
         (k)   Marinas and boat docking and fueling stations;
         (l)   Boat launching areas;
         (m)   Public and private piers which are operated for public use;
         (n)   Beaches and bathing areas;
         (o)   Sidewalks in business districts;
         (p)   Public buildings, including schools; and
         (q)   Sporting events, fairgrounds, carnivals, circuses, festivals and
other similar events to which the public is invited.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of any person owning or operating any public
place to provide receptacles adequate to contain the litter generated at the
establishment in places that are easily accessible. The presence of litter in a
public place shall create a rebuttable presumption of inadequate placement of
receptacles.
   (C)   Purchase; placement. Litter receptacles purchased and placed in
compliance with these regulations shall meet the following minimum standards.
      (1)   A reusable litter receptacle shall have a capacity of ten gallons
or more.
      (2)   The receptacle shall be constructed of such quality as to maintain
the original shape when placed at an outdoor location, and be reasonably
resistant to rust and corrosion. Construction and configuration of all
receptacles shall be in conformance with all pertinent laws, ordinances,
resolutions or regulations pertaining to fire, safety, public health and
welfare.
      (3)   The receptacle shall be reasonably stationery and secure from
movement and destruction by vandals.
      (4)   The receptacle shall be constructed and designed or covered in such
a manner as to prevent, or preclude, the blowing of litter from the receptacle.
      (5)   The receptacle shall be serviced with a frequency sufficient to
prevent overflow or spoilage and to prevent the accumulation of offensive
odors.
      (6)   The receptacle shall be aesthetically pleasing in appearance.
      (7)   Recycling containers are not interchangeable with litter
receptacles.
(Prior Code, § 99.06) (Ord. 89-1990, passed - -1990) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.008 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The enforcement of moving violations hereunder shall be limited to law
enforcement officers.
   (B)   The enforcement of the remaining articles may be enforced by law
enforcement officials, authorized department officials of Public Works,
Sanitation, Solid Waste Management, Building and Zoning, Fire, Health, Parks
and Recreation and Housing.
(Prior Code, § 99.07) (Ord. 89-1990, passed - -1990)
§ 131.009 VARIANCES.
   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall have the authority to grant
special variances or relief to any provisions or requirements of this chapter,
and may prescribe any conditions or requirements deemed necessary to minimize
adverse effects upon the community.
(Prior Code, § 99.09) (Ord. 89-1990, passed - -1990)
§ 131.010 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this chapter is for any reason held to be invalid or
unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such provision and
such holding shall not affect the validity of any other provision and to that
end, the provisions of this chapter are hereby declared to be separable.
(Prior Code, § 99.10) (Ord. 89-1990, passed - -1990)
§ 131.011 CONFLICT WITH OTHER ORDINANCES OR REGULATIONS.
   Any rule, regulation, resolution or administrative action of the city’s
Sanitary District that conflicts with this chapter will take precedence over
this chapter. All other ordinances that are in conflict with this chapter are
repealed to the extent necessary to give this chapter full force and effect.
(Prior Code, § 99.11) (Ord. 89-1990, passed - -1990)
§ 131.012 EFFECTIVE DATE FOR COMPLIANCE.
   These regulations shall be effective on 1-1-1991. All persons and operators
subject to these regulations shall comply with the requirements herein on and
after.
(Prior Code, § 99.12) (Ord. 89-1990, passed - -1990)
§ 131.999 PENALTY.
   Violations of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine of $25 per
violation. At the discretion of the court, or city officials charged with the
enforcement of this chapter, community service may be substituted in lieu of
payment of the fine.
(Prior Code, § 99.08)
CHAPTER 132: SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES
Section
   
132.001   Definitions
   
132.002   Posting of signs required
   
132.003   Required “no smoking is allowed” signs
   
132.004   Effective date
 
   
132.999   Penalty
§ 132.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ENCLOSED. Closed in by a roof and four walls with appropriate openings for
ingress and egress.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company
or organization of any kind.
   PLACE OF PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION. Any enclosed indoor area used by the general
public, including, but not limited to, retail stores, financial institutions,
department stores, banks, laundromats, restaurants, beauty and barber shops,
retail food production and marketing establishments, retail service
establishments and other commercial establishments, regardless of whether a fee
is charged for admission.
   PUBLIC MEETING. Any meeting or assembly open to the public which is held in
an enclosed building for the conduct of affairs of, and the transaction of
business by, any legislative or administrative body or agency of the city,
including boards, commissions, authorities, councils, committees, subcommittees
and other subordinate groups.
   SMOKING. The act of lighting, carrying, inhaling from or leaving a lighted
or smoldering cigar, cigarette or pipe of any kind.
   THEATER. Any enclosed facility, open to the public, which is primarily used
for or designed for the purpose of exhibiting any motion picture, stage drama,
concert, musical recital, dance, lecture or other similar performance.
(Prior Code, § 124.01) (Ord. 10-1993, passed - -1993)
§ 132.002 POSTING OF SIGNS REQUIRED.
   Any person who owns, manages, operates or otherwise controls a place of
public accommodation, except those accommodations listed in §
132.003, shall display or cause to be displayed at the entrance of said
facility a sign that conveys the following message, to wit:
   (A)   This facility allows smoking;
   (B)   This facility does not allow smoking; or
   (C)   This facility provides smoking areas and non-smoking areas.
(Prior Code, § 124.02) (Ord. 10-1993, passed - -1993) Penalty, see §
132.999
§ 132.003 REQUIRED “NO SMOKING IS ALLOWED” SIGNS.
   Any person who owns, manages, operates or otherwise controls the following
places of public accommodation shall display signs within said facility that
convey the message that no smoking is allowed, to wit:
   (A)   Elevators;
   (B)   Theaters, except smoking by performers as part of a production or
rehearsal;
   (C)   Public meeting rooms;
   (D)   Buses;
   (E)   Libraries;
   (F)   Museums; and
   (G)   All enclosed areas owned, leased or operated by any department or
entity of the city, except such areas that are being used for residential
purposes.
(Prior Code, § 124.03) (Ord. 10-1993, passed - -1993) Penalty, see §
132.999
§ 132.004 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect 7-1-1993.
(Prior Code, § 124.05) (Ord. 10-1993, passed - -1993)
§ 132.999 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates §§
132.002 or
132.003, or any person who removes or defaces any sign posted as required
herein, shall be fined not less than $10, nor more than $100. Each day a
violation of this chapter shall continue constitutes a separate violation.
(Prior Code, § 124.04) (Ord. 10-1993, passed - -1993)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING CODE; CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   HOUSING CODE
      
152.   POST-CONSTRUCTION RUNOFF
      
153.   UNSAFE BUILDINGS
      
154.   MOBILE HOMES
      
155.   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
      
156.   AIRPORT AND AIRCRAFT
      
157.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
158
.   STREET AND HIGHWAY ACCESS
      
159
.   TREES
      
160
.   PUBLIC DEVELOPMENT PLAN
      
161
.   URBAN HOMESTEAD PROGRAM
      
162
.   NEIGHBORHOOD POLICY
      
163
.   HISTORIC AND CONSERVATION DISTRICTS
      
164
.   RIVERFRONT DISTRICTS
      
165
.   UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT CODE
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING CODE; CONSTRUCTION
Section
Building Code
   
150.001   Authority
   
150.002   Scope
   
150.003   Adoption of regulations by reference
   
150.004   Permit required; applications
   
150.005   Other ordinances
   
150.006   Fee schedule
   
150.007   Review of application
   
150.008   Inspections; entry
   
150.009   Stop work order
   
150.010   Certificate of occupancy
   
150.011   Standards
   
150.012   License requirements
   
150.013   Plumbing contractors
   
150.014   Wrecking buildings and structures
   
150.015   Moving buildings or structures
   
150.016   Exterior maintenance
   
150.017   General provisions
   
150.018   Liability
   
150.019   Violations
   
150.020   Right of appeal
   
150.021   Remedies
Construction Projects
   
150.035   Employment of locals and minorities
   
150.036   Similarity of wages
   
150.037   Determination of prevailing wages
   
150.038   Definition
 
   
150.999   Penalty
BUILDING CODE
§ 150.001 AUTHORITY.
   The Director of the city’s Enforcement Authority and his or her duly
authorized representatives are hereby authorized and directed to administer and
enforce all of the provisions of this subchapter. Whenever in this subchapter,
it is provided that anything must be done to the approval of or subject to the
direction of the Director, his or her duly authorized representatives or any
other officer of the city’s Enforcement Authority, this shall be construed to
give such person only the discretion of determining whether the rules and
standards established by ordinance have been complied with; and no such
provision shall be construed as giving any officer discretionary powers as to
what such regulations, codes or standards shall be, or power to require
conditions not prescribed by ordinances or to enforce ordinance provisions in
an arbitrary or discriminatory manner.
(Prior Code, § 150.01)
§ 150.002 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this subchapter apply to the construction, alterations,
repair, use, occupancy, maintenance, demolition, moving and additions to all
buildings and structures, other than fences, in the city.
(Prior Code, § 150.02)
§ 150.003 ADOPTION OF RULES BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-3(b), the rules of the state’s Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission as set out in the following articles
of I.A.C. Title 675 are hereby incorporated by reference in this code and shall
include any later amendments to those rules:
      (1)   675 I.A.C. 13, Building Codes:
         (a)   Fire and Building Safety Standards; and
         (b)   Indiana Building Code.
      (2)   675 I.A.C. 14, Indiana Residential Code;
      (3)   675 I.A.C. 16, Indiana Plumbing Code;
      (4)   675 I.A.C. 17, Indiana Electrical Code;
      (5)   675 I.A.C. 18, Indiana Mechanical Code;
      (6)   675 I.A.C. 19, Indiana Energy Conservation Code;
      (7)   675 I.A.C. 20, Indiana Swimming Pool Code;
      (8)   675 I.A.C. 22, Indiana Fire Code;
      (9)   675 I.A.C. 24, Migrant Day Care Nursery Fire Safety Code; and
      (10)   675 I.A.C. 25, Indiana Fuel Gas Code.
   (B)   Copies of adopted building rules, codes and standards are on file in
the office of the city’s Enforcement Authority.
(Prior Code, § 150.03) (Ord. 12-2005, passed - -2005)
§ 150.004 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   The Director of the city’s Enforcement Authority or his or her duly
authorized representative may require as a part of the application for a permit
the submission of a plat or sketch of the proposed location showing lot
boundaries and plans and specifications showing the work to be done. In
addition, a copy of a design release, issued by the state’s Building
Commissioner and the state’s Fire Marshal, pursuant to I.C. 22-15-3-1, and a
copy of the plans and specifications, that have been stamped by the state’s
Building Commissioner and/or state’s Fire Marshal showing the work to be done,
shall be provided to the city’s Enforcement Authority before issuance of a
permit for construction covered by such design release.
(Prior Code, § 150.04)
   (B)   A building permit or service installation permit is required to be
obtained prior to commencing work from the city’s Enforcement Authority on
forms furnished by said Department in the following instances.
      (1)   Building permit.
         (a)   All construction, alteration, remodeling or repair of any
building or structure, the cost of which exceeds $500;
         (b)   All roofing and siding installations, the cost of which exceeds
$500;
         (c)   The demolition of any building or structure;
         (d)   The moving of any building of structure;
         (e)   The construction of a public swimming pool;
         (f)   The installation of a modular or manufactured home on a
permanent foundation; and
         (g)   The installation of a temporary commercial mobile unit bearing
an Indiana Seal of Compliance pursuant to I.C. 9-13-2-103.2.
      (2)   Service installation permit.
         (a)   The installation, alteration, extension or replacement of
electrical wiring, panels and devices within the service area of Richmond Power
and Light, including all new, temporary or replacement electrical service
provided by Richmond Power and Light, new or replacement electric distribution
panels, wiring for additional circuits, rewiring and circuit replacement,
wiring for above ground and underground tanks, wiring for swimming pool
equipment and bonding of metal components and wiring for appliances and
equipment including signs;
         (b)   The installation, alteration, extension or replacement of all
heating and air conditioning equipment;
         (c)   The installation, alteration, extension or replacement of air
handling equipment and equipment for the removal of smoke and grease-laden
vapors from cooking equipment;
         (d)   The installation, alteration, extension or replacement of all
fire-extinguishing systems and/or fire alarm systems;
         (e)   The installation, alteration, extension or replacement of all
plumbing, piping, fixtures, appliances and appurtenances in connection with
sanitary drainage, liquid waste and sewerage systems, venting systems and water
supply systems, the cost of which work exceeds $500;
         (f)   The installation of all new or replacement water heaters,
regardless of cost; and
         (g)   Service installation permits are not required in the following
instances:
            1.   Public utilities. Installation of public utilities with
respect to construction, maintenance and development work performed in the
exercise of their public function;
            2.   Railway utilities. Installation of electrical equipment
employed by a railway utility directly in the exercise of its functions as a
public carrier and located outdoors or in buildings used exclusively for that
purpose;
            3.   Portable appliances. The installation of a portable heating
appliance or of a portable air conditioning appliance;
            4.   Radio transmitting stations. Equipment used for radio
transmission, whether erected on a building or on the ground. Such exception
does not extend to equipment and wiring for power supply and the installation
of radio towers and antenna;
            5.   Maintenance. The maintenance or servicing of an existing
electrical, heating, air conditioning, air handling, commercial kitchen hood,
fire-extinguishing, fire alarm or plumbing system for the purpose of
maintaining it in safe operating condition in conformance with the provisions
of this subchapter; and
            6.   Well drilling and water softening equipment. The drilling of
wells and the installation of pumps, pressure tanks and piping incidental to a
well system. The installation of water softening equipment.
      (3)   Permit obtained prior to commencing work. It shall be the duty of
the property owner, or his or her authorized agent to obtain all necessary
permits before any work has been started; except that, in cases where this
subchapter requires that work be performed by a licensed contractor it shall be
the responsibility of the licensed contractor to obtain all necessary permits
prior to commencing work. A reinspection fee of $100 shall be assessed and
added to the cost of a permit when construction, demolition or installation
work is begun prior to the issuance of a permit and the jobsite has been
inspected by any representative of the city’s Enforcement Authority.
      (4)   Permit to be posted on site. A building permit card shall be
required to be posted on the job site in a conspicuous place in full view of
the public during the construction, alteration, remodeling or repair of a
building or structure until said work shall be completed and finally inspected.
A copy of the service installation permit shall be required to be available on
the job site pending inspection.
      (5)   Changes not to be made in plans after permit is issued. No change
shall be made in any plans, specifications or construction, after the plans and
specifications have been released by the state’s Building Commissioner and/or a
building permit or service installation permit has been issued, unless such
change is approved in writing by the state’s Building Commissioner and/or by
the city’s Enforcement Authority.
      (6)   Non-conformity to law discovered after permit issued or plans
approved. The issuance of a permit pursuant to the provisions of this
subchapter or the approval of plans, prints or specifications, shall not be
deemed to authorize any erection, construction, alteration or repair, or the
performance of any work, in violation of any of the provisions of this
subchapter, nor shall such issuance or approval be a guaranty, warrant or
assurance to any person that any such plans, prints or set of specifications,
are in conformity to the provisions of this subchapter and to all laws and
ordinances. Upon the discovery of any departure of any such plans, print or
specifications, from the requirements of this subchapter, such departure shall
be corrected immediately, and the erection, construction, repair or work shall
be made to conform to the provisions of this subchapter.
      (7)   Expiration of permits. Every permit shall expire if active work
shall not have been commenced within 60 days of the date of issue thereof. If
the work authorized by such permit is suspended or abandoned at any time after
work is commenced, and work is not recommenced for a period of 180 days or
more, such work shall be recommenced only after the issuance of a new permit.
      (8)   Revocation of a permit. The Director of the city’s Enforcement
Authority or his or her duly authorized representative may revoke a permit if
it is determined that the permit was issued in error or in violation of any
rules of the state or provisions of this subchapter or if the permit is based
on incorrect or insufficient information or if the person to whom the permit
was issued ceases work and abandons the job prior to said job being completed
and finally inspected. A written notice of revocation shall be served on the
person who obtained the permit and the owner of the property either by delivery
in person, by certified mail or by publication in a newspaper of general
circulation.
(Prior Code, § 150.05)
      (9)   Penalty for failing to secure and adhere to requirements of a
permit.
         (a)   In the event that a person fails to secure a permit for any work
for which a permit is required as set forth within the this section; however,
begins or continues such work, the enforcement authority shall assess a fee
according to the following graduated schedule:
            1.   First offense: $100;
            2.   Second offense: $250; and
            3.   Third and subsequent offenses: $500.
         (b)   It shall constitute a separate offense for each day that a
person violates this section. As such, if a person begins construction,
demolition or installation that requires a permit hereunder without first
obtaining a permit, a fine of $100 shall be assessed. If said person continues
construction, demolition or installation for second day without obtaining the
necessary permit, an additional fine of $250 shall be assessed. For each
subsequent day that said person continues construction, demolition or
installation without obtaining the necessary permits, a fine of $500 per day
shall be assessed.
         (c)   The office of the City Attorney is authorized to purse a
judgment for collection of the fines referenced herein in the county courts,
which shall include reasonable attorney’s fees. Additionally, in the event that
a person conducts work in violation of the provisions of this section, the City
Attorney may pursue injunctive relief in order to require the violator to cure
the non-compliance with this section.
(Ord. 121-1997, passed - -1997; Ord. 38-2005, passed - -2005; Ord. 37-2021,
passed 8-16-2021)
§ 150.005 OTHER ORDINANCES.
   All work done under any permit issued hereunder shall be in full compliance
with all other ordinances pertaining thereto and, in addition to the fees for
permits hereinafter provided for, there shall be paid the fees prescribed in
such ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 150.06)
§ 150.006 FEE SCHEDULE.
   The schedule of required fees for examinations, licenses, permits, re-
inspections and certificates of occupancy shall be as follows: all fees shall
be payable to the city.
   (A)   Application for examination for trade license:
      (1)   Electrical contractor: $10, plus independent testing agency fee;
and
      (2)   Heating and air conditioning contractor: $10, plus independent
testing agency fee.
   (B)   Annual trade license:
      (1)   Electrical contractor: $50; and
      (2)   Heating and air conditioning contractor: $50.
   (C)   Building permits:
      (1)   New one- and two-family dwelling: $200; and
      (2)   New industrial, commercial, institutional and three- or more family
dwelling: $2 per $1,000 of actual cost, minimum $200 as follows:
         (a)   Two dollars per $1,000 of actual cost up to the first
$10,000,000;
         (b)   One dollar per $1,000 of actual cost in excess of $10,000,000 up
to $50,000,000; and
         (c)   Twenty-five cents per $1,000 of actual costs in excess of
$50,000,000.
      (3)   Remodel or repair of all buildings or structures: $2 per $1,000 of
actual cost, minimum $50;
      (4)   New private residential garages, carports and accessory buildings
and structures: $50;
      (5)   Move building or structure: $100;
      (6)   (a)   Wrecking of one- and two-family dwelling: $50; and
         (b)   Wrecking of three- or more family dwelling, institutional,
commercial or industrial building: $100.
      (7)   Wrecking of private, residential garage or other accessory building
or structure: $30;
      (8)   Public swimming pool: $100;
      (9)   Installation of modular or manufactured home on a permanent
foundation: $100; and
      (10)   Installation of temporary commercial mobile unit bearing seal of
compliance, pursuant to I.C. 9-13-2-103.2.
   (D)   Service installation permits:
      (1)   Electrical:
         (a)   Temporary service: $25;
         (b)   New one- and two-family dwelling: $50;
         (c)   New or remodeled three- or more family dwelling: $2 per $1,000
of actual electrical cost, plus $5 per meter; minimum $50;
         (d)   New or remodeled commercial, institutional or industrial
building or structure: $2 per $1,000 of actual electrical cost; minimum $50;
         (e)   Change of service or wiring for additional circuits, one- and
two-family dwelling: $25;
         (f)   Complete rewire, one- and two- family dwelling: $50;
         (g)   Complete rewire, three- or more family dwelling: $2 per $1,000
of actual electrical cost, plus $5, per meter; minimum $50;
         (h)   Complete rewire, commercial, institutional or industrial
building or structure: $2 per $1,000 of actual electrical cost; minimum $50;
and
         (i)   The fee for all service installation permits issued for
electrical installations outside the corporate limits of the city, but within
the service area of Richmond Power and Light shall be increased by an
additional inspection fee of $20.
      (2)   Heating and air conditioning:
         (a)   New one- and two-family dwelling: $50;
         (b)   New three- or more family dwelling, commercial, institutional or
industrial building or structure: $2 per $1,000 of actual heating and air
conditioning cost; minimum $50;
         (c)   Extension or replacement of heating and air conditioning system
within an existing commercial building or structure: $2 per $1,000 of actual
heating and air conditioning cost; minimum $50;
         (d)   Residential, new or replacement furnace: $25;
         (e)   Residential, air conditioning installation: $25;
         (f)   Residential, combination furnace and air conditioning unit or
heat pump installation: $50; and
         (g)   Conversion burner installation: $25.
      (3)   Installation, alteration, extension or replacement of air handling
equipment and/or equipment for the removal of smoke and grease-laden vapors
from cooking equipment: $25;
      (4)   Installation, alteration, extension or replacement of a fire-
extinguishing system within a building, structure or premises: $2 per $1,000 of
actual cost; minimum $50;
      (5)   Installation, alteration, extension or replacement of a fire alarm
system within a building, structure or premises: $2 per $1,000 of actual cost;
minimum $50; and
      (6)   Plumbing:
         (a)   New one- and two-family dwelling: $50;
         (b)   New three- or more family dwelling, commercial, institutional or
industrial building or structure: $2 per $1,000 of actual plumbing cost;
minimum $50;
         (c)   New or replacement water heater: $25; and
         (d)   Extension or repair of plumbing system within any existing
building or structure: $2 per $1,000 of actual plumbing cost; minimum $50.
   (E)   Re-inspection fee: a re-inspection fee of $100 shall be assessed and
added to the cost of a permit when construction, demolition or installation
work is begun prior to the issuance of a permit.
   (F)   Certificate of occupancy as required by the city’s Enforcement
Authority: $50; and
   (G)   Other units of government shall not be assessed a fee for any permits
required pursuant to this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 150.07) (Ord. 38-2005, passed - -2005)
§ 150.007 REVIEW OF APPLICATION.
   Prior to the issuance of any permit hereunder, the city’s Enforcement
Authority shall:
   (A)   Review all permit applications to determine full compliance with the
provisions of this subchapter;
   (B)   Review all permit applications for new construction or substantial
improvements to determine whether proposed building sites will be reasonably
safe from flooding;
   (C)   Review permit applications for major repairs within the floodplain
area having special flood hazards to determine that the proposed repair:
      (1)   Uses construction materials and utility equipment that are
resistant to flood damage; and
      (2)   Uses construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
   (D)   Review permit applications for new construction or substantial
improvements within the floodplain area having special flood hazards to assure
that the proposed construction (including prefabricated and mobile homes):
      (1)   Is protected against flood damage;
      (2)   Is designed (or modified) and anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse or lateral movement of the structure; and
      (3)   Uses construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
   (E)   Determine if the permit applicant meets the necessary licensing or
registration requirements of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 150.08)
§ 150.008 INSPECTIONS; ENTRY.
   (A)   (1)   The Director of the city’s Enforcement Authority or his or her
duly authorized representatives shall make inspections whenever necessary to
enforce any of the provisions of this subchapter. When an inspection is made,
and it is discovered that work has commenced on a job site prior to the
issuance of a permit, a re-inspection fee of $100 shall be assessed and added
to the cost of a permit. Also, the Director of the city’s Enforcement Authority
or his or her duly authorized representatives shall make inspections of the
work being done after the issuance of any permit hereunder, as are necessary to
ensure full compliance with the provisions of this subchapter and the terms of
the permit.
      (2)   Any person, firm or corporation who has obtained a permit from the
city’s Enforcement Authority shall be required to request an inspection of the
work performed in the following instances. The inspection shall be requested at
least 24 hours in advance of the need for such inspection. It shall be the duty
of the person requesting the inspection to provide access to and means for the
proper inspection of such work. The person responsible for performing the work
shall be required to be present on the job site during the inspection. No
portion of any work shall be covered or concealed until inspected and approved.
The city shall not be liable for any expense entailed in the removal or
replacement of material required to permit the inspection. It shall be the
responsibility of the person obtaining the permit to ensure that all phases of
the work are completed before requesting a final inspection:
         (a)   The installation of a temporary electrical service on a pole;
         (b)   Footing and foundation excavations prior to the placement of
concrete;
         (c)   The installation of all underground and underslab electrical,
heating and air conditioning, fire-extinguishing, fire alarm and plumbing
systems prior to being covered;
         (d)   The construction of structural components of a new building or
structure or of an addition to a building or structure, including floors,
walls, ceilings and roof, prior to said structural components being covered;
         (e)   The installation of all rough-in and final electrical, heating
and air conditioning, air handling, commercial kitchen hood, fire-
extinguishing, fire alarm and plumbing systems within a building or structure
prior to being covered;
         (f)   The installation of an electrical meter on a building or
structure;
         (g)   The installation of replacement furnaces, heat pumps, central
air conditioning systems and water heaters;
         (h)   The demolition of a building or structure in the following
instances:
            1.   After the basement floor is broken and the water and sewer
services are sealed; and
            2.   After backfilling is completed and the site is uniformly
graded and all debris has been removed.
         (i)   The excavation of an inground swimming pool and the electrical
bounding and grounding of all metal components prior to the placement of
concrete; and
         (j)   The installation of a modular or manufactured home on a
permanent foundation.
      (3)   No person, firm or corporation shall connect or permit to be
connected any electrical installation, heating or air conditioning
installation, air handling installation, commercial kitchen hood or water
heater to a source of electrical or flammable and combustible liquid or gas
energy until such installation has been inspected and approved by the city’s
Enforcement Authority, and a certificate of approval has been attached to such
installation by the Department. The certificate of approval shall be in the
form of a sticker and shall be signed by the Director of the Department or his
or her duly authorized representative.
(Prior Code, § 150.09)
   (B)   Upon presentation of proper credentials, whenever necessary to make an
inspection to enforce any of the provisions of this subchapter or whenever
there is reasonable cause to believe that there exists in any building,
structure or premises any condition or code violation which makes such
building, structure or premises unsafe, dangerous or hazardous, the Director of
the City Enforcement Authority or his or her duly authorized representatives
may enter at reasonable times any building, structure or premises in the city
to perform any duty imposed upon him or her by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 150.10)
(Ord. 38-2005, passed - -2005)
§ 150.009 STOP ORDER.
   (A)   Whenever any work is being done contrary to the provisions of this
subchapter or whenever satisfactory progress is not being made in correcting
work ordered by the Director of the city’s Enforcement Authority or his or her
duly authorized representative, said Director or his or her duly authorized
representative may order the work stopped on that portion deemed to be in
violation, or on the entire project, by posting a stop work card on the job
site. Whenever work has been stopped on a job site, the city’s Enforcement
Authority shall attempt to notify in writing the owner, the contractor and any
persons engaged in doing or causing such work to be done. Such written notice
may be served in person or served by first class U.S. mail. The stop work card
shall specify in writing that portion of the work in violation and to be
stopped. It shall be the owner’s responsibility to ensure that the stop work
order is complied with. The owner, the contractor and any person, firm or
corporation who shall continue or permit to be continued any work on a stopped
project, or portion thereof, other than corrective work, shall be in violation
of this subchapter and shall be fined in the amount of $100. The owner, the
contractor and the person, firm or corporation shall be notified in writing of
such violation and fine. The written citation and notice of violation shall be
delivered by certified mail, return receipt requested or by delivery in person.
Each act of violation and every day, or portion thereof, upon which a violation
occurs shall be considered a separate offense. All fines shall be payable in
the office of the City Clerk of the city or in the proper court of
jurisdiction.
   (B)   The citation and notice of fine shall be in writing and in a form
approved by the Board of Public Works and Safety. The citation and notice of
fine shall include a statement of the nature of the violation, location of the
City Clerk’s office, identification of the violator and identification of the
issuing official. Failure to remit the fine within ten days shall result in
issue of summons for said violation in the proper court of jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 150.11)
§ 150.010 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   After the adoption of this subchapter, it shall be unlawful for any owner,
lessee or tenant to occupy, use or permit the use of any building, structure or
part thereof that is constructed, erected, altered, repaired or the use of
which is changed, prior to the issuance of a full, partial or temporary
certificate of occupancy by the city’s Enforcement Authority. No certificates
of occupancy shall be issued unless such building or structure was constructed,
erected, altered, repaired or changed in compliance with the provisions of this
subchapter. A partial or temporary certificate of occupancy may be issued when
it is determined that the work to be completed or corrected does not adversely
affect building safety and fire safety features of the building or structure.
The city’s Enforcement Authority may require that the owner and/or the
professional inspecting architect or engineer of a construction project submit
to the Department, prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy, a
statement indicating that the project construction work is substantially
complete in accordance with the construction documents released by the state’s
Building Commissioner. Said statement shall also list all remaining items that
require completion or correction.
(Prior Code, § 150.12)
§ 150.011 STANDARDS.
   All work on the construction, alteration and repair of buildings and other
structures shall be performed in a good and workmanlike manner according to
accepted standards and practices in the trade.
(Prior Code, § 150.13)
§ 150.012 LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Electrical Examining Board.
      (1)   To carry out the provisions of this section, there is hereby
recreated, and also continued, as previously created and established, a board
for the examination and licensing of persons engaged in installing electrical
systems, to be known as the “Electrical Examining Board of the City of
Richmond, Indiana”. The Electrical Examining Board (referred to below as the
“Board”) shall examine applicants for licenses under this section, issue
certificates of license to qualified applicants who have paid the prescribed
fees and who have passed the examination hereinafter required, and revoke or
suspend any license after just cause shown before such Board.
      (2)   Any member of the Board, so serving under previous appointments at
the time this subchapter takes effect, shall continue to serve pursuant to
their previous appointments. Thereafter, the Board shall consist of four
members. One member shall be the Director of the city’s Enforcement Authority
or his or her duly authorized representative. Three members shall be appointed
by the Mayor as follows: two licensed electrical contractors; and one person
employed in a supervisory capacity at Richmond Power and Light. Members shall
serve for a term of four years and shall hold office at the pleasure of the
Mayor. Each term shall expire on December 31 of the fourth year. However, each
member shall continue to serve until a successor is appointed. Vacancies
occurring within a term shall be filled by the Mayor for the unexpired portion
of the term. Each Board member, not employed by the city, shall receive $12.50
for each regular meeting of the Board he or she attends and shall receive $25
for each special meeting of the Board he or she attends.
      (3)   At least once each quarter, the Board shall examine applicants for
licenses; provided that, any such applications are pending. The Board may also
meet at the call of the Chairperson of the Board, and provide for examinations
at other times.
      (4)   The Board shall keep minutes of all meetings and a record of all
licenses issued and shall adopt a printed manual of its rules and regulations
for the conduct of meetings and examinations.
      (5)   Three members of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business, but any action taken at a meeting shall require the
affirmative vote of at least three members.
      (6)   No new license under this section shall be issued without written
approval by the Board.
   (B)   Electrical license.
      (1)   General. All persons performing any installation, alteration or
repair of any electrical wiring, devices, panels or equipment in the city or
within the service area of Richmond Power and Light shall be required to be
licensed by the city as an electrical contractor or shall be in the employ of a
licensed electrical contractor working under the supervision, direction and
responsibility of said licensed contractor.
      (2)   Non-transferability and non- negotiability. Any license issued
under this section may not be transferred, assigned, sold or negotiated to
another person. It shall be unlawful to transfer, assign, sell or loan such
license to the use of any other person, firm or corporation to enable such
person, firm or corporation to work on a job without obtaining the proper
license or permit.
      (3)   Issuance of permits. It shall be the responsibility of licensed
electrical contractors to secure permits required by the provisions of this
subchapter prior to commencing work. All work performed pursuant to a permit
issued to a licensed contractor shall be the sole responsibility of said
contractor and the contractor’s license bond shall pay all damages, costs and
expenses caused by negligence through failure to comply with the provisions of
this subchapter. No licensed contractor shall allow any other person to do or
cause to be done any work under a permit secured by said contractor, except
persons in his or her employ.
      (4)   Exemption. No license under this section is required for the
execution or performance of the following electrical work:
         (a)   Installation of communications systems, installations in
recreational vehicles and installations not covered by the state’s Electrical
Code;
         (b)   The performance of electrical work in a one-family dwelling by
the owner-occupant of the dwelling; provided, however, that, this exemption
does not apply to any person hired by the owner-occupant for compensation to
assist or to perform such electrical work on that dwelling; and
         (c)   The maintenance or servicing of an existing electrical system
for the purpose of maintaining it in a safe operating condition in conformance
with the provisions of this subchapter.
      (5)   Application. Each applicant shall apply in writing to the Board for
a license at least 30 days before the next scheduled examination date. The
application shall include:
         (a)   The applicant’s name, address, telephone number and age;
         (b)   The applicant’s number of years of experience in the trade;
         (c)   The applicant’s present place of employment;
         (d)   Any license currently held by the applicant for another
jurisdiction; and
         (e)   Payment of a $10 fee and whatever fee may be assessed by any
private independent testing agency, should such an agency be used.
      (6)   Examination. To qualify for a new license, an applicant must earn a
score of not less than 75% correct answers to a written examination to be given
by the Board. The examination may be prepared by a private independent testing
company or may be prepared by the Board. The examination may be designed to be
taken using open reference books approved by the Board. An applicant who fails
to pass an examination may not be re-examined earlier than the next scheduled
examination upon submitting a new application in compliance with this section.
An applicant who passes the examination shall not be required to retake the
examination to obtain a license renewal, if he or she meets the renewal
requirements as specified below. If a private independent testing agency is
utilized, the Board shall grant a license to any applicant who has previously
taken and scored at least 75% on the same exam in another jurisdiction. Such
applicants must complete an application for a license, pay a fee and provide a
license bond as required by this subchapter. The Board may require a letter of
verification from the jurisdiction or institution where the applicant was
previously examined.
      (7)   License bond. Each applicant approved to be granted an electrical
contractor’s license must also provide a license bond, payable to the city in
the penal sum of $5,000 conditioned upon faithful compliance with the
provisions of this subchapter as it pertains to the regulation of electrical
work and apparatus and agreeing to pay all damages, costs and expenses caused
by the negligence of the licensee through failure to comply with such
provisions.
      (8)   Issuance of certificate of license.
         (a)   The Board shall examine the application, the accompanying
documentation, other information provided and examination results and shall
grant or deny the license applied for. Appeal from the denial, suspension or
revocation of any license by the Board shall be made to the Board of Public
Works and Safety of the city.
         (b)   The Board shall issue a license to any applicant who has
complied with all requirements of the application, including, but not limited
to, the filing of a bond and payment of the prescribed license fee.
         (c)   Each certificate of license shall be issued to an individual and
not to a company or corporation. The certificate of license shall specify the
name of the person to whom the license is issued and the expiration date of the
license. The certificate of license shall be posted in a conspicuous place in
the licensee’s principal place of business.
      (9)   Term of license; renewal.
         (a)   Term. The term of each license under this section is from the
date of issuance of a new license or January 1 of a renewal license through and
including December 31 of each calendar year.
         (b)   Renewal. A person is eligible for a renewal license if he or she
holds a valid and unrevoked license under this section and complies with the
applicable license bond requirements of this subchapter. Each license shall be
renewed by June 30 of the next calendar year.
      (10)   Revocation. This section does not revoke outstanding licenses. The
adoption of this subchapter shall not operate to automatically revoke the
license of any person who has heretofore been granted a license by any prior
board. However, all licenses shall be subject to the provisions of this
subchapter and may be suspended or revoked upon a determination of just cause.
   (C)   Heating and Air Conditioning Examining Board.
      (1)   To carry out the provisions of this section, there is hereby
recreated, and also continued, as previously created and established, a Board
for the examination and licensing of persons engaged in installing heating and
air conditioning equipment to be known as the Heating and Air Conditioning
Examining Board of the city. The Heating and Air Conditioning Examining Board
(referred to below as the “Board”) shall examine applicants for licenses under
this section, issue certificates of licenses to qualified applicants who have
paid the prescribed fees and who have passed the examination hereinafter
required, and revoke or suspend any license after just cause shown before such
Board.
      (2)   Any members of the Board, so serving under previous appointments at
the time this subchapter takes effect, shall continue to serve pursuant to
their previous appointments. Thereafter, the Board shall consist of four
members. One member shall be the Director of the city’s Enforcement Authority
or his or her duly authorized representative. Three members shall be appointed
by the Mayor as follows: two licensed heating and air conditioning contractors
and one person employed in the Inspection Division of the city’s Fire
Department. Members shall serve for a term of four years and shall hold office
at the pleasure of the Mayor. Each term shall expire on December 31 of the
fourth year. However, each member shall continue to serve until a successor is
appointed. Vacancies occurring within a term shall be filled by the Mayor for
the unexpired portion of the term. Each Board member, not employed by the city,
shall receive $12.50 for each regular meeting of the Board he or she attends
and shall receive $25 for each special meeting of the Board he or she attends.
      (3)   At least once each quarter, the Board shall examine applicants for
licenses; provided that, any such applications are pending. The Board may also
meet at the call of the Chairperson of the Board, and provide for examinations
at other times.
      (4)   The Board shall keep minutes of all meetings and a record of all
licenses issued and shall adopt a printed manual of its rules and regulations
for the conduct of meetings and examinations.
      (5)   Three members of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business, but any action taken at a meeting shall require the
affirmative vote of at least three members.
   (D)   Heating and air conditioning licenses.
      (1)   General. All persons performing any installation or alteration of
any heating and air conditioning equipment within the city shall be required to
be licensed by the city as a heating and air conditioning contractor or shall
be in the employ of a licensed heating and air conditioning contractor working
under the supervision, direction and responsibility of said licensed
contractor.
      (2)   Non-transferrability and non- negotiability. Any license issued
under this section may not be transferred, assigned, sold or negotiated to
another person. It shall be unlawful to transfer, assign, sell or loan such
license to the use of another person, firm or corporation to enable such
person, firm or corporation to work on a job without obtaining the proper
license or permit.
      (3)   Issuance of permits. It shall be the responsibility of licensed
heating and air conditioning contractors to secure permits required by the
provisions of this subchapter prior to commencing work. All work performed
pursuant to a permit issued to a licensed contractor shall be the sole
responsibility of said contractor’s license bond and shall pay all damages,
costs and expenses caused by negligence through failure to comply with the
provisions of this subchapter. No licensed contractor shall allow any other
person to do or cause to be done any work under a permit secured by said
contractor, except persons in his or her employ.
      (4)   Exemption. No license under this section is required for the
execution or performance of the following heating and air conditioning work:
the performance of heating and air conditioning work in a one-family dwelling
by the owner-occupant of the dwelling; provided, however, that, this exemption
does not apply to any person hired by the owner- occupant for compensation to
assist or to perform such heating and air conditioning work on that dwelling.
      (5)   Application. Each applicant shall apply in writing to the Board for
a license at least 30 days before the next scheduled examination date. The
application shall include:
         (a)   The applicant’s name, address, telephone number and age;
         (b)   The applicant’s number of years of experience in the trade;
         (c)   The applicant’s present place of employment;
         (d)   Any license currently held by the applicant for another
jurisdiction; and
         (e)   Payment of a $10 fee and whatever fee may be assessed by any
private independent testing agency, should such an agency be used.
      (6)   Examination. To qualify for a new license, an applicant must earn a
score of not less than 75% correct answers to a written examination to be given
by the Board. The examination may be prepared by a private independent testing
company or may be prepared by the Board. The examination may be designed to be
taken using open reference books approved by the Board. An applicant who fails
to pass an examination may not be re-examined earlier than the next scheduled
examination upon submitting a new application in compliance with this section.
An applicant who passes the examination shall not be required to retake the
examination to obtain a license renewal, if he or she meets the renewal
requirements as specified below. If a private independent testing agency is
utilized, the Board shall grant a license to any applicant who has previously
taken and scored at least 75% on the same exam in another jurisdiction. Such
applicants must complete an application for a license, pay a fee and provide a
license bond as required by this chapter. The Board may require a letter of
verification from the jurisdiction or institution where the applicant was
previously examined.
      (7)   License bond. Each applicant approved to be granted a heating and
air conditioning contractor’s license must also provide a license bond, payable
to the city in the penal sum of $5,000 conditioned upon faithful compliance
with the provisions of this subchapter as it pertains to the regulation of
heating and air conditioning work and apparatus and agreeing to pay all
damages, costs and expenses caused by the negligence of the licensee through
failure to comply with such provisions.
      (8)   Issuance of certificate of license.
         (a)   The Board shall examine the application, the accompanying
documentation and other information provided, examination results and shall
grant or deny the license applied for. Appeal from the denial, suspension or
revocation of any license by the Board shall be made to the Board of Public
Works and Safety of the city.
         (b)   The Board shall issue a license to any applicant who has
complied with all requirements of the application, including, but not limited
to, the filing of a bond and payment of the prescribed license fee.
         (c)   Each certificate of license shall be issued to an individual and
not to a company or corporation. The certificate of license shall specify the
name of the person to whom the license is issued, and the expiration date of
the license. The certificate of license shall be posted in a conspicuous place
in the licensee’s principal place of business.
      (9)   Term of license; renewal.
         (a)   Term. The term of each license under this section is from the
date of issuance of a new license or January 1 of renewal license through and
including December 31 of each calendar year.
         (b)   Renewal. A person is eligible for a renewal license if he or she
holds a valid and unrevoked license under this section and complies with the
applicable license bond requirements of this subchapter. Each license shall be
renewed by June 30 of the next calendar year.
      (10)   Revocation. This section does not revoke outstanding licenses. The
adoption of this subchapter shall not operate to automatically revoke the
license of any person who has heretofore been granted a license by any prior
Board. However, all licenses shall be subject to the provisions of this
subchapter and may be suspended or revoked upon a determination of just cause.
(Prior Code, § 150.14) (Ord. 37-1997, passed - -1997; Ord. 38-2005, passed - -
2005)
§ 150.013 PLUMBING CONTRACTORS.
   (A)   Definitions. The meaning of the terms, “plumbing”, “plumbing
contractor”, “journeyman plumber”, “apprentice plumber”, “farmstead” and
“maintenance man” shall be as set forth and defined in I.C. 25-28.5-1 et seq.
   (B)   Performing plumbing in the city; registration of plumbing contractors
and requirement for permits.
      (1)   All persons performing plumbing in the city shall be licensed by
the state as either one of the following:
         (a)   A plumbing contractor;
         (b)   A journeyman plumber under the supervision, direction and
responsibility of a licensed plumbing contractor; or
         (c)   An apprentice plumber under the direction and immediate
supervision of a licensed plumbing contractor or a licensed journeyman plumber.
      (2)   All plumbing contractors performing plumbing in the city shall be
required to be registered with the city’s Enforcement Authority of said city.
It shall be the responsibility of licensed and registered plumbing contractors
to secure permits required by the provisions of this subchapter prior to
commencing work. No registered contractor shall allow any other person to do or
cause to be done any work under a permit secured by said contractor, except
persons in his or her employ; provided, however, that, the owner-occupant of a
dwelling of eight or fewer residential units shall not be required to be
licensed by the state and shall not be required to register when the owner-
occupant is installing, altering or repairing the plumbing of said residential
units. The owner- occupant shall be required to obtain all necessary permits
prior to commencing work. Registration of a plumbing contractor shall be on
forms provided by the city’s Enforcement Authority. Registration is on a per
annum calendar year basis.
   (C)   Display of license and registration. Every plumbing contractor,
journeyman plumber and apprentice plumber shall carry on that person a
facsimile of that person’s license or certificate of registration on any job
location where he or she is engaged in plumbing contracting or the trade of
plumbing. The plumbing contractor, journeyman plumber or apprentice plumber
shall display that person’s license and/or certificate of registration upon the
demand of any Inspector of the state or the Director of the city’s Enforcement
Authority or his or her duly authorized representative.
(Prior Code, § 150.15)
§ 150.014 WRECKING BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Wrecking permits. Before proceeding with the wrecking or tearing down
of any building or structure, in whole or part, a permit therefor shall first
be obtained by the owner or his or her agent from the city’s Enforcement
Authority, upon a form prescribed by said Department. It shall be unlawful to
proceed with such work unless such permit shall have been first obtained.
   (B)   Liability for property damage and bodily injury. All persons engaged
in the demolition of a building or structure, including the property owner and
his or her agent, shall be liable for any bodily injury or damage to public or
private property occurring as a result of the demolition work. Said persons
shall indemnify and save harmless the city against any loss, damage, expense,
claim, demand, action, judgement or liability of any kind whatsoever which may
arise or result from the demolition work. Before any demolition permit is
issued to any person, firm or corporation who offers to demolish a building or
structure for another person and/or who engages in the business of demolition
contracting, said person, firm or corporation shall furnish to the city’s
Enforcement Authority a certificate of insurance, indicating the appropriate
endorsement for wrecking or demolition work. The minimums of such insurance
shall be as follows:
 
                                                Each Occurrence Aggregate
Liability for bodily injury                     $100,000        $300,000
Liability for property damage                   $100,000        $300,000
OR COMBINED SINGLE LIMIT COVERAGE AS FOLLOWS
Liability for Bodily injury and property damage $300,000        $300,000
 
   (C)   Minimum standards for demolition. All persons engaged in the
demolition of a building or structure shall comply with the following minimum
standards.
      (1)   Control shall be maintained over the site and operation to
eliminate hazards to the public. Nails or other tire puncturing items shall not
be dropped on streets, alleys and adjacent property. Public streets, curbs and
sidewalks shall be protected from damage. The person engaged in the demolition
work shall be liable for any and all damage to curbs, streets, sidewalks and
other public or private property and for any bodily injury occurring as a
result of the demolition work.
      (2)   Basement walls and all other concrete slabs and footings not
intended or not able to be reused shall be removed two feet below finished
grade. Material used for backfill shall be free of wood and compacted
thoroughly.
      (3)   All sewer and drain lines shall be removed for a distance of two
feet outside of the basement wall and shall be thoroughly plugged and sealed
with cement. All water service shall be turned off at the service valve and
water lines shall be removed for a distance of two feet outside of the basement
wall and shall be thoroughly plugged and sealed to prevent leakage.
      (4)   Basement floors shall be broken to provide positive drainage for a
minimum of 20% of the floor area uniformly distributed.
      (5)   All underground tanks present on the site shall be removed.
Cisterns present on the site shall be filled in accordance with the
requirements for basements.
      (6)   All debris resulting from the demolition work shall be properly
disposed of.
      (7)   The demolition site shall be left with a uniform grade and shall be
free of debris.
      (8)   The person engaged in the demolition work shall be responsible for
requesting two inspections during the course of the work. The first inspection
shall be made after the basement floor is broken and the water and sewer
services are sealed. The second inspection shall be made after the backfill is
completed, the site is uniformly graded and all debris has been removed.
(Prior Code, § 150.16)
§ 150.015 MOVING BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Approval and permit required for moving buildings and structures.
      (1)   No building or structure shall be moved to a new location over any
street, bridge, other public property or private property within the corporate
limits of the city without first obtaining the approval of the Board of Public
Works and Safety of the city, and obtaining a permit from the city’s
Enforcement Authority.
      (2)   Any person desiring to move a building or structure shall submit an
application to the city’s Enforcement Authority on such forms as may be
prescribed by said Department. The application shall be accompanied by the
following:
         (a)   A map indicating the proposed route;
         (b)   A letter from all public utility companies, railroads and cable
television companies with facilities along the proposed route indicating that
the applicant has deposited with such company adequate surety to cover the cost
of any damage or changes in facilities resulting from moving the building or
structure;
         (c)   A letter from the Park Superintendent indicating any problems or
recommendation regarding potential damage to trees along the public right-of-
way;
         (d)   A letter from the Traffic Division of the city’s Police
Department with recommendations regarding the proposed route and traffic
control;
         (e)   A letter from the Director of the Department of Public Works
indicating any problems or recommendations regarding public facilities and
improvements;
         (f)   A letter from the City Enforcement Authority regarding the
overall structural condition of the building or structures proposed to be
moved;
         (g)   Approval from the County Highway Engineer if the proposed route
includes any county highway or bridge;
         (h)   Approval from the state’s Department of Transportation if the
proposed route includes any state highways;
         (i)   Written authorization from any private property owner whose land
must be crossed during the move; and
         (j)   A certificate of insurance and performance bond as required
below.
      (3)   All applications for a permit to move a building or structure shall
be referred to the Board of Public Works and Safety of the city. The Board
shall review the application and recommendations made by all interested
parties. If the Board of Public Works and Safety determines that the moving and
relocation of the building or structure can be made without injury to persons
or to curbs, sidewalks, bridges, sewers or other public or private property and
improvements, the Board may approve the moving permit application and the
city’s Enforcement Authority may issue a moving permit.
      (4)   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall approve the route to be
utilized for the move, the time and date such move shall take place and the
time and date when such move shall be completed. The Board may require other
reasonable conditions as necessary to protect the public health, safety and
welfare.
      (5)   No application for moving shall be approved by the Board if the
building or structure proposed to be moved has been damaged by wear or tear or
other cause to an extent exceeding 50% of its original cost.
      (6)   Any building or structure that has been moved to a new location
shall be rehabilitated or reconstructed so as to be made to conform to the
provisions of this subchapter for new construction.
   (B)   Insurance and bonding requirements.
      (1)   The applicant for a moving permit shall agree to assume the
responsibility for any personal injury or any damage to public or private
property occurring as a result of moving a building or structure. The applicant
shall agree to defend, indemnify and hold harmless the city, its departments,
boards, employees, officers and agents from and against all claims, charges,
damages, demands, costs, suits, liabilities and payments, expenses (including
counsel fees), fines, judgments, penalties and/or losses of any kind or nature
whatsoever, resulting from or in respect of any injury or damage to person or
property caused negligently or otherwise from the moving of any building or
structure, and/or the granting of a moving permit. The applicant shall submit
to the city’s Enforcement Authority a certificate of insurance as evidence that
said applicant has liability insurance coverage properly endorsed for moving of
a building or structure in the following minimum amounts:
 
                                                 Each Occurrence Aggregate
Liability for bodily injury                      $500,000        $1,000,000
Liability for public and private property damage $500,000        $1,000,000
OR COMBINED SINGLE LIMIT COVERAGE AS FOLLOWS
Liability for bodily injury and property damage  $1,000,000      $1,000,000
 
      (2)   A building or structure shall be required to be placed on its
permanent foundation within 30 days after being moved to a new location. An
applicant for a moving permit shall submit to the Board of Public Works and
Safety a performance bond, or other form of surety acceptable to said Board, in
an amount to be determined by the Board, guaranteeing that the moving of the
building or structure shall be completed within the time specified by the Board
and that the building or structure shall be placed on its permanent foundation
within 30 days after being moved to a new location.
      (3)   In the event of adverse weather conditions or other unforeseen
circumstances, the Board may, upon the request of the applicant, grant an
extension of time to complete the move or to place the building or structure on
its permanent foundation. The Board shall release the performance bond upon the
satisfactory completion of the move and the placement of the building or
structure on its permanent foundation.
(Prior Code, § 150.17)
§ 150.016 EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Exterior maintenance standards.
      (1)   The exterior of all premises and the condition of all buildings and
structures thereon shall be maintained so that the appearance thereof shall
reflect a level of maintenance in keeping with the standards of the city and so
as to avoid blighting effects and hazards to health, safety and welfare.
      (2)   The owner and operator shall keep the exterior of all premises and
every structure thereon including, but not limited to, walls, roofs, cornices,
chimneys, drains, towers, porches, landings, fire escapes, stairs, refuse or
garbage containers, store fronts, signs, windows, doors, awnings and marquees,
in good repair and all surfaces thereof shall be kept painted or protected with
other approved coating or material where necessary for the purpose of
preservation and avoiding a blighting influence on adjoining properties.
Exterior wood, composition or metal surfaces shall be protected from the
elements by paint or other protective covering. Surfaces shall be maintained so
as to be kept clean and free of flaking, loose or peeling paint or covering.
Those surface materials whose appearance and maintenance would be enhanced by a
natural weathering effect or other natural effects may remain untreated.
      (3)   All surfaces shall be maintained free of significant broken glass,
loose shingles, crumbling stone or brick, peeling paint or other cumulative
conditions reflective of deterioration or inadequate maintenance, and not show
evidence of weathering, discoloration, ripping, tearing or other holes or
breaks, to the end that the property itself may be preserved safely and fire
hazards eliminated adjoining properties and the neighborhood protected from
blighting influence.
      (4)   All premises shall be maintained and lawn, hedges, bushes, trees
and other vegetation shall be kept trimmed and from becoming overgrown and
unsightly where exposed to public view or where such vegetation may constitute
a blighting influence on adjoining property.
      (5)   All premises shall be maintained free of all debris, trash,
rubbish, litter, garbage, refuse, junk and foundation remnants. No premises
shall be used for the storage of inoperable motor vehicles, machinery, junk
vehicles or machinery and vehicle parts when such storage is within view of any
public premises or public alley, street or highway so as not to cause a
blighting problem or adversely effect the public health or safety or where such
storage presents a blighting influence on any adjoining property.
      (6)   All vacant structures and premises thereof or vacant land shall be
maintained in a clean, safe, secure and sanitary condition as provided herein.
   (B)   Remedies.
      (1)   The Director of the city’s Enforcement Authority shall request the
City Attorney to bring action on behalf of the city in the circuit or superior
courts of the county, for mandatory and injunctive relief in the enforcement of
and to secure compliance with any order or orders made by the Director or his
or her authorized representative, and any such action for mandatory or
injunctive relief may be joined with an action to recover the penalties
provided for in this subchapter. Any person adjudged guilty of a violation of
this subchapter may also be adjudged to pay the costs of prosecution.
      (2)   The owner of the property shall be notified in writing stating that
the property owner shall have a maximum of 15 days to comply with the standards
of maintenance as outlined in this section, after which time if the property
owner has not complied, a fine shall be assessed as provided for in division
(C) below.
   (C)   Penalties.
      (1)   If any property owner violates the provisions of this section, said
property owner shall be notified in writing of such violation.
      (2)   The Director of the city’s Enforcement Authority or his or her
authorized representative shall send a “violation notice” by first class mail
or by delivery in person to the property owner found to be in violation of this
section, and that said person shall have a maximum of five days to complete and
return a form letter indicating agreement to “correct the violation within 15
days” or to “appeal the violation”.
      (3)   Upon receipt of a request for an appeal, the Director shall notify
the appellant in writing of the place and dates to schedule an appeal. The
property owner may appeal “the violation”, “the compliance requirements” or
“the completion date”.
      (4)   Upon presentation of convincing evidence, the Board of Public Works
and Safety may negotiate an adjusted “compliance schedule” commensurate with
the evidence presented and in keeping with this section.
      (5)   Upon proof of hardship, a resident- owner may be granted a
continuance and be excepted from fines for those violations requiring the
expenditure of unavailable funds; provided that, said violations do not
adversely affect the public health or safety.
      (6)   In the event the owner failed to respond to any of the above
procedures, the owner would be found in violation of this section and fined
accordingly, pursuant to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
      (7)   Notice of such violation shall be by written notice in form as
approved by the Board of Public Works and Safety, and notice shall include a
statement of the nature of the violation, location of City Clerk’s office,
identification of the violator and identification of issuing official.
      (8)   Enforcement of this section shall be by the Director of the city’s
Enforcement Authority or his or her authorized representative.
      (9)   Failure to remit the fine within ten days shall result in issuance
of summons for said violation in the proper court of jurisdiction.
   (D)   Right of appeal. The Board of Public Works and Safety shall have the
authority to grant special variances or relief to any provisions or
requirements of this section and may prescribe any conditions or requirements
deemed necessary to minimize adverse effects upon the community. The Board of
Public Works and Safety may develop standards and procedures for the
implementation and enforcement of these provisions.
(Prior Code, § 150.18) (Ord. 2-2001, passed - -2001)
§ 150.017 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Temporary buildings or uses. No temporary building or structure,
trailer, mobile or manufactured home, or mobile or manufactured office or
classroom unit shall be used for any purpose by any commercial, industrial or
institutional occupancy within the corporate limits of the city unless such
building, structure, trailer, mobile or manufactured home or unit is placed on
a permanent foundation and plans and specifications for such construction and
use are submitted to and approved by the Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission of the state; except that, the provisions of this section shall not
apply in the following instances:
      (1)   Contractor trailers and sheds used in conjunction with construction
or demolition work;
      (2)   Accessory buildings and structures with an area equal to or less
than 120 square feet; and
      (3)   The installation of a commercial mobile unit bearing a state seal
of compliance pursuant to I.C. 9-13-2-103.2, when the use of such unit is
intended for a limited period of time not exceeding 12 months duration and when
such installation complies with the standards and requirements of the zoning
ordinance of the city. The city’s Enforcement Authority shall issue a building
permit for the installation of a commercial mobile unit. Said permit shall
indicate the period of time the commercial mobile unit shall be used, which
shall not exceed 12 months. Upon the expiration of the time limit specified in
the permit, the commercial mobile unit shall be completely removed from the
premises.
   (B)   Tents. Any tent or air-supported structure erected within the
corporate limits of the city, intended to be used by the public, shall comply
with the provisions of the state’s Fire Prevention Code.
   (C)   Responsibility of Police Department to assist the city’s Enforcement
Authority. The city’s Police Department, upon request of the city’s Enforcement
Authority, shall assist in the enforcement of this subchapter. The Director of
the Department or his or her duly authorized representative may request the
police to accompany them to any premises to help enforce the law and serve
required notices.
   (D)   Fire Department to cooperate with the city’s Enforcement Authority.
The city’s Fire Department shall cooperate with and provide assistance to the
city’s Enforcement Authority in determining the compliance of new buildings and
structures under construction with the fire safety standard requirements of
this subchapter.
   (E)   Storm water and subsoil drainage systems. When storm water and subsoil
drainage systems are installed, they shall be discharged into an approved sump
or receiving tank and shall be discharged at an approved location, but shall
not be discharged into a sanitary sewer.
   (F)   Construction work and building material in public right-of-way. No
construction work, demolition work or storage of building materials shall occur
within the public right-of-way adjacent to the construction or demolition site
without the prior approval of the Board of Public Works and Safety. Whenever
authority is granted to use the public right-of-way, the Board shall require
appropriate safety measures to protect the public.
   (G)   Interceptor required. An interceptor shall be required to be installed
in occupancies where grease, oil, sand, solids, flammable wastes, acid or
alkaline substances or other ingredients may be introduced into the drainage or
sewage system in quantities that can affect line stoppage or hinder sewage
treatment. Such occupancies include, but are not limited to, restaurants,
cafés, lunch counters, cafeterias, bars and clubs, hotel, hospital, nursing
home, factory or school kitchens, slaughter houses, soap factories and packing,
fat rendering, hide curing and vehicle washing establishments. Interceptors
shall be installed in compliance with the provisions of the state’s Plumbing
Code.
   (H)   Change of use of occupancy. No change shall be made in the use or
character of occupancy of any building which would place the building in a
different class or group of occupancy and use, unless such building is made to
comply with the current requirements of this subchapter for the proposed
revised use of the building.
   (I)   Maintenance. All buildings and structures, and their electrical,
plumbing and heating and air conditioning systems, both existing and new, and
all parts thereof, shall be maintained in a safe and sanitary condition. All
devices, safeguards and systems shall be maintained in conformance with the
provisions of the Building Code in effect when installed. The owner or his or
her authorized agent shall be responsible for the maintenance of buildings and
structures. To determine compliance with this division (I), the Director of the
city’s Enforcement Authority or his or her authorized representative may cause
any building or structure to be reinspected.
   (J)   Authority to take emergency action. The Director of the city’s
Enforcement Authority and his or her duly authorized representative have the
authority to take necessary emergency action concerning any unsafe premises
within the corporate limits of the city. Such action may include, but not be
limited to, the vacating of an unsafe building and/or the disconnection of any
electrical service or natural gas service to any premises upon determination
that such immediate action is necessary for safety to persons or property. Such
emergency action taken shall be limited to removing any immediate danger.
   (K)   Disconnection of unsafe electrical service by Richmond Power and
Light. In the event Richmond Power and Light removes an electrical meter or
disconnects the service drop to a building or structure because the electrical
system of said building or structure is unsafe and hazardous; the electrical
system of said building or structure shall not be placed back in service unless
such system is inspected by an electrical contractor licensed under the
provisions of this subchapter and upgraded as necessary to eliminate all unsafe
and hazardous conditions.
   (L)   Electrical connections by heating and air conditioning contractors and
plumbers. Any licensed heating and air conditioning contractor or person in his
or her employ and any registered plumbing contractor or journeyman plumber may
make the necessary electrical connections as may be required for the
satisfactory performance of either a new or replacement heating and/or air
conditioning system or a hot water heater, provided the rating of circuit
conductors and disconnect are not exceeded and the electrical connection meets
the requirements of the state’s Electrical Code. However, such persons shall
not be permitted to install service equipment, branch circuits, over current
devices nor resistance electric heat.
   (M)   Sealing vacant buildings and structures. The sealing and securing of
any vacant building or structure, including any work performed subject to an
order issued under the Unsafe Building Code of the city, or any work performed
by an owner on his or her own initiative, shall be required to be accomplished
pursuant to the following uniform standard: double headed nails shall be
utilized to fasten one-half inch exterior grade plywood to all exterior
openings of every floor. The plywood shall be cut and installed to precisely
fit each opening so as to present a neat, workmanlike appearance. Prior to the
sealing and securing of any vacant building or structure, the building or
structure shall be cleared of all human inhabitants. Any building or structure
that has been sealed and secured shall be repaired and rehabilitated as
required to bring said building or structure into compliance with this
subchapter prior to said building or structure being again occupied or used.
   (N)   Unsafe buildings and structures. The regulation and abatement of
unsafe buildings and structures shall be in accordance with Ch. 153 of this
code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 150.19)
§ 150.018 LIABILITY.
   The city, the Director of the city’s Enforcement Authority or his or her
duly authorized representatives charged with the enforcement of this
subchapter, acting in good faith and without malice in the discharge of their
duties, shall not thereby render themselves personally liable and they hereby
are relieved from all personal liability for any damage that may accrue to
person or property as a result of any act required or by reason of any act of
omission in the discharge of their duties. Any suit brought against the city or
the Director or his or her duly authorized representatives because of such act
of omission performed by them in the enforcement of any provisions of this
subchapter, shall be defended by the Legal Department of the city until final
termination of the proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 150.20)
§ 150.019 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, whether as owner,
lessee, sub-lessee or occupant to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair,
improve, remove, convert, demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building
or structure, other than fences, in the city or cause or permit the same to be
done, contrary to or in violation of the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 150.21) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.020 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   All persons shall have the right to appeal the decision(s) of the Director
of the city’s Enforcement Authority or his or her duly authorized
representatives first through the Board of Public Works and Safety of the city
and then to the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission, in accordance
with the provisions of I.C. 22-13-2-7 and I.C. 4-21.5-3-7.
(Prior Code, § 150.22)
§ 150.021 REMEDIES.
   The Director of the city’s Enforcement Authority shall request the City
Attorney to bring actions on behalf of the city in the circuit or superior
courts of the county for mandatory and injunctive relief in the enforcement of
and to secure compliance with any order or orders made by the Director or his
or her duly authorized representative, and any such action for mandatory or
injunctive relief may be joined with an action to recover the penalties
provided for in this subchapter. Any person adjudged guilty of a violation of
this subchapter may also be adjudged to pay the costs of prosecution.
(Prior Code, § 150.23)
CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS
§ 150.035 EMPLOYMENT OF LOCALS AND MINORITIES.
   On any construction project approved by the city’s Economic Development
Commission or the Community and Economic Development Loan Fund Board and
financed in whole or in part by proceeds from sale of economic development
bonds or approved by or financed through any city agency, board, committee or
commission, pursuant to an Investment Incentive Program, the Economic
Development Commission or the Community and Economic Development Loan Fund
Board shall recommend that the contractor set as a goal the employment of at
least 50% of the worker hours on a craft-by-craft basis, to be performed by
bona fide residents of the city or county, and the employment of at least 10%
minorities on a craft-by-craft basis.
(Prior Code, § 60.01) (Ord. 15-1985, passed - -1985)
§ 150.036 SIMILARITY OF WAGES.
   On any construction project approved by the city’s Economic Development
Commission or the Community and Economic Development Loan Fund Board, and
financed in whole or in part by proceeds from sale of economic development
bonds, or approved by or financed through any city agency, board, committee or
commission, pursuant to an Investment Incentive Program, contractors retained
to complete the project shall be required to pay the employed on the project
wages equal to the prevailing wage customarily paid to each class of workers
engaged in similar work in the city and the surrounding area.
(Prior Code, § 60.02) (Ord. 15-1985, passed - -1985)
§ 150.037 DETERMINATION OF PREVAILING WAGES.
   For purposes of determining the prevailing wages to be paid under this
subchapter, determination in accordance with I.C. 5-16-7.2 shall be
controlling.
(Prior Code, § 60.03) (Ord. 15-1985, passed - -1985)
§ 150.038 DEFINITION.
   For purposes of defining MINORITIES in §
150.035, those minorities shall consist of a pool of females, Hispanics,
Blacks, Asians and Native Americans.
(Prior Code, § 60.04) (Ord. 15-1985, passed - -1985)
§ 150.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   If any person, firm or corporation shall violate any of the provisions
of §§
150.001 through
150.021, or shall do any act prohibited herein, or shall fail to perform any
duty lawfully enjoined, within the time prescribed by the Director of the
city’s Enforcement Authority or his or her duly authorized representative, or
shall fail, neglect or refuse to obey any lawful order given by the Director or
his or her duly authorized representative, in connection with the provisions of
§§
150.001 through
150.021, for each such violation, failure or refusal, such person, firm or
corporation shall be fined in any sum not less than $100, nor more than $1,000.
Each act of violation and every day upon which a violation occurs constitutes a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 150.24)
CHAPTER 151: HOUSING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Applicability
   
151.002   Definitions
   
151.003   Conflicts with other ordinances
   
151.004   Shift of responsibility
Occupancy Requirements
   
151.015   Sanitary facilities
   
151.016   Heating facilities
   
151.017   Lighting, ventilation and electrical requirements
   
151.018   General requirements and maintenance
   
151.019   Minimum space, use and location requirements
Responsibilities of Persons
   
151.030   Responsibilities of owners, operators and occupants
   
151.031   Maintenance of neighborhood environment
Rooming Houses
   
151.045   Compliance
   
151.046   Facilities
Unfit Dwellings
   
151.060   Designation of unfit dwellings and rooming houses
   
151.061   Official power to condemn and remove unfit dwellings
   
151.062   Notice to vacate dwelling
   
151.063   Immediate evacuation when immediate danger to occupants
   
151.064   Placards
   
151.065   Securing unfit dwelling against entry
   
151.066   Removal by city
Administration and Enforcement
   
151.080   Inspection of dwellings, dwelling units, rooming units and
appurtenances
   
151.081   Issuance of permits
   
151.082   Prosecution of existing violation
   
151.083   Cooperation
   
151.084   Maintenance of records
 
   
151.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Every portion of a building or its premises used or intended to be
used for any dwelling purpose shall comply with the provisions of this chapter,
irrespective of when the building has been constructed, altered or repaired and
irrespective of any permits or licenses which have been issued for the use or
occupancy of the building and building premises, for the construction or repair
of the building, or for the installation or repair of building equipment prior
to the effective date of this chapter.
   (B)   This chapter establishes minimum standards for the initial and
continued occupancy of all dwellings and rooming houses, and does not replace
or modify standards otherwise established for the construction, repair or use
of buildings or the installation of building equipment, except as they may be
in conflict with the provisions of this chapter as provided in §
151.003.
   (C)   This chapter shall have no application to any structure designed
originally to be used and used as a bomb or fall out shelter and so approved by
the Commissioner of Buildings.
(Prior Code, § 151.01) (Ord. 2231-1966, passed - -1966)
§ 151.002 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (B)   Whenever the words “DWELLING”, “DWELLING UNIT”, “ROOMING HOUSE”,
“ROOMING UNIT” or “PREMISES” are used in this chapter, they shall be construed
as though they were followed by the words “or any part thereof”.
      ATTIC. The space between the ceiling beams of the top habitable story and
the roof rafters.
      BASEMENT. A portion of a building located partly underground but having
less than half of its clear floor-to-ceiling height below the average grade of
the adjoining ground.
      BUILDING. Includes all structures of every kind and description
including, but not limited to, dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house or
rooming unit.
      BUILDING COMMISSIONER. The Commissioner of Buildings of the city or his
or her authorized representative.
      BUILDING PERMIT. The permit or permits issued by the Building
Commissioner which shall include plumbing permit, electrical permit or sewer
permit.
      CELLAR. A portion of a building located partly or wholly underground and
having half or more than half of its clear floor-to-ceiling height below the
average grade of the adjoining ground.
      DWELLING. A building or structure or part thereof which is wholly or
partly used or intended to be used for living and sleeping by one or more human
occupants. A DWELLING may include one or more dwelling units.
      DWELLING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms within a dwelling and forming a
single and separate habitable unit with facilities which are used or intended
to be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating.
      EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rodents or other
pests by eliminating their harborage places through removing or making
inaccessible materials that may serve as their food by poisoning, spraying,
fumigating, trapping or any other recognized and lethal pest eliminating method
approved by the Health Officer.
      FIRE CHIEF. The Chief of the Fire Department or his or her authorized
representative.
      GARBAGE. Animal and vegetable waste or any other similar material,
resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking or consumption of food.
      HABITABLE ATTIC. An attic which has a stairway as a means of access and
egress and in which the ceiling area at a height of seven and one-third feet
above the attic floor is not less than one-third the area of the floor next
below.
      HABITABLE ROOM. A room or enclosed floor space used or intended to be
used for living, sleeping, cooking or eating purposes. Private laundries,
bathrooms, toilet rooms, pantries, store rooms, corridors, rooms for mechanical
equipment for services or spaces in attics other than habitable attics are not
HABITABLE.
      HEALTH OFFICER. The Health Officer of the city or his or her authorized
representative and any successor to the Health Officer and his or her
authorized representative.
      INFESTATION. The presence within or around a dwelling of insects, rodents
or other pests.
      INSPECTION. Inspection as authorized and provided by I.C. 18-5-5-1.
      MULTIPLE DWELLING. Any structure containing two or more dwelling units.
      OCCUPANT. Any person over one year of age living, sleeping, cooking or
renting in or having actual possession of a dwelling unit or rooming unit.
      OPERATOR. Any person who has charge or control of a building, or part
thereof, in which dwelling units or rooming units are let.
      OWNER. Any person who, alone, jointly or severally with others:
         (a)   Shall have legal title to any dwelling or dwelling unit, with or
without accompanying actual possession thereof; or
         (b)   Shall have charge, care or control of any dwelling or dwelling
unit, as owner or agent of the owner, or as executor, executrix, administrator,
administratrix, trustee or guardian of the estate of the owner. Any person thus
representing the actual OWNER shall be bound to comply with the provisions of
this chapter, and the rules and regulations adopted pursuant thereto, to the
same extent as if he or she were the OWNER.
      PLUMBING. Includes all of the following supplies, facilities, and
equipment: gas pipes; gas burning equipment; water pipes; garbage disposal
units; waste pipes; water closets; sinks; installed dishwashers; lavatories;
bathtubs; shower baths; installed clothes washing machines; catch basins,
drains, vents and any other similarly supplied fixtures, together with all
connections to water, sewer and gas lines.
      ROOMING HOUSE. Any dwelling or that part of any dwelling which contains
three or more rooming units in which space is occupied or intended to be
occupied by persons who are not husband, wife, son, daughter, mother, father,
sister or brother of the owner or operator.
      ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not for cooking and eating,
except any rooming unit licensed or regulated by the state including hotels and
motels.
      RUBBISH. Combustible or non-combustible waste materials, except garbage,
and shall include the residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke and other
combustible materials, paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood excelsior, rubber,
leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, leaves, tin cans, metal, mineral
matter, glass, crockery and dust, and other similar material.
      SUPPLIED. Paid for, furnished or provided by or under the control of the
owner or operator.
      USED FOR. Includes the phrases arranged for, designed for, intended for,
maintained for and occupied for.
(Prior Code, § 151.02) (Ord. 2231-1966, passed - -1966)
§ 151.003 CONFLICTS WITH OTHER ORDINANCES.
   This Housing Code shall apply to all buildings used for residential purposes
whether or not the buildings were erected, altered or converted in full or
substantial compliance with ordinances in force at the time of their erection,
alteration or conversion and whether or not the buildings were erected, altered
or converted prior to the effective date of this Housing Code. Whenever any
ordinance imposes higher standards of health and safety than the standards
imposed by this Housing Code, then the higher standards shall apply. In the
interpretation and application of this chapter, the provisions of this Housing
Code shall be held to the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public
health, safety and welfare. Where the conditions imposed by any provisions of
this Housing Code are either more restrictive or less restrictive than
comparable conditions imposed by any provisions of any other law, ordinance,
code, rule or regulation of any kind, the regulations which impose higher
standards or requirements shall govern. In any case where a provision of this
chapter is found to be in conflict with a provision of any zoning, building,
fire, safety or health ordinance or code of the city or any regulation adopted
pursuant thereto, the provision which establishes the higher standard for the
promotion and protection of public health and safety shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 151.03) (Ord. 2231-1966, passed - -1966)
§ 151.004 SHIFT OF RESPONSIBILITIES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent an owner, operator or occupant from
shifting the responsibility of the one to the other; provided that, the primary
and final responsibility in every case shall remain on the person herein
designated.
(Prior Code, § 151.04) (Ord. 2231-1966, passed - -1966)
OCCUPANCY REQUIREMENTS
§ 151.015 SANITARY FACILITIES.
   No person shall occupy, either as owner or as tenant, or permit another to
occupy, any dwelling or dwelling unit for the purpose of living, sleeping,
cooking or eating therein, which does not comply with the following provisions.
   (A)   Every dwelling unit shall be provided with a kitchen sink in good
working condition and properly connected to a water and sewer system approved
by the Health Officer or Plumbing Inspector. The kitchen sink shall be located
in the kitchen or kitchen pantry, and shall be other than a wash basin.
   (B)   Every dwelling unit shall have supplied within the dwelling unit a
room or compartment, which affords complete privacy to a person within it and
which shall be equipped with a flush water closet and a lavatory basin in good
working condition and properly connected to a water and sewer system approved
by the Health Officer or Plumbing Inspector.
   (C)   Every dwelling unit shall have supplied within the dwelling unit a
room or compartment, which affords complete privacy to a person within it and
which shall be equipped with a bath or shower in good working condition and
properly connected to a water and sewer system, approved by the Health Officer
or Plumbing Inspector.
   (D)   The floor surface of every bathroom and toilet room or compartment
shall be constructed of material impervious to water, or if constructed of
material not impervious to water, it shall be covered with fitted linoleum or
painted or varnished so as to make the floor surface reasonably impervious to
water. All floors shall be kept in a dry, clean and sanitary condition by the
occupant of the dwelling unit.
   (E)   Every kitchen sink, lavatory basin and bathtub or shower required
under the provisions of divisions (A), (B) and (C) above shall be properly
connected with both hot and cold water lines.
   (F)   Every dwelling unit shall have access provided from a bedroom to a
bathroom, toilet room or compartment without passing through another bedroom,
bathroom, toilet room or compartment or without going outside the dwelling.
   (G)   Every dwelling unit shall have a continuous supply of hot water
through water heating facilities which are properly installed and maintained in
a safe and good working condition. The hot water facilities shall be capable of
heating water of such a temperature as to permit an adequate amount of water to
be drawn at every required sink, lavatory basin, bathtub or shower at a
temperature of not less than 120°.
   (H)   All privies are a public nuisance and shall be eliminated not later
than one year from the effective date of this chapter. Such privies shall be
properly filled with earth so as to meet the requirements of the Health
Officer.
   (I)   Every dwelling unit shall be provided with adequate receptacles to
hold all garbage and rubbish and shall at all times be maintained in good order
and repair. Garbage and rubbish storage containers shall be of the type
required under the provisions of Chapter 52 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 151.10) (Ord. 2231-1966, passed - -1966; Ord. 2425-1969, passed
- -1969) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.016 HEATING FACILITIES.
   No person shall occupy, either as owner or as tenant, or permit another to
occupy, any dwelling or dwelling unit for the purpose of living, sleeping,
cooking or eating therein, which does not comply with the following provisions.
   (A)   Every dwelling and dwelling unit shall be supplied heating facilities
which bear the seal of approval of an approved, nationally recognized testing
agency and which heating facilities are used in the manner for which they are
designed and approved. The heating facilities shall be installed in compliance
with the ordinances of the city pertaining thereto and the provisions of this
chapter and shall be capable of safely and adequately heating all habitable
rooms, bathrooms and toilet rooms or compartments contained therein to a
temperature of at least 70°F when the outside temperature is -10°F. Doors,
windows and other parts of the dwelling or dwelling unit shall be constructed
and maintained so as to prevent abnormal heat losses.
   (B)   In every dwelling or dwelling unit where room heaters utilizing gas or
a fuel are used and operated, the room heaters shall be connected to the gas
supply with either rigid pipe, approved flexible metal tubing and fittings or
approved semi-rigid tubing and fittings. No room heater shall be placed so as
to cause a fire hazard to walls, curtains, furniture, open doors or to the free
movement of persons within the room where the room heater is located. A room
heater of the freestanding type shall be placed so as to provide at least six
inches clearance between the heater and any combustible material.
   (C)   All gas burning room heaters and water heaters shall be connected
properly and vented to the outside air by a vitrified flue lined chimney or a
flue lined chimney approved in accordance with the regulations established by
the American Insurance Association.
   (D)   Gas appliances designed primarily for cooking or water heating
purposes shall not be considered as heating facilities within the meaning of
this section.
   (E)   Portable heating equipment employing flame is prohibited.
   (F)   Rubber tube or armored rubber tube connections on gas heating
facilities are prohibited.
   (G)   Where heat is not furnished from a central heating plant, each
dwelling unit in such a dwelling or building shall have at least half of the
habitable rooms provided with fire-proof chimney flues to permit the operation
of sufficient heating facilities to meet the standards for heating as herein
set forth.
(Prior Code, § 151.11) (Ord. 2231-1966, passed - -1966; Ord. 2425-1969, passed
- -1969) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.017 LIGHTING, VENTILATION AND ELECTRICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   No person shall occupy, either as owner or as tenant, or permit another to
occupy, any dwelling or dwelling unit, for the purposes of living, sleeping,
cooking or eating therein, which does not comply with the following provisions.
   (A)   Every habitable room shall have at least one window which faces
directly to the outdoors. The minimum aggregate glass area available for light
for every habitable room shall be not less than 10% of the floor area; provided
that, if the windows open on covered porches and terraces or are in rooms any
portion of which are more than 18 feet from a window, then the glass area shall
be not less than 15% of the floor area of the room.
   (B)   Whenever walls or other portions of structures face a window of a
habitable room in any dwelling or dwelling unit and the light obstructing
structures are located less than five feet from the window and extend to a
level above that of the ceiling of the room, the window shall not be included
as contributing to the minimum total window area as required in division (A)
above.
   (C)   Every habitable room shall have at least one window which can be
easily opened, or shall have an approved ventilation system which is capable of
changing the air within the room at least four times per hour and which is kept
in good working order at all times. The total openable window area shall be
equal to at least 5% of the floor area of the room provided the room has no
exterior door or shall be equal to at least 2% of the floor area where the room
has an exterior door. The foregoing ventilation requirement shall not apply
where the room is supplied with some other approved ventilation system.
   (D)   Every bathroom, toilet room or compartment shall comply with the light
and ventilation requirements for habitable rooms contained in this section,
except in no case shall the minimum glass area of the window be less than 10%
of the floor space of the room; provided that, no window shall be required in
any bathroom, toilet room or compartment equipped with an approved ventilation
system which is capable of changing the air within the room at least four times
per hour and which is kept in good working order at all times.
   (E)   Every opening which is used for ventilation purposes from a dwelling
or dwelling unit directly to or from outdoor space shall be equipped with
screening which shall be provided by the owner. All screening required under
this section shall not be less than 16 meshes to the square inch and shall be
installed and maintained in a manner affording complete protection against
entry in the dwelling or dwelling unit of flies, mosquitoes and insects.
   (F)   Every cellar and basement shall have at least two vents or windows
opening directly to the outside air sufficient to prevent mildew or structural
deterioration, and properly equipped with screening of not less than 16 meshes
to the square inch which shall be installed and maintained in a manner
affording complete protection against entry into the cellar or basement of
flies, mosquitoes or insects.
   (G)   A window may not be required in the kitchen or kitchen pantry of an
efficiency apartment where the kitchen or kitchen pantry is used only for the
preparation of foods and is adjacent to a dinette or alcove off the living
room.
   (H)   Every habitable room shall contain at least two outlets capable of
providing electric current. Every toilet room, compartment, bathroom, laundry
room, furnace room and public hallway shall contain at least one ceiling or
wall type electric light fixture. Every outlet and fixture shall be properly
installed, shall be maintained in good and safe working condition, and shall be
connected to the source of electric power in a safe manner and meet the
requirements of the electrical regulations of the city.
   (I)   Every stairway or other means of exit, and corridors and passageways
appurtenant thereto, shall be provided with an adequate system of lighting,
either natural or artificial. Artificial lights for stairways, corridors and
passageways shall have an intensity of not less than ten footcandles. In the
absence of natural light, artificial light shall be kept burning at all times
when the building served by the stairways or exits are being used or occupied.
(Prior Code, § 151.12) (Ord. 2231-1966, passed - -1966; Ord. 2425-1969, passed
- -1969) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.018 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS AND MAINTENANCE.
   No person shall occupy, either as owner or as tenant, or permit another to
occupy, any dwelling or dwelling unit, for the purpose of living, sleeping,
cooking or eating therein, which does not comply with the following provisions.
   (A)   Every foundation, floor, wall, ceiling and roof shall be reasonably
weather-tight and rodent- proof and shall be kept in good, safe, sound
condition and repair.
   (B)   Every window, exterior door and basement hatchway shall be reasonably
weather-tight and rodent-proof and shall be kept in good, safe, sound and
workable condition and repair.
   (C)   Every inside and outside stair, every porch and every appurtenance
thereto shall be constructed as to be safe to use, and capable of supporting
the load that normal use may place thereon, and shall be kept in sound
condition and in good repair at all times.
   (D)   Every basement and every cellar shall be maintained in a safe and
sanitary condition.
      (1)   Water shall not be permitted to accumulate or stand on the floor.
      (2)   All sewer connections shall be properly trapped.
      (3)   All cellar and slab drains shall be covered with gratings.
      (4)   Junk, rubbish and waste shall not be permitted to accumulate to
such an extent as to create a fire hazard or to endanger health or safety.
   (E)   Every plumbing fixture, water and waste pipe shall be properly
installed and maintained in good sanitary, working condition free from defects,
leaks and obstructions and in accordance with existing ordinances in respect
thereto.
   (F)   Every supplied facility, piece of equipment or utility which is
required under this chapter shall be so constructed or installed that it will
function safely and effectively, and shall be maintained in good working
condition.
   (G)   Every roof shall be maintained so as not to leak, and all rain water
shall be drained and conveyed therefrom so as not to cause dampness in the
walls and ceiling.
   (H)   All structures used as dwellings shall be maintained in proper repair
so as to give adequate protection from the elements.
   (I)   There shall be no storage of combustible materials beneath stairways
in any dwelling or in any rooming house. No combustible or flammable materials,
fluids or compounds shall be placed, stored or kept in any place inside or
outside of any building where the ignition or burning of the materials, fluids
or compounds would obstruct or render hazardous the egress from any dwelling
unit or rooming house unit.
(Prior Code, § 151.13) (Ord. 2231-1966, passed - -1966) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.019 MINIMUM SPACE, USE AND LOCATION REQUIREMENTS.
   No person shall occupy, either as owner or as tenant, or permit another to
occupy, any dwelling or dwelling unit for the purpose of living, sleeping,
cooking or eating therein, which does not comply with the following provisions.
   (A)   Every room used for sleeping purposes by one occupant shall have a
minimum gross floor area of at least 70 square feet. Every room used for
sleeping purposes by more than one person shall have a minimum gross floor area
of 50 square feet per occupant thereof.
   (B)   Every dwelling unit shall contain a minimum gross floor area, in
addition to the requirements set forth in division (A) above, of at least 150
square feet for the first occupant and at least 100 additional square feet of
floor space for every additional occupant. The floor space is to be calculated
on the basis of total habitable room area.
   (C)   “Occupant”, as used in divisions (A) and (B) above, shall not apply to
or include children under ten years of age.
   (D)   The minimum clear floor-to-ceiling heights in all habitable rooms
shall be as follows:
      (1)   Basements: seven feet clear under joists;
      (2)   Main floor of living units: seven feet; and
      (3)   Above main floor of living units: seven feet clear; under sloping
roofs, seven feet for not less than 50% of the floor having five feet or more
headroom.
   (E)   No cellar space shall be used as a habitable dwelling room or unit.
   (F)   No basement space shall be used as a habitable room or dwelling unit
unless:
      (1)   The clear floor-to-ceiling height is at least seven feet;
      (2)   The floors and walls are damp-proof in accordance with accepted and
approved methods; and
      (3)   The total window area in each room is equal to at least the minimum
window area requirements of §
151.017(A), (B) and (C).
   (G)   Every dwelling unit shall have a safe and unobstructed means of egress
leading to a safe and open space at ground level, without passing through any
other dwelling unit; except that, when two or more dwelling units are above
ground floor level, there shall be two such means of egress required when the
dwelling is not fire-proof or fire-resistant, as defined by the state’s
Administrative Building Council.
(Prior Code, § 151.14) (Ord. 2231-1966, passed - -1966; Ord. 2425-1969, passed
- -1969) Penalty, see §
151.999
RESPONSIBILITIES OF PERSONS
§ 151.030 RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNERS, OPERATORS AND OCCUPANTS.
   The following provisions shall pertain to the responsibilities of owners,
operators and occupants of dwellings and dwelling units and their premises.
   (A)   In the absence of a written agreement between the occupant and the
owner or operator to the contrary, every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling
unit shall keep in a clean and sanitary condition that portion of the dwelling,
dwelling unit and premises thereof which he or she occupies and controls.
   (B)   Every owner or operator of a dwelling containing two or more dwelling
units shall be responsible for maintaining in a clean and sanitary condition
the common areas of the dwelling and premises.
   (C)   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall dispose of all his
or her rubbish in a sanitary manner by placing it in the rubbish containers
required by Chapter 52 of this code of ordinances.
   (D)   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall dispose of all his
or her garbage and other organic waste which may provide food for rodents in a
clean, safe and sanitary manner by placing it in the garbage disposal
facilities or garbage storage containers required by Chapter 52 of this code of
ordinances. The containers shall be kept tightly closed.
   (E)   Every occupant of a dwelling unit shall be responsible for hanging all
screens and double or storm doors and windows whenever they are required under
the provisions of this chapter or of any regulation adopted pursuant thereto,
except where the owner has agreed to supply the service.
   (F)   Every occupant of a dwelling containing a single dwelling unit shall
be responsible for the extermination of any insects, rodents or other pests in
or on the premises, and every occupant of a dwelling unit in a dwelling
containing more than one dwelling unit shall be responsible for the
extermination whenever his or her dwelling unit is the only one infested.
   (G)   (1)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section,
whenever infestation is caused by failure of the owner to maintain a dwelling
in a rat-proof or reasonable insect-proof condition, extermination shall be the
responsibility of the owner.
      (2)   Whenever infestation exists in two or more dwelling units in any
dwelling, or in the shared or public parts of any dwelling containing two or
more dwelling units, extermination shall be the responsibility of the owner.
   (H)   Every occupant of a dwelling unit shall keep all plumbing fixtures in
a sanitary condition and shall be responsible for the exercise of reasonable
care in his or her proper use and operation.
   (I)   Whenever a dwelling unit is vacated, it shall be the duty of the owner
to place it in a sanitary, habitable condition and free from infestation before
renting the dwelling unit to another occupant.
   (J)   No owner shall occupy or let to any other person any dwelling unit
unless it is sanitary and fit for human habitation.
   (K)   No owner, operator or occupant shall cause any service facility,
equipment or utility which is required under this chapter to be removed or shut
off from, or discontinued for any occupied dwelling, except for such temporary
interruptions as may be necessary while actual repairs or alterations are in
process.
   (L)   Every occupant of a dwelling unit shall be responsible for the
exercise of proper care and cleanliness in the use and operation of all
plumbing fixtures, sanitary facilities, appliances and equipment.
   (M)   (1)   Every owner or operator of a dwelling who permits to be occupied
any dwelling unit therein under an agreement, express or implied, to supply or
furnish heat to the occupants shall maintain the heat at the temperature
specified in §
151.016(A).
      (2)   The provisions of this section shall not apply when the failure to
maintain the required air temperature level is because of a shortage of fuel, a
negligent or malicious act of the occupant, repairs being expeditiously made to
the heating equipment or any cause beyond the control of the owner or operator.
   (N)   An owner shall be responsible for violation of duties imposed on him
or her by this chapter even though:
      (1)   An obligation is also imposed on the occupants by this chapter; or
      (2)   The owner has by agreement imposed on the occupant the duty of
complying with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 151.20) (Ord. 2231-1966, passed - -1966) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.031 MAINTENANCE OF NEIGHBORHOOD ENVIRONMENT.
   (A)   Every owner of residential properties shall be responsible for the
general maintenance and repair of his or her entire premises.
   (B)   All yards shall be kept free of unnecessary storage and debris.
   (C)   All accessory buildings shall be maintained in proper repair and all
exterior surfaces shall be maintained so as not to contribute to neighborhood
blight.
   (D)   In the event the Building Commissioner shall determine that any shed
or accessory building is in a dilapidated condition which contributes to
neighborhood blight and which should be repaired or removed, he or she shall
proceed to order the repair or removal in accordance with the provisions of §§
151.060 through
151.066.
   (E)   All fences shall be maintained in good repair.
(Prior Code, § 151.21) (Ord. 2231-1966, passed - -1966) Penalty, see §
151.999
ROOMING HOUSES
§ 151.045 COMPLIANCE.
   No person shall occupy, either as owner or as tenant, or permit another to
occupy any rooming house or rooming unit for the purpose of living or sleeping
purposes therein, which does not comply with the following provisions and the
remainder of this subchapter:
   (A)   The provisions of §§
151.016(A), (B) and (G),
151.017(A), (B), (C), (D), (E), (G), (H) and (I) and
151.018(A) through (I). The foregoing provisions shall be applicable to every
rooming house and rooming unit. For the purposes of this section, wherever, in
the above enumerated divisions, the term “dwelling” is used, it shall be
construed to mean “rooming house” and, wherever the term “dwelling unit” is
used, it shall be construed to mean “rooming unit”; and
   (B)   The provisions of §§
151.019(C), (D), (E) and (F) and
151.030(I), (J), (K) and (M) shall be applicable to every rooming house. For
the purposes of this section, wherever in the above enumerated sections, the
term “dwelling” is used, it shall be construed to mean “rooming house”, and,
wherever the term “dwelling unit” is used, it shall be construed to mean
“rooming unit”.
(Prior Code, § 151.25) (Ord. 2231-1966, passed - -1966)
§ 151.046 FACILITIES.
   (A)   Every rooming house shall be supplied with at least one approved flush
toilet and lavatory basin in good working condition for each six persons or
fewer, residing within the rooming house. In counting the persons, members of
the operator’s family who share the use of the sanitary facilities shall be
included but the occupants of any rooming units that are otherwise provided
with an approved flush toilet and lavatory basin shall be excluded. All
sanitary facilities shall be so located within the rooming house as to be
directly accessible to all persons sharing the facilities without entering
another rooming unit.
   (B)   Every rooming house shall be supplied with at least one bathtub or
showerbath in good working condition for each six persons or fewer residing
within the rooming house. In counting the persons, members of the operator’s
family who share the use of the sanitary facilities shall be included but the
occupants of any rooming units who are otherwise provided with an approved
bathtub or shower bath shall be excluded. All sanitary facilities shall be so
located within the rooming house so as to be directly accessible to all persons
sharing the facilities without entering another rooming unit.
   (C)   In addition to the requirements contained in §
151.015(B) and (C), each compartment containing a flush water closet and
lavatory basin and each compartment containing a bath or shower shall be
capable of being locked from the inside.
   (D)   Every lavatory basin, flush toilet, flush urinal, bathtub or shower
bath required under the provisions of this section shall be properly connected
to a sanitary sewer line of the city if the sewer lines lie within 100 feet of
the rooming house premises, and to a water line of the city if the water line
lies within 100 feet of the rooming house premises. If a sewer line does not
lie within 100 feet of the rooming house premises, the lavatory basin, flush
toilet, flush urinal, bathtub or shower bath shall be connected through an
approved sewer connection to an adequate septic tank or other waste disposal
system approved by the Health Department or its successor. If a water line does
not lie within 100 feet of the rooming house premises, the lavatory basin,
flush toilet, flush urinal, bathtub or shower bath shall be properly connected
to an adequate supply of safe, potable water approved by the Health Department
or its successor.
   (E)   Every lavatory basin and bathtub or shower bath required under this
section shall be supplied with hot and cold water properly connected as
required in divisions (A) through (D) above.
   (F)   The floor surface of every bathroom, toilet room or compartment shall
be constructed of material impervious to water or, if constructed of material
not impervious to water, it shall be covered with fitted linoleum or painted or
varnished so as to make the floor surface reasonably impervious to water. All
floors shall be kept in a dry, clean and sanitary condition by the owner or
operator.
   (G)   The operator shall be responsible for the supply, maintenance and
cleanliness of storage containers as required by
Chapter 52 of this code of ordinances. The occupant shall be responsible for
the removal of all rubbish and garbage from the rooming unit and the storage of
the waste in a clean, safe and sanitary manner by placing it in the required
containers.
   (H)   The operator shall be responsible for the clean, safe and sanitary
maintenance of all walls, floors and ceilings in every rooming unit and every
common area of the rooming house.
   (I)   The operator shall be responsible for the extermination of rodents,
vermin or other pests within every portion of the rooming house and in every
portion of the structure that is leased or occupied by him or her. However,
whenever infestation is caused by failure of the owner to carry out the
provisions of this chapter, extermination shall be the responsibility of the
owner.
   (J)   The operator shall be responsible for the exercise of proper care and
cleanliness in the use and operation of all plumbing fixtures, sanitary
facilities, appliances and equipment. The owner of the above plumbing fixtures,
sanitary facilities, appliances and equipment shall be responsible for the
maintenance thereof in absence of a written agreement to the contrary.
   (K)   Every room in any rooming house rented for sleeping purposes for one
person shall contain at least 70 square feet of floor space, exclusive of hall
and closet space; for two persons shall contain at least 100 square feet of
floor space exclusive of hall and closet space; and for each additional person
at least 50 additional square feet of floor space, exclusive of hall and closet
space.
   (L)   No cooking shall be permitted in any rooming unit.
   (M)   (1)   The operator of every rooming house shall provide clean bed
linen and towels at least once each week.
      (2)   Bed linen and towels shall be newly laundered before the letting of
any rooming unit.
   (N)   Each story of a rooming house shall have two approved and unobstructed
means of egress leading to a safe and open space at ground level. Each rooming
unit shall have unobstructed access to the means of egress.
(Prior Code, § 151.27) (Ord. 2231-1966, passed - -1966; Ord. 2425-1969, passed
- -1969) Penalty, see §
151.999
UNFIT DWELLINGS
§ 151.060 DESIGNATION OF UNFIT DWELLINGS AND ROOMING HOUSES.
   The designations of dwelling and dwelling units or rooming houses or rooming
units as unfit for human habitation, and the procedure for the condemnation and
placarding of the unfit dwelling, dwelling units, rooming houses or rooming
units shall be carried out in the following manner.
   (A)   Any dwelling or dwelling unit, which is found by an inspector
conducting an inspection under §
151.080, to violate §§
151.015(A), (B), (C), (E) or (G),
151.016(A),
151.017(A), (B), (C), (F), (G) or (H) or
151.019, shall be designated as unfit for human habitation.
   (B)   Any rooming house or rooming house unit which shall be found by an
inspector conducting an inspection under §
151.080 to violate any provisions of §§
151.045 through
151.046 shall be designated as unfit for human habitation.
   (C)   Any dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house or rooming house unit
designated as unfit for human habitation by this section shall be so indicated
by a placard posted by the Building Commissioner, Health Officer or Fire Chief.
(Prior Code, § 151.35) (Ord. 2231-1966, passed - -1966)
§ 151.061 OFFICIAL POWER TO CONDEMN AND REMOVE UNFIT DWELLINGS.
   If the condition of any dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house or rooming
house unit and appurtenance thereto requires repair in order to promote the
public welfare, but the repair to the dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house or
rooming house unit and appurtenance thereto is not feasible in the opinion of
the Building Commissioner, then the dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house or
rooming house unit and the appurtenance thereto shall be forthwith condemned
and removed pursuant to I.C. 36-7-9 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 151.36) (Ord. 2231-1966, passed - -1966)
§ 151.062 NOTICE TO VACATE DWELLING.
   Whenever any dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house or rooming house unit is
found unfit for human habitation under this section, and the necessary action
to effect compliance with this chapter is not accomplished prior to re-
inspection, the owner, occupants and operator, if any, shall be notified by
registered mail to vacate the dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house or rooming
house unit within 60 days of the date of the mailing of the notice to vacate,
unless compliance with the provisions of this chapter is accomplished within
the 60-day period.
(Prior Code, § 151.37) (Ord. 2231-1966, passed - -1966)
§ 151.063 IMMEDIATE EVACUATION WHEN IMMEDIATE DANGER TO OCCUPANTS.
   Whenever a dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house or rooming house unit is
found by an inspector to violate this chapter and to present an immediate
danger of injury to the occupants, the Building Commissioner, Health Officer or
Fire Chief shall order the immediate evacuation of the structure and the
structure shall remain vacated until the danger is eliminated.
(Prior Code, § 151.38) (Ord. 2231-1966, passed - -1966)
§ 151.064 PLACARDS.
   (A)   No dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house or rooming house unit which
has been placarded as unfit for human habitation shall again be used for human
habitation until written approval is secured from and the placard is removed
by, the Building Commissioner, Health Officer or Fire Chief. The Building
Commissioner, Health Officer or Fire Chief shall remove the placard whenever
the defect or defects on which the placarding action was based have been
eliminated.
   (B)   No person shall deface or remove the placard from any unfit dwelling,
dwelling unit, rooming house or rooming house unit except as provided in
division (A) above.
(Prior Code, § 151.39) (Ord. 2231-1966, passed - -1966) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.065 SECURING UNFIT DWELLING AGAINST ENTRY.
   The owner or operator of any dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house or
rooming house unit vacated under the provisions of this chapter shall make the
structure safe and secure from entry by unauthorized persons.
(Prior Code, § 151.40) (Ord. 2231-1966, passed - -1966) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.066 REMOVAL BY CITY.
   (A)   If any person shall fail to comply with any order or orders directing
compliance with this chapter the Building Commissioner, Health Officer or Fire
Chief shall send notice pursuant to I.C. 36-7-9.
   (B)   The procedure specified by I.C. 36-7-9 et seq., commonly referred to
as the “Unsafe Building Statute”, shall be followed regarding hearings,
enforcement, orders, demolition, recovery of costs and appeals.
(Prior Code, § 151.41) (Ord. 2231-1966, passed - -1966)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 151.080 INSPECTION OF DWELLINGS, DWELLING UNITS, ROOMING UNITS AND
APPURTENANCES.
   (A)   The Building Commissioner, Health Officer and Fire Chief are jointly
and severally authorized to make inspections to determine the condition of
dwellings, dwelling units and premises located within the city in order that
they may perform their duty of safeguarding the health and safety of the
occupants of dwellings and of the general public.
   (B)   For the purpose of making these inspections, the Building
Commissioner, Health Officer and Fire Chief are authorized to enter, examine
and survey, at all reasonable times, any dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming unit
and the appurtenances thereto. The owner or occupant of every dwelling unit and
rooming unit, or the person in charge thereof, shall allow the officials access
to each dwelling.
   (C)   Every occupant of a dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming unit shall
allow the owner thereof, his or her agents or employees, access to any part of
the premises at all reasonable times for the purpose of making repairs,
installations or alterations as may be necessary to effect compliance with the
provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 151.45) (Ord. 2231-1966, passed - -1966)
§ 151.081 ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   All departments, officials and employees of the city which have the duty or
authority to issue permits or licenses in regard to the construction,
installation, repair, use or occupancy of dwellings, dwelling units, rooming
houses, rooming house units or the premises of any dwelling or rooming house,
or dwelling equipment or facilities, shall conform to the provisions of this
chapter except as provided in §
151.003. Any permit or license issued in conflict with the provisions of this
chapter, except as provided in §
151.003 shall be null and void.
(Prior Code, § 151.46) (Ord. 2231-1966, passed - -1966)
§ 151.082 PROSECUTION OF EXISTING VIOLATION.
   This chapter shall not affect violations of any other ordinance, code or
regulation of the city existing prior to the effective date of this chapter.
Such violations shall be governed and shall continue to be punishable to the
full extent of the law under the provisions of these ordinances, codes or
regulations in effect at the time the violation was committed.
(Prior Code, § 151.47) (Ord. 2231-1966, passed - -1966)
§ 151.083 COOPERATION.
   Cooperation shall be established between the Building Commissioner, Health
Officer and the Fire Chief, and the Director of Planning and Redevelopment for
the purpose of effecting a program of slum elimination, rehabilitation,
neighborhood conservation and slum prevention. It shall be the duty of these
persons to place into effect the purpose and spirit of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 151.48) (Ord. 2231-1966, passed - -1966)
§ 151.084 MAINTENANCE OF RECORDS.
   The Building Commissioner shall maintain accurate and up-to-date records in
respect to the conditions of buildings as reported to him or her by Building
Inspectors, Plumbing Inspectors, Electrical Inspectors, Health Inspectors,
Sanitary Inspectors, Zoning Inspectors, Fire Inspectors, Police Department
members or any other governmental agency. The records shall be available for
immediate referral to the Board of Public Works and Safety, the City Attorney
and the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 151.49) (Ord. 2231-1966, passed - -1966)
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined in any amount not exceeding $300 and
each day that said violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 151.50) (Ord. 2231-1966, passed - -1966)
CHAPTER 152: POST-CONSTRUCTION RUNOFF
Section
   
152.001   Purpose
   
152.002   Authority
   
152.003   Applicability
   
152.004   Responsibility for administration
   
152.005   Compatibility with other permit and chapter requirements
   
152.006   Severability
   
152.007   Definitions
   
152.008   Design criteria, standards and specifications for control of post-
construction storm water runoff
   
152.009   General requirements for post- construction storm water management
   
152.010   Maintenance of storm water runoff control measures
   
152.011   Permit application, storm water pollution prevention plan and permit
issuance
   
152.012   Inspections
   
152.013   Proper credential or identification required
   
152.014   Enforcement
   
152.015   Project termination
   
152.016   Violations deemed a public nuisance
 
   
152.999   Penalty
§ 152.001 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish minimum storm water management
requirements and controls to protect and safeguard the general health, safety
and welfare of the public residing in watersheds within this jurisdiction by:
minimizing increases in storm water runoff from any development in order to
reduce flooding, siltation, increases in stream temperature and streambank
erosion; minimizing increases in non-point source pollution caused by storm
water runoff from development which would otherwise degrade local water
quality; minimizing the total annual volume of surface water runoff which flows
from any specific site during and following development to not exceed the pre-
development hydrologic regime to the maximum extent practicable; and reducing
storm water runoff rates and volumes, soil erosion and non-point source
pollution, wherever possible, through storm water management controls and to
ensure that these management controls are properly maintained and pose no
threat to public safety. The city has produced a Storm Water Development Manual
as a guide to meet the purpose stated above.
(Prior Code, § 59.1.01) (Ord. 68-2005, passed - -2005)
§ 152.002 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is adopted under the authority granted by I.C. 36-1-4-11 and
36-7-4, and all acts supplemental and amendatory thereto. This authority
provides for the administration, enforcement and amendment of this chapter for
control of post- construction storm water runoff in the city.
(Prior Code, § 59.1.02) (Ord. 68-2005, passed - -2005)
§ 152.003 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter applies to all land-disturbing activities over one acre on land
within the corporate boundaries and jurisdiction of the city, including
commercial, industrial, residential and highway development, except for:
   (A)   Cultivating activities;
   (B)   Conservation practices on agricultural land;
   (C)   Single-family residential developments consisting of four or fewer
lots;
   (D)   A single-family residential strip development where the developer
offers for sale or lease without land improvements and the project is not part
of a larger common plan of development or sale; and
   (E)   Individual lots within a permitted project.
(Prior Code, § 59.1.03) (Ord. 68-2005, passed - -2005)
§ 152.004 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION.
   The city shall administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this
chapter by and through the City Engineer’s office. Any powers granted or duties
imposed upon the city may be delegated in writing by the city to persons or
entities acting in the beneficial interest of or in the employ of the city.
(Prior Code, § 59.1.04) (Ord. 68-2005, passed - -2005)
§ 152.005 COMPATIBILITY WITH OTHER PERMIT AND CHAPTER REQUIREMENTS.
   This chapter is not intended to interfere with, abrogate or annul any other
chapter, rule or regulation, statute or other provision of law. The
requirements of this chapter should be considered minimum requirements, and
where any provision of this chapter imposes restrictions different from those
imposed by any other chapter, rule or regulation, or other provision of law,
whichever provisions are more restrictive or impose higher protective standards
for human health or the environment shall be considered to take precedence.
(Prior Code, § 59.1.05) (Ord. 68-2005, passed - -2005)
§ 152.006 SEVERABILITY.
   The invalidity of any section, clause, sentence or provision of this chapter
shall not affect the validity of any other part of this chapter which can be
given effect without the invalid part or parts.
(Prior Code, § 59.1.06) (Ord. 68-2005, passed - -2005)
§ 152.007 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. A property owner or agent of a property owner who has filed an
application for a storm water management permit.
   BUILDING. Any structure, either temporary or permanent, having walls and a
roof, designed for the shelter of any person, animal or property, and occupying
more than 100 square feet of area.
   BUFFER STRIP. Areas of open vegetated land adjacent to drainage ways, storm
water facilities, lakes, ponds, streams, wetlands or other surface waters.
   CHANNEL. A natural or artificial watercourse with a definite bed and banks
that conducts continuously or periodically flowing water.
   CITY. The City of Richmond, or designated party.
   HOTSPOT. An area where land use or activities generate highly contaminated
runoff, with concentrations of pollutants in excess of those typically found in
storm water.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. Those surfaces that cannot effectively infiltrate
rainfall (e.g., building rooftops, pavement, sidewalks, driveways and the
like).
   INFILTRATION. The process of percolating storm water into the subsoil.
   JURISDICTIONAL WETLAND. An area that is inundated or saturated by surface
water or groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support a
prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil
conditions, commonly known as “hydrophytic vegetation”.
   LAND-DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Any human- made change of the land surface
including removing vegetative cover, excavating, filling, transporting and
grading. In the context of this chapter, it includes only non-agricultural
land-disturbing activities.
   LANDOWNER. The legal or beneficial owner of land, including those holding
the right to purchase or lease the land, or any other person holding
proprietary rights in the land.
   MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT. A legally recorded document that acts as a property
deed restriction, and which provides for long-term maintenance of storm water
management practices.
   NON-POINT SOURCE POLLUTION. Pollution from any source other than from any
discernible, confined and discrete conveyances, and shall include, but not be
limited to, pollutants from agricultural, silvicultural, mining, construction,
subsurface disposal and urban runoff sources.
   NPDES PERMIT. National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit. A
permit issued by EPA (or by a state under authority delegated pursuant to 33
U.S.C. § 1342(b)) that authorizes the discharge of pollutants to waters of the
United States, whether the permit is applicable on an individual, group or
general area-wide basis.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, trust, estate, political subdivision, state agency or
any other legal entity or their legal representative, agent or assigns legally
capable of owning property in the state.
   POLLUTANT. A pollutant is something that causes or contributes to pollution.
POLLUTANTS may include, but are not limited to: paints, varnishes and solvents;
oil and other automotive fluids; non-hazardous liquid and solid wastes and yard
wastes; refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter or other discarded or abandoned
objects, ordnances and accumulations so that some may cause or contribute to
pollution; floatables; pesticides, herbicides and fertilizers; hazardous
substances and wastes; sewage, fecal coliform and pathogens; dissolved and
particulate metals; animal wastes; wastes and residues that result from
constructing or building a structure; sediments and noxious or offensive matter
of any kind.
   RECHARGE. The replenishment of underground water reserves.
   REDEVELOPMENT. Any construction, alteration or improvement exceeding 5,000
square feet in areas where existing land use is high density commercial,
industrial, institutional or multi-family residential.
   RIPARIAN ZONE. The area along water bodies that serve as interfaces between
terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems.
   RUNOFF. The portion of the precipitation from such sources as rainfall,
snowmelt or irrigation water that flows over the ground surface.
   SITE. The entire area included in the legal description of the land on which
land-disturbing activity has been proposed in the permit application.
   STOP WORK ORDER. An order issued which requires that all construction
activity on a site be stopped.
   STORM WATER MANAGEMENT. The use of structural or non-structural practices
that are designed to reduce storm water runoff pollutant loads, discharge
volumes, peak flow discharge rates and detrimental changes in stream
temperature that affect water quality and habitat.
   STORM WATER MANAGEMENT FACILITY. A storm water management structure or non-
structural practice.
   STORM WATER RUNOFF. Flow on the surface of the ground, resulting from
precipitation.
   STORM WATER TREATMENT PRACTICES (STPS). Measures, either structural or non-
structural, that are determined to be the most effective, practical means of
preventing or reducing point source or non- point source pollution inputs to
storm water runoff and water bodies.
   STORM WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN. A plan developed to minimize the
impact of storm water pollutants.
   SWALE. A grassy depression in the ground designed to collect storm water
runoff from streets, driveways, rooftops and parking lots.
(Prior Code, § 59.1.07) (Ord. 68-2005, passed - -2005)
§ 152.008 DESIGN CRITERIA, STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS FOR CONTROL OF POST-
CONSTRUCTION STORM WATER RUNOFF.
   All post-construction storm water runoff control measures including, but not
limited to, those required to comply with this chapter shall meet the design
criteria, standards and specifications for post- construction storm water
runoff control measures similar to or the same as those outlined in the City of
Richmond Storm Water Development Manual, Field Office Technical Guide of the
USDA Natural Resources Conservation Services and the Indiana Storm Water
Quality Manual, published by IDNR, upon availability.
(Prior Code, § 59.1.08) (Ord. 68-2005, passed - -2005)
§ 152.009 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR CONTROL OF POST-CONSTRUCTION STORM WATER
RUNOFF.
   (A)   All sites shall develop a storm water pollution prevention plan. The
plan must include: a description of potential pollutant sources from the
proposed land use, that may reasonably be expected to add a significant amount
of pollutants to storm water discharge; location, dimensions, detailed
specifications and construction details of all post- construction storm water
quality measures; a description of measures that will be installed to control
pollutants in storm water discharges that will occur after construction
activities have been completed; a sequence describing when each post-
construction storm water quality measure will be installed; and a narrative
description of the maintenance guidelines for all post-construction storm water
quality measures to facilitate their proper long-term function.
   (B)   All site designs shall establish storm water management practices to
control the peak flow rates of storm water discharge associated with specified
design storms and reduce the generation of storm water. These practices should
seek to utilize swales and natural depressions as site conditions allow,
utilize pervious areas for storm water treatment and to infiltrate storm water
runoff generated from driveways, sidewalks, rooftops, parking lots and
landscaped areas to the maximum extent practical to provide treatment for both
water quality and quantity.
   (C)   All storm water runoff generated from new development shall not
discharge untreated storm water directly into a jurisdictional wetland or local
water body without adequate treatment. Where such discharges are proposed, the
impact of the proposal on wetland functional values shall be assessed using a
method acceptable to the city. In no case shall the impact on functional values
be any less than allowed by the Army Corp of Engineers (ACE) or the state’s
Department of Natural Resources (IDNR).
   (D)   All sites shall preserve buffer strips and riparian zones, create
filter strips, minimize land disturbance, minimize surface imperviousness,
minimize directly connected impervious areas, maximize open space, direct
growth away from sensitive areas and toward areas that can support it without
compromising water quality, have storage, have infiltration, in any
combination, where appropriate to reduce the impact of pollutants in storm
water run-off on receiving waters.
   (E)   Infiltration practices will not be allowed in wellhead protection
areas.
   (F)   Discharges from an MS4 area will not be allowed directly into
sinkholes or fractured bedrock without treatment that results in the discharge
meeting state ground water quality standards as referenced in 327 I.A.C. 2-11.
   (G)   Any storm water practice that is a Class V injection well must ensure
that the discharge from such practices meets state ground water quality
standards as referenced in 327 I.A.C. 2-11.
   (H)   As site conditions allow, the rate at which water flows through the
MS4 conveyances shall be regulated to reduce outfall scouring and stream bank
erosion. Where necessary, channel protection shall be provided to protect
stream channels from degradation.
   (I)   As site conditions allow, a vegetated filter strip of appropriate
width shall be maintained along unvegetated swales and ditches.
   (J)   New retail gasoline outlets, new municipal, state, federal or
institutional refueling areas or outlets and refueling areas that replace their
existing tank systems shall be required to design and install appropriate
practices to reduce lead, copper, zinc and polyaromatic hydrocarbons in storm
water run-off.
   (K)   (1)   Storm water discharges to critical areas with sensitive
resources (i.e., wellhead protection areas, cold water fisheries, shellfish
beds, swimming beaches, recreational waters, recharge areas, water supply
reservoirs) may be subject to additional performance criteria, or may need to
utilize or restrict certain storm water management practices.
      (2)   Certain industrial sites are required to prepare and implement a
storm water pollution prevention plan in accordance with 327 I.A.C. 15-6, and
shall file a notice of intent (NOI) under the provisions of the National
Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) general permit. The storm water
pollution prevention plan requirement applies to both existing and new
industrial sites.
   (L)   Storm water discharges from land uses or activities with higher
potential pollutant loadings, known as “hotspots”, may require the use of
specific structural storm water treatment practices and pollution prevention
practices.
   (M)   All storm water management practices shall have a landscaping plan
detailing both the vegetation to be in the practice and how and who will manage
and maintain this vegetation.
(Prior Code, § 59.1.09) (Ord. 68-2005, passed - -2005)
§ 152.010 MAINTENANCE OF STORM WATER RUNOFF CONTROL MEASURES.
   (A)   Maintenance easement. Prior to the issuance of any permit that has a
storm water management facility as one of the requirements of the permit, the
applicant or owner of the site shall execute a maintenance easement agreement
that shall be binding on all subsequent owners of land served by the storm
water management facility. The agreement shall provide for access to the
facility at reasonable times for periodic inspection by the city, or its
contractor or agent, and for regular or special assessments of property owners
to ensure that the facility is maintained in proper working condition to meet
design standards and any other provisions established by this chapter. The
easement agreement shall be recorded by the applicant in the County Recorder’s
office. The applicant shall provide a copy of the recorded easement to the City
Engineer’s office.
   (B)   Maintenance covenants. Maintenance of all storm water management
facilities shall be ensured through the creation of a formal maintenance
covenant that shall be approved by the city and recorded in the County
Recorder’s office prior to final plan approval. As part of the covenant, a
schedule shall be developed for when and how often maintenance will occur to
ensure proper function of the storm water management facility. The covenant
shall also include plans for periodic inspections to ensure proper performance
of the facility between scheduled cleanouts.
   (C)   Requirements for maintenance covenants. All storm water management
facilities shall undergo, at the minimum, an annual inspection to document
maintenance and repair needs and ensure compliance with the requirements of
this chapter and accomplishment of its purposes. These needs may include;
removal of silt, litter and other debris from all catch basins, inlets and
drainage pipes, grass cutting and vegetation removal and necessary replacement
of landscape vegetation. Any maintenance needs found shall be addressed in a
timely manner, as determined by the city, and the inspection and maintenance
requirement may be increased as deemed necessary to ensure proper functioning
of the storm water management facility.
   (D)   Failure to maintain practices.
      (1)   If a responsible party, after receiving notice from the city in
which the responsible party is given ten days to meet the requirements of the
maintenance covenant, fails or refuses to meet the requirements of the
maintenance covenant, the city may correct a violation of the design standards
or maintenance needs by performing all necessary work to place the facility in
proper working condition.
      (2)   In the event that the storm water management facility becomes an
immediate danger to the public health, safety, economic impact or general
welfare of the city, the city has the right to immediately effect maintenance
and repair of the facility for the sole purpose of protecting the public
health, safety, economic impact or general welfare of the city.
      (3)   The city may assess the owner(s) of the storm water management
facility for the cost of repair work and any penalties; and the cost of such
work and any penalties shall be a lien on the property or prorated against the
beneficial uses of the property. An appeal may be taken to the Board of Works
for the cost of the lien.
(Prior Code, § 59.1.10) (Ord. 68-2005, passed - -2005)
§ 152.011 PERMIT APPLICATION, STORM WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN AND PERMIT
ISSUANCE.
   No person shall begin a land-disturbing activity or redevelopment subject to
this chapter without first receiving a permit. An application should be made
after the initial coordination meeting with the city. By submitting an
application, the applicant is implying that the city has been given permission
to enter the site to obtain information required for review of the storm water
pollution prevention plan. This permit is in addition to a general storm water
permit (Rule 5) required under 327 I.A.C. 15-5, as required.
   (A)   Content of storm water pollution prevention plan. At a minimum, the
storm water pollution prevention plan shall include a project narrative, a
vicinity map, construction plans and calculations. A detailed listing of the
plan requirements can be found in the Storm Water Development Manual.
   (B)   Review of the storm water pollution prevention plan. The city shall
review the application and the storm water pollution prevention plan in
conjunction with the subdivision plat and local improvement permit application
to determine whether the requirements of this chapter have been met. If the
conditions are not met, the city shall inform the applicant in writing and
either may require additional information or may disapprove the plan. If
requested, additional information shall be submitted. The city shall again
determine whether the plan meets the requirements of this chapter. If the plan
is disapproved, the city shall inform the applicant in writing, giving reasons
for disapproval.
   (C)   Permit duration. Permits issued under this section shall be valid from
the date of issuance through the date the city notifies the permit holder that
all storm water management practices have passed the final inspection required
under permit condition.
   (D)   Surety bond.
      (1)   As a condition of approval and issuance of the permit, the city
shall require the applicant to provide a surety bond or an irrevocable letter
of credit, if one is not already included in the development project permit
issued by the city, when the storm water pollution prevention plan has been
approved to guarantee a good faith execution of the erosion and sediment
control plan and any permit conditions.
      (2)   The surety bond shall be released in full only upon submission of
“as-built plans” and written certification by a registered professional
engineer that the storm water practice has been installed in accordance with
the approved plan and other applicable provisions of this chapter. The city
will make a final inspection of the storm water practice to ensure that it is
in compliance with the approved plan and the provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   Requirements.
      (1)   Notify the city at least 24 hours before commencing any
construction of storm water management measures;
      (2)   Notify the city of the completion of storm water management
measures within seven days after their initial site installation;
      (3)   Obtain approval from the city prior to implementing any changes to
the most recently approved storm water pollution prevention plan;
      (4)   Install all storm water quality measures as identified in the
approved storm water pollution prevention plan;
      (5)   Maintain all road drainage systems, storm water drainage systems,
erosion control measures and other facilities identified in the storm water
pollution prevention plan until the project has been terminated;
      (6)   Where legal, remove sediment resulting from land-disturbing
activities from adjacent surfaces and drainageways and/or repair erosion damage
to adjacent surfaces and drainageways; and
      (7)   Allow the city to enter the site for verifying compliance with the
storm water pollution prevention plan or for the performing of any work
necessary to bring the site into compliance with the storm water pollution
prevention plan.
(Prior Code, § 59.1.11) (Ord. 68-2005, passed - -2005)
§ 152.012 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Construction inspection.
      (1)   To ensure compliance with the storm water pollution prevention
plan, the city shall inspect sites having ongoing land-disturbing activities as
deemed appropriate by the city; and
      (2)   If land-disturbing activities are being carried out without a
permit, the city shall issue a stop work order pursuant to the provisions of
I.C. 36-1-4-11 and I.C. 36-1-6-2.
   (B)   Post-construction inspection.
      (1)   Inspection programs may be established on any reasonable basis,
including, but not limited to: routine inspections; random inspections;
inspections based upon complaints or other notice of possible violations;
inspection of drainage basins or areas identified as higher than typical
sources of sediment or other contaminants or pollutants; inspections of
businesses or industries of a type associated with higher than usual discharges
of contaminants or pollutants or with discharges of a type which are more
likely than the typical discharge to cause violations of state or federal water
or sediment quality standards or the NPDES storm water permit; and joint
inspections with other agencies inspecting under environmental or safety laws.
Inspections may include, but are not limited to: reviewing maintenance and
repair records; sampling discharges, surface water, ground water and material
or water in drainage control facilities; and evaluating the condition of
drainage control facilities and other storm water treatment practices.
      (2)   Persons receiving a notice of violation may be required to halt all
operational activities. This “cease and desist order” will be in effect until
the city confirms that the operational activity is in compliance and the
violation has been satisfactorily addressed. Failure to address a notice of
violation in a timely manner can result in civil or monetary penalties in
accordance with the enforcement measures authorized in this chapter.
   (C)   Right-of-entry for inspection. When any new storm water management
facility is installed on private property, or when any new connection is made
between private property and a public storm water management facility, the
property owner shall grant to the city the right to enter the property at
reasonable times and in a reasonable manner for the purpose of inspection. This
also includes the right to enter a property when it has a reasonable basis to
believe that a violation of this chapter is occurring or has occurred, and to
enter when necessary for abatement of a public nuisance or correction of a
violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 59.1.12) (Ord. 68-2005, passed - -2005)
§ 152.013 PROPER CREDENTIAL OR IDENTIFICATION REQUIRED.
   The city shall present proper credentials or identification before entering
upon the property of the person.
(Prior Code, § 59.1.13) (Ord. 68-2005, passed - -2005)
§ 152.014 ENFORCEMENT.
   Prior to the imposition of a fine, the intent of the city in enforcement of
this chapter is, wherever possible, to work with and communicate with the
person doing the land-disturbing activities.
   (A)   Stop work order.
      (1)   The city shall post a stop work order if:
         (a)   Any non-complying land-disturbing activity regulated under this
chapter is being undertaken;
         (b)   The post-construction storm water plan is not being implemented
in good faith; or
         (c)   The conditions of the permit are not being met.
      (2)   Upon appeal to the city’s Board of Public Works, a stop work order
or the revocation may be retracted or modified.
      (3)   Ten days after posting a stop work order, the city may issue a
notice of intent to the violator stating that 14 days after issuing the notice
of intent the city will use the surety bond to perform the work necessary to
provide compliance with this chapter.
      (4)   If, within five days after the expiration of the 14-day period, in
division (A)(3) above, a permit holder does not comply with the erosion and
sediment control plan or permit conditions, the city shall revoke the permit.
      (5)   (a)   When the city finds that a person has violated, or continues
to violate, any provision of this chapter, the city may impose an
administrative fine against such person in an amount not to exceed that set out
in §
152.999 on a per violation, per day basis, plus any administrative or
remediation costs.
         (b)   Issuance of an administrative fine shall not be a bar against,
or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against the person.
      (6)   Compliance with the provisions of this chapter also may be enforced
by injunction.
   (B)   Cease and desist orders. When the city finds that a person has
violated, or continues to violate, or that city determines that there is a
danger to the public health, safety, welfare or economic impact, the city may
issue an order to the person directing it to cease and desist all such
violations and directing the person to:
      (1)   Immediately comply with all requirements;
      (2)   Take such appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be
needed to properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including
halting operations and/or terminating the discharge; and
      (3)   Issuance of a cease and desist order shall not be a bar against, or
a prerequisite for, taking any other action against person.
(Prior Code, § 59.1.14) (Ord. 68-2005, passed - -2005) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.015 PROJECT TERMINATION.
   An orderly and timely termination of a project with land-disturbing
activities should be planned between all persons involved with a site.
   (A)   (1)   Prior to final land grading, seeding and mulching, the person
holding the permit should petition the city, in writing, to obtain or allow the
installation of any remaining utility lines on the site. Those persons involved
in the installation of utility lines shall perform their work promptly to
minimize the time period during which some of the land may be left in a
relatively unprotected state.
      (2)   After the utility lines have been installed, the person holding the
permit shall promptly complete all storm water management activities.
   (B)   When a project has been completed, the person holding the permit shall
petition, in writing, the city for approval of storm water management measures
which are to remain on the site to evaluate the adequacy of these control
measures. The person with local approval shall submit “as-built” drawings with
their petition. If “as-built” drawings are not submitted with the petition, the
petition will not be accepted.
      (1)   If the storm water management measures are approved, any surety
bonds and/or letters of credit shall be released forthrightly. However,
maintenance responsibilities as set forth in §
152.010 shall remain with the person owning the land.
      (2)   If the storm water management measures are not approved because
they are not in line with either the storm water pollution prevention plan or
the general principles of this chapter, the city shall notify, in writing, the
person holding the permit of unacceptable features. After a minimum period of
two weeks during which corrective measures are taken, a petition, again in
writing, may be sent asking the city to evaluate the adequacy of the storm
water management measures. If, in good faith, the city again decides that the
storm water management measures are inadequate, the city may delay the release
of any surety bonds and/or letters of credit for up to two months. After an
agreed upon time period of two months or longer has lapsed without corrective
measures being taken, the city may use the surety bonds to finance changes or
additions to the storm water management measures needed to complete the
project.
(Prior Code, § 59.1.15) (Ord. 68-2005, passed - -2005)
§ 152.016 VIOLATIONS DEEMED A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   In addition to the enforcement process and penalties provided, any condition
caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of the
chapter is a threat to public health, safety and welfare, and is declared and
deemed a nuisance, and may be summarily abated or restored at the violator’s
expense, and/or a civil action to abate, enjoin or otherwise compel the
cessation of such nuisance may be taken.
(Prior Code, § 59.1.16) (Ord. 68-2005, passed - -2005)
§ 152.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Judicial enforcement remedies.
      (1)   Injunctive relief. When the city finds that a person has violated,
or continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, an NPDES permit, or
order issued hereunder, or any other standard or requirement, the city may
petition through any court of general jurisdiction within the county, for the
issuance of a temporary or permanent injunction. The city may also seek such
other action as is appropriate for legal and/or equitable relief, including a
requirement for the person to conduct environmental remediation. A petition for
injunctive relief shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any
other action against a person.
      (2)   Civil penalties. A person who has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this chapter, or order issued hereunder, or any other
standard or requirement shall also be liable to the city for a total maximum
civil penalty and administrative fines of $2,500 per violation, per day.
Penalties and fines shall accrue for each day during the period of the
violation.
      (3)   Attorney fees. The city may recover reasonable attorney fees, court
costs and other expenses associated with enforcement activities, including
sampling and monitoring expenses, and the cost of any actual damages incurred
by the city.
      (4)   Liability. In determining the amount of civil liability, the court
shall take into account all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited
to, the extent of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration of
the violation, any economic benefit gained through the person’s violation,
corrective actions by the person, the compliance history of the person and any
other factor as justice requires.
      (5)   Suits. Filing a suit for civil penalties shall not be a bar
against, or a prerequisite, for taking any other action against a person.
(Prior Code, § 59.1.17)
   (B)   Remedies not exclusive. The remedies listed in this chapter are not
exclusive of any other remedies available under any applicable federal, state
or local law and it is within the discretion of the authorized enforcement
agency to seek cumulative remedies.
(Prior Code, § 59.1.18)
(Ord. 68-2005, passed - -2005)
CHAPTER 153: UNSAFE BUILDINGS
Section
   
153.001   Adoption
   
153.002   Adoption of state law; definitions
   
153.003   Inspection
   
153.004   Service of orders
   
153.005   Modification of orders
   
153.006   Description of unsafe building
   
153.007   Reconstruction, alteration, repair or demolition
   
153.008   Unsafe Building Fund
   
153.009   Contractors
   
153.010   Violations
   
153.011   Conflict with other ordinances
   
153.012   Unsafe Building Commission
§ 153.001 ADOPTION.
   Under the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9, there is hereby established the Unsafe
Building Code of the city.
(Prior Code, § 98.01)
§ 153.002 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   (1)   I.C. 36-7-9 et seq., as amended herein, is hereby adopted by
reference as the Unsafe Building Ordinance of the city, together with any and
all amendments thereto that are made following this date.
      (2)   All proceedings in the city for inspection, repair and removal of
unsafe buildings shall be governed by said law and the provisions of this
chapter.
      (3)   In the event the provisions of this chapter conflict with the
provisions of I.C. 36-7-9, then the provisions of the state statute shall
control.
   (B)   (1)   The definitions as stated in I.C. 36-7-9-2 are hereby amended
and the following definitions shall apply in the enforcement of this chapter.
      (2)   (a)   Words in the singular include the plural and words in the
plural include the singular.
         (b)   The word “persons” includes a corporation, unincorporated
association and “building” includes “structure” and shall be construed as if
followed by the words “or part thereof”.
      (3)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         DEPARTMENT. The department in charge of enforcing all building,
housing and related codes in the city.
         DIRECTOR. The Director of the Department, or his or her authorized
representative.
         HEARING AUTHORITY. The Unsafe Building Commission as established by §
153.012.
         SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY. The definition of “substantial property
interest” set forth in I.C. 36-7-9-2 is hereby incorporated by reference herein
as if copied in full.
(Prior Code, § 98.03) (Ord. 94-1996, passed - -1996)
§ 153.003 INSPECTION.
   All buildings or portions thereof within the city, which are determined,
after inspection by the Director, or his or her authorized representative, to
be unsafe as defined in this chapter are hereby declared to be public nuisances
and shall be abated by repair, rehabilitation, demolition or removal in
accordance with the procedures specified in the Unsafe Building Code of the
city.
(Prior Code, § 98.04)
§ 153.004 SERVICE OF ORDERS.
   The Director or his or her authorized representative shall be authorized to
administer and to proceed under the provisions of said law in ordering the
repair or removal of any buildings found to be unsafe as defined by state law
adopted herein and the definition as set forth herein.
(Prior Code, § 98.05)
§ 153.005 MODIFICATION OF ORDERS.
   Wherever in the Building Code of the city or the Unsafe Building Code of the
city, it is provided that any thing must be done to the approval of or subject
to the direction of the Director, or any other officer of the city, this shall
be construed to give such discretion of determining whether the rules and
standards established by ordinance have been complied with; and no such
provisions shall be construed as giving any officer discretionary powers as to
what such regulations or standards shall be, power to require conditions not
prescribed by ordinance, or to enforce ordinance provisions in an arbitrary or
discretionary manner.
(Prior Code, § 98.06)
§ 153.006 DESCRIPTION OF UNSAFE BUILDING.
   The description of an unsafe building contained in I.C. 36-7-9-4 is hereby
supplemented to provide minimum standards for building condition or maintenance
in the city by adding the following to said definition.
   UNSAFE BUILDING. Any building or structure which has any or all of the
conditions or defects hereinafter described shall be deemed to be an unsafe
building; provided that, such conditions or defects exist to the extent that
life, health, property or safety of the public or its occupants are endangered:
      (1)   Whenever any door, aisle, passageway or other means of exit is not
of sufficient width or size or is not so arranged as to provide safe and
adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic;
      (2)   Whenever the walking surface of any aisle, passageway, stairway or
other means of exit is so warped, worn, loose, torn or otherwise unsafe as to
not provide safe and adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic;
      (3)   Whenever the stress in any materials, member or portion thereof,
due to all dead and live loads, is more than one and one-half times the working
stress or stresses allowed for new buildings of similar structure, purpose or
location;
      (4)   Whenever any portion thereof has been damaged by fire, earthquake,
wind, flood or any other cause, to such an extent that the structural strength
or stability thereof is materially less than it was before such catastrophe and
is less than the minimum requirements for new buildings of similar structure,
purpose or location not so anchored or attached;
      (5)   Whenever any portion, member or appurtenance thereof is likely to
fail, to become detached or dislodged, or to collapse and thereby injure
persons or damage property;
      (6)   Whenever any portion of a building, or any member, appurtenance or
ornamentation on the exterior thereof is not of sufficient strength or
stability or is not so anchored, attached or fastened in place so as to be
capable of resisting a wind pressure of one-half of that specified for new
buildings of similar structure, purpose or location without exceeding the
working stresses permitted for such buildings;
      (7)   Whenever any portion thereof has cracked, warped, buckled or
settled to such an extent that walls or other structural portions have
materially less resistance to winds or earthquakes than is required in the case
of similar new construction;
      (8)   Whenever the building or structure, or any portion thereof, because
of the following is likely to partially or completely collapse:
         (a)   Dilapidation, deterioration or decay;
         (b)   Faulty construction;
         (c)   The removal, movement or instability of any portion of the
ground necessary for the purpose of supporting such building;
         (d)   The deterioration, decay or inadequacy of its foundation; and
         (e)   Any other cause.
      (9)   Whenever, for any reason, the building or structure, or any portion
thereof, is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is being used;
      (10)   Whenever the exterior walls or other vertical structural members
list, lean or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the
center of gravity does not fall inside the middle one-third of the base;
      (11)   Whenever the building or structure, exclusive of the foundation,
shows 33% or more damage or deterioration of its supporting member or members,
or 50% damage or deterioration of its non-covering;
      (12)   Whenever the building or structure has been so damaged by fire,
wind, earthquake or flood or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated so as to
become:
         (a)   An attractive nuisance to children; or
         (b)   Freely accessible to persons for the purpose of committing
unlawful acts.
      (13)   Whenever any building or structure has been constructed, exists or
is maintained in violation of any specific requirement or prohibition
applicable to such building or structure provided by the Building Code of the
city, or of any law or ordinance of the state or the city relating to the
condition, location or structure of buildings;
      (14)   Whenever any building or structure which, whether or not erected
in accordance with all applicable laws and ordinances has in any non-supporting
part, member or portion less than 50%, or in any supporting part, member or
portion less than 66% of the:
         (a)   Strength; and
         (b)   Fire-resisting qualities or characteristics required by law in
the case of a newly constructed building of like area, height and occupancy in
the same location.
      (15)   Whenever a building or structure, used or intended to be used for
dwelling purposes, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction or arrangement, inadequate light, air or sanitation
facilities, or otherwise, is determined by the county’s Health Department to be
unsanitary, unfit for human habitation, or is in such condition that it is
likely to cause sickness or disease;
      (16)   Whenever any building or structure, because of obsolescence,
dilapidated condition, deterioration, damage, inadequate exits or lack of
sufficient fire-resistive construction is determined by the city’s Fire
Department to be a fire hazard; and
      (17)   Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on a site
after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure or whenever
any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six months so
as to constitute such building or portion thereof an attractive nuisance or
hazard to the public.
(Prior Code, § 98.07)
§ 153.007 RECONSTRUCTION, ALTERATION, REPAIR OR DEMOLITION.
   All work for the reconstruction, alteration, repair or demolition of
buildings and other structures shall be performed in a good workmanlike manner
according to the accepted standards and practices in the trade. The provisions
of the building laws, as defined in I.C. 22-12-1-3, adopted as rules of the
Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission of the state, shall be
considered standard acceptable practice for all matters covered by this chapter
or orders issued pursuant to this chapter by the Director or his or her
authorized representative.
(Prior Code, § 98.08)
§ 153.008 UNSAFE BUILDING FUND.
   An unsafe building fund is hereby established pursuant to I.C. 36-7-9-14(a).
Any balance remaining at the end of the calendar year shall be carried over in
the fund for the following year and does not revert to the General Fund. Money
for the Unsafe Building Fund may be received from any source, including
appropriations by local, state or federal governments, and donations. Money may
be used for the expenses incurred in carrying out the purposes of I.C. 36-7-9-
14(c), subsections (1) through (7), as currently set forth and as amended from
time to time. Payment of money from the Unsafe Building Fund shall be made by
order of the Board of Public Works and Safety in accordance with applicable
laws.
(Prior Code, § 98.09) (Ord. 105-1993, passed - -1993)
§ 153.009 CONTRACTOR.
   In any instance where the words “contractor” or “contractor licensed and
qualified under law” are used in I.C. 36-7-9-11, I.C. 36-7-9-12 or any other
sections of the statute, as adopted herein, requirements are modified in that
any contractor approved by the Director may perform any work that is required
in complying with the orders of the Director.
(Prior Code, § 98.10)
§ 153.010 VIOLATIONS.
   No person, firm or corporation, whether as owner, lessee, sublessee or
occupant, shall erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve,
remove, demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building or premises, or
cause or permit the same to be done, contrary to or in violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter or any order issued by the Director or his or her
authorized representative. Any person violating the provisions of this chapter
or I.C. 36-7-9-28 shall commit a Class C infraction for each day such violation
continues.
(Prior Code, § 98.11) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 153.011 CONFLICT WITH OTHER ORDINANCES.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall supersede any provisions of prior
ordinances in conflict with the provisions contained herein.
   (B)   To the extent this chapter conflicts with Ch. 163 of this code of
ordinances, this chapter shall override and supersede Ch. 163 of this code of
ordinances once a property has initially been determined to be an unsafe or
blighted property by the city’s Enforcement Authority and a pre-hearing order
has been issued and recorded in accordance with this chapter and I.C. 36-7-9.
After a pre-hearing order has been issued and recorded for a property, the
city’s Enforcement Authority will seek a continuous enforcement order from the
city’s Unsafe Building Commission in accordance with this chapter and I.C. 36-
7-9. The city’s Historic Preservation Commission does not have authority to
issue an interim protection order in accordance with Ch. 163 of this code of
ordinances for said property until such time as the property is brought into
compliance as directed by a continuous enforcement order issued by the Unsafe
Building Commission under this chapter and I.C. 36-7-9.
(Prior Code, § 98.13) (Ord. 31-1988, passed - -1988; Ord. 15-2014, passed - -
2014)
§ 153.012 UNSAFE BUILDING COMMISSION.
   (A)   There is hereby established a body known as the Unsafe Building
Commission of the city (the “Commission”).
   (B)   The Commission shall consist of three members appointed by the Mayor
and one non-voting advisory member appointed by the Historic Preservation
Commission annually.
   (C)   The initial members shall serve from their appointment until 12-31-
1997; thereafter, the term of each member shall be one year.
   (D)   There are no limits on the number of terms, consecutive or otherwise,
a member may serve.
   (E)   The Commission shall serve as the “Hearing Authority” referenced in
this chapter and in I.C. 36-7-9 et seq.
   (F)   The Commission shall annually elect from its members a President, a
Vice President and a Secretary.
   (G)   The Commission shall meet as needed. The President shall determine the
time, date and place of each meeting. At least two members must be present to
conduct any meeting.
(Prior Code, § 98.14) (Ord. 94-1996, passed - -1996)
CHAPTER 154: MOBILE HOMES
Section
   
154.001   Definitions
   
154.002   Use of mobile home for habitation
   
154.003   Mobile home parks
§ 154.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOBILE HOME. Any vehicle, including the equipment sold as part of the
vehicle, so constructed as to permit its being used as a conveyance on public
streets or highways by either self-propelled or non-self-propelled means, and
so designed, constructed or reconstructed, or added to by means of an enclosed
addition or room in such a manner as will permit its occupancy as a dwelling
for one or more persons, which is both used and occupied as a dwelling having
no foundation other than wheels, jacks, skirting or other temporary supports.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. An area of land on which three or more mobile homes are
harbored for the purpose of being occupied either free of charge or for revenue
purposes and shall include any building, structure, vehicle or enclosure used
or intended for use as part of the equipment of the mobile home park.
(Prior Code, § 152.01) (Ord. 1325-1947, passed - -1947)
§ 154.002 USE OF MOBILE HOME FOR HABITATION.
   No person shall use a mobile home or permit a mobile home to be used for
human habitation outside a state licensed mobile home park. No person shall
erect a tent to be occupied for overnight accommodation, in such mobile home
park.
(Prior Code, § 152.02) (Ord. 1325-1947, passed - -1947) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 154.003 MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   After 3-21-1955, no mobile home park shall be constructed within the city
unless it is in a location zoned for business under the provisions of the
zoning regulations of the city, and shall have in front a yard which shall
extend completely across that portion of the part which faces on a public
street or highway. There shall be no obstruction in the yard for a distance of
40 feet from the inside line of the sidewalk or sidewalks abutting the street
or streets, or in front of the setback line established for houses on the same
street or streets on which the park is situated, or as established in adjacent
subdivision, whichever is the greater.
(Prior Code, § 152.03) (Ord. 1325-1947, passed - -1947) Penalty, see §
10.999
CHAPTER 155: FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
155.001   Statutory authorization
   
155.002   Findings of fact
   
155.003   Statement of purpose
   
155.004   Objectives
   
155.005   Definitions
   
155.006   Lands to which chapter applies
   
155.007   Basis for establishing regulatory flood data
   
155.008   Establishment of floodplain development permit
   
155.009   Compliance
   
155.010   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
155.011   Discrepancy between mapped floodplain and actual ground elevations
   
155.012   Interpretation
   
155.013   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
155.014   Supplement to city’s Unified Development Ordinance
   
155.015   Effective date
Administration and Enforcement
   
155.030   Administrator; duties and responsibilities
   
155.031   Permit procedures
Variance Procedures
   
155.045   Variance and Appeals Board; duties
   
155.046   Variance procedures
   
155.047   Conditions for variances
   
155.048   Variance notification
   
155.049   Historic structures
   
155.050   Special conditions
Flood Hazard Reduction
   
155.065   General standards
   
155.066   Specific standards
   
155.067   Subdivision proposals
   
155.068   Critical facilities
   
155.069   Identified floodways
   
155.070   Identified fringe
   
155.071   SFHAs without established base flood elevation and/or floodways/
fringes
   
155.072   Flood-prone areas
 
   
155.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.001 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The state legislature has, in I.C. 36-7-4, granted the power to local
government units to control land use within their jurisdictions. Therefore, the
Common Council of the city does hereby adopt the following floodplain
management regulations.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 2-2-2015)
§ 155.002 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic inundation
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities, and by the
occupancy in flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to
other lands which are inadequately elevated, inadequately flood-proofed or
otherwise unprotected from flood damages.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 2-2-2015)
§ 155.003 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety and
property due to water or erosion hazards, which result in damaging increases in
erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage;
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands; and
   (F)   Make federal flood insurance available for structures and their
contents in the city by fulfilling the requirements of the National Flood
Insurance Program.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 2-2-2015)
§ 155.004 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are:
   (A)   To protect human life and health;
   (B)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located
in floodplains; and
   (F)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood- prone areas in such a manner as to minimize flood- blight
areas.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 2-2-2015)
§ 155.005 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A ZONE. Portions of the SFHA in which the principal source of flooding is
runoff from rainfall, snowmelt or a combination of both. In A ZONES, flood
waters may move slowly or rapidly, but waves are usually not a significant
threat to buildings. These areas are labeled as Zone A, Zone AE, Zones A1-A30,
Zone AO, Zone AH, Zone AR and Zone A99 on a FIRM. The definitions are presented
below.
      (1)   ZONE A. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood
event. Because detailed hydraulic analyses have not been performed, no base
flood elevation or depths are shown.
      (2)   ZONE AE AND A1-A30. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual
chance flood event determined by detailed methods. Base flood elevations are
shown within these zones. (ZONE AE is on new and revised maps in place of ZONES
A1-A30.)
      (3)   ZONE AO. Areas subject to inundation by 1% annual chance shallow
flooding (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain) where average depths are
between one and three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed
hydraulic analyses are shown within this zone.
      (4)   ZONE AH. Areas subject to inundation by 1% annual chance shallow
flooding (usually areas of ponding) where average depths are between one and
three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed hydraulic analyses are
shown within this zone.
      (5)   ZONE AR. Areas that result from the decertification of a previously
accredited flood protection system that is determined to be in the process of
being restored to provide base flood protection.
      (6)   ZONE A99. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood
event, but which will ultimately be protected upon completion of an under-
construction federal flood protection system. These are areas of special flood
hazard where enough progress has been made on the construction of a protection
system, such as dikes, dams and levees, to consider it complete for insurance
rating purposes. ZONE A99 may only be used when the flood protection system has
reached specified statutory progress toward completion. No base flood
elevations or depths are shown.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure with a floor area
400 square feet or less that is located on the same parcel of property as the
principal structure and the use of which is incidental to the use of the
principal structure. ACCESSORY STRUCTURES should constitute a minimal initial
investment, may not be used for human habitation and be designed to have
minimal flood damage potential. Examples of ACCESSORY STRUCTURES are detached
garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns and hay sheds.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a structure in which the addition is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition, which is
connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing
walls, is new construction.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on the community’s
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with base flood depths from one to three feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation of the 1% annual chance flood.
   BASEMENT. The portion of a structure having its floor sub-grade (below
ground level) on all sides.
   BOUNDARY RIVER. The part of the Ohio River that forms the boundary between
Kentucky and Indiana.
   BOUNDARY RIVER FLOODWAY. The floodway of a boundary river.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   COMMUNITY. A political entity that has the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the area under its jurisdiction.
   COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS). A program developed by the Federal Insurance
Administration to provide incentives for those communities in the regular
program that have gone beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements to
develop extra measures to provide protection from flooding.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. A facility for which even a slight chance of flooding
might be too great. CRITICAL FACILITIES include, but are not limited to,
schools, nursing homes, hospitals, police, fire and emergency response
installations, installations which produce, use or store hazardous materials or
hazardous waste.
   D ZONE. Unstudied areas where flood hazards are undetermined, but flooding
is possible. Flood insurance is available in participating communities, but is
not required by regulation in this zone.
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate
including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Construction, reconstruction or placement of a structure or any
addition to a structure;
         (b)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home or installing a recreational vehicle on a site for more than
180 days;
         (c)   Installing utilities, erection of walls and fences, construction
of roads or similar projects;
         (d)   Construction of flood control structures such as levees, dikes,
dams, channel improvements and the like;
         (e)   Mining, dredging, filling, grading, excavation or drilling
operations;
         (f)   Construction and/or reconstruction of bridges or culverts;
         (g)   Storage of materials; or
         (h)   Any other activity that might change the direction, height or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include activities such as the maintenance of
existing structures and facilities such as painting; re-roofing; resurfacing
roads; or gardening, plowing and similar agricultural practices that do not
involve filling, grading, excavation or the construction of permanent
structures.
   ELEVATED STRUCTURE. A non-basement structure built to have the lowest floor
elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter
walls, filled stem wall foundations (also called chain walls), pilings or
columns (posts and piers).
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A certified statement that verifies a structure’s
elevation information.
   EMERGENCY PROGRAM. The first phase under which a community participates in
the NFIP. It is intended to provide a first layer amount of insurance at
subsidized rates on all insurable structures in that community before the
effective date of the initial FIRM.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANU- FACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). An official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA)
has delineated the areas of flood hazards and regulatory floodway.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
FEMA has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the risk premium
zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official hydraulic and hydrologic report
provided by FEMA. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the FIRM, FBFM
(where applicable) and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOODPLAIN. The channel proper and the areas adjoining any wetland, lake or
watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regulatory
flood. The FLOODPLAIN includes both the Floodway and the Fringe Districts.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including, but not limited
to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULA- TIONS. This chapter and other zoning
ordinances, subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations,
special purpose ordinances and other applications of police power which control
development in flood-prone areas. This term describes federal, state or local
regulations in any combination thereof, which provide standards for preventing
and reducing flood loss and damage. FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS are also
referred to as floodplain regulations, floodplain ordinance, flood damage
prevention ordinance and floodplain management requirements.
   FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area acknowledged by a community as being
susceptible to inundation by water from any source. (See FLOOD.)
   FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE (FPG). The elevation of the regulatory flood, plus
two feet, at any given location in the SFHA. (See FREEBOARD.)
   FLOOD-PROOFING (DRY FLOOD- PROOFING). A method of protecting a structure
that ensures that the structure, together with attendant utilities and sanitary
facilities, is water-tight to the flood-proofed design elevation with walls
that are substantially impermeable to the passage of water. All structural
components of these walls are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy, and anticipated debris impact
forces.
   FLOOD-PROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form used to certify compliance for non-
residential structures as an alternative to elevating structures to or above
the FPG. This certification must be by a registered professional engineer or
architect.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the
floodplains adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to efficiently
carry and discharge the peak flood flow of the regulatory flood of any river or
stream.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood.
   FRINGE. Those portions of the floodplain lying outside the floodway.
   HARDSHIP. As related to variances of this ordinance, the exceptional
hardship that would result from a failure to grant the requested variance. The
Board of Zoning Appeals requires that the variance is exceptional, unusual and
peculiar to the property involved. Mere economic or financial hardship alone is
not exceptional. Inconvenience, aesthetic considerations, physical
disabilities, personal preferences or the disapproval of one’s neighbors
likewise cannot, as a rule, qualify as an EXCEPTIONAL HARDSHIP. All of these
problems can be resolved through other means without granting a variance, even
if the alternative is more expensive, or requires the property owner to build
elsewhere or put the parcel to a different use than originally intended.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to the start of construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURES. Any structures individually listed on the National
Register of Historic Places or the Indiana State Register of Historic Sites and
Structures.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC). The cost to repair a substantially
damaged structure that exceeds the minimal repair cost and that is required to
bring a substantially damaged structure into compliance with the local flood
damage prevention ordinance. Acceptable mitigation measures are elevation,
relocation, demolition or any combination thereof. All renewal and new business
flood insurance policies with effective dates on or after 6-1-1997 will include
ICC COVERAGE.
   LETTER OF FINAL DETERMINATION (LFD). A letter issued by FEMA during the
mapping update process which establishes final elevations and provides the new
flood map and flood study to the community. The LFD initiates the six-month
adoption period. The community must adopt or amend its floodplain management
regulations during this six-month period unless the community has previously
incorporated an automatic adoption clause.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). A general term used to refer to the several
types of revisions and amendments to FEMA maps that can be accomplished by
letter. They include Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA), Letter of Map Revision
(LOMR) and Letter of Map Revision based on Fill (LOMR-F). The definitions are
presented below.
      (1)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). An amendment by letter to the
currently effective FEMA map that establishes that a property is not located in
a SFHA through the submittal of property specific elevation data. A LOMA is
only issued by FEMA.
      (2)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). An official revision to the
currently effective FEMA map. It is issued by FEMA and changes flood zones,
delineations and elevations.
      (3)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). An official revision
by letter to an effective NFIP map. A LOMR-F provides FEMA’s determination
concerning whether a structure or parcel has been elevated on fill above the
BFE and excluded from the SFHA.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The lowest elevation, after completion of
construction, of the ground, sidewalk, patio, deck support or basement entryway
immediately next to the structure.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest elevation described among the following:
      (1)   The top of the lowest level of the structure;
      (2)   The top of the basement floor;
      (3)   The top of the garage floor, if the garage is the lowest level of
the structure;
      (4)   The top of the first floor of a structure elevated on pilings or
pillars; and
      (5)   The top of the floor level of any enclosure, other than a basement,
below an elevated structure where the walls of the enclosure provide any
resistance to the flow of flood waters unless:
         (a)   The walls are designed to automatically equalize the hydrostatic
flood forces on the walls by allowing for the entry and exit of flood waters by
providing a minimum of two openings (in addition to doorways and windows) in a
minimum of two exterior walls; if a structure has more than one enclosed area,
each shall have openings on exterior walls;
         (b)   The total net area of all openings shall be at least one square
inch for every one square foot of enclosed area; the bottom of all such
openings shall be no higher than one foot above the exterior grade or the
interior grade immediately beneath each opening, whichever is higher; and
         (c)   Such enclosed space shall be usable solely for the parking of
vehicles and building access.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a “recreational vehicle”.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, excluding the land (as agreed to between a
willing buyer and seller), as established by what the local real estate market
will bear. MARKET VALUE can be established by independent certified appraisal,
replacement cost depreciated by age of building (actual cash value) or adjusted
assessed values.
   MITIGATION. Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk to
people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of MITIGATION
is twofold: to protect people and structures; and to minimize the cost of
disaster response and recovery.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). The federal program that makes
flood insurance available to owners of property in participating communities
nationwide through the cooperative efforts of the federal government and the
private insurance industry.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD) OF 1929 AS CORRECTED IN 1929. A
vertical control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within
the floodplain.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the “start of construction”
commenced after the effective date of the community’s first floodplain
ordinance.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   NON-BOUNDARY RIVER FLOODWAY. The floodway of any river or stream other than
a boundary river.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM OF 1988 (NAVD 88) AS ADOPTED IN 1993. A
vertical control datum used as a reference for establishing varying elevations
within the floodplain.
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, wharf,
embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, canalization,
bridge, conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation or other material in, along, across or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water; or due to its location, its propensity to snare
or collect debris carried by the flow of water or its likelihood of being
carried downstream.
   ONE PERCENT ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD. The flood that has a 1% chance of being
equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any flood zone that begins with the
letter A is subject to the 1% annual chance flood. See REGULATORY FLOOD.
   PHYSICAL MAP REVISION (PMR). An official republication of a community’s FEMA
map to effect changes to base (1% annual chance) flood elevations, floodplain
boundary delineations, regulatory floodways and planimetric features. These
changes typically occur as a result of structural works or improvements,
annexations resulting in additional flood hazard areas or correction to base
flood elevations or SFHAs.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community, neighborhood or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
quarters for recreational camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REGULAR PROGRAM. The phase of the community’s participation in the NFIP
where more comprehensive floodplain management requirements are imposed and
higher amounts of insurance are available based upon risk zones and elevations
determined in a FIS.
   REGULATORY FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year, as calculated by a method and procedure that is acceptable
to and approved by the state’s Department of Natural Resources and the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The regulatory flood elevation at any location is
as defined in §
155.007. The REGULATORY FLOOD is also known by the terms BASE FLOOD, 1% ANNUAL
CHANCE FLOOD and 100-YEAR FLOOD.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event, on the average, equaled or exceeded 25% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SECTION 1316. The section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as
amended, which states that no new flood insurance coverage shall be provided
for any property that the Administrator finds has been declared by a duly
constituted state or local zoning authority or other authorized public body to
be in violation of state or local laws, regulations or ordinances that intended
to discourage or otherwise restrict land development or occupancy in flood-
prone areas.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). Those lands within the jurisdiction of the
city subject to inundation by the regulatory flood. The SFHAs of the city are
generally identified as such on the Wayne County, Indiana and Incorporated
Areas Flood Insurance Rate Map dated 4-2-2015 as well as any future updates,
amendments or revisions, prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
with the most recent date. (These areas are shown on a FIRM as Zone A, AE, A1-
A30, AH, AR, A99 or AO.)
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date.
The actual START means either the first placement of permanent construction of
a structure on a site, such as the pouring of a slab or footings, the
installation of piles, the construction of columns or any work beyond the stage
of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers,
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A structure that is principally above ground and is enclosed by
walls and a roof. The term includes a gas or liquid storage tank, a
manufactured home or a prefabricated building. The term also includes
recreational vehicles to be installed on a site for more than 180 days.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the “start of construction” of the
improvement. This term includes structures that have incurred “repetitive loss”
or “substantial damage” regardless of the actual repair work performed. The
term does not include improvements of structures to correct existing violations
of state or local health, sanitary or safety code requirements or any
alteration of a “historic structure”; provided that, the alteration will not
preclude the structures continued designation as a “historic structure”.
   SUSPENSION. The removal of a participating community from the NFIP because
the community has not enacted and/or enforced the proper floodplain management
regulations required for participation in the NFIP.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter, which
permits construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this chapter where
specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter. A structure or other development without the
elevation, other certification or other evidence of compliance required in this
chapter is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time as that documentation is
provided.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
   X ZONE. The area where the flood hazard is less than that in the SFHA.
SHADED X ZONES shown on recent FIRMs (B zones on older FIRMs) designate areas
subject to inundation by the flood with a 0.2% chance of being equaled or
exceeded (the 500-year flood). UNSHADED X ZONES (C zones on older FIRMs)
designate areas where the annual exceedance probability of flooding is less
than 0.2%.
   ZONE. A geographical area shown on a FIRM that reflects the severity or type
of flooding in the area.
   ZONE A. See definition for A ZONE.
   ZONE B, C AND X. Areas identified in the community as areas of moderate or
minimal hazard from the principal source of flood in the area. However,
buildings in these zones could be flooded by severe, concentrated rainfall
coupled with inadequate local drainage systems. Flood insurance is available in
participating communities, but is not required by regulation in these zones.
(Zone X is used on new and revised maps in place of Zones B and C.)
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 2-2-2015)
§ 155.006 LANDS TO WHICH CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all SFHAs and known flood-prone areas within the
jurisdiction of the city.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 2-2-2015)
§ 155.007 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING REGULATORY FLOOD DATA.
   This chapter’s protection standard is the regulatory flood. The best
available regulatory flood data is listed below.
   (A)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway and fringe limits for the
studied SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the city shall be as delineated on the
1% annual chance flood profiles in the Flood Insurance Study of Wayne County,
Indiana and Incorporated Areas and the corresponding Flood Insurance Rate Map
dated 4-2-2015 as well as any future updates, amendments or revisions, prepared
by the Federal Emergency Management Agency with the most recent date.
   (B)   (1)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway and fringe limits for
each of the SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the city, delineated as an “A
Zone” on the Wayne County, Indiana and Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance Rate
Map dated 4-2-2015 as well as any future updates, amendments or revisions,
prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency with the most recent date,
shall be according to the best data available as provided by the state’s
Department of Natural Resources; provided, the upstream drainage area from the
subject site is greater than one square mile.
      (2)   Whenever a party disagrees with the best available data, the party
needs to replace existing data with better data that meets current engineering
standards.
      (3)   To be considered, this data must be submitted to the state’s
Department of Natural Resources for review and subsequently approved.
   (C)   In the absence of a published FEMA map, or absence of identification
on a FEMA map, the regulatory flood elevation, floodway and fringe limits of
any watercourse in the community’s known flood- prone areas shall be according
to the best data available as provided by the state’s Department of Natural
Resources; provided, the upstream drainage area from the subject site is
greater than one square mile.
   (D)   Upon issuance of a Letter of Final Determination (LFD), any more
restrictive data in the new (not yet effective) mapping/study shall be utilized
for permitting and construction (development) purposes, replacing all
previously effective less restrictive flood hazard data provided by FEMA.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 2-2-2015)
§ 155.008 ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities in areas of special flood hazard.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 2-2-2015)
§ 155.009 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure shall hereafter be located, extended, converted or structurally
altered within the SFHA without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations. No land or stream within the SFHA shall
hereafter be altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and
other applicable regulations.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 2-2-2015)
§ 155.010 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 2-2-2015)
§ 155.011 DISCREPANCY BETWEEN MAPPED FLOODPLAIN AND ACTUAL GROUND ELEVATIONS.
   (A)   In cases where there is a discrepancy between the mapped floodplain
(SFHA) on the FIRM and the actual ground elevations, the elevation provided on
the profiles shall govern.
   (B)   If the elevation of the site in question is below the base flood
elevation, that site shall be included in the SFHA and regulated accordingly.
   (C)   If the elevation (natural grade) of the site in question is above the
base flood elevation and not located within the floodway, that site shall be
considered outside the SFHA and the floodplain regulations will not be applied.
The property owner shall be advised to apply for a LOMA.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 2-2-2015)
§ 155.012 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit, nor repeal, any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 2-2-2015)
§ 155.013 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods can and
will occur on rare occasions. Therefore, this chapter does not create any
liability on the part of the city, the state’s Department of Natural Resources
or the state, for any flood damage that results from reliance on this chapter
or any administrative decision made lawfully thereunder.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 2-2-2015)
§ 155.014 SUPPLEMENT TO THE CITY’S UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE.
   This chapter is intended to supplement the city’s Unified Development
Ordinance (UDO). This chapter is not intended to supersede the UDO, except to
the extent that the outdated model floodplain zoning and management provisions
are removed and the updated provisions are incorporated herein.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 2-2-2015)
§ 155.015 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be in full force and effect on 4-2-2015.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 2-2-2015)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 155.030 ADMINISTRATOR; DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The Common Council of the city hereby appoints the City Engineer to
administer and implement the provisions of this chapter and is herein referred
to as the “Floodplain Administrator”.
   (B)   (1)   The Floodplain Administrator and/or designated staff is hereby
authorized and directed to enforce the provisions of this chapter. The
Administrator is further authorized to render interpretations of this chapter,
which are consistent with its spirit and purpose.
      (2)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but are not limited to:
         (a)   Review all floodplain development permits to assure that the
permit requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
         (b)   Inspect and inventory damaged structures in the SFHA and
complete substantial damage determinations;
         (c)   Ensure that construction authorization has been granted by the
State Department of Natural Resources for all development projects subject to
§§
155.068 and
155.071 and maintain a record of such authorization (either copy of actual
permit/authorization or floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment);
         (d)   Ensure that all necessary federal or state permits have been
received prior to issuance of the local floodplain development permit. Copies
of such permits/authorizations are to be maintained on file with the floodplain
development permit;
         (e)   Maintain and track permit records involving additions and
improvements to residences located in the floodway;
         (f)   Notify adjacent communities and the state’s Floodplain
Coordinator prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse and submit
copies of such notifications to FEMA;
         (g)   Maintain for public inspection and furnish upon request local
permit documents, damaged structure inventories, substantial damage
determinations, regulatory flood data, SFHA maps, Letters of Map Change (LOMC),
copies of DNR permits, letters of authorization and floodplain analysis and
regulatory assessments (letters of recommendation), federal permit documents
and “as-built” elevation and flood-proofing data for all buildings constructed
subject to this chapter;
         (h)   Utilize and enforce all Letters of Map Change (LOMC) or Physical
Map Revisions (PMR) issued by FEMA for the currently effective SFHA maps of the
community;
         (i)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is
not diminished;
         (j)   Review certified plans and specifications for compliance;
         (k)   Verify and record the actual elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new or substantially improved structures, in
accordance with §
155.031;
         (l)   Verify and record the actual elevation to which any new or
substantially improved structures have been flood-proofed in accordance with §
155.031;
         (m)   Stop work orders:
            1.   Upon notice from the Floodplain Administrator, work on any
building, structure or premises that is being done contrary to the provisions
of this chapter shall immediately cease; and
            2.   Such notice shall be in writing and shall be given to the
owner of the property, or to his or her agent, or to the person doing the work,
and shall state the conditions under which work may be resumed.
         (n)   Revocation of permits:
            1.   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit or approval,
issued under the provisions of this chapter, in cases where there has been any
false statement or misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application
or plans on which the permit or approval was based; and
            2.   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit upon
determination by the Floodplain Administrator that the construction, erection,
alteration, repair, moving, demolition, installation or replacement of the
structure for which the permit was issued is in violation of, or not in
conformity with, the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 2-2-2015)
§ 155.031 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Application for a floodplain development permit shall be made to the
Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her prior to any
development activities, and may include, but not be limited to, the following:
plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions and
elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed structures, earthen
fill, storage of materials or equipment, drainage facilities and the location
of the foregoing.
   (B)   Specifically, the following information is required.
      (1)   Application stage.
         (a)   A description of the proposed development;
         (b)   Location of the proposed development sufficient to accurately
locate property and structure(s) in relation to existing roads and streams;
         (c)   A legal description of the property site;
         (d)   A site development plan showing existing and proposed
development locations and existing and proposed land grades;
         (e)   Elevation of the top of the planned lowest floor (including
basement) of all proposed buildings. Elevation should be in NAVD 88 or NGVD;
         (f)   Elevation (in NAVD 88 or NGVD) to which any non-residential
structure will be flood- proofed; and
         (g)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be
altered or relocated as a result of proposed development. A hydrologic and
hydraulic engineering study is required and any watercourse changes submitted
to DNR for approval and then to FEMA as a Letter of Map Revision. (See §
155.030(B)(2)(f) for additional information.)
      (2)   Construction stage.
         (a)   Upon establishment of the lowest floor of an elevated structure
or structure constructed on fill, it shall be the duty of the applicant to
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the NAVD 88 or NGVD
elevation of the lowest floor, as built. Said certification shall be prepared
by or under the direct supervision of a registered land surveyor or
professional engineer and certified by the same. The Floodplain Administrator
shall review the lowest floor elevation survey data submitted. The applicant
shall correct deficiencies detected by such review before any further work is
allowed to proceed. Failure to submit the survey or failure to make said
corrections required hereby shall be cause to issue a stop work order for the
project. Any work undertaken prior to submission of the elevation certification
shall be at the applicant’s risk.
         (b)   Upon establishment of the flood- proofed elevation of a flood-
proofed structure, it shall be the duty of the applicant to submit to the
Floodplain Administrator a flood-proofing certificate. Certification shall be
prepared by or under the direct supervision of a registered professional
engineer and certified by same. (The Floodplain Administrator shall review the
flood-proofing certification submitted.) The applicant shall correct any
deficiencies detected by such review before any further work is allowed to
proceed. Failure to submit the flood-proofing certification or failure to make
correction required shall be cause to issue a stop work order for the project.
      (3)   Finished construction.
         (a)   Upon completion of construction, an elevation certification
which depicts the “as-built” lowest floor elevation is required to be submitted
to the Floodplain Administrator.
         (b)   If the project includes a flood- proofing measure, flood-
proofing certification is required to be submitted by the applicant to the
Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 2-2-2015)
VARIANCE PROCEDURES
§ 155.045 VARIANCE AND APPEALS BOARD; DUTIES.
   (A)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall hear and decide appeals and requests
for variances from requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The Board shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged an error in
any requirement, decision or determination is made by the Floodplain
Administrator in the enforcement or administration of this chapter. Any person
aggrieved by the decision of the Board may appeal such decision to the county’s
circuit court.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 2-2-2015)
§ 155.046 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   In passing upon such applications, the Board shall consider all technical
evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other sections of
this chapter, and:
   (A)   The danger of life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
   (B)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
   (C)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
   (D)   The necessity of the facility to a waterfront location, where
applicable;
   (E)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use which
are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
   (F)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
   (G)   The relationship of the proposed use to the Comprehensive Plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
   (H)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
   (I)   The expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment of
transport of the flood waters at the site; and
   (J)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and bridges.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 2-2-2015)
§ 155.047 CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES.
   (A)   Variances shall only be issued when there is:
      (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
      (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship; and
      (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud or victimization of the public or
conflict with existing laws or ordinances.
   (B)   No variance for a residential use within a floodway subject to §§
155.069 and
155.071(A) may be granted.
   (C)   Any variance granted in a floodway subject to §§
155.069 and
155.071(A) will require a permit from the state’s Department of Natural
Resources.
   (D)   Variances to the provisions for flood hazard reduction of §
155.066 may be granted only when a new structure is to be located on a lot of
one-half acre or less in size, contiguous to and surrounded by lots with
existing structures constructed below the flood protection grade.
   (E)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (F)   Variances may be granted for the reconstruction or restoration of any
structure individually listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the Indiana State Register of Historic Sites and Structures.
   (G)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the flood protection grade and the
elevation to which the lowest floor is to be built and stating that the cost of
the flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from
the reduced lowest floor elevation. (See §
155.048.)
   (H)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency or
the state’s Department of Natural Resources upon request. (See §
155.048.)
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 2-2-2015)
§ 155.048 VARIANCE NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted that allows the lowest
floor of a structure to be built below the flood protection grade shall be
given written notice over the signature of a community official that:
      (1)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the flood
protection grade will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
      (2)   Such construction below the flood protection grade increases risks
to life and property. A copy of the notice shall be recorded by the Floodplain
Administrator in the office of the County Recorder and shall be recorded in a
manner so that it appears in the chain of title of the affected parcel of land.
   (B)   The Floodplain Administrator will maintain a record of all variance
actions, including justification for their issuance.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 2-2-2015)
§ 155.049 HISTORIC STRUCTURES.
   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of “historic
structures” upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation
will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as an “historic
structure” and the variance is the minimum to preserve the historic character
and design of the structure.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 2-2-2015)
§ 155.050 SPECIAL CONDITIONS.
   Upon the consideration of the factors listed in this subchapter, and the
purposes of this chapter, the Board of Zoning Appeals may attach such
conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the
purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 2-2-2015)
FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 155.065 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all SFHAs and known flood-prone areas the following provisions are
required.
   (A)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or
lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use
of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting
wind forces.
   (C)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage below the FPG.
   (D)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed by
methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, utility meters and other service facilities shall be located at/
above the FPG or designed so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating
within the components below the FPG. Water and sewer pipes, electrical and
telephone lines, submersible pumps and other water-proofed service facilities
may be located below the FPG.
   (F)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (G)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (H)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (I)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a structure
that is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall meet the
requirements of “new construction”, as contained in this chapter.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 2-2-2015)
§ 155.066 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all SFHAs, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   General. In addition to the requirements of §
155.065, all structures to be located in the SFHA shall be protected from flood
damage below the FPG. This building protection requirement applies to the
following situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of any structure having a floor area
greater than 400 square
feet;
      (2)   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure where the
cost of the addition or improvement equals or exceeds 50% of the value of the
existing structure (excluding the value of the land);
      (3)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a damaged structure where the
costs of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure (excluding the value of the
land) before damage occurred;
      (4)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than 180 days;
      (5)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. This chapter does not apply to returning the existing
manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it was removed
to avoid flood damage;
      (6)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a repetitive loss structure; and
      (7)   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure with a
previous addition or improvement constructed since the community’s first
floodplain ordinance.
   (B)   Residential structures. New construction or substantial improvement of
any residential structure (or manufactured home) shall have the lowest floor;
including basement, at or above the FPG (two feet above the base flood
elevation). Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a
structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of flood
waters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of division (D)
below.
   (C)   Non-residential structures. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or non-residential structure (or
manufactured home) shall either have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated to or above the FPG (two feet above the base flood elevation) or be
flood- proofed to or above the FPG. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be
used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded
movements of flood waters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of
division (D) below. Structures located in all A Zones may be flood- proofed in
lieu of being elevated if done in accordance with the following.
      (1)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the structure has been designed so that below the FPG, the structure and
attendant utility facilities are water-tight and capable of resisting the
effects of the regulatory flood. The structure design shall take into account
flood velocities, duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic pressures and impacts
from debris or ice. Such certification shall be provided to the official as set
forth in §
155.030(B)(2)(l).
      (2)   Flood-proofing measures shall be operable without human
intervention and without an outside source of electricity.
   (D)   Elevated structures.
      (1)   New construction or substantial improvements of elevated structures
shall have the lowest floor at or above the FPG.
      (2)   Elevated structures with fully enclosed areas formed by foundation
and other exterior walls below the flood protection grade shall be designed to
preclude finished living space and designed to allow for the entry and exit of
flood waters to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior
walls. Designs must meet the following minimum criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings located in a minimum of two
exterior walls (having a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area);
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no more than one foot above
the exterior grade or the interior grade immediately beneath each opening,
whichever is higher;
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices; provided, they permit the automatic flow of flood waters
in both directions;
         (d)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to
allow for parking for vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator);
         (e)   The interior portion of such enclosed area shall not be
partitioned or finished into separate rooms; and
         (f)   The interior grade of such enclosed area shall be at an
elevation at or higher than the exterior grade.
   (E)   Structures constructed on fill. A residential or non-residential
structure may be constructed on a permanent land fill in accordance with the
following.
      (1)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot deep
before compacting to 95% of the maximum density obtainable with either the
Standard or Modified Proctor Test method. The results of the test showing
compliance shall be retained in the permit file.
      (2)   The fill shall extend ten feet beyond the foundation of the
structure before sloping below the BFE.
      (3)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap or bulkheading. If vegetative cover is
used, the slopes shall be no steeper than three horizontal to one vertical (3:
1).
      (4)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties.
      (5)   The top of the lowest floor including basements shall be at or
above the FPG.
   (F)   Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles to be installed or substantially
improved on a site for more than 180 days must meet one of the following
requirements.
      (1)   These requirements apply to all manufactured homes to be placed on
a site outside a manufactured home park or subdivision; in a new manufactured
home park or subdivision; in an expansion to an existing manufactured home park
or subdivision; or in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on
which a manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage” as a result of a
flood.
         (a)   The manufactured home shall be elevated on a permanent
foundation such that the lowest floor shall be at or above the FPG and securely
anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation,
collapse and lateral movement.
         (b)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior
walls below the FPG shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of flood waters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required for elevated
structures in division (D) above.
         (c)   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame
or foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings.
      (2)   These requirements apply to all manufactured homes to be placed on
a site in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision that has not been
substantially damaged by a flood.
         (a)   The manufactured home shall be elevated so that the lowest floor
of the manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or other
foundation elevations that are no less than 36 inches in height above grade and
be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
         (b)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior
walls below the FPG shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of flood waters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required for elevated
structures in division (D) above.
         (c)   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame
or foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings.
      (3)   Recreational vehicles placed on a site shall either:
         (a)   Be on site for less than 180 days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use (defined as being on
its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect
type utilities and security devices and has no permanently attached additions);
or
         (c)   Meet the requirements for “manufactured homes”, as stated
earlier in this section.
   (G)   Accessory structures. Relief to the elevation or dry flood-proofing
standards may be granted for accessory structures. Such structures must meet
the following standards:
      (1)   Shall not be used for human habitation;
      (2)   Shall be constructed of flood-resistant materials;
      (3)   Shall be constructed and placed on the lot to offer the minimum
resistance to the flow of flood waters;
      (4)   Shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation;
      (5)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment shall
be elevated or flood-proofed to or above the FPG; and
      (6)   Shall be designed to allow for the entry and exit of flood waters
to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as
required for elevated structures in division (D) above.
   (H)   Above ground gas or liquid storage tanks. All above ground gas or
liquid storage tanks shall be anchored to prevent flotation or lateral
movement.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 2-2-2015)
§ 155.067 SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (D)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development (including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions), which is greater than the lesser of 50 lots or five acres.
   (E)   All subdivision proposals shall minimize development in the SFHA and/
or limit density of development permitted in the SFHA.
   (F)   All subdivision proposals shall ensure safe access into/out of SFHA
for pedestrians and vehicles (especially emergency responders).
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 2-2-2015)
§ 155.068 CRITICAL FACILITY.
   Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent possible,
located outside the limits of the SFHA. Construction of new critical facilities
shall be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site is
available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the
lowest floor elevated to or above the FPG at the site. Flood-proofing and
sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic substances will not be
displaced by or released into flood waters. Access routes elevated to or above
the FPG shall be provided to all critical facilities to the extent possible.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 2-2-2015)
§ 155.069 IDENTIFIED FLOODWAYS.
   (A)   Located within SFHAs, established in §
155.007, are areas designated as floodways. The floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of flood waters, which carry debris,
potential projectiles and has erosion potential. If the site is in an
identified floodway, the Floodplain Administrator shall require the applicant
to forward the application, along with all pertinent plans and specifications,
to the state’s Department of Natural Resources and apply for a permit for
construction in a floodway.
   (B)   (1)   Under the provisions of I.C. 14-28-1, a permit for construction
in a floodway from the state’s Department of Natural Resources is required
prior to the issuance of a local building permit for any excavation, deposit,
construction or obstruction activity located in the floodway. This includes
land preparation activities such as filling, grading, clearing and paving and
the like undertaken before the actual start of construction of the structure.
      (2)   However, it does exclude non- substantial additions/improvements to
existing (lawful) residences in a non-boundary river floodway. (I.C. 14-28-1-26
allows construction of a non-substantial addition/improvement to a residence in
a non- boundary river floodway without obtaining a permit for construction in
the floodway from the state’s Department of Natural Resources. Please note that
if fill is needed to elevate an addition above the existing grade, prior
approval for the fill is required from the state’s Department of Natural
Resources.)
      (3)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until a
permit or letter of authorization (when applicable) has been issued by the
state’s Department of Natural Resources granting approval for construction in
the floodway. Once a permit for construction in a floodway or letter of
authorization has been issued by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources,
the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local floodplain development permit;
provided, the provisions contained in §§
155.065 through
155.072 have been met. The floodplain development permit cannot be less
restrictive than the permit for construction in a floodway issued by the
state’s Department of Natural Resources. However, a community’s more
restrictive regulations (if any) shall take precedence.
   (C)   No development shall be allowed, which acting alone or in combination
with existing or future development, that will adversely affect the efficiency
of, or unduly restrict the capacity of the floodway. This adverse affect is
defined as an increase in the elevation of the regulatory flood of at least
fifteen-hundredths of a foot as determined by comparing the regulatory flood
elevation under the project condition to that under the natural or pre-
floodway condition as proven with hydraulic analyses.
   (D)   For all projects involving channel modifications or fill (including
levees), the city shall submit the data and request that the Federal Emergency
Management Agency revise the regulatory flood data per mapping standard
regulations found at 44 C.F.R. § 65.12.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 2-2-2015)
§ 155.070 IDENTIFIED FRINGE.
   If the site is located in an identified fringe, then the Floodplain
Administrator may issue the local floodplain development permit provided the
provisions contained in §§
155.065 through
155.072 have been met. The key provision is that the top of the lowest floor of
any new or substantially improved structure shall be at or above the FPG.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 2-2-2015)
§ 155.071 SFHAS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATION AND/OR FLOODWAYS/
FRINGES.
   (A)   Drainage area upstream of the site is greater than one square mile.
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined, and the drainage area
upstream of the site is greater than one square mile, the Floodplain
Administrator shall require the applicant to forward the application, along
with all pertinent plans and specifications, to the state’s Department of
Natural Resources for review and comment.
      (2)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
either a permit for construction in a floodway (including letters of
authorization) or a floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment citing the 1%
annual chance flood elevation and the recommended flood protection grade has
been received from the state’s Department of Natural Resources.
      (3)   Once the Floodplain Administrator has received the proper permit
for construction in a floodway (including letters of authorization) or
floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment approving the proposed development, a
floodplain development permit may be issued provided the conditions of the
floodplain development permit are not less restrictive than the conditions
received from the state’s Department of Natural Resources and the provisions
contained in §§
155.065 through
155.072 have been met.
   (B)   Drainage area upstream of the site is less than one square mile.
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined and the drainage area upstream
of the site is less than one square mile, the Floodplain Administrator shall
require the applicant to provide an engineering analysis showing the limits of
the floodplain and 1% annual chance flood elevation for the site.
      (2)   Upon receipt, the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local
floodplain development permit; provided, the provisions contained in §§
155.065 through
155.072 have been met.
   (C)   Cumulative effect. The total cumulative effect of the proposed
development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated development,
shall not increase the regulatory flood more than fourteen-hundredths of one
foot and shall not increase flood damages or potential flood damages.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 2-2-2015)
§ 155.072 FLOOD-PRONE AREAS.
   All development in known flood-prone areas not identified on FEMA maps, or
where no FEMA published map is available, shall meet applicable standards as
required per §§
155.065 through
155.072.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 2-2-2015)
§ 155.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit in the SFHA or
failure to comply with the requirements of a floodplain development permit or
conditions of a variance shall be deemed to be a violation of this chapter. All
violations shall be considered a common nuisance and be treated as such in
accordance with the provisions of the zoning code for the city. All violations
shall be punishable by a fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation and
not less than $50 or higher than $7,500 for the second or subsequent violations
according to I.C. 36-1-3-8.
   (B)   A separate offense shall be deemed to occur for each day the violation
continues to exist.
   (C)   The Floodplain Administrator shall inform the owner that any such
violation is considered a willful act to increase flood damages and therefore
may cause coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
   (D)   Nothing herein shall prevent the city from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 2-2-2015)
CHAPTER 156: AIRPORT AND AIRCRAFT
Section
General Provisions
   
156.001   Application
Administration and Enforcement
   
156.015   Board of Aviation Commissioners
   
156.016   Airport Manager
   
156.017   Aircraft registration
   
156.018   Aviation operation registration
   
156.019   Approval of Board necessary for business on airport
   
156.020   Authority of Manager to suspend or restrict airport operations
   
156.021   Emergency procedures; Manager’s authority
   
156.022   Approval required for experimental or ground operation
   
156.023   Police assistance
Aircraft Operations
   
156.035   Parking aircraft
   
156.036   Warming up aircraft
   
156.037   Taxiing rules
   
156.038   Landing and takeoff rules
   
156.039   Removing aircraft and parts from fields
   
156.040   Damage to airport property by aircraft
   
156.041   Flammable liquids; fire prevention
   
156.042   Fueling operations
   
156.043   Repairing aircraft
   
156.044   Injuring or interfering with equipment or aircraft
   
156.045   Accidents
   
156.046   Aeronautical students and instructors
   
156.047   Public safeguards
   
156.048   Lessee responsibilities
Conduct and Regulations
   
156.060   Disorderly conduct
   
156.061   Sanitation
   
156.062   Throwing debris
   
156.063   Posting or distributing advertisements or circulars
   
156.064   Solicitation
   
156.065   Animals
   
156.066   Prior approval for activities required
   
156.067   Use of roads and walks
   
156.068   Camping prohibited
   
156.069   Model aircraft
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.001 APPLICATION.
   The following rules will govern the conduct of all persons at the Richmond
Municipal Airport engaged in any aeronautical activities or while flying in the
airport traffic zone, unless exceptions are specifically provided in federal or
state regulations, or unless exceptions not in conflict with federal or state
regulations have been authorized by the city’s Board of Aviation Commissioners.
No airman or other person shall operate any aircraft to or from the airport
otherwise than in conformity with the provisions of the laws of the state or
federal laws, rules or regulations applicable to the operation. The rules
promulgated hereunder shall also apply to all persons in attendance, visiting
or observing activities at the Richmond Municipal Airport, whether the persons
are engaged in any aeronautical activities or not.
(Prior Code, § 90.01) (Ord. 1594-1956, passed - -1956; Ord. 3159-1976, passed -
-1976)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 156.015 BOARD OF AVIATION COMMISSIONERS.
   (A)   The Richmond Municipal Airport shall at all times be under the control
of the Board of Aviation Commissioners, who shall designate an Airport Manager
to supervise the operation of the airport.
   (B)   The Airport Manager shall be under the direct supervision and control
of the Board of Aviation Commissioners and shall be responsible to the Board
for the execution of the rules and regulations.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Airport Manager to see that the rules and
orders promulgated by the Board of Aviation Commissioners are observed by all
persons engaged in any aeronautical activity at the airport or by any other
persons using the airport premises.
(Prior Code, § 90.05) (Ord. 1594-1956, passed - -1956; Ord. 3259-1976, passed -
-1976)
§ 156.016 AIRPORT MANAGER.
   (A)   The Airport Manager shall at all times be the fully designated
representative or agent of the Board of Aviation Commissioners in the execution
of these rules and regulations.
   (B)   He or she shall at all times have the authority to take such action as
may be necessary to safeguard the public in attendance at the airport as well
as private or public property.
(Prior Code, § 90.06) (Ord. 1594-1956, passed - -1956; Ord. 3259-1976, passed -
-1976)
§ 156.017 AIRCRAFT REGISTRATION.
   The owners of all aircraft based at the airport shall register the aircraft
with the Board of Aviation Commissioners, indicating information relative to
the aircraft as may be required by the Board.
(Prior Code, § 90.07) (Ord. 1594-1956, passed - -1956; Ord. 3259-1976, passed -
-1976)
§ 156.018 AVIATION OPERATOR REGISTRATION.
   (A)   All aviation operators based, stationed or employed on the airport
premises or operating therefrom shall register with the Board of Aviation
Commissioners, indicating their full name, address, telephone number and nature
of the activity engaged in at the airport.
   (B)   For the purposes of this chapter, an AVIATION OPERATOR is any person
or organization engaged in business of an aviation nature.
(Prior Code, § 90.08) (Ord. 1594-1956, passed - -1956; Ord. 3259-1976, passed -
-1976)
§ 156.019 APPROVAL OF BOARD NECESSARY FOR BUSINESS ON AIRPORT.
   No person shall engage in any business or commercial activity of any nature
whatsoever on the airport, except with the approval of the Board of Aviation
Commissioners and under such terms and conditions as may be prescribed.
(Prior Code, § 90.09) (Ord. 1594-1956, passed - -1956; Ord. 3259-1976, passed -
-1976) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 156.020 AUTHORITY OF MANAGER TO SUSPEND OR RESTRICT AIRPORT OPERATIONS.
   (A)   Within the interest of safety, the Airport Manager may suspend or
restrict any or all operations.
   (B)   In the event the Manager believes the airport conditions are unsafe
for air traffic, it shall be within his or her authority to issue a NOTAM
closing any or all of the airport.
   (C)   The Manager shall notify all aviation operators on the airport in
advance whenever the airport or any portion thereof will be closed or NOTAMed
for any reason. The notices shall be in writing and posted by all aviation
operators in public view during the closure.
(Prior Code, § 90.10) (Ord. 1594-1956, passed - -1956; Ord. 3259-1976, passed -
-1976)
§ 156.021 EMERGENCY PROCEDURES; MANAGER’S AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Emergency procedures for the airport will be issued at the discretion
of the Manager under authority of this chapter.
   (B)   Under any emergency conditions all personnel on the airport will act
strictly in accordance with the procedures as set up and under the direct
control of the Manager.
(Prior Code, § 90.11) (Ord. 1594-1956, passed - -1956; Ord. 3259-1976, passed -
-1976)
§ 156.022 APPROVAL REQUIRED FOR EXPERIMENTAL OR GROUND OPERATION.
   Non-experimental or ground operation shall be conducted on the airport
without the approval of the Manager and the city’s Board of Aviation
Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 90.12) (Ord. 1594-1956, passed - -1956; Ord. 3259-1976, passed -
-1976)
§ 156.023 POLICE ASSISTANCE.
   In the event that occasions arise that are beyond the capability of the
Airport Manager to cope with, the Police Department shall be called on by the
Manager for assistance and action as deemed necessary.
(Prior Code, § 90.13) (Ord. 1594-1956, passed - -1956; Ord. 3259-1976, passed -
-1976)
AIRCRAFT OPERATIONS
§ 156.035 PARKING AIRCRAFT.
   No person shall park an aircraft in any area on the airport, except those
places designated for the parking of aircraft.
(Prior Code, § 90.20) (Ord. 1594-1956, passed - -1956; Ord. 3259-1976, passed -
-1976) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 156.036 WARMING UP AIRCRAFT.
   Aircraft shall not warm-up in any area that would result in any hazard to
other aircraft, persons or property.
(Prior Code, § 90.21) (Ord. 1594-1956, passed - -1956; Ord. 3259-1976, passed -
-1976) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 156.037 TAXIING RULES.
   (A)   No person shall taxi an aircraft until he or she has ascertained that
there will be no danger of collision with any person or object in the immediate
area by visual inspection of the area and, when available, through information
from airport attendants.
   (B)   No aircraft shall be operated in a careless or reckless manner or
taxied, except at a safe or reasonable speed. Particular caution shall be
exercised while near other aircraft or buildings.
   (C)   Pilots shall not taxi across any runway in use until the pilot has
made sure the runway is free of traffic.
   (D)   All aircraft shall avoid taxiing downwind on the active runway unless
the prescribed taxi pattern to the active runway cannot be used.
   (E)   (1)   No person shall start or run any engine in an aircraft unless a
competent person is in the aircraft, attending the engine controls.
      (2)   Blocks shall always be placed in front of the wheels before
starting any engine unless the aircraft has adequate brakes.
   (F)   No person shall run any engine of any aircraft at any location on the
airport in such a manner as to cause damage to other aircraft or property or to
endanger the safety of the airport.
   (G)   (1)   No aircraft shall be taxied in or out of any hangar, nor shall
an aircraft engine be started or run in a hangar.
      (2)   No person other than a mechanic, certified pilot or other qualified
person shall taxi an aircraft on any part of the airport.
      (3)   No person other than a mechanic, certified pilot or qualified
person shall be at the controls of any airplane while any engine is being
started.
   (H)   (1)   No person shall drive any vehicle, other than an aircraft, onto
any taxiway or runway without the permission of the Manager.
      (2)   Any vehicle, other than an aircraft, shall not be driven on any
runway without either a flashing amber beacon or displaying a large orange and
white checkered flag or both.
(Prior Code, § 90.22) (Ord. 1594-1956, passed - -1956; Ord. 3259-1976, passed -
-1976) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 156.038 LANDING AND TAKEOFF RULES.
   (A)   Landings and takeoffs shall be made on the runway assigned or in the
direction given or indicated by the tetrahedron.
   (B)   All aircraft will fly a left-hand traffic pattern for all runways and
at an altitude of at least 850 feet above the terrain. The base leg will be
made at a distance of at least 1,000 feet from the downwind side of the landing
area.
   (C)   Aircraft will leave the traffic pattern by flying straight ahead after
takeoff until an altitude of at least 1,000 feet above the terrain has been
reached or at least three miles from the airport, or at 45 degrees from the
crosswind leg.
   (D)   Simulated forced landings are forbidden within the airport traffic
zone, unless an instructor is along.
   (E)   All aircraft will enter the traffic pattern anywhere on the crosswind
or downwind leg.
   (F)   When an aircraft is taking off, no turns shall be initiated until the
aircraft is past the end of the runway and has attained an altitude of at least
400 feet above the terrain.
   (G)   No aircraft shall fly over the airport at an altitude of less than
1,500 feet above the terrain unless landing or taking off.
   (H)   Intersection take off shall be permitted only when no other traffic is
waiting to take off and the pilot has made doubly sure that all other traffic
is clear.
(Prior Code, § 90.23) (Ord. 1594-1956, passed - -1956; Ord. 3259-1976, passed -
-1976) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 156.039 REMOVING AIRCRAFT AND PARTS FROM FIELD.
   All unhoused, disabled aircraft and parts thereof shall be removed from the
airport promptly by the owner, or his or her authorized agent, unless they are
delayed pending an investigation of an accident.
(Prior Code, § 90.24) (Ord. 1594-1956, passed - -1956; Ord. 3259-1976, passed -
-1976) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 156.040 DAMAGE TO AIRPORT PROPERTY BY AIRCRAFT.
   Any person damaging any light or fixture on the airport by means of contact
with an aircraft or otherwise shall be fully responsible for any damages
involved.
(Prior Code, § 90.25) (Ord. 1594-1956, passed - -1956; Ord. 3259-1976, passed -
-1976) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 156.041 FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS; FIRE PREVENTION.
   (A)   No person shall use inflammable volatile liquids having a flash point
of less than 110°F, in cleaning aircraft, aircraft engines, propellers,
appliances or for any other purpose, unless the operations are conducted in
open air, or in a room specifically set aside for that purpose which must be
properly fire-proofed and equipped with adequate and readily accessible fire
extinguishing apparatus, all subject to conformation of the city’s Fire Code.
   (B)   No person shall keep or store any inflammable liquids, gases, signal
flares or other similar material in the hangars or in any building on the
airport; provided that, the materials may be kept in an aircraft in the proper
receptacles installed in the aircraft for this purpose or in Insurance
Underwriters approved safety cans, or in rooms or areas specifically approved
for such storage by the Manager.
   (C)   Lubricating or waste oils shall not be stored in or about the hangars;
except that, not more that 12 hours supply of lubricating oil may be kept in or
about a hangar in containers or receptacles approved by Insurance Underwriters.
The material may be kept in rooms specifically designated for oil storage.
   (D)   No person shall conduct any open-flame operations in any hangar or on
the airport unless specifically authorized to do so by the Manager.
   (E)   No person shall smoke on the airport apron, in any hangar or shop,
service station area, gasoline storage area or in any building, room or place
on the airport where smoking is specifically prohibited by the Manager.
(Prior Code, § 90.26) (Ord. 1594-1956, passed - -1956; Ord. 3259-1976, passed -
-1976) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 156.042 FUELING OPERATIONS.
   The following rules govern the fueling and defueling of aircraft.
   (A)   No aircraft shall be fueled or defueled while the engine is running or
being warmed by applications of exterior heat, or while the aircraft is in a
hangar or enclosed space.
   (B)   No person shall smoke within 100 feet of an aircraft being fueled or
defueled.
   (C)   No person shall operate any radio transmitter or receiver, or switch
electrical appliances off or on in an aircraft during fueling or defueling.
   (D)   During refueling, the aircraft and the fueling dispensing apparatus
shall be grounded to a point or points of zero electrical potential.
   (E)   Persons engaged in the fueling and defueling of aircraft shall
exercise care to prevent overflow of fuel.
   (F)   No person shall carry on any work or activity or use any material in
the vicinity of aircraft being fueled or defueled which is likely to cause a
spark or be a source of ignition.
   (G)   Adequate fire extinguishers shall be within ready reach of all persons
on the field engaged in fueling or defueling aircraft.
   (H)   No person shall start the engine of any aircraft when there is any
gasoline on the ground under the aircraft.
   (I)   Fueling hoses and equipment shall be maintained in a safe, sound and
non-leaking condition.
   (J)   All hoses, funnels and appurtenances used in fueling and defueling
operations shall be equipped with a grounding device to prevent ignitions of
volatile liquids.
   (K)   All fueling and defueling of aircraft shall be conducted at least 50
feet from any hangar or other building.
(Prior Code, § 90.27) (Ord. 1594-1956, passed - -1956; Ord. 3259-1976, passed -
-1976) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 156.043 REPAIRING AIRCRAFT.
   No person other than a qualified mechanic shall repair an aircraft, aircraft
engine, propeller or apparatus in any area on the airport; except that,
designated as a shop hangar by the RBOAC and then only under the supervision of
a qualified mechanic.
(Prior Code, § 90.28) (Ord. 1594-1956, passed - -1956; Ord. 3259-1976, passed -
-1976) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 156.044 INJURING OR INTERFERING WITH EQUIPMENT OR AIRCRAFT.
   (A)   No person shall interfere with any aircraft or put in motion the
engine of such aircraft, or use any aircraft, aircraft parts, instruments or
tools, without the permission of the owner or by specific direction of the
Manager for reasons of safety.
   (B)   No person shall interfere with, tamper with or injure any part of the
airport or any of the equipment thereon.
(Prior Code, § 90.29) (Ord. 1594-1956, passed - -1956; Ord. 3259-1976, passed -
-1976) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 156.045 ACCIDENTS.
   Witnesses of and participants in aircraft accidents on or near the airport
shall report the accidents to the Airport Manager’s office as soon as possible
after the accident, leaving their names and addresses and making such
statements regarding the accident as may be appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 90.30) (Ord. 1594-1956, passed - -1956; Ord. 3259-1976, passed -
-1976)
§ 156.046 AERONAUTICAL STUDENTS AND INSTRUCTORS.
   (A)   A list of all aeronautical students and instructors shall be kept by
the fixed-base operators responsible for each student and shall be made
available to the RBOAC upon request.
   (B)   Instructors shall fully acquaint their students with the aircraft and
airport operation rules and shall be responsible for the conduct of students
under their direction and any violations which may arise. When a student is
flying solo, it shall be his or her responsibility to observe and abide by
these rules.
(Prior Code, § 90.31) (Ord. 1594-1956, passed - -1956; Ord. 3259-1976, passed -
-1976)
§ 156.047 PUBLIC SAFEGUARDS.
   It shall be the responsibility of the airline operators and the fixed-base
operators to see that all gate chains and other public safeguards are
continually and conscientiously used in a manner to protect all persons.
(Prior Code, § 90.32) (Ord. 1594-1956, passed - -1956; Ord. 3259-1976, passed -
-1976)
§ 156.048 LESSEE RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   No tenants, lessees or grantees will be permitted to effect structural
or decorative changes or additions of any type without prior permission of the
Board of Aviation Commissioners.
   (B)   Tenants, lessees or grantees shall be fully responsible for all
damages to buildings, equipment, real property and appurtenances in the
ownership or custody of the Board of Aviation Commissioners caused by
negligence, abuse or carelessness on the part of their employees, agents,
customers, visitors, suppliers or persons with whom they do business.
   (C)   All lessees shall maintain bulletin boards in conspicuous places on
their leased premises for the purpose of posting information for their
personnel and notices issued by the FAA, ACI, RBOAC or the Manager.
(Prior Code, § 90.33) (Ord. 1594-1956, passed - -1956; Ord. 3259-1976, passed -
-1976) Penalty, see §
10.999
CONDUCT AND REGULATIONS
§ 156.060 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person shall bring alcoholic beverages onto the airport, become
intoxicated, commit any disorderly conduct or generally make a nuisance of
himself or herself on the airport.
   (B)   No person shall engage in or conduct gambling in any form or operate
gambling devices anywhere on the airport.
(Prior Code, § 90.40) (Ord. 1594-1956, passed - -1956; Ord. 3259-1976, passed -
-1976) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 156.061 SANITATION.
   (A)   No person shall dispose of garbage, paper, refuse or other material on
the airport, except in the receptacles provided for that purpose.
   (B)   No person shall expectorate on the floors, walls or other surfaces of
any airport building.
   (C)   No person shall bring or consume food in the terminal building other
than that food or drink normally sold in the building.
(Prior Code, § 90.41) (Ord. 1594-1956, passed - -1956; Ord. 3259-1976, passed -
-1976) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 156.062 THROWING DEBRIS.
   No person shall throw paper, cigars, cigarettes, bottles or any other
material whatsoever from the observation balcony (concourse) or windows or
roofs of any buildings or structures on the airport.
(Prior Code, § 90.42) (Ord. 1594-1956, passed - -1956; Ord. 3259-1976, passed -
-1976) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 156.063 POSTING OR DISTRIBUTING ADVERTISEMENTS OR CIRCULARS.
   No person shall post, distribute or display sign advertisements, circulars
or any other printed or written material at the airport, except with the
approval of the Manager and in such a manner as may be prescribed by him or
her, unless permitted by reason of contractual relations between such person
and the RBOAC.
(Prior Code, § 90.43) (Ord. 1594-1956, passed - -1956; Ord. 3259-1976, passed -
-1976) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 156.064 SOLICITATION.
   The soliciting of fares, alms or funds for any purpose on the airport is
prohibited without the written permission of the RBOAC.
(Prior Code, § 90.44) (Ord. 1594-1956, passed - -1956; Ord. 3259-1976, passed -
-1976) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 156.065 ANIMALS.
   No person shall enter the terminal building or field area of the airport
with a dog or other animal. Seeing-eye dogs may be permitted for the
appropriate purpose, or where such animals are to be transported by air and are
restrained by leash or properly confined.
(Prior Code, § 90.45) (Ord. 1594-1956, passed - -1956; Ord. 3259-1976, passed -
-1976) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 156.066 PRIOR APPROVAL FOR ACTIVITIES REQUIRED.
   No activities other than those which are considered to be appropriate with
normal airport operations will be permitted on the airport without prior
written approval of the RBOAC.
(Prior Code, § 90.46) (Ord. 3159-1976, passed - -1976) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 156.067 USE OF ROADS AND WALKS.
   (A)   No person shall travel on the airport other than on the roads, walks
or places provided for such particular class of traffic.
   (B)   No person shall occupy the roads or walks in such a manner as to
hinder or obstruct their proper use.
   (C)   No person shall operate any type of vehicle for the disposal of
garbage, ashes or other waste material on the airport without the approval of
the Manager.
(Prior Code, § 90.47) (Ord. 1594-1956, passed - -1956; Ord. 3259-1976, passed -
-1976) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 156.068 CAMPING PROHIBITED.
   Camping, trailers, tents or other temporary housing shall be prohibited on
the airport unless written permission has been granted by the RBOAC.
(Prior Code, § 90.48) (Ord. 3159-1976, passed - -1976) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 156.069 MODEL AIRCRAFT.
   (A)   All organizations desiring to engage in model airplane flying on the
airport shall register with the Airport Manager each time they want to operate
the models and shall operate them only on his or her approval and only in the
area which he or she may designate and strictly in accordance with his or her
direction.
   (B)   Every person or organization engaged in the flying of model aircraft
on the airport shall be fully responsible for any injuries or damages suffered
by any persons as a result of the activity. The Board of Aviation Commissioners
shall be neither responsible nor liable.
   (C)   No model flying is permitted unless the model is controlled by radio
or by control line.
(Prior Code, § 90.49) (Ord. 1594-1956, passed - -1956; Ord. 3259-1976, passed -
-1976) Penalty, see §
10.999
CHAPTER 157: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
157.001   Building numbering
   
157.002   Voluntary curb and sidewalk partnership program
   
157.003   Unconstitutionality clause
Obstruction of Public Ways
   
157.015   Obstructing streets
   
157.016   Definitions
   
157.017   Merchandise on sidewalks
   
157.018   Awnings and canopies over sidewalks
   
157.019   Gates along sidewalks
Excavations in Streets
   
157.030   Excavations generally
   
157.031   Streets under repair
   
157.032   Installation of utilities when paving street
   
157.033   Applicable laws
   
157.034   Public utilities master plan
Regulations and Conditions
   
157.045   Barbed wire fences
   
157.046   Debris on streets
   
157.047   Spitting on sidewalks
   
157.048   Water on downspouts
   
157.049   Cleaning sidewalks
   
157.050   Damaging streets and sidewalks
   
157.051   Portable engines on streets
 
   
157.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 157.001 BUILDING NUMBERING.
   (A)   Every house or building fronting on any street, avenue place or court
in the city shall be numbered by the owner or occupant on the front in a
conspicuous place, and with figures no less than three inches in height. The
numbering shall be done in conformity with the following plan or system.
      (1)   On Main Street, and on all other streets running east and west and
parallel with Main Street, the buildings and lots on the north sides of the
streets shall be numbered with even numbers and on the south sides with odd
numbers, and on all streets running, at right angles, or across Main Street
north and south, the buildings and lots on the west sides of the streets shall
be numbered with even numbers and on the east side with odd numbers.
      (2)   On Main Street and on all streets running east and west parallel
with Main Street the numbering shall commence with the Whitewater River and the
west branch of the river, and increase eastward and westward. On all streets
running north and south at right angles, or across Main Street, the numbering
shall commence at Main Street, and increase northward and southward. On all
courts, places and avenues the numbers shall commence at the places named as
the beginning points, and the buildings and lots shall be numbered with odd and
even numbers on the opposite side, as near as practicable in conformity with
the plan hereinabove provided for other streets. On all streets, avenues,
places and courts, a number shall be assigned for every 20 feet front of
ground, as near as practicable.
      (3)   On Main Street and all streets running east and west parallel with
Main Street on the east side of Whitewater River and the west branch of the
river the buildings and lots west of First Street shall be numbered with
numbers one and two on the proper sides, and increase eastward in consecutive
odd and even numbers to First Street, then beginning with numbers 100 and 101
on the proper sides increase in consecutive odd and even numbers to Second
Street, then beginning with the numbers 200 and 201 on the proper sides
increase in consecutive odd and even numbers to Third Street, and in the same
manner progress eastward. That after each street crossing the numbering shall
begin with a new hundred corresponding to the numerical name of the crossing
street.
      (4)   On Main Street and all streets running east and west parallel with
Main Street on the west side of the Whitewater River and the west branch of
said river, the buildings and lots east of Southwest First Street or Northwest
First Street, as the case may be, shall be numbered with numbers one and two on
the proper sides, and increase westward in consecutive odd and even numbers to
Southwest First Street or Northwest First Street, as the case may be, then
beginning with numbers 100 and 101 on the proper sides increase in consecutive
odd and even numbers to Southwest Second Street or Northwest Second Street, as
the case may be, then beginning with the numbers 200 and 201 on the proper
sides increase in consecutive odd and even numbers to Southwest Third Street or
Northwest Third Street, as the case may be, and in the same manner progress
westward, so that after each street crossing the numbering shall begin with a
new hundred corresponding to the numerical name of the crossing street.
      (5)   On all streets running north and south at right angles with or
across Main Street, the buildings and lots shall be numbered beginning at Main
Street with the numbers 1 and 2 on the proper sides, increase northward or
southward, as the case may be, in consecutive odd and even number to North A
and South A Streets or to Northwest A and Southwest A Streets, as the case may
be, thence beginning with the number 100 and 101 on the proper sides increase
in consecutive odd and even numbers to North B and South B Streets or to
Northwest B and Southwest B Streets, as the case may be, then beginning with
the numbers 200 and 201 on the proper sides increase in consecutive odd and
even numbers to North C and South C or to Northwest C and Southwest C Streets,
as the case may be, and in the same manner progress northward and southward, as
the case may be, so that after each street crossing the numbering shall begin
with a new hundred corresponding with the number of the alphabet with which the
crossing street is named.
      (6)   On all avenues, places, and courts, the buildings and lots shall be
numbered commencing at the beginning points with the number 1 and 2 on the
proper sides, and increase progressively toward the other end, in consecutive
odd and even numbers.
   (B)   The City Engineer shall prepare the necessary plats, books, blanks to
show the proper number for every building and lot which is entitled to a
number. He or she shall inform the owner or occupant of any building or lot of
the number on application by the owner or occupant.
   (C)   (1)   When any building or room is erected, constructed or removed on
or to any lot fronting on any street, avenue, place or court in the city it
shall be the duty of the owner or occupant of the building or room to procure
the necessary certificate, and to number his or her building in accordance with
the requirements herein within one month after the completion, removal or
occupancy of the building.
      (2)   On his or her failure or refusal to do so, the city shall cause the
numbering to be done and the costs to be collected from the owner or occupant.
(Prior Code, § 96.30) (Ord. passed 12-20-1880)
§ 157.002 VOLUNTARY CURB AND SIDEWALK PARTNERSHIP PROGRAM.
   (A)   Name/purpose of program. The program established by this section shall
be referred to as the “Voluntary Curb and Sidewalk Partnership Program”. The
intent of this program is to encourage adjoining property owners to repair and
upgrade existing curbs and sidewalks at locations where the city agrees such
repair is needed. The intent is not to provide materials for curb and sidewalk
construction in newly constructed neighborhoods or subdivisions.
   (B)   Provision of materials. As one method in assuring continued upkeep of
public curbs and sidewalks, the city shall offer a program whereby the city
shall attempt to provide the materials for any curb or sidewalk construction or
repair when the adjoining resident or business provides the necessary labor
pursuant to this chapter. This program and provision of materials shall be
subject to budgetary restraints and any priorities established by the city
administration.
   (C)   Provision of labor. Any resident or business who desires to
participate in the program outlined herein and have curb or sidewalk repairs or
construction performed in a specific location shall provide all necessary labor
as required by the Street Division. The adjoining resident or business may
perform the labor themselves or hire a contractor to perform the labor. Nothing
in this section shall prohibit another person or entity from performing or
paying for the necessary labor on behalf of any resident or business. All labor
performed must conform to city standards available at the Street Division.
   (D)   Administration of program. This program shall be administered by the
Street Division of the Department of Public Works and Engineering. The Street
Division will adopt reasonable procedures for the orderly administration of
this program.
   (E)   Funding of program. This program shall be funded from the non-
reverting infrastructure fund established by Ord. 134-1996, which contains
donations from property owners receiving tax abatements. Nothing in this
section shall prevent other funds from being used for this program as needed.
   (F)   Neighborhood associations and civic organizations. Neighborhood
associations, civic organizations and others are encouraged to utilize this
program to assist those who are financially or physically incapable of
providing the necessary labor for curb or sidewalk repair or construction.
(Prior Code, § 96.35) (Ord. 36-1997, passed - -1997)
§ 157.003 UNCONSTITUTIONALITY CLAUSE.
   Should any section, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this chapter be
properly declared unconstitutional or invalid for any reason, the remainder of
said chapter shall not be affected thereby.
(Prior Code, § 96.99) (Ord. 28-2013, passed - -2013)
OBSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC WAYS
§ 157.015 OBSTRUCTING STREETS.
   No person shall obstruct or endanger, or place or permit anything to
obstruct or endanger the free passage or proper use of the public of any
street, sidewalk, crosswalk, bridge or entrance to any church, school, theater,
hotel or public building, except as may be necessary while loading or unloading
merchandise or materials, and except as may be permitted under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 96.01) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.016 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS (ENTERPRISE). The use of land or a structure for manufacturing,
processing, wholesale or resale of products. Also, the provision of services to
customers and/or clients. This definition is not intended to include sales
permitted under §§
115.001 and
115.002 of this code of ordinances.
   ENCROACHMENT. Any private or public temporary or long-term use of a sidewalk
for purposes other than movement of pedestrians or other use by the city in
conducting its business.
   OUTDOOR SEATING. Seating provided at a table directly adjacent to a retail
establishment where food is sold as a primary or secondary part of its daily
operations.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person walking, walking with the assistance of a walking
device or in a wheelchair.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for use of
pedestrians.
   SIGN. Any writing, pictorial representation, emblem, flag or any other
figures of similar character which is a structure or part thereof or is
attached or painted on or in any manner represented on a building or structure;
and is used to announce, direct attention to, or advertise; and is visible from
outside a building. The word SIGN includes the word BILLBOARD, but does not
include the flag, pennant or insignia of any nation, state, city or other
political unit, or of any political, educational, charitable, philanthropic,
civic, professional, religious or like campaign, drive, movement or event.
Further, this definition shall not be held to include any board, sign or
surface used to display any official notices issued by any court or public
office or posted by a public officer in the performance of a public duty.
   SPECIAL EVENT. An event planned in conjunction with other businesses in a
business district where three or more businesses plan to encroach on the
sidewalk for a like period of time.
   STREET. A public right-of-way 50 feet or more in width or any such right-of-
way less than 50 feet in width; provided, it existed prior to the adoption of
this subchapter which has been improved and accepted by the responsible local
governmental unit for maintenance and which provides a public means of access
to abutting property. The term STREET shall include avenue, drive, circle,
road, parkway, boulevard, highway, thoroughfare or any other similar term.
(Prior Code, § 96.01.01) (Ord. 95-1984, passed - -1984; Ord. 57-1997, passed -
-1997)
§ 157.017 MERCHANDISE ON SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall for the purpose of display, exhibition, seating
or sale, place or permit or allow the placing of any merchandise or commodity
beyond the real estate boundary of the premises occupied by him or her facing a
public highway or sidewalk without a valid sidewalk encroachment permit, if
applicable.
      (2)   Activities performed without a valid sidewalk encroachment permit
are a violation of the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Planters, public benches without advertising and trash containers may
be placed on a sidewalk directly adjacent to a business without a sidewalk
encroachment permit as long as a minimum clear straight pathway of 48 inches
can be maintained at all times. Bike racks may be installed by a business
district as long as a minimum clear straight pathway of 48 inches can be
maintained at all times, including when bicycles are attached, and shall meet
all other provisions of this chapter. Bike racks must compliment the
architecture of the business district and shall have approval of the Board of
Public Works and Safety.
      (1)   Eligible sidewalks for encroachment shall be all sidewalks where a
minimum of 48 inches of clear straight pathway can be maintained adjacent to a
business after the encroachment is located on the sidewalk.
      (2)   All sidewalk encroachment permits shall be approved by the city
Board of Public Works and Safety and may be subjected to approval of other
applicable agencies including, but not limited to, the state’s Department of
Transportation and city’s Department of Public Works.
      (3)   Encroachments shall not limit access to any public safety related
public improvements such as fire hydrants or infringe upon a pedestrian’s free
and safe passage along a sidewalk.
      (4)   (a)   Businesses requesting a sidewalk encroachment permit for
outdoor seating shall be businesses who sell retail food as a primary or
secondary part of their daily operations and shall abide by all requirements
established in
Ch. 165 of this code of ordinances. No alcoholic beverages may be served in
outdoor seating areas located on a sidewalk.
         (b)   If a business requesting a sidewalk encroachment permit for
outdoor seating is required by law, statute or regulation to enclose or
separate the encroachment from the rest of the public right-of-way, the method
of enclosure or separation, such as a fence, shall be reviewed and approved by
the Department of Public Works and Safety and shall abide by all requirements
established in Ch. 165 of this code of ordinances.
      (5)   Businesses eligible for a sidewalk encroachment permit for
merchandising shall be all businesses conducting retail sales as the major part
of their daily operations and whose businesses are housed immediately adjacent
to the area of sidewalk requested for merchandising use.
      (6)   Encroachment for outdoor seating may be approved for a one-year
period. Permits will valid for a calendar year, January 1 to December 31.
      (7)   Encroachment for outdoor merchandising may be approved for up to a
48-hour period. Permits may not be granted for back to back 48-hour periods and
may be limited in number by the Board of Public Works and Safety. Permits for
regular or reoccurring encroachment may be considered on a case by case basis.
Encroachments for a period up to 72 hours may be approved only if 24 hours of
the request falls on Independence Day, Memorial Day or Labor Day.
      (8)   All sidewalk encroachment requests shall be accompanied by the
appropriate application fee, required attachments and a form prescribed by the
Department of Metropolitan Development which shall include the following
information at a minimum:
         (a)   Name, street address and phone number and email address of
applicant;
         (b)   Name and street address of property owner if the owner is not
the applicant:
         (c)   Street address of the property where encroachment is requested;
         (d)   A certificate of insurance establishing proof of a comprehensive
general liability policy naming the city as one of the insured to remain in
effect during the term of encroachment;
         (e)   A drawing to scale of the proposed encroachment demonstrating
how the clear straight pathway will be maintained including:
            1.   The relationship to public improvements including, but not
limited to, planters, fire hydrants, utility poles, trees, tree grates,
landscaping, trash containers and benches;
            2.   The location and type of merchandise or seating to be
displayed; and
            3.   The existing and proposed circulation pattern for pedestrians
with the exact dimensions of the clear straight pathway; and other information
applicable to the type of encroachment requested.
         (f)   Length of time requested for the encroachment;
         (g)   Plans for the operation of the encroachment including, but not
limited to, hours of operation, services to be provided, maintenance and
cleaning; and
         (h)   Evidence that adjacent property owners have been notified of the
proposed encroachment.
      (9)   Applications for a sidewalk encroach- ment permit should be
submitted at least 30 days prior to the date the applicant wishes to encroach,
but no earlier than 90 days.
      (10)   Applications for an annual sidewalk encroachment permit for
outdoor seating shall be assessed an application fee of $50 for a one year
permit.
      (11)   Applications for a sidewalk encroachment permit for outdoor
merchandising for a single event, up to 48 hours, shall be assessed an
application fee of $15. If multiple dates for separate events, up to 48 hours
each, are listed on the same application, an application fee of $25 shall be
assessed.
      (12)   Applications for special events may be submitted on one
application as long as all information required in division (B)(8) above is
included for all businesses that plan to encroach on the sidewalk. The
application fee for a special event encroachment shall be $35.
      (13)   The applicant shall maintain a copy of his or her permit and
application at their location for inspection upon request by any city official/
officer.
      (14)   (a)   Any encroachment permit may be revoked by any city official/
officer of authority if that official/officer has found that any petitioner for
that permit has violated any terms or conditions of the permit whereas public
safety is compromised
         (b)   No person shall place any signs along and on the sidewalks,
unless allowed by Chapter 165 of this code of ordinances, or in the area
between the sidewalks and the curbs of the city.
(Prior Code, § 96.02) (Ord.49-2008, passed - -2008) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.018 AWNINGS AND CANOPIES OVER SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall erect, construct or maintain over, along or across any
sidewalk along any street, alley or thoroughfare within the city, any awning,
shed, suspended canopy, marquee, cover or other suspended structure, except a
temporary canvas or woven cloth awning hinged with iron frame hinges to a
building, without a permit from the Board of Public Works. Before any awning,
shed, suspended canopy or marquee, or any other structure may be erected over
or maintained over a sidewalk along a street, alley or thoroughfare, the owner
or occupant of the building and entrance in the front of which it is to be
erected, shall submit the plans and specifications for the construction and the
manner of maintenance to the Board of Public Works for investigation and
approval. On only the approval of the plans by the Board shall the same be
constructed. A permanent awning, shed, suspended canopy or marquee made of
metal or other fire-proof material may be erected and maintained over sidewalks
along a street, alley or thoroughfare, immediately in front of the entrance to
any hotel or theater if it does not extend more than 12 feet on either side of
the centerline of the entrance to the building and the height is not less than
12 feet above the sidewalk at the lowest point of the structure.
(Prior Code, § 96.03) (Ord. 853-1926, passed - -1926) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.019 GATES ALONG SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   The owner of any property in the city having a frontage on any street
or sidewalk shall not maintain or construct a gate on the premises in such a
manner that the gate swings over the street or sidewalk bordering on the
premises.
   (B)   It shall not be deemed a violation of this section if the gate
automatically swings back into a closed position after being used, by means of
springs, weights or other mechanical contrivance, so that it will not extend
over the street or sidewalk when not in use.
(Prior Code, § 96.04) (Ord. passed 1-16-2006)
EXCAVATIONS IN STREETS
§ 157.030 EXCAVATIONS GENERALLY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CITY. The City of Richmond, Indiana.
      CONTRACTOR. Any person, company, firm or corporation performing an
excavation within the right-of-way of the city.
      DPW. The City of Richmond, Indiana, Department of Public Works and
Engineering.
      EXCAVATION. To cut, dig, trench, excavate, grade, tunnel, bore or to in
any way disturb the existing earth or infrastructure contained within a public
right-of-way of the city.
      PLANS. The approved plans, profiles, typical cross-sections, standard
drawings, working drawings and supplemental drawings or exact reproductions
thereof.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. The strip of land dedicated to the use of the public by
virtue of legal documentation or long use. Types of RIGHTS-OF- WAY include, but
are not limited to: roads; streets; alleys; utility easements; trails; and the
like.
      WINTER SEASON. The period of time between December 1 of one year and
March 31 of the following year, or when hot mix asphalt materials are not
readily available.
      WORK DAY(S). Those days Monday through Friday, from the hours of 8:00
a.m. to 4:00 p.m., and shall exclude government holidays as observed by the
city.
   (B)   Permit required.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any contractor to make an excavation for
any purpose whatsoever without first obtaining a right-of-way excavation permit
from the DPW. In order to obtain a permit, a contractor must adhere to the
following requirements:
         (a)   Execute a bond to cover any and all damages that may occur by
performing such work;
         (b)   Provide proof of liability insurance;
         (c)   File an application for permit with the DPW; and
         (d)   Must agree to restore the place of such work to good condition
and in the manner provided by the terms of this section.
      (2)   In the event of an emergency, an excavation may proceed without
delay on the condition that, within two full working days after the
commencement of such excavation, notice of such work shall be given to the DPW,
a bond shall be posted, proof of insurance shall be provided and an application
for permit shall be filed, as required under this section.
      (3)   A contractor shall obtain one permit for each excavation. In the
event there are more than one excavation within a city block(s), along a
particular street, the contractor may obtain one permit for the group of
excavations along said street; in this instance, only one permit will be
issued; however, the permit fee will be calculated as described in division (G)
below, along with any application or extension fees. Each permit shall only be
valid for 30 calendar days.
      (4)   For a planned construction project, the contractor may obtain one
permit for the project, as long as the plans and specifications for that
planned construction project are included with the initial permit application
and are clearly identified as a single construction project, and such
application is made at least 20 full working days prior to start of
construction. The permit fee will be calculated as described in division (G)
below for the required excavations for the project, along with any application
or extension fees.
   (C)   Permit application.
      (1)   Any contractor desiring to make an excavation shall file an
application for permit with the DPW. Such application(s) shall be filed with
the DPW two full working days in advance of beginning work and will be assessed
a $25 application fee. The application fee will be added into the total permit
fee per division (G) below.
      (2)   The DPW shall have the right to prescribe the method and limits of
repair, and the time the proposed excavation shall be performed.
      (3)   Permit applications shall contain, and will be considered complete
only upon compliance with, the requirements of the following provisions:
         (a)   Full contact information of the contractor applying for the
permit (i.e., name, address, company, phone, persons responsible);
         (b)   If applicable, who the excavation is being completed for;
         (c)   Exact description of the work to be done;
         (d)   Location of the excavation within the right-of-way; and
         (e)   Estimated start and completion dates during which the excavation
is to be made.
      (4)   Said contractor shall agree, in connection with each application
and upon issuance of a permit, to do at a minimum the following:
         (a)   To maintain the site of the excavation in a smooth and uniform
condition, similar to the immediate surrounding area, for a period of three
years. Such maintenance is to meet the approval of the DPW;
         (b)   To erect and maintain all necessary temporary traffic-control
measures (in conformance with the Federal Highway Administration’s Manual of
Uniform Traffic-Control Devices - current edition) required to direct traffic
safely over or around the place where the excavation is being performed, for as
long as the work in any way interferes with the normal flow of vehicular or
pedestrian traffic. At any location where vehicular traffic is limited to one
lane, a flagger(s) shall be used and provided by the contractor, and it shall
be the responsibility of the contractor to ensure that the lane restriction is
alleviated prior to leaving the site, through temporarily backfilling the
excavation to make it flush with the surrounding pavement (top three inches
shall be asphalt cold mix) or by covering the excavation with a steel plate of
sufficient size and thickness to satisfactorily carry the traffic;
         (c)   To give notice daily to the DPW of the location where work on an
excavation is being performed. Notice may be given by sending an e-mail to
streetcut@richmondindiana.gov, or by calling the DPW at (765) 983-7325;
         (d)   To provide to the DPW an excavation report after the excavation
is made. The excavation report may be one that is currently used by the
contractor or the contractor may use the DPW Standard Excavation Report;
         (e)   To contact the DPW, within five working days, of the completion
of permanent repair and request a final inspection of the excavation; and
         (f)   To indemnify, defend and hold harmless the city, its officials
and employees from any liability due to damage or injuries to the person or
property of anyone on or off the right-of-way arising out of or resulting from
the issuance of this permit or the work connected therewith caused by or
resulting from the negligence of contractor, its agents, employees or
subcontractors engaged in the performance of the work or the joint negligence
of any said party. The contractor also agrees to pay all reasonable expenses
and attorney fees incurred by or imposed on the city arising out of a lawsuit
filed against the city for damages; provided, a court of competent jurisdiction
makes a determination that the contractor, its agent, employees or
subcontractors has been guilty of negligence in pursuance of the work resulting
from the issuance of a permit for an excavation, in which negligence caused
damage to the prevailing or aggrieved party; provided, the city was not guilty
of independent or concurring negligence.
   (D)   Permit approval. Before the approval of a permit to any contractor,
the DPW shall:
      (1)   Require the contractor to file with the DPW an insurance policy, or
a certificate showing insurance to be in effect and naming the city as an
additional insured, issued by a responsible insurance carrier to protect the
contractor and the city from personal and property damage arising from, caused
by or affected to any extent by any excavation made pursuant to the permit;
      (2)   Require the contractor to file either a blanket excavation permit
bond or a project specific excavation permit bond with the city, with surety to
be approved by the DPW. Bonding requirements will be determined by the DPW.
Said bonds shall be maintained as follows:
         (a)   Shall guarantee that the place where excavation was performed
shall be restored to DPW standards;
         (b)   Shall remain in full force for a period of three years to
guarantee the repair for a period of three years from the date of the
completion of the contractor’s work to protect the city and its citizens in
case the work is deficient or incomplete;
         (c)   Blanket bonds shall be in the sum of $10,000 and shall provide
provisions that the liability of the surety is for each and every permit issued
to the contractor for the excavation project;
         (d)   Project specific bonds shall be in a sum based upon 100% of the
estimated cost of labor and materials needed to restore the excavation(s) to a
condition uniform to its immediate surroundings; however, at no time will the
bond amount be less than $5,000; and
         (e)   Shall provide for the surety to guarantee that the principal of
said bond shall faithfully perform all the duties imposed upon said principal
for each and every excavation according to the requirements of this section.
      (3)   No permit shall be issued by the DPW until the above-described bond
has been filed with and approved by the DPW;
      (4)   Notwithstanding the above bond requirements, a letter of credit
issued by a financial institution approved by the DPW in the same amount as
designated herein for such bond(s) may be filed with the application in lieu of
said surety bond(s);
      (5)   Check the records of the city to ascertain whether the contractor
has ever failed to reimburse the city for any work or materials furnished by
the city in the filling and resurfacing of any excavation made by the
contractor on a previous permit. In the event that city records disclose any
unpaid account owed by the contractor, the permit shall not be granted until
payment is made in full;
      (6)   If the application is approved (and if all unpaid accounts on prior
permits are brought current), a permit shall be issued by the DPW. The permit
shall be numbered, shall state the issuer’s name, the date of issuance, the
date of expiration, shall specifically describe the location of the excavation
and shall describe in detail the work to be performed;
      (7)   The DPW shall keep on file all such applications and a record of
all permits approved; and
      (8)   A permit, once issued in compliance with the terms of this section,
will be provided to the contractor.
   (E)   Time of completion.
      (1)   All permits will expire 30 calendar days from the date of issuance,
with the exception of permits issued during winter season and permits issued
for a planned construction project. Permits issued during the winter season
will have expiration date of April 30 of the year the winter season ends.
Permits for a planned construction project will expire at the completion of the
project.
      (2)   If the contractor needs additional time to complete the excavation
for which a permit applies, the contractor must give notice to the DPW and pay
additional permit fees for such extension. Permits may be extended by an
additional 30 calendar days, for a total of 60 calendar days. If a contractor
fails to extend a permit, or complete work within the maximum of 60 calendar
days, the contractor will be subject to penalties as described in §
157.999.
      (3)   For any excavations made during winter season, when weather
conditions and/or materials availability do not allow permanent repairs to be
completed, the contractor shall make temporary pavement repairs. Said temporary
repairs shall be made with asphalt cold mix and shall be maintained by the
contractor until permanent repairs can be made. Permanent repairs shall be
completed prior to April 30 of the year the winter season ends. All excavations
made prior to the beginning of winter season shall have permanent repairs
completed by December 1 of the same year. The contractor shall be responsible
for making and maintaining the temporary repairs to the satisfaction of the DPW
until the permanent repairs are completed.
   (F)   Excavation specifications.
      (1)   All work and repairs described herein shall be done in accordance
with standards and specifications as prescribed by the DPW.
      (2)   Any work in which untested and unacceptable materials are used
without written approval of the DPW shall be removed and replaced at the
contractor’s expense.
      (3)   All excavations made, where the existing surface is concrete, shall
be repaired to the full length and width of the section(s) affected. The
section(s) being the area as defined by expansion joints or scoring, or as
directed by the DPW.
      (4)   All work and repairs shall conform to the existing conditions
immediately surrounding where such excavation was made. All of said work and
repairs shall be done to the acceptance and satisfaction of the DPW.
      (5)   The contractor agrees, in the event the excavation is not properly
repaired (backfilled, resurfaced and sealed) pursuant to the established
standards and regulations of the DPW, and after due notice from the DPW of any
defects and/or omissions, to immediately correct the defects and/or omissions
in the repair.
   (G)   Permit fees.
      (1)   Permit fees shall be applied upon approval of the permit. The total
permit fee shall be calculated as follows:
Application Processing Fee + Total Inspection Fees = Total Permit Fee
      (2)   An application processing fee will be charged to all permits.
Inspection fees are calculated based on the schedule below. Pursuant to the
schedule below, a STANDARD EXCAVATION is defined as those excavations where
there is a single excavation (square, rectangular or circular) at a given
location, whereas a TRENCH EXCAVATION is defined as those excavations that
generally do not exceed three feet in width and span a distance greater than 15
feet.
 
Schedule of Fees
Application processing fee  $25
Inspection fees
   Standard excavation   $25 x number of excavations
   Trench excavation     $3 x lineal ft. of trench
[Example: $3 x 16 lineal ft. of trench = $48]
30-day permit extension fee $100
 
      (3)   Permit fees may be waived at the discretion of the DPW for city-
owned utilities and planned city construction projects.
   (H)   Inspection.
      (1)   It shall be the responsibility of the contractor to contact the DPW
and request an inspection for all excavations within five working days of
completion.
      (2)   The DPW shall inspect each excavation for which a permit has been
issued to ensure that the excavation has been properly repaired, and to give
notice (if applicable) to properly repair the excavation in the event that the
restoration is not completed within the allotted time or is inadequately or
improperly completed by the contractor. On final inspection, the DPW shall
record the completion date of the excavation, close the permit and shall note,
if applicable, any moneys expended by the city on behalf of the contractor in
completing the excavation.
   (I)   Enforcement.
      (1)   Whenever the DPW has reason to believe that a violation of any
provision of this section, or a rule or regulation issued pursuant thereto, has
occurred, it may cause a written notice to be served upon the alleged violator
(s). The notice shall specify the provisions of this section, rule or
regulation alleged to be violated, and the facts alleged to constitute a
violation thereof, and may order that the necessary corrective action be taken
within a reasonable time. Any such order shall become final unless, no later
than ten days after the date such order is served, the person(s) so served
request, in writing, a hearing before the Board of Public Works and Safety. In
lieu of such order, the Board of Public Works and Safety may require that the
alleged violator(s) appear before it for a hearing at a time and place
specified in the notice, to answer the charges complained of, or the DPW may
initiate appropriate action for the recovery of penalty pursuant to this
section.
      (2)   (a)   Additionally, the DPW may order the work stopped on that
portion of an excavation site deemed to be in violation, or on all work being
conducted, by issuing a stop work order to the contractor.
         (b)   Whenever work has been stopped at a particular excavation site,
the DPW shall notify the contractor in writing.
         (c)   Such written notice may be served in person or served by first
class U.S. mail.
         (d)   The stop work order shall specify in writing that portion of the
work in violation and to be stopped.
         (e)   It shall be the contractor’s responsibility to ensure that the
stop work order is complied with.
         (f)   Any contractor who shall continue or permit to be continued any
work on a stopped excavation site, or portion thereof, other than corrective
work, shall be in violation of this code and be subject to the penalties as set
forth in §
157.999.
      (3)   In the event that street excavations are not properly filled,
closed and sealed in accordance with this section, the DPW may proceed to
properly close and resurface the excavation, and shall bill the contractor for
the cost of labor and material required to properly close and resurface the
excavation. The contractor shall agree to reimburse the city for costs so
incurred.
   (J)   Voluntary repair or construction of sidewalks. No permit shall be
necessary for any curb and sidewalk repair or construction performed pursuant
to §
157.002.
(Prior Code, § 96.10) (Ord. 1663-1958, passed - -1958; Ord. 1862-1961, passed -
-1961; Ord. 36-1986, passed - -1986; Ord. 58-1991, passed - -1991; Ord. 52-
1992, passed - -1992; Ord 36-1997, passed - -1997; Ord. 38-1997, passed - -
1997; Ord. 28-2013, passed - -2013) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.031 STREETS UNDER REPAIR.
   No person shall drive any vehicle on any street under repair, except by
permission of the person in charge of the repairs, or except to reach or leave
any property not otherwise accessible. No person shall injure, remove or tamper
with any material, equipment or guards used in the construction or repair of
any street.
(Prior Code, § 96.11) (Ord. passed 10-5-1891) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.032 INSTALLATION OF UTILITIES WHEN PAVING STREET.
   (A)   Inspection of underground utilities. Before the roadway of any street
or alley within the city is permanently improved, it shall be the duty of every
public utility that is using the street or alley or any part thereof for gas,
water or similar pipes or conveniences, to carefully and thoroughly inspect and
make all needed or necessary repairs to all pipes, which shall include all
service pipes then in use or theretofore laid in the street or alley, so as to
make all pipes and all connections thereto in a high state of efficiency and in
first class condition in all respects. It shall likewise be the duty of the
owners of property abutting on the street or alley to make all new private
connections with sewer, gas, water and other similar pipes and conveniences,
and to bring the connections inside the curb line of the street and outside of
the line of the alley, within 30 days after the adoption of the preliminary
resolution by the Board of Public Works and Safety or other legal authority of
the city ordering the permanent improvements of the street or alley and the
publication of notice as by law provided. Macadamizing or resurfacing with
macadam or other material shall be deemed a permanent improvement within the
meaning of this section.
   (B)   Notice to owner to connect to utilities. Whenever the Board of Public
Works and Safety or other legal authority of the city shall adopt a resolution
for the permanent improvement of the roadway of any street or alley or part
thereof, it shall declare in the resolution its intention of making, by
contract and at the owner’s expense, all private connections with sewer, gas,
water and other like pipes and conveniences, and of bringing the connections
inside the curb lines of the street and outside of the line of the alley for
each lot, where it has not already been done by the abutting property owner or
other person or corporation for the use and benefit of any owner. The
declaration of the Board’s intention shall be made a part of the notice
concerning the street or alley improvements as required by law. On default of
any owner making the connection within the time specified, the Board shall
proceed to do so at the owner’s expense, and the expense shall be a lien on the
property affected and collectible in the same manner as expenses for other
street and sewer improvements. The work of making the private connections and
bringing them within the curb line of the street or outside of the line of the
alley at the expense of the abutting property owner shall be included in the
general contract for the permanent improvement of the street or alley.
   (C)   Connection by city; lien. Bidders on the improvement of any street or
alley shall state the amount bid per lineal foot on account of each kind of
private connections with sewer, gas, water or other like pipes and
conveniences, and of bringing them within the curb line of the streets and
outside of the line of the alleys including curb box and curb cock where not
already done. The cost shall be charged by the Board to the owner of the
property on the assessment roll, and the amount shall be a lien on the property
and collectible in the same manner as the costs and expenses for other street
improvements.
   (D)   Placement of utilities by city; lien. Whenever the Board of Public
Works and Safety or other legal authority shall adopt a resolution for the
permanent improvement of the roadway of any street or alley or part thereof, it
shall declare in the resolution its intention of making by contract and at the
expense of every public utility, a careful and thorough inspection of all gas,
water or other like pipes or conveniences and connections in the street or
alley and owned or used by any public utility and of causing to be made all
needed or necessary repairs to all pipes and connections to make all the pipes
and connections efficient and in first class condition in all respects. The
declaration of this intention by the Board shall be set forth in the published
notice given concerning the street or alley improvement. On default of any
public utility to inspect and repair any pipe or connection owned or used by it
within the time specified, the Board or other legal authority of the city shall
proceed to do so by contract or otherwise at the expense of the utility. All
the expense shall be a lien on the property of the utility used in furnishing
or supplying service to the city and the inhabitants. The lien may be enforced
in any appropriate proceeding or method, or the full amount of the expense may
be retained by the city out of any money it owes to the utility. The work of
inspecting and repairing all pipes and conveniences at the expense of the
utility shall be included so far as practical in the general contract for the
permanent improvement of the street or alley, and bidders on any improvement
shall state the amount per day or other unit that will be charged each public
utility for inspecting and repairing any pipe, in the event that the utility
fails, neglects or refuses to do so.
   (E)   Approval of City Engineer. All work of making the private connections
and bringing them within the curb lines of streets and outside of the lines of
alleys, and inspecting and repairing pipes already laid, as hereinbefore
provided, whether done by the owner or by contract made by the Board of Public
Works and Safety, or other legal authority of the city, shall be done only
under permit from and subject to the approval of the City Engineer.
   (F)   Franchises unaffected. The provisions of this subchapter shall not in
any manner nor to any extent lessen or abrogate any provision, stipulation or
condition contained in any franchise granted by the city to any public utility
relating or pertaining to the repair of streets or alleys. These provisions are
supplementary and additional to the terms, conditions and stipulations
contained in any franchise.
   (G)   Adjustments. All utility manholes or valves in the roadway of a city
street or alley shall be adjusted to grade either before, while or immediately
after permanent improvements are made. The utility shall perform this work in
conformance with the city standards on file in the office of the City Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 96.12) (Ord. 390-1914, passed - -1914; Ord. 58-1991, passed - -
1991; Ord. 38-1997, passed - -1997) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.033 APPLICABLE LAWS.
   In addition to the foregoing provisions of the code relating to street
construction, excavation and installation of utilities, a permittee, including
utilities, shall adhere to any other applicable federal, state or local laws,
rules or regulations governing such excavation, construction or installation,
including, but not limited to, the provisions of 610 I.A.C. 5-1-13.
(Prior Code, § 96.13) (Ord 126-1984, passed - -1984) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.034 PUBLIC UTILITY MASTER PLAN.
   Every public utility that uses the streets or alleys or any part of the city
right-of-way for gas, water, telephone, electricity or similar pipes or
conveniences, shall maintain on file with the City Engineer a three- year
master plan for construction and repairs on any part of the utilities’
structures located within the streets, alleys or rights-of-way. The master plan
shall be updated on a yearly basis. Any changes to the three-year master plan
shall be reported to the City Engineer for approval at least 60 days before
implementing any work. In the event of emergency repairs, the utility shall
give notice to the City Engineer within 48 hours after making the emergency
repair.
(Prior Code, § 96.14) (Ord. 58-1991, passed - -1991) Penalty, see §
157.999
REGULATIONS AND CONDITIONS
§ 157.045 BARBED WIRE FENCES.
   No person shall erect or maintain barbed wire along the line of any improved
street, alley or sidewalk of the city, or around or along any grass plot
located in any street, unless the fence is at such elevation or is so located
that pedestrians passing along it will not come in contact with it.
(Prior Code, § 96.20) (Ord. 52-1906, passed - -1906) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.046 DEBRIS ON STREETS.
   No person shall throw or place, or cause to be placed in the roadway of any
street in the city, any nail, wire, glass, rubbish, debris or any foreign
matter of any kind.
(Prior Code, § 96.21) (Ord. 224-1910, passed - -1910)
§ 157.047 SPITTING ON SIDEWALK.
   No person shall spit on any sidewalk or on the floors, stairways or
platforms of any railway station, depot, theater, rink, public hall or other
public building within the city.
(Prior Code, § 96.22) (Ord. passed 12-1-2002) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.048 WATER FROM DOWNSPOUTS.
   No person shall erect or maintain any downspout or conductor pipe on any
building in such a manner that the water from the pipe will discharge on the
surface of any improved sidewalk within the city.
(Prior Code, § 96.23) (Ord. 487-1917, passed - -1917) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.049 CLEANING SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   The owner or occupant of any lot or land abutting on any improved
sidewalk shall not suffer or permit any dirt, earth, soil, gravel or other
material to be washed on or to slide onto the sidewalk. Where the abutting lot
or land is elevated or terraced or is in any manner at a higher grade than the
improved sidewalk, it shall be the duty of the owner or occupant of the lot or
land to properly terrace, grade or slope the property, and properly sod the
terrace, grade or slope, so that dirt, earth, soil or gravel will be securely
held in place, or to build a permanent and substantial retaining wall of such
height and construction as to prevent any dirt, earth, soil, gravel or other
material from being washed or from sliding onto the sidewalk.
   (B)   If the owner or occupant of any lot or land in the city shall fail to
comply with the provisions of this section, the Board of Public Works and
Safety shall adopt a resolution ordering the work to be done or improvement to
be made, and notice of the passage of the resolution shall be served on the
owner, if he or she is a resident of the city, or on the occupant of the
premises. If the property is unoccupied, and if the owner is a non-resident of
the city, the notice of passage of the resolution shall be posted in a
conspicuous place on the lot or land. If after the expiration of five days from
the date of the service or posting of notice the work is not performed or
improvement made, the Board of Public Works and Safety shall cause the work to
be performed or made and the cost shall constitute a lien on the property, to
be assessed on the land. The cost shall be placed on the tax duplicate to be
collected as other taxes and improvement liens are collected.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the occupant, or owner if there is no
occupant, of a tenement, building, lot or parcel of land in the city, fronting
on any improved sidewalk to clean the sidewalk in front of the tenement,
building, lot or parcel of land, of snow or ice, by 10:00 a.m. of each day, and
to keep it clean of snow or ice.
(Prior Code, § 96.24) (Ord. passed 11-16-2014) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.050 DAMAGING STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall break, or cut into, or in any way damage any street, alley,
bridge, culvert, curb, street sign, lamp post, sewer or other appurtenance to
any street in the city.
(Prior Code, § 96.25) (Ord. passed 2-5-2006) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.051 PORTABLE ENGINES ON STREETS.
   (A)   No person shall operate any traction or portable engine on any public
street or alley in the city unless the entire outer surface or periphery of
each wheel which comes in contact with any of the street surface is equipped
with a shield, band or other similar or appropriate apparatus so that each
wheel shall have smooth, plain and level bearing surface the entire width free
from all ridges, cleats or other corrugations.
   (B)   No person shall operate any traction or portable engine on along, or
over any part or portion of any public street or alley in the city without
first obtaining a permit to do so from the City Engineer. The permit shall name
the person to whom issued and shall state the exact date and names of the
streets and alleys over which the engine may be operated. The permit shall be
issued without charge. The City Engineer shall keep a copy of all permits
issued by him or her.
(Prior Code, § 96.26) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   If any contractor violates, or commits any act prohibited in §
157.030, or fails to perform any duty lawfully mandated, within the time
prescribed by the DPW, or fails, neglects or refuses to obey any lawful order
given by the DPW in connection with the provisions of §
157.030, the contractor shall be fined $100 for the first offense and $500 for
each subsequent offense within a calendar year. Each such violation, act,
failure or refusal, and every day the aforementioned continues shall constitute
a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 96.10)
   (C) Any persons violating §
157.032 shall be subject to a fine of $100 for the first offense and $500 for
each subsequent offense.
(Prior Code, § 96.12)
   (D)   Any person violating §
157.034 shall be subject to a fine of $100 for the first offense and $500 for
each subsequent offense.
(Prior Code, § 96.14)
   (E)   Any person violating §
157.047 shall on conviction be fined in any sum not exceeding $10.
(Prior Code, § 96.22)
(Ord. 390-1914, passed - -1914; Ord. 1663-1958, passed - -1958; Ord. 1862-1961,
passed - -1961; Ord. 36-1986, passed - -1986; Ord. 58-1991, passed - -1991;
Ord. 52-1992, passed - -1992; Ord. 38-1997, passed - -1997; Ord. 38-1997,
passed - -1997; Ord. passed 12-1-2002; Ord. 28-2013, passed - -2013)
CHAPTER 158: STREET AND HIGHWAY ACCESS
Section
General Provisions
   
158.001    Applicability
   
158.002    Definitions
   
158.003    Classes
   
158.004    Compliance; other laws
   
158.005    Bond required
   
158.006    Median openings, crossovers; location
   
158.007    Driveway standards
   
158.008    Visibility
   
158.009    Traffic devices
   
158.010    Property line
   
158.011    Drainage requirements
Applications
   
158.025    Form required
   
158.026    New application; when required
   
158.027    Persons making application; disclosure
   
158.028    Purpose of access disclosure of intended use for or with adjacent
parcels
   
158.029    Plot and information required
   
158.030    Standards
   
158.031    Designs
   
158.032    Commercial; engineer’s attestation
Permits
   
158.045    Permit for construction required
   
158.046    Final permit; inspection
   
158.047    Recording
   
158.048    Notification of beginning work when effective
   
158.049    Display
   
158.050    Validity; completion of construction
   
158.051    Liability during construction
   
158.052    Construction not to interfere with structure in right-of-way
   
158.053    Encroachment of unlawful signs
   
158.054    Existing access; subject to new rules
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 158.001 APPLICABILITY.
   These regulations shall apply to all classes designated in §
158.003 and shall be entitled “Access Permit Rules”.
(Prior Code, § 105.01)
§ 158.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESS POINT. The point of connection of a driveway at the right-of-way line
of the highway with the approach.
      (1)   COMMERCIAL ACCESS. An entrance and an approach which connects a
street, alley or thoroughfare with a driveway to private property used for
commercial purposes and with public property which will ordinarily carry a
heavy traffic movement.
      (2)   FIELD ACCESS. An entrance and an approach which is used for a
construction site or which connects a street, alley or thoroughfare with vacant
lots, fields or other unimproved property.
      (3)   PRIVATE ACCESS. An entrance and an approach which connects a
highway with a driveway to a residence, barn, private, garage or other improved
property and ordinarily used by the owner or occupant of the premises, his or
her guests and necessary service vehicles.
   APPROACH. A place improved for vehicular or pedestrian traffic on highway
right-of-way which connects the edge of pavement of a public highway within a
driveway or pedestrian walkway.
   AUXILIARY LANE. The portion of the roadway adjoining the traveled way for
parking, speed change, turning, storage, weaving, truck climbing or for other
such purposes.
   BOARD. Richmond Board of Public Works and Safety.
   DRIVEWAY. Every way or place not on the right-of-way of any public highway
and which issued for vehicular traffic.
   ENTRANCE. The point of connection of an approach with the traveled portion
of a public highway.
   MEDIAN. The portion of a divided highway separating the traveled ways for
traffic in opposite directions.
   MEDIAN OPENING (CROSSOVER). A gap in the median provided and designated for
crossing and turning traffic
   TRAVELED WAY. The portion of the roadway for the movement of vehicles,
exclusive of shoulders and auxiliary lanes.
(Prior Code, § 105.02)
§ 158.003 CLASSES.
   All entrances and approaches shall be divided into five classes as follows:
   (A)   Class I: private access, raised curb used;
   (B)   Class II: private access, shoulder only, no raised curb;
   (C)   Class III: commercial access, raised curb used;
   (D)   Class IV: commercial access, shoulder only, no raised curb; and
   (E)   Class V:   field access, either raised curb or shoulder only.
(Prior Code, § 105.03)
§ 158.004 COMPLIANCE; OTHER LAW.
   Approval of a permit application shall be subject to the permittee obtaining
all necessary approvals involving land use from the Zoning Board and/or Plan
Commission having jurisdiction or authority and complying with all applicable
laws.
(Prior Code, § 105.12)
§ 158.005 BOND REQUIRED.
   The Board of Public Works and Safety may require a performance bond to be
filed along with each application for a commercial driveway with an amount to
equal the estimated cost of that part of the project on the public right-of-
way. The Board may also require adequate bond to be filed in any non-commercial
application. Such bonds are required to insure compliance with all terms of the
permit and shall, in the case of non-compliance, provide in addition to any
damages suffered thereby, all witness and court costs in collecting the same,
together with any attorney fees, professional engineer’s fees or land
surveyors’ fees reasonably due and shall be released only when the work
described on the permit has been completed to the satisfaction of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 105.13)
§ 158.006 MEDIAN OPENINGS, CROSSOVERS; LOCATION.
   Permits for private or commercial crossovers will not be approved unless the
distance to the nearest existing crossover is in excess of 400 feet, unless the
applicant can prove to the satisfaction of the Board that the location of the
crossover will not be detrimental to the safety of the traveling public.
(Prior Code, § 105.14)
§ 158.007 DRIVEWAY STANDARDS.
   (A)   Included in Standard Details of the City of Richmond are the most
common examples of driveways and approaches. These standards will apply in
majority of cases because many conditions can be derived from each figure.
However, there will be exceptional situations and borderline cases where the
standards and guides do not apply. In such instances, interim standards will be
used. The next lowest functional type will serve as the interim dimensions for
each functional type (i.e., the interim dimensions for arterials are the
dimensions for collectors). The use of interim dimensions will be subject to
the approval of the City Engineer and such approval should precede the actual
filing of permit application.
   (B)   Additional standards which will be required are as follows.
      (1)   Entrance and exit only driveways.
         (a)   This type of drive way is not highly recommended for a divided
roadway. However, the entrance and exit driveways do have a purpose and when
warranted use the following dimensions:
Minimum width = 17 feet
maximum width = 24 feet
         (b)   In order to control entrance and exit drives they must be
properly signed. This is the responsibility of the property owner.
      (2)   Number of driveways and spacing. Driveway spacing is largely
dependent on land zoning, and as a result, it is difficult to develop definite
standards. Although from past experience and a literature review on this
subject, not more than two driveways are generally needed to serve a tract of
land. Additional policies are as follows.
         (a)   Arterials. Frontage roads are encouraged, but where this is not
feasible a minimum spacing of 150 feet is required between adjacent property
owners. Also, as a general section if the frontage is 100 feet or less, only
one driveway will be permitted.
         (b)   Collectors. A minimum spacing of 100 feet is required and
generally only one driveway per 100 foot of frontage will be allowed.
         (c)   Local. No minimum spacing is required; however, only one
driveway per lot will be allowed.
(Prior Code, § 105.15) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 158.008 VISIBILITY.
   All entrances and approaches shall be located so as to provide adequate
sight distance in both directions along the alley, thoroughfare or highway for
safe access to same without interfering with traffic.
(Prior Code, § 105.16) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 158.009 TRAFFIC DEVICES.
   No entrance or approach shall be located or constructed so as to interfere
with or prevent the proper location of necessary highway signs or other
traffic-control devices.
(Prior Code, § 105.17) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 158.010 PROPERTY LINE.
   No approach radii shall be so constructed that any part of the same extends
in front of property belonging to persons other than the permittee unless both
property owners sign a joint application for said permit.
(Prior Code, § 105.18) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 158.011 DRAINAGE REQUIREMENTS.
   All improvements authorized by the permit shall not interfere with drainage
of the street or highway, nor cause an additional area to drain onto the right-
of- way. However, part of the improvements within the public right-of-way may
drain toward the street or highway, subject to the approval of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 105.19) Penalty, see §
10.999
APPLICATIONS
§ 158.025 FORM REQUIRED.
   (A)   Application to the Board of Works for permits to construct any
entrance, driveway or approach connecting with any street, alley or highway
right-of-way or to cut any curb along said street, alley or highway or to
construct a crossover on said street, alley or highway shall be made on the
form as prescribed by the Board of Works.
   (B)   Reasonable fees for processing driveway permits may be established by
appropriate Board action.
(Prior Code, § 105.04)
§ 158.026 NEW APPLICATION; WHEN REQUIRED.
   Relocation, alteration or remodeling of an entrance, approach, driveway or
crossover, or any change in the character of the use of the entrance, approach,
driveway or crossover shall be considered the construction of a new entrance,
driveway, approach or crossover for which an application or permit for a wholly
new entrance, approach, driveway and or crossover were being applied for. The
granting or denial of such application shall be governed by the same sections
and judged by the same standards as an application for a permit for a wholly
new entrance, approach, driveway and/or crossover.
(Prior Code, § 105.05)
§ 158.027 PERSONS MAKING APPLICATION; DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   All applications for permits under these regulations shall be made in
the name of the owner of the fee simple title. All persons having any interest
in the land, including, but not limited to, mortgages, lessees, optioners, lien
holders and encumbrances shall join with the fee simple holder in the
application. All such persons shall join in the application and shall sign and
consent to the conditions of the application and shall be bound equally
thereafter by the conditions of any permit which may be issued any permittee.
   (B)   All title evidence will be at the discretion of the Board.
   (C)   If the applicant submits an application which his or her title
evidence shows does not include the signatures of all interest holders, then if
the application is evaluated in favor of granting the permit, the applicant
must submit subsequent title evidence showing that all omitted interest holders
have ceased to be interest holders or have by an addendum to the application
joined the original applicant on the original application, and such subsequent
title evidence or addendum must be submitted before any authorization for
construction shall begin under the permit.
(Prior Code, § 105.06)
§ 158.028 PURPOSE OF ACCESS DISCLOSURE OF INTENDED USE FOR OR WITH ADJACENT
PARCELS.
   All applications for permits shall disclose the present and proposed use of
the parcel for which access is requested. Any intended use of the access in
conjunction with any adjacent parcel, whether owned by the applicants or by
others, or to be purchased or sold by the applicant or others, shall be
disclosed in the application. All adjacent parcels owned or controlled by the
applicants, whether intended to be used in conjunction with the requested
access or not shall be disclosed in the application. In the case where
applicants own or control adjacent parcels, the Board may require applicants to
dedicate easement for driveways to facilitate the use of combined entrances
that the number of access points along the highway may be controlled to ensure
the public a safe and convenient means of travel consistent with the right of
the adjoining landowner to have access as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 105.07)
§ 158.029 PLOT AND INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   Listed below are the plot plan requirements which must be met before any
driveway permit applications can be accepted for review.
   (A)   An applicant must submit five copies of plot plan.
   (B)   The plot plan must be certified by registered professional engineer,
architect or land surveyor.
   (C)   A vicinity sketch must be shown on the plot plan at a scale of not
less than one inch equals 2,000 feet and must indicate the location of said
property to major arterial streets, railroads and the like.
   (D)   Standard engineering scales (i.e., one inch equals 20 feet, one inch
equals 30 feet) must be used.
   (E)   Use of each access point must be specified: entrance only, exit only,
entrance and exit.
   (F)   Adequate description of proposed use of property must be included.
   (G)   The plan must show the width of existing and adjacent driveways,
streets, alleys and right-of- way 150 feet beyond property lines on both sides
of the street, plus the plan must show the location of all utilities and any
other pertinent topography.
   (H)   Location and geometrics of proposed access points and location and
size of existing or proposed building must be shown.
   (I)   Location and details of permanent signs must be shown.
   (J)   Cross-sections for pavement widening and curbs must be illustrated, if
applicable.
   (K)   The plot plan must include proposed parking arrangements with
anticipated number of vehicles.
   (L)   Plot plan must show all existing and proposed drainage structures,
including pipe, catch basin, head walls and the like, necessary to provide
adequate drainage.
(Prior Code, § 105.08)
§ 158.030 STANDARDS.
   All construction and materials used within the public right-of-way must
conform to the City Engineer Standard Specifications, which shall be kept on
file at the office of the City Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 105.09)
§ 158.031 DESIGNS.
   All locations shall file in accordance with the standards, specifications
and design requirements of the Board of Works. The permittee agrees to make the
improvements in accordance with such standards, specifications and design
requirements of the Board of Works.
(Prior Code, § 105.10)
§ 158.032 COMMERCIAL; ENGINEER’S ATTESTATION.
   All applications for commercial purposes shall be signed by a registered
professional engineer, and/or registered land surveyor, attesting that the
applications, as proposed, conform with all Board sections and standards,
except as he or she shall note in such attestation. All exceptions shall be
accompanied by an explanation as to why the exception should be granted.
(Prior Code, § 105.11)
PERMITS
§ 158.045 PERMIT FOR CONSTRUCTION REQUIRED.
   Upon receipt of such permit, the permittee is authorized to proceed with the
work covered by it, subject to the conditions imposed by the Board of Pubic
Works and Safety and these rules. If the application is approved with
conditions, all of the signatures to the original application shall indicate
their consent to said conditions in writing.
(Prior Code, § 105.20)
§ 158.046 FINAL PERMIT; INSPECTION.
   A final approval of the permit shall be issued upon completion of
construction as covered by the permit to construct in accordance with the plans
and specifications filed in the application as amended by the Board; together
with any special conditions set forth by said permit; and together with an
acceptance inspection by the City Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 105.21)
§ 158.047 RECORDING.
   The permittee shall at the time of receipt of a permit to construct sign a
copy of a “limitation of access” instrument, if so required by the Board, which
shall be obtained and left with the Permit Clerk of the City Engineer’s office,
for recording in the deed record, together with a check payable to the County
Recorder covering the costs of recording the instrument. Such Clerk shall
immediately cause said limitation of access instrument to be recorded and send
acknowledgment thereof to the permittees.
(Prior Code, § 105.22)
§ 158.048 NOTIFICATION OF BEGINNING WORK WHEN EFFECTIVE.
   Before beginning work under any permit to construct, the permittee shall
notify, in writing, five days prior to start of work, the city’s Street
Commissioner of the date he or she will begin such work.
(Prior Code, § 105.23)
§ 158.049 DISPLAY.
   The applicant’s permit complete with drawings and special provisions shall
be on the job site at all times so that it can be shown, if requested.
(Prior Code, § 105.24)
§ 158.050 VALIDITY; COMPLETION OF CONSTRUCTION.
   All improvements authorized by a permit must be completed within one year
after the permit is issued; otherwise, the permit will be cancelled unless an
extension is requested, in writing, by the applicant, and said request is
approved by the Board of Public Works and Safety. However, all construction
authorized by the permit on the right-of-way must be completed within 30 days
after starting said construction, unless otherwise expressly approved as a
special condition.
(Prior Code, § 105.25)
§ 158.051 LIABILITY DURING CONSTRUCTION.
   The permittee shall assume all responsibility during the time from the
beginning of the work covered by any permit until final approval of the work
and shall furthermore be obligated to save harmless the city from any and all
injury, loss or damage occasioned to or by persons or property resulting
directly or indirectly from such work; the Board of Public Works and Safety
shall, in its discretion, require the permittee to provide liability and
indemnity insurance for the use and benefit of the city.
(Prior Code, § 105.26)
§ 158.052 CONSTRUCTION NOT TO INTERFERE WITH STRUCTURE IN RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   The construction of all improvements authorized by the permit shall not
interfere with any existing structure on any city street, alley or thoroughfare
without specific permission in writing from the Board of Public Works and
Safety or other owner thereof. Any structure or traffic-control device affected
by the proposed construction shall be relocated at the applicant’s expense as
directed.
(Prior Code, § 105.27)
§ 158.053 ENCROACHMENT OF UNLAWFUL SIGNS.
   The permittee shall not erect or maintain any advertising sign on or over
the right-of-way or any portion thereof in violation of any law.
(Prior Code, § 105.28)
§ 158.054 EXISTING ACCESS; SUBJECT TO NEW RULES.
   Any person, who by law has an existing legal right to access to a street,
alley or thoroughfare shall, if he or she desires to improve, relocate, alter
or remodel the same, or if he or she has applied for and been issued final
approval of a permit under these sections, if he or she desires to make any
change in the character of the use of such right of access, shall as a
condition of the issuance of any permit and in consideration of the same, agree
that such rights of access, then existing or granted thereafter with respect to
such real estate shall be subject to these sections as the same may from time
to time be amended by the Board of Public Works and Safety.
(Prior Code, § 105.29)
CHAPTER 159: TREES
Section
General Provisions
   
159.001    Definitions
Street Tree Commission
   
159.015    Establishment
   
159.016    Membership
   
159.017    Powers and duties
   
159.018    Authority
   
159.019    Interference prohibited
Regulations and Conditions
   
159.030    Planting and removing
   
159.031    Location of trees along street
   
159.032    Permission to plant
   
159.033    Planting and care
   
159.034    Spacing of street trees
   
159.035    Protection of trees
   
159.036    Liability of city and responsibility of owner, occupant
   
159.037    Abuse; illegal acts
   
159.038    Protection during construction operations
   
159.039    Required pruning
   
159.040    Public utilities
 
   
159.999    Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Streets and Sidewalks, see
Ch. 157
Statutory reference:
   Trees and vegetation, see I.C. 6-1.1-6.2-27
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 159.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. When not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future and words in the singular number include the plural number. The word
“shall” is defined as mandatory and not merely directory.
   CITY. The City of Richmond.
   COMMISSION. The Richmond, Indiana, Street Tree Commission.
   MUNICIPAL PROPERTY. A parkway, parking lot or other property owned by or
under the control or jurisdiction of the city, excluding any property directly
controlled by the city’s Parks Department.
   PERSON. Any public or private individual, group, company, firm, corporation,
partnership, association, society or any other combination of human beings,
whether legal or natural.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. The width of property located between property lines
and abutting a street, alley or boulevard, most often including the width of
property located between a street and sidewalk.
   STREET TREE. Any tree located upon municipal property or a public right-of-
way.
(Prior Code, § 97.01)
STREET TREE COMMISSION
§ 159.015 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established a Street Tree Commission for the city.
(Prior Code, § 97.00) (Ord. 15-1986, passed - -1986; Ord. 47-1986, passed - -
1986)
§ 159.016 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Commission shall be comprised of 11 voting members, each of whom
shall be a resident of the city. Said members shall serve without compensation
and shall adopt their own by-laws including the designation and election of
officers.
      (1)   Three citizen members shall be appointed by the Mayor, for three-
year staggered terms beginning with one-, two- and three-year terms
respectively.
      (2)   Three citizen members shall be appointed by City Council, for
three-year staggered terms beginning with one-, two- and three-year terms
respectively.
      (3)   One member shall be appointed by the city’s Advisory Plan
Commission.
      (4)   The Director of the Department of Public Works, Sanitation or
Aviation or an employee of said Department designated by the Director of said
Department shall serve by virtue of holding such office.
      (5)   The Superintendent of the Transmission and Distribution Department
of Richmond Power and Light or an employee of said Department designated by the
Superintendent shall serve by virtue of holding such office.
      (6)   A member of Common Council shall be designated by the President of
the Council annually.
      (7)   The Superintendent of the Department of Parks and Recreation or an
employee of said Department designated by the Superintendent of said Department
shall serve by virtue of holding such office.
   (B)   In addition to the above members, the Commission shall be allowed and
encouraged to appoint interested volunteers to assist and carry out the duties
of the Commission as described herein. There shall be no residency requirements
for such volunteers.
(Prior Code, § 97.02)
§ 159.017 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Commission shall control the care, planting, removal and
disposition of trees and shrubs upon municipal property and public rights-of-
way.
   (B)   The Commission shall give advice to Common Council, provide leadership
in the development of understanding of the objectives and methods of the tree
program and assist the city in the development and maintenance of technical
specifications and guidelines.
   (C)   The Commission shall produce and maintain a list of the kinds and
species of trees suitable and desirable for planting and the areas and
conditions under which such trees should be planted.
(Prior Code, § 97.03)
§ 159.018 AUTHORITY.
   The Street Tree Commission shall have the authority to regulate the
planting, maintenance and control of all trees, shrubs and plants planted, or
to be planted, on the public right-of-way and on municipal property.
(Prior Code, § 97.04)
§ 159.019 INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall hinder, prevent or interfere with the agents or
representatives of the Commission while such persons are carrying out the
provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 97.05) Penalty, see §
159.999
REGULATIONS AND CONDITIONS
§ 159.030 PLANTING AND REMOVING.
   (A)   The Commission may remove, prune or cause to be removed and pruned,
all trees, shrubs or any other plants that are planted on the public right-of-
way or municipal property, when it is determined the pruning or removal will be
beneficial to the peace, health and safety of the public and pubic improvements
or where trees, shrubs or plants are detrimental to the growth of adjacent
trees.
   (B)   (1)   Permission must be obtained before removing any street tree.
      (2)   Such permission must be obtained from the Director of the
Department of Public Works and Engineering.
   (C)   Any tree removed from the public right-of- way or municipal property
must be cut low to the ground within four inches of ground level and no brush,
limbs or other parts of the tree are to be allowed to remain in any city street
overnight.
(Prior Code, § 97.06) (Ord. 7-1987, passed - -1987; Ord. 49-1993, passed - -
1993)
§ 159.031 LOCATION OF TREES ALONG STREET.
   (A)   On streets with narrow planting strip between the sidewalk and curb,
consideration should be given to planting trees on private property inside the
sidewalk.
   (B)   (1)   Where there is a planting strip of at least three feet, trees
can be grown satisfactorily on the city-owned property between the sidewalk and
curb.
      (2)   The Commission shall determine the kinds of trees that should be
planted, taking into consideration the space available
(Prior Code, § 97.07) Penalty, see §
159.999
§ 159.032 PERMISSION TO PLANT.
   (A)   Permission must be obtained before planting any tree or shrub in the
planting strip between sidewalk and curb. This permission to plant is granted
by the Commission. The goal of this restriction is to reduce overhead line
clearance and tree removal costs, and lessen potential highway hazards by
reducing interference with street lighting and the danger of falling limbs and
trees. The Commission is authorized to refuse the granting of permission when
the planting is likely to create a public danger or nuisance or be detrimental
to the growth of adjacent trees. The purpose of this permit is to ensure the
planting of good kinds of trees and proper spacing along the streets shall be
maintained and trees will be approved tree varieties in locations appropriate
to the tree and surroundings.
   (B)   No permission is needed to plant trees on private property inside the
sidewalk. It is suggested, however, that the property owner use trees such as
those mentioned in this chapter as being desirable and take into consideration
the space available for tree growth.
(Prior Code, § 97.08) Penalty, see §
159.999
§ 159.033 PLANTING AND CARE.
   (A)   In general, it will be more satisfactory to engage a nurseryman,
arborist or someone familiar with tree care to do the planting. If the property
owner does the planting, he or she should familiarize himself or herself with
the requirements for successfully transplanting trees. Property owners should
follow the planting guidelines found in the publication of the Commission,
Street Trees For Richmond.
   (B)   All materials to be planted shall be of nursery stock.
   (C)   Proper watering is extremely important for trees the first two years
following transplanting. During dry periods, add enough water to soak the soil
to root depth once a week. Transplanted trees can be over watered. If the soil
is heavy and drains poorly the trees can be injured by too much water as well
as too little. Instructions for watering can be found in Street Trees For
Richmond and in the Street Tree Leaflet. Bark or cypress mulch applied to the
soil around the tree will help conserve moisture.
(Prior Code, § 97.09) Penalty, see §
159.999
§ 159.034 SPACING OF STREET TREES.
   (A)   The spacing of shade trees classified as small or medium in the list
of acceptable trees in Street Trees for Richmond shall be established by the
mature height of the street tree and in no instance shall be less than that of
the anticipated mature height of the desired street tree or street trees. Large
street trees can be spaced a minimum of 50 feet apart, medium street trees 45
feet apart and small street trees 40 feet apart.
   (B)   No trees shall be planted within ten feet of a fire hydrant.
   (C)   No tree shall be planted within three feet of a curb cut.
   (D)   The clearance from existing features such as utility poles, existing
trees or alley lines shall be maintained at one-half the anticipated mature
height of the tree.
   (E)   No tree shall be planted within 30 feet of a curb defining an
intersection of streets or the edge of the pavement at an intersection of
streets where there is no curb.
   (F)   Areas which are unique for purposes of tree planting should be
addressed to the Commission for study and recommendation.
(Prior Code, § 97.10) Penalty, see §
159.999
§ 159.035 PROTECTION OF TREES.
   (A)   No person shall molest, deface, destroy, any street tree or part
thereof, or injure any street tree, shrub or plant on public rights-of-way or
municipal property, nor shall any person permit any chemical, either solid or
fluid to seep, drain or be emptied on or about any street tree, shrub or plant
that is now or thereafter, growing on a public right-of-way or municipal
property. Owners of property immediately adjacent to a public right-of-way, or
insured arborists hired by them, members of the city’s street tree crews,
members of the city’s Street Tree Commission or workers or crews under their
supervision, and RP&L in their work functions may properly prune (as defined by
the National Arbor Association) a street tree; provided, the adjacent property
owners shall be limited to pruning at a height not to exceed ten feet.
   (B)   No person shall fasten to a street tree or shrub, for the purpose of
anchorage, any wire, rope, chain or cables. No person shall nail, tie or in any
other manner fasten any cords, signs, posters, boards or any other particle to
any street tree, shrub or plant that is now or may hereafter be growing on any
right-of-way or municipal property. The only exception to this rule will be the
first year staking of newly planted trees.
(Prior Code, § 97.11) Penalty, see §
159.999
§ 159.036 LIABILITY OF CITY AND RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER, OCCUPANT.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to impose any liability upon the
city or upon any of its officers or employees, nor to relieve the owner and
occupant of any private property from the duty to keep trees and shrubs upon
private property in a safe condition.
(Prior Code, § 97.12) (Ord. 47-1986, passed - -1986; Ord. 9-1988, passed - -
1988; Ord. 49-1993, passed - -1993)
§ 159.037 ABUSE; ILLEGAL ACT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Damage, cut, carve or injure any street tree;
   (B)   Attach any sign, wire or injurious material to any street tree;
   (C)   Cause or permit any wire charged with electricity to come in contact
with any street tree; and
   (D)   Violate any portion of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 97.13) Penalty, see §
159.999
§ 159.038 PROTECTION DURING CONSTRUCTION OPERATIONS.
   In connection with the erection, alteration or repair of any building or
structure, or other construction activity, the owner thereof, or his or her
agent or independent contractor, shall take all necessary steps to prevent
injury to any trees or shrubs growing in any public street, alley, way, place
or public park.
(Prior Code, § 97.14) Penalty, see §
159.999
§ 159.039 REQUIRED PRUNING.
   Any person who occupies real property abutting a street or alley or sidewalk
and has trees or shrubs on his or her private property with limbs extending
over public streets, alleys or sidewalks shall prune such trees or shrubs in
order to prevent such limbs from striking vehicular traffic, pedestrians and
cyclists and obstructing the view of traffic signs or signals. The minimum
clearance shall be eight feet over sidewalks and 14 feet over the traveled
portion of streets and alleys.
(Prior Code, § 97.15) Penalty, see §
159.999
§ 159.040 PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   Any public utility furnishing services to residents of the city may be
authorized by the Director of the Department of Public Works and Engineering to
prune and trim street trees as may be necessary to maintain a safe operation of
its business. Such pruning and trimming shall be done in the manner and methods
prescribed by the Commission. Notices of the rules and regulations adopted by
Commission pertaining to public utilities shall be sent by certified mail by
the Commission to each utility servicing the residents of the city at least
once every calendar year.
(Prior Code, § 97.16) Penalty, see §
159.999
§ 159.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person or entity who violates this chapter shall be guilty of an
ordinance violation and subject to a fine of not less than $25, nor more than
$250. Each act of violation constitutes a separate offense.
   (B)   If such violation results in permanent injury or the death of any tree
or shrub protected by this chapter, the cost of replacement of such tree or
shrub shall be borne by the party in violation in addition to any fine assessed
under division (A) above.
   (C)   In addition to fines, the city may seek injunctive relief to obtain
compliance with this chapter.
   (D)   All fines collected by the city for violation of this chapter shall be
available to the Commission for planting projects.
(Prior Code, § 97.17)
CHAPTER 160: PUBLIC DEVELOPMENT PLAN
Section
   
160.001    Designation
   
160.002    Master Plan
   
160.003    Map of public development plan
   
160.004    Authority of public development plan
   
160.005    Report
   
160.006    Amendments
   
160.007    Enforcement
   
160.008    Court review
§ 160.001 DESIGNATION.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Public Development Plan” for the city.
(Prior Code, § 155.01) (Ord. 2282-1967, passed - -1967)
§ 160.002 MASTER PLAN.
   The term PUBLIC DEVELOPMENT PLAN shall be considered synonymous with the
term MASTER PLAN, wherever the latter appears directly or by reference in I.C.
18-7-4-101 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 155.02) (Ord. 2282-1967, passed - -1967; Ord. 34-1978, passed -
-1978; Ord. 80-1978, passed - -1978)
§ 160.003 MAP OF PUBLIC DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   The public development plan consists of a map entitled public development
plan for the city. The map shows the locations of existing and proposed streets
and thoroughfares, schools, recreational facilities and certain other city
facilities. The map and all ordinances amendatory thereof shall be on file for
public display and examination during regular office hours of the Planning
Department and shall be under the control and responsibility of the Director
and staff of the Planning Department.
(Prior Code, § 155.03) (Ord. 2282-1967, passed - -1967)
§ 160.004 AUTHORITY OF PUBLIC DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   (A)   The City Council or other governing body within the corporate limits
of the city shall be guided by and give consideration to the general policy and
pattern of development set out in the public development plan in the
authorization, construction, alteration or abandonment of public ways, public
places, public structures or public utilities and the authorization, acceptance
or construction of water mains, sewers, connections, facilities or utilities.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-3-12, the Common Council shall consider any
petitions for vacating or abandonment of public ways or platted lots. No public
way or platted lot shall be abandoned or vacated until the city’s Plan
Commission has given notice and held a public hearing on vacation or
abandonment of the public ways or platted lots to determine if the abandonment
or vacation is in conformity with the public development plan. The Plan
Commission shall forward its recommendations to Common Council wherein the
proceeding is pending. The Common Council shall not override the recommendation
of the Plan Commission unless done so by a two-thirds vote of the entire
Council, which shall then constitute an amendment of the public development
plan.
   (C)   The Board of Public Works and Safety or other party who proposes
dedication or modification of a street or thoroughfare and is not subject to
the subdivision regulations in Chapter 165 of this code of ordinances, shall
submit proposals for determining the lines for new, extended, widened or
narrowed streets or thoroughfares within the city to the Plan Commission. The
Plan Commission shall determine if the new or modified streets or thoroughfares
are in conformity with the public development plan. The Plan Commission shall
forward its recommendation to the Board of Public Works and Safety or other
party. The Board or other party shall not over-ride the recommendation of the
Plan Commission unless done so by a three-fourths vote of the City Council,
which shall then constitute an amendment of the public development plan. The
Board or other person proposing the dedication or modification shall be
responsible for initiating a review of the Plan Commission’s adverse
recommendation by the City Council by petition to that body.
   (D)   Within the city, a structure shall not be located and an improvement
location permit for a structure on platted or unplatted lands shall not be
issued unless the structure and its location conform to the public development
plan and this chapter. The improvement location permit shall be issued by the
Planning Director after the public body board or other public entity proposing
to build the structure has submitted its proposed location for the structure to
the Plan Commission and the Plan Commission has determined that the proposed
location of the structure is in conformity with the public development plan.
(Prior Code, § 155.04) (Ord. 2282-1967, passed - -1967; Ord. 18-1984, passed -
-1984)
§ 160.005 REPORT.
   A report entitled Comprehensive Master Plan Richmond, Indiana 1966, which
sets forth information, policies, recommendations and source material utilized
in promulgating the public development plan shall be considered advisory only
and not a part of the public development plan to be enforced pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 155.05) (Ord. 2282-1967, passed - -1967)
§ 160.006 AMENDMENTS.
   The public development plan and this chapter shall be amended in accordance
with the procedure set forth in I.C. 18-7-4-101 et seq.; however, if the City
Council desires an amendment, it may direct the Plan Commission to prepare an
amendment and submit it to public hearing within 60 days after formal written
notice by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 155.06) (Ord. 2282-1967, passed - -1967)
§ 160.007 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Plan Commission or Planning Director may institute a suit for injunction
in the county’s circuit or superior court to restrain any individual,
governmental unit, public body, public board or other public entity from
violating the provisions of this chapter. The Plan Commission or Planning
Director may also institute a suit for a mandatory injunction directing an
individual, governmental unit, public body, public board or other public entity
to remove a structure erected in violation of the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 155.07) (Ord. 2282-1967, passed - -1967)
§ 160.008 COURT REVIEW.
   (A)   Every decision of the city’s Plan Commission made in the
administration of this chapter may be subject to court review. Any public body
within the corporate limits of the city which is aggrieved by any decision of
the Plan Commission in the administration of this chapter may present to the
county’s circuit or superior court a duly verified petition, setting forth that
the decision was erroneous in whole or in part, and specifying the grounds of
the error. The petition shall be presented to the court within 30 days after
the date of the decision of the Plan Commission. No change of venue from the
county shall be had in any cause arising under the provisions of this section.
   (B)   The court may decide and determine the sufficiency of the statements
of error contained in the petition without further pleadings and may make its
determination and render its judgment with reference to the error in the
decision of the Plan Commission on the facts set out in the petition and from
Plan Commission records. If it appears to the court that testimony is necessary
for the proper disposition of the matter, it may take evidence to supplement
the evidence and facts submitted; the review may be by trial de novo. In
passing upon the decision of the Plan Commission, the court may reverse or
affirm, wholly or in part, or may modify the decision of the Plan Commission
brought before the court for review.
   (C)   An appeal may be taken to the appellate court of the state from the
final judgment of the court reversing, affirming or modifying the decision of
the Plan Commission in the same manner, and upon the same terms, conditions and
limitations as appeals in other civil actions.
(Prior Code, § 155.08) (Ord. 2282-1967, passed - -1967)
CHAPTER 161: URBAN HOMESTEAD PROGRAM
Section
   
161.001    Administration
   
161.002    Auditor to provide delinquent tax information
   
161.003    Department may acquire property
   
161.004    Notice to residents
   
161.005    Applicants
   
161.006    Terms of conveyance
   
161.007    Conveyance
   
161.008    Non-compliance
   
161.009    Fee simple title
   
161.010    Rules and regulations
   
161.011    Tax exemption
   
161.012    Properties not claimed
§ 161.001 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Department of Administration (hereinafter referred to in this chapter as
“Department”) is hereby designated as the agency empowered and authorized to
administer an Urban Homestead Program under which family dwellings for one
through four families may be conveyed to individuals or families, who must
occupy and rehabilitate the dwellings.
(Prior Code, § 156.01)
§ 161.002 AUDITOR TO PROVIDE DELINQUENT TAX INFORMATION.
   The County Auditor shall provide to the Department, pursuant to I.C. 6-1.1-
24-4.5, a list of real property on which one or more installments of taxes are
delinquent.
(Prior Code, § 156.02)
§ 161.003 DEPARTMENT MAY ACQUIRE PROPERTY.
   The Department may acquire real property in the name of the city for use as
provided in this chapter by purchase through tax sale, by gift or by outright
purchase. Pursuant to I.C. 6-1.1-25-1 and I.C. 6-1.1-25-4, the Department may
acquire the deed for real property purchased at tax sale 90 days after the date
of sale, after compliance with the notice provisions of I.C. 6-1.1-25-6.
(Prior Code, § 156.03)
§ 161.004 NOTICE TO RESIDENTS.
   The Department shall, after the acquisition of real property for use as
provided in this chapter, take the steps necessary to fully inform the
residents of the city of:
   (A)   The existence, nature and location of the dwelling;
   (B)   The qualifications required for participation in the program under
this chapter; and
   (C)   The terms and conditions on which the dwellings may be conveyed to
qualified persons.
(Prior Code, § 156.04)
§ 161.005 APPLICANTS.
   (A)   A person may apply for the Urban Homestead Program by completing a bid
application. An applicant is qualified and shall be approved to receive real
property offered under this chapter if he or she:
      (1)   Is at least 18 years of age;
      (2)   Possesses the financial resources to support a loan, the necessary
skills to rehabilitate the property or a combination of both;
      (3)   Has, including immediate family, not previously participated in the
program. IMMEDIATE FAMILY shall be defined as any person living in the same
household and related to the applicant including, but not limited to, a wife,
son, daughter, mother, father, brother or sister; and
      (4)   Is not an elected official or an employee of the city.
   (B)   Approved applicants are entitled to receive a list of all properties
owned by the city that are available under this chapter.
   (C)   Approved applicants may apply for each dwelling in which they are
interested. A drawing shall be held to determine those persons receiving the
dwellings. Each approved applicant and his or her immediate family may receive
one dwelling in the drawing.
(Prior Code, § 156.05)
§ 161.006 TERMS OF CONVEYANCE.
   The conveyance of a dwelling to an applicant under this chapter shall be
made in return for a fee which includes the total amount of city funds expended
to acquire the property, to insure the property, to secure and stabilize the
property and the total amount of payments in lieu of taxes during the time the
applicant resides in the dwelling and the property is held in the city’s name
(of $1 or more) and the execution by the applicant of an agreement with the
following minimum conditions:
   (A)   The applicant must reside in the dwelling as his or her principal
place of residence for a period of not less than three years;
   (B)   The applicant must bring the residence up to a minimum code standard,
including Buildings, Plumbing, Electrical and Fire Code standards, within 12
months after possession, or before possession, if required under division (D)
below;
   (C)   The applicant must carry fire and liability insurance on the dwelling
at all times; and
   (D)   The applicant must comply with any additional terms, conditions and
requirements that the Department may impose to assure that the purposes of this
chapter are carried out. This may include the requirement that the dwelling be
rehabilitated to minimum Building Code standards before possession.
(Prior Code, § 156.06)
§ 161.007 CONVEYANCE.
   The Department shall convey the real property acquired for the purposes of
this chapter to those persons qualified under §
161.006 by using the methods prescribed by divisions (A) or (B) below.
   (A)   The real property may be conveyed by a conditional sales contract,
with title to remain in the city for a period of at least one year.
   (B)   The title to real property may be conveyed to the purchaser as a
determinable fee, with the language of the granting clause in the deed of
conveyance to include the language, “The property is conveyed on the conditions
that the purchaser: will reside in the dwelling as his or her principal place
of residence for a period of not less than three years; will bring the
residence up to minimum code standards in 12 months; will carry adequate fire
and liability insurance on the dwelling at all times”.
(Prior Code, § 156.07)
§ 161.008 NON-COMPLIANCE.
   Before the vesting of a fee simple title in the purchaser, any material
failure by the purchaser to carry out the agreement entered into under §
161.006 nullifies the agreement and all right, title and interest in the
property immediately reverts to the city; except that, the Department may grant
the purchaser a specified period, not to exceed two years, to come into
compliance with the terms of the agreement. The Department may subordinate its
interest under the terms of the agreement to financial institutions or persons
lending money to the purchaser for the purpose of allowing the purchaser to
fulfill the terms of the conveyance.
(Prior Code, § 156.08)
§ 161.009 FEE SIMPLE TITLE.
   After the purchaser has resided in the dwelling for the required three-year
period, brought the property into compliance with the required code standards,
and otherwise complied with the terms of his or her agreement, the Department
shall convey to him or her a fee simple title to the property.
(Prior Code, § 156.09)
§ 161.010 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Director of the Department shall prescribe the rules and regulations
necessary to carry out this chapter, including rules and regulations
establishing standards and methods for inspection of buildings, bidding for
properties by applicants and measurement of rehabilitation progress.
(Prior Code, § 156.10)
§ 161.011 TAX EXEMPTION.
   Property acquired or held under this chapter with retention of the deed by
the city is considered property of the city held for municipal purposes and is
exempt from property taxation. This property tax exemption becomes effective on
the date of conveyance to the city. A petition to cancel taxes or a certified
application for exemption is not required for property acquired or held under
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 156.11)
§ 161.012 PROPERTIES NOT CLAIMED.
   Any property for which no one applies in two successive drawings held under
this chapter may be sold at public auction to the highest bidder.
(Prior Code, § 156.12) (Ord. 21-1986, passed - -1986)
CHAPTER 162: NEIGHBORHOOD POLICY
Section
   
162.001    Definitions
   
162.002    Purposes
   
162.003    City/neighborhood relations
   
162.004    Neighborhood services clearinghouse
   
162.005    Resources
§ 162.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NEIGHBORHOOD. A geographic area consisting of specific city blocks and
bounded by distinct geographic features such as streets, rivers and other
physical characteristics. The geographic area will be determined by the
citizens who choose to form a neighborhood association. It is not the intent of
the city to arbitrarily determine the boundaries of a NEIGHBORHOOD.
   NEIGHBORHOOD RESIDENT. A citizen who resides in or is employed by a business
entity, church, school or other organization whose principal location is the
neighborhood.
   NEIGHBORHOOD ASSOCIATION. Any group of neighborhood residents which
proclaims its commitment to neighborhood improvement and a willingness to
identify problems and seek solutions to the problems faced by the neighborhood.
This group should meet regularly and elect officers as needed.
   NEIGHBORHOOD SERVICES. Those considered necessary to ensure an adequate
environment and quality of life of individual or corporate neighbors. Services
may be provided by the neighborhood through its neighborhood association or the
services may be made available from the city. Neighborhood associations may
seek services from other governmental or public boards, commissions, taxing
units and utilities. Services may also be sought from the county or the
township, and from not-for-profit organizations. The city may actively support
the neighborhoods in these requests even though the provision of services from
such entities is not affected by the terms of this chapter.
   NEIGHBORHOOD SERVICES CENTER. Specific location within a neighborhood at
which services determined by the neighborhood association will be available. A
NEIGHBORHOOD SERVICE CENTER will only be established at the initiative of the
neighborhood association. There is no requirement or expectation that such a
center be established in each neighborhood. Because the needs of neighborhoods
will vary substantially one from another, there will be no predetermined list
of services to be offered through the centers.
   NEIGHBORHOOD SERVICES CLEARING- HOUSE. The office funded by the Common
Council to assist citizens in forming neighborhood associations and providing
assistance to such associations.
(Prior Code, § 162.20) (Ord. 40-1993, passed - -1993)
§ 162.002 PURPOSES.
   The purposes of this chapter are:
   (A)   To acknowledge that neighborhoods and neighborhood associations are
key components in the long-term effort to improve the quality of life in the
city;
   (B)   To establish and maintain a satisfying quality of life for all city
citizens;
   (C)   To recognize neighborhood associations as the primary initiators of
neighborhood improvement efforts; and
   (D)   To define the role of city government in the creation and empowerment
of neighborhood associations throughout the city, wherever citizens wish to
create them.
(Prior Code, § 162.30) (Ord. 40-1993, passed - -1993)
§ 162.003 CITY/NEIGHBORHOOD RELATIONS.
   (A)   The city intends that its relationship with the neighborhoods be one
of partnership. This partnership will mobilize resources within the city and
seek additional resources external to the city to find and apply solutions to
problems and to make other improvements identified by neighborhood
associations.
   (B)   The city encourages neighborhood residents to form such associations
and will empower those associations once formed through the Department of
Planning and Redevelopment pursuant to the recommendations of the Greater
Richmond Progress Committee’s Task Force on Neighborhoods. Said Department of
Planning and Redevelopment will facilitate efforts to:
      (1)   Identify potential sponsors for associations and make city
resources available to those sponsors for start-up purposes;
      (2)   Utilize city departments, other governmental bodies, not-for-profit
organizations and businesses to generate interest in neighborhood associations;
and
      (3)   Create incentives for the establishment and maintenance of
associations.
   (C)   The city recognizes that the newly established associations must have
the tools for achieving success. Through the Greater Richmond Progress
Committee’s Task Force on Neighborhoods, the Department of Planning and
Redevelopment will facilitate efforts to:
      (1)   Establish a neighborhood association training program to provide
emerging association leaders with communications and organizational skills as
well as essential information about the community;
      (2)   Establish communication links between all governmental and non-
governmental entities and the neighborhood associations to ensure a coordinated
and cooperative approach to addressing neighborhood problems;
      (3)   Support, promote and recognize neighborhood associations; and
      (4)   Require consultation with neighborhood associations in the course
of planning city-sponsored projects which affect the neighborhoods and
encourage other governmental entities to consult with the associations prior to
making decisions which significantly impact the neighborhoods.
(Prior Code, § 162.40) (Ord. 40-1993, passed - -1993)
§ 162.004 NEIGHBORHOOD SERVICES CLEARINGHOUSE.
   (A)   The Common Council will fund the operation of a neighborhood services
clearing-house which will be run by a Board composed of representatives from
all neighborhood associations.
   (B)   The clearing-house will provide a number of services including, but
not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Maintain a resource center which would actively gather information
relating to local neighborhoods, the experiences of other communities and
neighborhood issues in general and provide information to the general public
upon request;
      (2)   Sponsor conferences, public meetings or other events relating to
neighborhood issues or designed to assist neighborhoods in addressing problems
or taking advantage of opportunities;
      (3)   Act as an advocacy group on behalf of neighborhood associations
providing spokespersons to address public meetings, social and service clubs,
governmental, corporate or not-for-profit organizations on the subject of
neighborhoods and their concerns;
      (4)   Provide direct assistance to individual associations in start-up
and sustaining activities, identifying resources for problem-solving and
conflict resolution, working to establish or to improve linkages with service
providers, and generally working to strengthen local associations; and
      (5)   Provide regular training programs for new and continuing
association leaders to ensure the continued vitality of the associations.
(Prior Code, § 162.50) (Ord. 40-1993, passed - -1993)
§ 162.005 RESOURCES.
   (A)   As long as citizens understand and take advantage of their right to
express concerns within the neighborhood associations, these associations will
be in the best position to understand the problems and opportunities facing the
neighborhoods. The associations are expected to identify problems and possible
solutions and then undertake action to address them. The associations will
utilize neighborhood resources whenever possible to address these issues. In
many cases, however, resources from outside the neighborhood will be essential.
   (B)   Once an association has determined that it needs assistance in
addressing an issue from a governmental or non-governmental office, it is
encouraged to bring that request directly to the office in question. That
assistance could take many forms, but may commonly be additional financial,
personnel or equipment resources in excess of those available to the
neighborhood. As appropriate, city offices will work with the neighborhood
association in order to acquire those additional resources either from the city
itself or from another entity.
   (C)   The unique character of problems faced by a single neighborhood may
require the establishment of a neighborhood service center which would allow
for a more efficient delivery of services to a neighborhood and a more
coordinated delivery when several providers are involved. The establishment of
such a center would come at the request of the neighborhood association and be
agreed to by the service providers involved.
(Prior Code, § 162.60) (Ord. 40-1993, passed - -1993)
CHAPTER 163: HISTORIC AND CONSERVATION DISTRICTS
Section
General Provisions
   
163.001    Purpose
   
163.002    Definitions
   
163.003    Severability
   
163.004    Applicability
Historic Preservation Commission
   
163.015    Creation
   
163.016    Composition
   
163.017    Terms
   
163.018    Commission Administrator
   
163.019    Officers
   
163.020    Rules
   
163.021    Meetings
   
163.022    Powers and duties
Historic Districts, Conservation Districts and Guidelines
   
163.035    Initiation of district
   
163.036    Commission preparation of maps
   
163.037    Classification of buildings
   
163.038    Notice and approval of owners
   
163.039    Historic District
   
163.040    Conservation District
   
163.041    Common Council approval of maps of Historic and Conservation
Districts
   
163.042    Recording the fact of designation
   
163.043    Additional regulations
Conditions and Regulations
   
163.055    Interim protection
   
163.056    Certificates of appropriateness (COA)
   
163.057    Visual compatibility
   
163.058    Staff approvals of certificate of appropriateness
   
163.059    Appeal provisions
   
163.060    Maintenance
   
163.061    Relationship with zoning districts
 
   
163.999    Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 163.001 PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is deemed essential by the city that qualities relating to its
history and harmonious outward appearance of its structures be preserved in
order to:
      (1)   Promote the educational, cultural and general welfare of the
citizens of the city;
      (2)   Ensure the harmonious and orderly growth and development of the
municipality;
      (3)   Maintain established residential neighborhoods in danger of having
their distinctiveness destroyed;
      (4)   Enhance property values and attract new residents;
      (5)   Ensure the viability of the traditional uptown area; and
      (6)   Enhance tourism within the city.
   (B)   This purpose is advanced through the restoration and preservation of
historic areas and buildings, the construction of compatible new buildings
where appropriate and the maintenance and insurance of compatibility in regards
to style, form, proportion, texture and material between historic buildings and
those of contemporary design. It is the intention of the city through this
chapter to preserve and protect historic and architecturally worthy buildings,
structures, sites, monuments, streetscapes and neighborhoods which impart a
distinct aesthetic quality to the city and serve as visible reminders of its
historic heritage.
(Prior Code, § 158.01)
§ 163.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words in
the present tense include the future tense. The singular includes the plural,
and the plural, the singular. The word “shall” is always mandatory. The word
“person” includes a firm, a partnership, limited liability company,
unincorporated association or a corporation, as well as an individual. Terms
not defined in this section shall have the meanings customarily assigned to
them.
   ADJACENT. Any real property adjoining the property in question. This shall
also include properties directly or diagonally across a street, alley or public
way.
   ALTERATION. A material change in the external architectural features of any
structure within an historic district.
   CITY. The City of Richmond, Indiana.
   CLASSIFICATIONS OF STRUCTURES OR BUILDINGS IN HISTORIC DISTRICTS.
      (1)   OUTSTANDING. The “outstanding” or “O” classification means that the
structure or building has sufficient historic or architectural significance and
is already listed, or is eligible for individual listing, in the National
Register of Historic Places.
      (2)   NOTABLE. A classification of “notable” or “N” means that the
structure or building does not merit the outstanding rating, but it is still
above average in its importance. A NOTABLE STRUCTURE may be eligible for the
National Register.
      (3)   CONTRIBUTING. A “contributing” or “C” classification means the
structure or building is at least 40 years old, but does not meet the criteria
for an “O” or “N” classification. Such resources are important to the density
or continuity of the area’s historic fabric. CONTRIBUTING STRUCTURES can be
listed on the National Register only as part of an historic district.
      (4)   NON-CONTRIBUTING. A structure or building classified as “non-
contributing” or “NC” is property not described as one of the three above
historic classifications. Such properties may be less than 40 years old, or
they may be older structures that have been altered in such a way that they
have lost their historic character, or they may be otherwise incompatible with
their historic surroundings. These properties are not eligible for the listing
on the National Register.
   COMMISSION. The Historic Preservation Commission established by this
chapter.
   CONSERVATION DISTRICT. A district established by ordinance in which the
regulations are less stringent than in a historic district.
   DEMOLITION. The complete or substantial removal of any building or
structure.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT. A single building, structure, object or site or a
concentration of buildings, structures, objects, spaces or sites designated by
ordinance adopted pursuant to this chapter. Property not so designated will not
be considered a HISTORIC DISTRICT within the terms of this chapter.
   INTERESTED PARTY. Any one of the following:
      (1)   The Mayor;
      (2)   The Common Council;
      (3)   The Richmond Advisory Plan Commission;
      (4)   A neighborhood association, a majority of whose members are
residents of an historic district designated by an ordinance adopted under this
chapter;
      (5)   An owner or occupant of property located in an historic district
established by an ordinance adopted under this chapter;
      (6)   Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana, Inc., or any of its
successors; and
      (7)   The state’s Historic Preservation Officer designated under I.C. 14-
21-1-19.
   PRESERVATION GUIDELINES. Locally developed criteria which identify local
design concerns in an effort to assist property owners in maintaining the
character of the designated district or buildings during the process of
rehabilitation or new construction.
   ROUTINE MAINTENANCE. In-kind work (e.g., replacing shingles with identical
shingles) or work which would not require a building permit, and any change
that is not construction, removal or alteration and for which no certificate of
appropriateness is required, and specifically including painting.
   STREETSCAPE. The appearance from a public way, the distinguishing
characteristics of which are created by the width of the street and sidewalks,
their paving materials and color, the design of the street furniture (e.g.,
street lights, trash receptacles, benches and the like), the use of plant
materials such as trees and shrubs and the setback, mass and proportion of
those buildings which enclose the street.
   VISUAL COMPATIBILITY. Those elements of design that meet the guidelines set
out in §
163.057.
(Prior Code, § 158.01)
§ 163.003 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, clause, provision or portion of this chapter is adjudged
unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder
of this chapter shall not be affected thereby.
(Prior Code, § 158.13)
§ 163.004 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall be immediately applicable to all property within any
designated historic or conservation district for which the owner has signed the
original petition requesting such district designation. It shall apply to all
other property within a district upon the first transfer of ownership in such
property by deed, contract or inheritance, after the adoption date of the
ordinance establishing the applicable district, or 20 years from the date of
adoption for such ordinance, whichever event shall first occur.
(Prior Code, § 158.14) (Ord. 26-2000, passed - -2000)
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION
§ 163.015 CREATION.
   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-11-4, there is hereby established the Historic
Preservation Commission of the city (hereinafter referred to as the
“Commission”).
(Prior Code, § 158.02)
§ 163.016 COMPOSITION.
   The Commission shall consist of seven voting members and one non-voting
advisory member appointed by the Unsafe Building Commission annually. The
voting members shall be appointed by the Mayor of the city, subject to the
approval of the Common Council of the city. The members of the Commission
should include those interested in the preservation and development of historic
areas and professionals in the disciplines of architectural history, planning
and other disciplines related to historic preservation, to the extent that
those professionals are available in the community. Commission members shall
serve without compensation and shall be residents of the city.
(Prior Code, § 158.02) (Ord. 15-2014, passed - -2014)
§ 163.017 TERMS.
   (A)   Members shall serve for a term of three calendar years; however, in
order for the terms to be staggered, the initial terms of members shall be as
follows: two shall expire 12-31-2001; two shall expire 12-31-2002; and three
shall expire 12-31-2003.
   (B)   A vacancy shall be filled by the same appointment authority within 90
days from the time of vacancy and the new member shall serve for the unexpired
duration of the term of the member who is being replaced.
(Prior Code, § 158.02)
§ 163.018 COMMISSION ADMINISTRATOR.
   A city administrator designated by the Mayor shall serve as the ex officio
Administrator of the Commission. The Administrator shall provide staff
assistance to the Commission, act as the Commission’s Secretary and issue
certificates of appropriateness as directed by the Commission.
(Prior Code, § 158.02)
§ 163.019 OFFICERS.
   The Commission shall elect from its membership a Chairperson and Vice
Chairperson who shall each serve for one year and who may be reelected.
(Prior Code, § 158.02)
§ 163.020 RULES.
   The Commission shall adopt rules consistent with this chapter for the
transaction of its business. The rules must include the time and place of
regular meetings and a procedure for the calling of special meetings.
(Prior Code, § 158.01)
§ 163.021 MEETINGS.
   Commission meetings must be open to the public in accordance with the
state’s Open Door Law, being I.C. 5-14-1.5-1, and a public record shall be kept
of the Commission’s resolutions, proceedings and actions. The Commission shall
hold regular meetings, at least monthly, except when it has no business
pending. Special meetings may be called in a manner determined by the
Commission and its rules.
(Prior Code, § 158.01)
§ 163.022 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Commission shall be concerned with those elements of development,
redevelopment, rehabilitation and preservation that affect visual quality in an
historic district or conservation district. Areas of concern may also include
viewsheds, landscapes and streetscapes of historic importance. The Commission
may not consider details of design, interior arrangements or building features,
if those details, arrangements or features are not subject to public view.
   (B)   The Commission shall conduct a survey, or may adopt existing surveys,
to identify historic buildings, structures and places located within the city.
   (C)   The Commission shall draw or have drawn and submit to the Common
Council for its approval a map or maps describing the boundaries of any
historic district or conservation district, as defined within this chapter, it
deems necessary for the city. The Commission shall also issue a report to the
Common Council, based upon its survey, which designates each building or
structure shown within an historic or conservation district, pursuant to the
classifications shown within §
163.002. Final approval of a historic district or conservation district shall
be by Common Council ordinance.
   (D)   The Commission or its designee shall approve or deny applications for
certificates of appropriateness.
   (E)   The Commission shall promote public interest in historic preservation
by initiating and carrying on a public relations and community education
program.
   (F)   The Commission may recommend that the city, the city’s Redevelopment
Commission or others:
      (1)   Acquire any real or personal property, including easements, that is
appropriate for carrying out the purposes of the Commission; and
      (2)   Sell, lease, rent or otherwise dispose of real and personal
property at a public or private sale.
(Prior Code, § 158.03)
HISTORIC DISTRICTS, CONSERVATION DISTRICTS AND GUIDELINES
§ 163.035 INITIATION OF DISTRICT.
   (A)   All recommendations for the establishment of an historic district or
conservation district shall be in the form of a written report and must be
based on the criteria outlined in this section.
   (B)   A recommendation for establishing an historic district or conservation
district may be initiated from either of the following two sources:
      (1)   Based on its survey, the Commission may draw maps and reports for
Common Council approval, as described above; and
      (2)   Owners of property wishing to establish an historic district or
conservation district which includes their property may petition the Commission
to consider drawing and submitting a map or maps of said property to the Common
Council for its approval. The Commission may establish in its rules criteria to
be met before it considers a petition.
(Prior Code, § 158.04) (Ord. 37-2018, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 163.036 COMMISSION PREPARATION OF MAPS.
   In order to establish a historic district or conservation district, the
Commission shall first prepare (or cause to be prepared) a map describing the
district in accordance with the following.
   (A)   The map shall be based on a survey conducted or adopted by the
Commission which identifies historic buildings, structures and sites located
within the city.
   (B)   A historic or conservation district may be limited to the boundaries
of a property containing a single building, structure or site, or may contain
multiple contiguous buildings structures, or sites.
(Prior Code, § 158.04) (Ord. 37-2018, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 163.037 CLASSIFICATION OF BUILDINGS.
   The Commission shall classify and designate on the map all buildings,
structures and sites within each historic or conservation district described on
the map as follows:
   (A)   Outstanding;
   (B)   Notable;
   (C)   Contributing; or
   (D)   Non-contributing/non-historic.
(Prior Code, § 158.04) (Ord. 37-2018, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 163.038 NOTICE AND APPROVAL OF OWNERS.
   Before the Common Council may adopt any ordinance establishing an historic
district or a conservation district, all owners of property within the proposed
district must be notified by certified mail, return receipt requested, at least
30 days before any public hearing is held with respect to such ordinance. For
purposes of this section, only owners of record in the office of the County
Auditor need be notified at their addresses of record according to said office.
In addition, at least 50% of the parcel owners (based upon individual number of
parcels and not size of parcels) in a proposed historic district or
conservation district must agree to the designation of being in such a district
which agreement must be evidenced by a written petition signed by such owners
prior to submission to Council. Such petition may be one and the same as a
petition filed by residents to establish an historic district or conservation
district.
(Prior Code, § 158.04) (Ord. 37-2018, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 163.039 HISTORIC DISTRICT.
   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary within this chapter, the Common
Council may adopt an ordinance establishing a local historic district which
will require the notice and approval set forth within §
163.038. Once established, a local historic district shall continue unless
removed by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 158.04) (Ord. 37-2018, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 163.040 CONSERVATION DISTRICT.
   (A)   The Commission may recommend, and the Common Council may provide, that
the establishment of a local historic district shall occur in two phases.
   (B)   During the first phase, which continues for a period of three years
from the date the ordinance is adopted, a certificate of appropriateness is
required for the following activities: the demolition of any building; the
moving of any building; and any new construction of a principal building or
accessory building or structure subject to view from a public way.
   (C)   The Commission may review the area and recommend elevating the
district to a local historic district status continuing the status of a
conservation district; or removing all relevant status herein. Once
established, a conservation district shall continue unless removed by
ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 158.04) (Ord. 37-2018, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 163.041 COMMON COUNCIL APPROVAL OF MAPS OF HISTORIC DISTRICTS AND
CONSERVATION DISTRICTS.
   Before an historic district or conservation district is established and the
building classifications take effect, the map setting forth the district’s
boundaries and building classifications must be submitted to, and approved in
an ordinance by the Common Council, which may be in the same ordinance creating
the district.
(Prior Code, § 158.04) (Ord. 37-2018, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 163.042 RECORDING THE FACT OF DESIGNATION.
   The boundaries of any historic district or conservation district shall be
recorded in the office of the County Recorder.
(Prior Code, § 158.04) (Ord. 37-2018, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 163.043 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.
   Each ordinance approved by Common Council establishing an historic district
or a conservation district shall include any additional regulations or
guidelines not contained in this chapter that will be applicable in said
district to determine whether a certificate of appropriateness shall be issued.
Each such ordinance shall be codified and placed in the city code as
recommended by the city’s Law Department.
(Prior Code, § 158.04) (Ord. 26-2000, passed - -2000; Ord. 37-2018, passed 9-4-
2018)
CONDITIONS AND REGULATIONS
§ 163.055 INTERIM PROTECTION.
   (A)   When submitting a map to the Common Council under this chapter, the
Commission may declare one or more buildings or structures that are classified
and designated as historic on the map to be under interim protection.
   (B)   Not more than two working days after declaring a building, structure
or site to be under interim protection under this section, the Commission
shall, by personal delivery or certified mail, provide the owner and occupant
of the building, structure or site with a written notice of the declaration.
For purposes of this section, only owners of record in the office of the County
Assessor need be notified at their addresses of record according to said
office. The written notice must:
      (1)   Cite the authority of the Commission to put the building, structure
or site under interim protection under this section;
      (2)   Explain the effect of putting the building, structure or site under
interim protection; and
      (3)   Indicate that the interim protection is temporary.
   (C)   A building or structure put under interim protection under this
section remains under interim protection until the map is approved or rejected
in an ordinance by the Common Council of the city. If the Common Council has
not approved or rejected such an ordinance within 90 days after a building or
structure is placed under interim protection, the Commission must reaffirm such
interim protection status or it shall automatically cease. Interim protection
may then continue up to an additional 90 days or until Common Council takes
action on said ordinance as herein provided. Interim protection may only be
reaffirmed one time, so that a building or structure may be under continuous
interim protection for a maximum of 180 days. Once a building or structure
ceases to be under interim protection, a one-year period must pass before it
can again be placed under interim protection.
   (D)   While a building, structure or site is under interim protection under
this section:
      (1)   The building, structure or site may not be demolished or moved; and
      (2)   The exterior appearance of the building, structure or site may not
be conspicuously changed.
   (E)   The Commission may approve a certificate of appropriateness at any
time during the interim protection; provided, the proposed change meets the
criteria for considering effect of actions on historic buildings in §
163.056(E) and any proposed preservation guidelines prepared for the building,
structure or site.
   (F)   The Historic Preservation Commission does not have authority to issue
an interim protection order under this chapter once the city’s Enforcement
Authority has initially determined a property to be an unsafe or blighted
property and a prehearing order has been issued and recorded by the city’s
Enforcement Authority in accordance with
Chapter 153 of this code of ordinances and I.C. 36-7-9. After a pre-hearing
order has been issued and recorded for a property, the city’s Enforcement
Authority will seek a continuous enforcement order from the Unsafe Building
Commission in accordance with
Chapter 153 of this code of ordinances and I.C. 36-7-9. The city’s Historic
Preservation Commission will not issue an interim protection order in
accordance with this chapter for said property until such time as the property
is brought into compliance as directed by a continuous enforcement order issued
by the city’s Unsafe Building Commission under
Ch. 153 of this code of ordinances and I.C. 36-7-9.
(Prior Code, § 158.01) (Ord. 15-2014, passed - -2014)
§ 163.056 CERTIFICATES OF APPROPRIATENESS (COA).
   (A)   Certificates of appropriateness (COA) required. A certificate of
appropriateness must be issued by the Commission before a permit is issued for,
or work is begun on, any of the following:
      (1)   Historic districts.
         (a)   The demolition of any building or structure;
         (b)   The moving of any building or structure;
         (c)   A conspicuous change in the exterior appearance of any historic
building (P, N or C structures) or any part of or appurtenance to such a
building, including walls, fences, light fixtures, steps, paving and signs, by
additions, reconstruction or alteration (excluding routine maintenance);
         (d)   Any new construction of a principal building or accessory
building or structure subject to view from a public way;
         (e)   A change in walls and fences, or the construction of walls and
fences along public ways; or
         (f)   A conspicuous change in the exterior appearance on non-historic
buildings (NC structures) subject to view from a public way by additions,
reconstruction and/or alteration (excluding routine maintenance).
      (2)   Conservation districts.
         (a)   The moving of any building;
         (b)   The demolition of any building; or
         (c)   Any new construction of a principal building or accessory
building or structure subject to view from a public way.
   (B)   Application for certificates of appropriateness. An application for a
certificate of appropriateness shall be made in the office of the Commission or
its designee on forms provided by that office. All applications shall be
subject to the rules and requirements established by the Commission.
   (C)   Approval or denial of certificates of appropriateness. The Commission
or its designee shall approve or deny applications for certificates of
appropriateness. If an application for a certificate of appropriateness is
approved, or is not acted on within 30 days after it is filed, a certificate of
appropriateness shall be issued. The Commission may grant an extension of the
30-day limit with prior written approval of the applicant. The Commission must
report its findings and the reasons for its decision in written form, and
supply the applicant with a copy of its report. A copy of the certificate of
appropriateness must be submitted with the application for a building or
demolition permit; no building or demolition permit shall be issued unless a
copy of the certificate of appropriateness is provided by the applicant with
the application. If a building or demolition permit is not obtained within one
year after a certificate of appropriateness is approved, said certificate of
appropriateness shall expire and the applicant must reapply before obtaining a
building or demolition permit.
   (D)   Re-applications. If an application for a certificate of
appropriateness is denied by the Commission, the applicant must wait at least
one year before submitting a new application for the same work.
   (E)   Criteria for considering effect of actions on historic buildings. The
Commission, in considering the appropriateness of any reconstruction,
alteration, maintenance or moving of an historic building, structure, site or
any part of or appurtenance to such building, structure or site, including
walls, fences, light fixtures, steps, paving and signs, shall require that such
work be done in a manner that will preserve the historical and architectural
character of the building, structure or appurtenance. In considering historic
and architectural character, the Commission shall consider, among other things,
the following:
      (1)   The purposes of this chapter;
      (2)   The historical and architectural value and significance of the
building, structure, site or appurtenance;
      (3)   The compatibility and significance of additions, alterations,
details, materials or other non- original elements which may be of a different
style and construction date than the original;
      (4)   The texture, material, style and detailing of the building,
structure, site or appurtenance;
      (5)   The continued preservation and protection of original or otherwise
significant structure, material and ornamentation;
      (6)   The relationship of buildings, structures, appurtenances or
architectural features similar to one within the same historic district,
including for primary areas, visual compatibility as defined in §
163.057(B); and
      (7)   The position of the building or structure in relation to the
street, public right-of-way and to other buildings and structures.
(Prior Code, § 158.06)
§ 163.057 VISUAL COMPATIBILITY.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to preserve and encourage the
integrity of historic buildings, structures, sites, monuments, streetscapes and
neighborhoods and to ensure their compatibility with any new work. The
construction of a new building or structure, and the moving, reconstruction,
alteration, major maintenance or repair conspicuously affecting the external
appearance of any building, structure or appurtenance within the boundaries of
the primary area of a structure within a historic district must be generally of
a design, form, proportion, mass, configuration, building material, texture and
location on a lot compatible with other buildings in the historic district and
with places to which it is visually related.
   (B)   Criteria for considering visual compatibility within historic
districts. Within an historic district, new buildings and structures, as well
as existing buildings, structures and appurtenances that are moved,
reconstructed, materially altered or repaired, must be visually compatible with
buildings and places to which they are visually related. The following
compatibility factors should be considered when applicable.
      (1)   Height. The height of proposed buildings shall be visually
compatible with adjacent buildings.
      (2)   Proportion of building’s front facade. The relationship of the
width of a building to the height of the front elevation must be visually
compatible with buildings, squares and places to which it is visually related.
      (3)   Proportion of openings within the facility. The relationship of the
width of the windows to the height of windows in a building must be visually
compatible with buildings, squares and places to which it is visually related.
      (4)   Relationship of solids to voids in front facades. The relationship
of solids to voids in the front facade of a building must be visually
compatible with buildings, squares and places to which it is visually related.
      (5)   Rhythm of spacing of buildings on streets. The relationship of a
building to the open space between it and adjoining buildings must be visually
compatible with buildings, squares and places to which it is visually related.
      (6)   Rhythm of entrances and porch projections. The relationship of
entrances and porch projections of a building to sidewalks must be visually
compatible with buildings, squares and places to which it is visually related.
      (7)   Relationship of materials and texture. The relationship of the
materials and texture of the facade of a building must be visually compatible
with buildings, squares and places to which it is visually related.
      (8)   Roof shapes. The roof shape of a building must be visually
compatible with buildings, squares and places to which it is visually related.
      (9)   Wall of continuity. Appurtenances of a building or site, such as
walls, wrought iron fences, evergreen landscape masses and building facades,
must form cohesive walls of enclosure along the street, if necessary to ensure
visual compatibility of the building to the buildings and places to which it is
visually related.
      (10)   Scale of the building. The size of a building, and the building
mass of a building in relation to open spaces, windows, door openings, porches
and balconies shall be visually compatible with the buildings and places to
which it is visually related.
      (11)   Directional expression of front elevation. A building shall be
visually compatible with buildings, squares and places to which it is visually
related in its directional character, including vertical character, horizontal
character or non-directional character.
(Prior Code, § 158.07)
§ 163.058 STAFF APPROVALS OF CERTIFICATES OF APPROPRIATENESS.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below, the Commission may
authorize the staff of the Commission, on behalf of the Commission, to grant or
deny an application for a certificate of appropriateness.
   (B)   The Commission must specify the types of applications for minor
classifications of work that the staff of the Commission is authorized to grant
or deny. The staff may not be authorized to grant or deny an application for a
certificate of appropriateness for the following:
      (1)   The demolition of a building, structure or site;
      (2)   The moving of a building or structure;
      (3)   The construction of an addition to a building or structure; and
      (4)   The construction of a new building or structure.
   (C)   Any staff decision to deny a certificate of appropriateness may be
appealed to the Commission by the property owner or other interested party by
written notice to the Commission within 30 days after the staff decision.
(Prior Code, § 158.08)
§ 163.059 APPEAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   If the Commission denies the issuance of a certificate of
appropriateness, the property owner may appeal said denial to the county’s
circuit or superior court, in accordance with I.C. 4-21.5-5.
   (B)   In addition to division (A) above, if the Commission denies the
issuance of a certificate of appropriateness for the demolition of a building
or structure, a request for reconsideration of a demolition permit may be made
to the Commission in writing within six months after the initial denial and the
Commission shall grant such certificate, but only after the following is
established.
      (1)   The property owner must demonstrate to the Commission that an
historic building or structure is incapable of earning an economic return on
its value, as established by a licensed and qualified real estate appraiser.
      (2)   The property owner shall file with the Commission documented
evidence that a good faith effort is being made to sell or otherwise dispose of
such property at fair market value to any public or private person or agency
which gives a reasonable assurance of its willingness to preserve and restore
such property. Such documented evidence shall be provided at the property
owner’s expense and shall include:
         (a)   Offering price;
         (b)   Date the offer of sale began;
         (c)   Name and address of listing real estate agent, if any;
         (d)   A copy of an advertisement which offers the property for sale;
and
         (e)   An appraisal of the property’s fair market value by a licensed
real estate appraiser.
      (3)   Notice of the proposed demolition must be given for a period of no
less than 90 days, nor more than one year from the date of proposed demolition,
according to the rating of the building as follows:
         (a)   “O” (Outstanding): one year;
         (b)   “N” (Notable): nine months;
         (c)   “C” (Contributing): six months; and
         (d)   “NC” (Non-Contributing): 90 days.
      (4)   Notice must be posted on the premises of the building or structure
proposed for demolition in a location clearly visible from the street. In
addition, notice must be published in the local newspaper one time not more
than 60 days, nor less than 30 days, prior to expiration of the notice period
established in division (B)(3) above.
      (5)   The Commission may approve a certificate of appropriateness at any
time during the notice period under the above section, but shall be required to
take action on the petition for reconsideration prior to the end of the notice
period. If the certificate is approved, a demolition permit shall be issued
without further delay and demolition may proceed.
(Prior Code, § 158.09)
§ 163.060 MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Historic buildings, structures and sites shall be maintained to meet
the applicable requirements established under state statute and local code for
buildings generally so as to prevent the loss of historic material and the
deterioration of important character defining details and features.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed so as to prevent the
ordinary repairs, maintenance and painting of any building, structure or site;
provided that, such repairs or maintenance do not result in a conspicuous
change in the design, form, proportion, mass, configuration, building material,
texture, location or external visual appearance of any structure or part
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 158.10)
§ 163.061 RELATIONSHIP WITH ZONING DISTRICTS.
   Zoning districts lying within the boundaries of a historic district are
subject to regulations for both the zoning district and the historic district.
If there is a conflict between the requirements of the zoning district and the
requirements of the historic district, the more restrictive requirements shall
apply.
(Prior Code, § 158.11)
§ 163.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, whether as principal, agent, owner, lessee, tenant,
contractor, builder, architect, engineer or otherwise, who violates any
provision of this chapter, shall be subject to a fine as follows:
      (1)   Up to $2,500 for demolition;
      (2)   Up to $300 for all other (non-demolition) offenses for the first
violation; or
      (3)   Up to $7,500 for all second violations (I.C. 36-1-3-8(B)(ii)).
   (B)   Each day of the existence of any violation of this chapter shall be a
separate offense.
   (C)   The erection, construction, enlargement, alteration, repair,
demolition, moving or maintenance of any building, structure or appurtenance
which is begun, continued or maintained contrary to any provisions of this
chapter is hereby declared to be a nuisance and in violation of this chapter
and unlawful. The city may institute a suit for injunction in the circuit or
superior court of the county to restrain any person or entity from violating
any provision of this chapter and to cause such violation to be prevented,
abated or removed. Such action may also be instituted by any property owner who
is adversely affected by the violation of any provision of this chapter.
   (D)   The remedies provided for in this section shall be cumulative and not
exclusive and shall be in addition to any other remedies provided by law.
   (E)   Any person or party aggrieved by a decision or action taken by the
Commission shall be entitled to a judicial review hereof in accordance with
I.C. 4-21.5-5.
(Prior Code, § 158.12) (Ord. 6-2023, passed - -2023)
CHAPTER 164: RIVERFRONT DISTRICTS
Section
   
164.001    Parameters
   
164.002    Restaurants
   
164.003    Petition to create conservation district
   
164.004    Alcoholic beverages; agreement; conditions
   
164.005    Application forms
   
164.006    Requirements
§ 164.001 PARAMETERS.
   All riverfront districts within the city shall follow the parameters for
riverfront districts as set forth in this chapter and as set forth in I.C. 7.1-
3-20. The parameters for riverfront districts as set forth in this chapter and
as set forth in I.C. 7.1-3-20 shall be followed by all riverfront districts
within the city.
(Ord. 66-2009, passed 12-7-2009)
§ 164.002 RESTAURANTS.
   Property owners who desire to utilize the benefits of the riverfront
district must be a restaurant, as defined in
Ch. 165 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 66-2009, passed 12-7-2009)
§ 164.003 PETITION TO CREATE CONSERVATION DISTRICT.
   Property owners that utilize the benefits of the riverfront district in the
Depot Conservation District must be a part of the conservation district by
signing or have previously signed the petition to have the conservation
district created.
(Ord. 66-2009, passed 12-7-2009)
§ 164.004 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; AGREEMENT; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Businesses that pursue a non-transferable permit to sell alcoholic
beverages on premises for consumption in a restaurant within a riverfront
district must sign an agreement with the city that, among other things, the
business must annually meet and comply with the parameters set forth in this
chapter.
   (B)   Businesses that hold a non-transferable permit to sell alcoholic
beverages on premises for consumption in a restaurant within a riverfront
district shall agree to sales of at least 70% food products with the balance of
sales in alcoholic beverages not to exceed 30% of their gross sales.
   (C)   Businesses that hold a non-transferable permit to sell alcoholic
beverages on premises for consumption in a restaurant within a riverfront
district shall report annually to the city’s Department of Metropolitan
Development as follows.
      (1)   Reports shall include the annual food and beverage sales figures
derived from gross point of sale register receipts. If figures are not derived
from point sale receipts, the figures must be certified by a certified public
accountant (CPA) and must include any filings and attachments required to be
submitted annually to the state’s Alcohol and Tobacco Commission and the
Internal Revenue Service.
      (2)   Reports shall be prepared by and/or certified by a CPA commencing
the first year of the business report and then every year of the business
report.
      (3)   Reports are due no later than February 28 of each calendar year.
   (D)   Businesses that pursue a non-transferable permit to sell alcoholic
beverages on premises for consumption in a restaurant within a riverfront
district shall pay the city an initial application fee of $250 and upon
approval of the application an annual administration fee of $250 which shall be
submitted along with the annual report.
   (E)   Businesses that hold a non-transferable permit to sell alcoholic
beverages on premises for consumption in a restaurant within a riverfront
district must prohibit smoking on its premises. Once a restaurant obtains a
non-transferable permit to sell alcoholic beverages it shall not permit smoking
on its premises.
   (F)   Businesses that hold a non-transferable permit to sell alcoholic
beverages on premises for consumption in a restaurant within a riverfront
district must prohibit gaming or gambling on its premises. Once a restaurant
obtains a non-transferable permit to sell alcoholic beverages it shall not
permit gaming or gambling on its premises.
(Ord. 66-2009, passed 12-7-2009)
§ 164.005 APPLICATION FORMS.
   Applications will be made available on forms provided by the Department of
Metropolitan Development.
(Ord. 66-2009, passed 12-7-2009)
§ 164.006 REQUIREMENTS.
   In the event a business at any time fails to meet the requirements set forth
in this chapter, the result will be an automatic forfeiture of the non-
transferable permit which determination will be within the sole discrete of the
city’s Department of Metropolitan Development.
(Ord. 66-2009, passed 12-7-2009)
 
CHAPTER 165: UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
165.001   Title
   
165.002   Combination of materials; scope
   
165.003   Definitions
   
165.004   Authority
   
165.005   Purpose
   
165.006   Compliance
   
165.007   Severability
   
165.008   Interpretation; rules of construction
   
165.009   Jurisdictional area
   
165.010   Repealer
   
165.011   Transition rules
   
165.012   Administrative officer
   
165.013   Enforcement official
   
165.014   Saving provisions
   
165.015   Effect of annexation or vacation on zoning
   
165.016   Statutory changes
   
165.017   References
   
165.018   Certification and adoption
Administration
   
165.030   Common Council; summary of powers and duties
   
165.031   Plan Commission; summary of powers and duties
   
165.032   Board of Zoning Appeals; summary of duties
   
165.033   Zoning Administrator; summary of duties
   
165.034   Plan Commission certification
Zoning Districts
   
165.045   Establishment of standard zoning districts
   
165.046   Establishment of overlay districts
   
165.047   Establishment of Planned Development Districts
   
165.048   Zoning district land uses
   
165.049   Unlisted land uses
   
165.050   Questionable land uses
   
165.051   Land use matrix
Official Zoning Map
   
165.065   Description
   
165.066   Location
   
165.067   Zoning district boundaries
   
165.068   Regular revisions
   
165.069   Copies
   
165.070   Damage, destruction or loss
Zoning Districts
   
165.085   Parks and Recreation (PR) District
   
165.086   Agricultural (AG) District
   
165.087   Intense Agricultural (IA) District
   
165.088   Low Density Single-Family Residential (R1) District
   
165.089   Medium Density Single-Family Residential (R2) District
   
165.090   High Density Single-Family Residential (R3) District
   
165.091   Urban Residential (UR) District
   
165.092   Multiple-Family Residential (M1) District
   
165.093   Intense Multiple-Family Residential (M2) District
   
165.094   Manufactured Home Park (MP) District
   
165.095   University (UV) District
   
165.096   Institutional (IS) District
   
165.097   Neighborhood Commercial (NC) District
   
165.098   Limited Commercial (LC) District
   
165.099   General Commercial (GC) District
   
165.100   Outdoor Commercial (OC) District
   
165.101   Central Business (CB) District
   
165.102   Highway Commercial (HC) District
   
165.103   Ed-Med-Tech Park (EP) District
   
165.104   Industrial Commercial (IC) District
   
165.105   Low to Moderate Intensity Industrial (I1) District
   
165.106   High Intensity Industrial (I2) District
   
165.107   High Impact (HI) District
   
165.108   Appropriate adjacent districts
Airport Compatibility Overlay (ACO) District
   
165.120   Intent
   
165.121   Effect of land uses
   
165.122   Effect on development standards
   
165.123   Applicability
   
165.124   Boundary
   
165.125   Restriction of permitted and special exception land uses
   
165.126   Development standards
   
165.127   Conditions of variances, special exceptions and other approvals
Aquifer Protection Overlay (APO) District
   
165.140   Intent
   
165.141   Effect on land uses
   
165.142   Effect of development standards
   
165.143   Applicability
   
165.144   Jurisdictional boundary
   
165.145   Development standards
   
165.146   Process supplement
   
165.147   Monitoring
   
165.148   Administration
North Corridor Overlay (NCO) District
   
165.160   Intent
   
165.161   Effect on land uses
   
165.162   Effect on development standards
   
165.163   Applicability
   
165.164   Jurisdictional boundary
   
165.165   Development standards
Transitional Corridor Overlay (TCO) District
   
165.180   Intent
   
165.181   Effect on land uses
   
165.182   Effect on development standards
   
165.183   Applicability
   
165.184   Jurisdictional boundary
   
165.185   Redevelopment
   
165.186   Development standards
Neighborhood Transition Overlay (NTO) District
   
165.200   Intent
   
165.201   Effect on land uses
   
165.202   Effect on development standards
   
165.203   Applicability
   
165.204   Jurisdictional boundary
   
165.205   Development standards
Mixed-Use Overlay (MUO) District
   
165.220   Intent
   
165.221   Effect on land uses
   
165.222   Effect on development standards
   
165.223   Applicability
   
165.224   Jurisdictional boundary
   
165.225   Prerequisites
   
165.226   Development standards
Planned Development District
   
165.240   Intent
   
165.241   Regulations
   
165.242   Prerequisites
   
165.243   General description and applicability
   
165.244   Procedure
   
165.245   Limitation of revisions
   
165.246   Required permanent open space
Development Standards
   
165.260   General
   
165.261   Accessory dwelling standards
   
165.262   Accessory structure standards
   
165.263   Architectural standards
   
165.264   Confined feeding standards
   
165.265   Density and intensity standards
   
165.266   Driveway standards
   
165.267   Environmental standards
   
165.268   Fence and wall standards
   
165.269   FR-01: Fireworks retail standards
   
165.270   Floodplain standards
   
165.271   Height standards
   
165.272   Home business standards
   
165.273   Keeping animals
   
165.274   Kennels
   
165.275   Lighting standards
   
165.276   Loading standards
   
165.277   Lot standards
   
165.278   Manufactured housing standards
   
165.279   Outdoor dining standards
   
165.280   Outdoor display area standards
   
165.281   Outdoor storage standards
   
165.282   Performance standards
   
165.283   Public improvement standards
   
165.284   Setback standards
   
165.285   Sewer and water standards
   
165.286   Sexually-oriented business standards
   
165.287   Special exception standards
   
165.288   Storage tank standards
   
165.289   Structure standards
   
165.290   Telecommunication facility standards
   
165.291   Temporary use and structure standards
   
165.292   Trash receptacle standards
   
165.293   Vision clearance triangle standards
   
165.294   Wind turbine system standards
Landscaping
   
165.305   General standards
   
165.306   Interstate buffering standards
   
165.307   Residential lot planting standards
   
165.308   Non-residential lot planting standards
   
165.309   Manufactured home park planting standards
   
165.310   Parking lot planting standards
   
165.311   Pond planting standards
   
165.312   Bufferyard planting standards
Parking Standards
   
165.325   General standards
   
165.326   Single-family residential parking standards
   
165.327   Traditional residential parking standards
   
165.328   Multiple-family residential parking standards
   
165.329   Manufactured home residential parking standards
   
165.330   Neighborhood commercial and central business parking standards
   
165.331   Non-residential parking standards
   
165.332   Minimum number of parking standards
Sign Standards
   
165.345   General standards
   
165.346   Agricultural sign standards
   
165.347   Residential sign standards
   
165.348   Multiple-family residential and manufactured home park sign standards
   
165.349   Intense agriculture, university and institutional sign standards
   
165.350   Parks, neighborhood, limited commercial and central business sign
standards
   
165.351   General commercial and outdoor commercial sign standards
   
165.352   Highway commercial sign standards
   
165.353   Industrial sign standards
Subdivisions
   
165.365   Intent and prerequisites (ST)
   
165.366   Standards generally (ST)
   
165.367   Coved Subdivisions (CV)
   
165.368   Conservation Subdivisions (CS)
   
165.369   Traditional Subdivisions (TD)
   
165.370   Townhouse Subdivisions (TN)
   
165.371   Zero Lot Line Subdivisions (ZL)
   
165.372   Strip Commercial Subdivisions (SC)
   
165.373   Commercial District Subdivisions (CD)
   
165.374   Industrial Park Subdivisions (IP)
Design Standards
   
165.385   General; purpose
   
165.386   Dedication of public improvement standards
   
165.387   Development name standards
   
165.388   Easement standards
   
165.389   Entryway feature standards
   
165.390   Erosion control standards
   
165.391   Flood hazard standards
   
165.392   Incentive standards
   
165.393   Lot establishment standards
   
165.394   Mixed-use development standards
   
165.395   Monument and marker standards
   
165.396   Open space standards
   
165.397   Owners’ association standards
   
165.398   Pedestrian network standards
   
165.399   Perimeter landscaping standards
   
165.400   Prerequisite standards
   
165.401   Storm water standards
Street and Access Standards
   
165.415   General standards
   
165.416   Private street and access standards
   
165.417   Traditional and townhouse subdivision street and access (alley)
standards
   
165.418   Other residential street and access (alley) standards
   
165.419   Residential street and access standards
   
165.420   Non-residential access standards
   
165.421   Street and access (signs) standards
   
165.422   Street lighting standards
   
165.423   Surety standards
   
165.424   Utility standards
Non-Conformities
   
165.435   Intent
   
165.436   Distinction between conforming, illegal non-conforming and legal non-
conforming
   
165.437   Illegal non-conforming structures, uses and lots
   
165.438   Legal non-conforming structures
   
165.439   Legal non-conforming lots
   
165.440   Legal non-conforming uses
Processes
   
165.455   Improvement location permit processes applicable to a parcel
   
165.456   Development plan approval processes applicable to a parcel
   
165.457   Processes applicable to developments
   
165.458   Processes for relief from regulations
   
165.459   Improvement location permits
   
165.460   Temporary improvement location permits
   
165.461   Administrative appeal
   
165.462   Development plan
   
165.463   Special exceptions
   
165.464   Subdivision of land; primary plat
   
165.465   Subdivision of land; secondary plat
   
165.466   Subdivision of land; administrative
   
165.467   Text amendments
   
165.468   Variances
   
165.469   Waivers from design standards
   
165.470   Zoning map amendments; rezonings
Planned Developments
   
165.485   General
   
165.486   District ordinance and establishment plan
   
165.487   Detailed development plan
   
165.488   Final development plan
Enforcement and Penalties
   
165.500   Actionable violations
   
165.501   Enforcement official
   
165.502   Discovery of violations
   
165.503   Inspection of property
   
165.504   Responsibility of violations
   
165.505   New permits at location where violation exists
   
165.506   Enforcement options
   
165.507   Request to stop work
   
165.508   Stop work order
   
165.509   Enforcing violation as common nuisance
   
165.510   Request to remedy
   
165.511   Invoking legal, equitable or special remedy
   
165.512   Enforcing condition, covenant or commitment
   
165.513   Requesting prohibitory or permanent injunction to restrain
   
165.514   Requesting mandatory injunction to remove structure
 
   
165.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 165.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be formally known as the “City of Richmond Unified
Development Ordinance” and may be cited and referred to as “Chapter 165 of the
Richmond Code of Ordinances”, “Zoning Ordinance”, “Subdivision Control
Ordinance”, “Unified Development Ordinance” or “this chapter”.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 1.01)
§ 165.002 COMBINATION OF MATERIALS; SCOPE.
   The city’s Zoning Ordinance and Subdivision Control Ordinance have been
combined into one ordinance for the purpose of maintaining consistency,
shortening the overall length of the document, and to improve user-friendliness
for the end users. Sections
165.001,
165.002,
165.003,
165.385 through
165.401,
165.415 through
165.424,
165.435 through
165.440,
165.455 through
165.470,
165.485 through
165.488,
165.500 through
165.514 and
165.999 are shared by both the Zoning Ordinance and Subdivision Control
Ordinance. Sections
165.085 through
165.108,
165.120 through
165.127,
165.140 through
165.148,
165.160 through
165.165,
165.180 through
165.186,
165.200 through
165.205,
165.220 through
165.226,
165.240 through
165.246,
165.260 through
165.294,
165.305 through
165.312,
165.325 through
165.332 and
165.345 through
165.353 are exclusively Zoning Ordinance components. Sections
165.365 through
165.374 is exclusively a Subdivision Control Ordinance component.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 1.02)
§ 165.003 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General. The definitions contained in division (B) below shall be
observed and applied in the interpretation of all sections in this chapter,
except where the context clearly indicates otherwise. Words used in the present
tense shall include the future; words used in the singular number shall include
the plural and the plural the singular; words used in the masculine gender
shall include the feminine.
   (B)   Defined words. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ABANDONMENT. The relinquishment of property or a cessation of the use of
the property for a continuous period of one year by the owner with the
intention, neither of transferring rights to the property to another owner, nor
of resuming the use of the property.
      ACCESSORY BUILDING. See ACCESSORY STRUCTURE.
      ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure which:
         (a)   Is subordinate to a primary structure in area, intent and/or
purpose;
         (b)   Contributes to the comfort, convenience or necessity of
occupants of the primary structure or primary use;
         (c)   Does not alter or change the character of the premises;
         (d)   Is located on the same zoning lot as the primary structure or
primary use;
         (e)   Conforms to the setback, height, bulk, lot coverage and other
requirements of this chapter unless otherwise provided for;
         (f)   May not be constructed prior to the time of construction of the
primary structure, unless used for agricultural or personal storage or
otherwise specified in this chapter;
         (g)   Is not designed for human occupancy as a dwelling or commercial
use; and
         (h)   In the case of a telecommunications facility, a subordinate
structure detached from but located on the same site, the use of which is
incidental and accessory to that of the primary telecommunications facility.
      ACCESSORY STRUCTURE, RECREA- TION-BASED. An accessory structure placed on
a lot and used for recreation, entertainment and lounging. Specific types of
permitted RECREATION-BASED ACCESSORY STRUCTURES are indicated in the accessory
structure standards in §§
165.260 through
165.294,
165.305 through
165.312,
165.325 through
165.332 and
165.345 through
165.353.
      ACCESSORY STRUCTURE, STORAGE- BASED. An accessory structure placed on a
lot and used to store, keep, shelter or contain material items. Specific types
of permitted STORAGE-BASED ACCESSORY STRUCTURES are indicated in the accessory
structure standards in §§
165.260 through
165.294,
165.305 through
165.312,
165.325 through
165.332 and
165.345 through
165.353.
      ACCESSORY STRUCTURE, SUPPORT- BASED. An accessory structure placed on a
lot and used to provide essential services to a primary structure, primary land
use or another accessory structure. Specific types of permitted SUPPORT-BASED
ACCESSORY STRUCTURES are indicated in the accessory structure standards in §§
165.260 through
165.294,
165.305 through
165.312,
165.325 through
165.332 and
165.345 through
165.353.
      ADA. The Americans with Disabilities Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et
seq.
      ADJACENT PROPERTY. Any property adjacent to or directly diagonal to the
subject property. Properties across a public right-of-way (ROW) are also
considered ADJACENT. The illustration below notes the properties that would be
considered ADJACENT to two different subject properties.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3585.png]
 
      ADMINISTRATOR. See ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
      ADVISORY PLAN COMMISSION. See PLAN COMMISSION.
      AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT. Refers to the AG District. The IA District shall
not be considered an AGRICULTURE DISTRICT.
      AGRICULTURE. The use of land for agriculture purposes, including farming,
dairying, pasturage, apiculture, agriculture, horticulture, floriculture,
viticulture and animal and poultry husbandry, and the necessary accessory uses
for packing, treating or storing the produce; provided, however, that, the
operation of any accessory uses shall be secondary to that of the normal
agricultural activities. AGRICULTURE does not include feed lots, stock yards or
the commercial feeding of garbage or offal to swine or other animals.
      AIRPORT COMPATIBILITY OVERLAY DISTRICT. Refers to the ACO District.
      AIRPORT, PRIVATE. A facility which is primarily used or intended to be
used for the departure and arrival of aircraft for transportation or
recreation, and that is not open to the flying public. A PRIVATE AIRPORT shall
include at least one paved or unpaved runway. A private airport may also
include basic navigational equipment, basic communication equipment, basic
navigational lighting, a taxiway, an aircraft tie-down area, a hanger, an
aircraft maintenance facility and a fuel dispensing with less than 500
cumulative gallons of on-site storage. A PRIVATE AIRPORT may also include
ancillary uses that are clearly subordinate to the primary use, including:
private pilot training. A PRIVATE AIRPORT shall not include any food service,
retail sales, air show or control tower.
      AIRPORT, PUBLIC. A facility which is primarily used or intended to be
used for the departure and arrival of aircraft for transportation or
recreation, and that is open to the flying public. A PUBLIC AIRPORT shall
include at least one paved runway. A PUBLIC AIRPORT may also include
navigational equipment, communication equipment, navigational lighting, a
control tower, a taxiway, a loading ramp, an aircraft tie-down area, a hanger,
a terminal, a management office, an aircraft maintenance facility, fuel storage
and a fueling depot. A PUBLIC AIRPORT may also include ancillary uses that are
clearly subordinate to the primary use, including: a café; mechanical or pilot
training operation; skydiving show or training; air show; pilot lounge;
aviation related retail; and passenger related retail.
      ALLEY. A public right-of-way, other than a street, road, crosswalk or
easement, that provides secondary access for the special accommodation of
abutting property.
      ANCILLARY USE. Uses that are customarily associated with and clearly
subordinate to a primary use of land or a structure. A use shall never be
considered ANCILLARY if it is a permitted or special exception use in the same
zoning district.
      ANTENNA. Any system of wires, poles, rods, reflecting discs or similar
devices used for the transmission or reception of electromagnetic or radio
waves.
      APPLICANT. The owner, owners or legal representative of real estate who
makes application to the Plan Commission and/or Board of Zoning Appeals for
action by the Plan Commission or Board of Zoning Appeals affecting the real
estate owned or represented by the applicant.
      AQUIFER PROTECTION OVERLAY DISTRICT. Refers to the APO District.
      ARTERIAL STREET. See STREET, MAJOR ARTERIAL or STREET, MINOR ARTERIAL.
      ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY. A residential facility where assistance with
daily activities, such as taking medicine, dressing, grooming and bathing are
provide for the aged or infirm, or any other reasonably independent person in
need of nursing care; and which does not contain equipment for surgical care or
for treatment of disease or injury, and is not primarily designed for patients
being treated for mental illness or alcohol or drug addiction. ASSISTED LIVING
FACILITIES have private rooms that are not shared by non-related persons.
      ATM. See AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINE.
      ATTACHED STRUCTURE. A structure that is structurally connected to another
structure by a foundation, wall, bridge or roof line, or appears to be
connected. Carports, garages, porch awnings and the like are considered
ATTACHED STRUCTURES and shall abide by all regulations pertaining to primary
structures.
      AUTOMOBILE-ORIENTED BUSINESS. A business that includes services rendered
directly on, to or for vehicles. AUTOMOBILE-ORIENTED BUSINESSES include
automobile accessory installation, automobile body shop, automobile gas
station, automobile oil change facility, automobile parts sales, automobile
rental, automobile repair/ service station and automobile wash.
      AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINE (ATM). An electronically operated device used to
conduct financial transactions on site, by means of direct computerized access.
      AUTOMOBILE WASH. A structure, or portion of a structure, containing
facilities for washing one or more automobiles at any one time, using
production line methods such as a chain conveyor, blower, steam cleaning device
or other mechanical devices; or providing space, water, equipment or soap for
the complete or partial cleaning of such automobiles, whether by operator or by
customer.
      AUTOMOBILE REPAIR/SERVICE STATION. Any building or premises used for the
dispensing, sale or offering for sale to the public, automobile fuels stored
only in underground tanks and located wholly within the lot lines; lubricating
oil or grease for the operation of automobiles; and the sale and installation
of tires, batteries, other minor accessories and minor auto repair, but not
including a bulk plant, conducting of major auto repairs, automobile wrecking,
automobile sales or car washes; provided, however, that, the washing of
individual automobiles where no chain conveyor is employed may be included.
      AVERAGE SETBACK. See SETBACK, AVERAGE.
      BASE ZONING DISTRICT. See UNDERLYING DISTRICT.
      BASEMENT. The portion of a structure below the first or ground floor
level and having less than four feet of clearance from its ceiling to the
average finished grade of the structure perimeter. A BASEMENT shall not be
considered a story for the purposes of determining structure height, except
when it is used or suitable for habitation.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3587.png]
 
      BED AND BREAKFAST FACILITY. An owner occupied or employee of the owner
occupied residence containing no more than six guest rooms for hire, for
lodging by prearrangement for periods not to exceed three consecutive weeks and
providing for occasional meals daily (usually breakfast) and not a hotel, motel
or boarding house.
      BERM. A human-made, formed, earth mound of definite height and width used
for landscaping and screening purposes, the intent of which is to provide a
transition between uses of differing intensity or to screen uses from sight.
      BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPS). Any of the following measures to
minimize, as reasonably practicable, impacts on ground water quality and
quantity:
         (a)   Schedules of activities;
         (b)   Prohibition of practice;
         (c)   Treatment requirements;
         (d)   Operation and maintenance procedures;
         (e)   Use of containment facilities; and/or
         (f)   Other management practices.
      BLOCK. Property abutting on one side of a street and lying between the
two nearest intersecting or intercepting streets, intersecting railroad,
intersecting waterway or the end of a dead end street.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3589.png]
 
      BOARD. See BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
      BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS. The city’s Board of Zoning Appeals or any
division thereof.
      BOND. Any form of security including a cash deposit, surety bond,
collateral, property or instrument of credit in an amount and form satisfactory
to the Plan Commission. All BONDS shall be approved by the Plan Commission
wherever a bond is required by this chapter.
      BREWERY. A large-scale operation that produces beer. A BREWERY does not
include a micro-brewery.
      BREWERY, MICRO-. A small, independent brewery that produces limited
quantities of craft or specialized beers, often sold for consumption on the
premises. A MICRO-BREWERY is sometimes called a CRAFT BREWERY or NANO-BREWERY.
      BUFFER LANDSCAPING. Any trees, shrubs, walls, fences, berms, space or
related landscaping features required under this chapter for buffering lots
from adjacent properties or public rights-of-way for the purpose of increasing
visual shielding or other aspects of privacy and/or aesthetics.
      BUFFERYARD. An area adjacent to front, side and rear property lines,
measured perpendicularly from adjacent property lines and/or right-of-way
lines, intended to provide attractive spaces to reduce the impacts of proposed
uses on adjacent property or natural features and to screen incompatible uses
from each other and from the right-of-way. BUFFERS also help to maintain
existing trees or natural vegetation, to block or reduce noise, glare or other
emissions and to maintain privacy. BUFFERYARDS are in addition to (separate
from) front, rear or side yard setbacks.
      BUILDABLE LOT. See LOT, IMPROVED.
      BUILDING.
         (a)   A predominantly enclosed structure having a roof and exterior
walls generally used for occupancy of humans and/or storage of property. Car
ports, vestibules and open sided breezeways over 200 square feet shall be
considered a BUILDING for the purposes of this chapter.
         (b)   Dog houses, play houses and tree houses under 50 square feet in
occupiable space shall not be considered a BUILDING for the purposes of this
chapter.
      BUILDING AREA. The horizontal area of a building on a lot, measured from
the outside exterior walls, excluding open areas, unenclosed porches and decks.
      BUILDING CODE. The Indiana Building Code which establishes and controls
the standards for constructing all forms of permanent structures and related
matters.
      BUILDING, DETACHED. See DETACHED STRUCTURE.
      BUILDING HEIGHT. See STRUCTURE HEIGHT.
      BUILDING ENVELOPE. The setback lines that establishes an area on a lot in
which building can occur.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3591.png]
 
      BUMPOUT. A landscaping feature typically in a parking lot used similarly
to a landscape island in a parking lot; to provide visual relief, reduce heat
and add to a healthful environment. BUMPOUTS can be used along streets,
especially near intersections to, in addition to previously mentioned benefits,
help define on-street parking areas and shorten crosswalk distances.
      BUSINESS. The engaging in the purchase, sale, barter or exchange of
goods, wares, merchandise or services, or the maintenance or operation of
offices, recreational or amusement enterprises.
      BZA. See BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
      CAMP. A facility where people go for training (e.g., cheerleading) or
experiences (e.g., horse back riding) where they stay in temporary residences
(e.g., cabins, tents or lodge).
      CAMPGROUND. Any site, lot, field or tract of land designed with
facilities for short term occupancy by recreational vehicles and other camping
equipment, but not including mobile homes.
      CANOPY TREE. Deciduous trees that grow to at least 40 feet in height and
have a canopy that is round or oval in shape. Conical or tubular shaped trees
are not CANOPY TREES.
      CAR WASH. See AUTOMOBILE WASH.
      CARPORT. A roofed structure designed and intended to shelter a motor
vehicle, with at least two sides open to the weather.
      CELLULAR COMMUNICATION EQUIP- MENT. Antennas and other transmitting and/
or receiving device or other associated devices used in the provision of
telecommunications service.
      CEMETERY. Property used for interring of the dead. It includes any
crematory, mausoleum or mortuary operated in conjunction with and on the same
property.
      CENTRAL SEWER SYSTEM. A community sewer system including collection and
treatment facilities owned and maintained by a governmental unit.
      CENTRAL WATER SYSTEM. A community water supply system including existing
and new wells and/or surface water sources and intakes, treatment facilities
and distribution lines.
      CERTIFICATE OF CONFORMANCE. A document issued by the City Engineer, which
certifies that an existing or expanding business or the proposed development
meets or exceeds the requirements of the aquifer protection districts.
      CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY. A certificate stating the occupancy and use of
a building or structure complies with all applicable chapter provisions.
      CHANGEABLE COPY, ELECTRONIC. See ELECTRONIC CHANGEABLE COPY.
      CHANGEABLE COPY, MANUAL. See MANUAL CHANGEABLE COPY.
      CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN. See SIGN, CHANGEABLE COPY.
      CHILD CARE CENTER. Any institution operated for the care of children,
licensed pursuant to I.C. 12-17.2-4-2 et seq. and as defined by I.C. 12-7- 2-
28.4.
      CHILD CARE HOME.
         (a)   A residence used by the proprietor for full-time living and for
providing non-overnight care, supervision and protection of children in private
residences which is ancillary to the primary use as residential.
         (b)   A residential structure in which at least six children (not
including the children for whom the provider is parent, stepparent, guardian,
custodian or other relative) at any time receive child care from a provider:
            1.   While unattended by a parent, legal guardian or custodian;
            2.   For regular compensation; and
            3.   For more than four hours, but less than 24 hours in each of
ten consecutive days per year, excluding intervening Saturdays, Sundays and
holidays.
         (c)   The term includes Class I child care home and Class II child
care home, as defined in I.C. 12-7-2-33.7 and I.C. 12-7-2-33.8. A house not
used by the proprietor for full-time living shall not qualify as a CHILD CARE
HOME.
      CHILD CARE INSTITUTION.
         (a)   A residential facility that provides child care on a 24-hour
basis for more than ten children;
         (b)   A residential facility with a capacity of not more than ten
children that does not meet the residential structure requirements of a group
home; or
         (c)   Operates under a license issued under I.C. 31-27-3-1; provides
for delivery of mental health services that are appropriate to the needs of the
individual; and complies with the rules adopted under I.C. 4-22-2 by the
Division of Family and Children. A CHILD CARE INSTITUTION does not include a
juvenile detention facility.
      CHILDREN’S HOME. See CHILD CARE INSTITUTION.
      CHURCH. See PLACES OF WORSHIP.
      CITY OFFICIAL. A Common Council member, a Plan Commission member or its
staff, a Board of Zoning Appeals member or an employee of the city.
      CLINIC. See MEDICAL CLINIC.
      CLUBHOUSE. A structure used in association with a golf course, in which
may be locker rooms, golf course administration offices, golf cart storage and
maintenance, restrooms, lounges, meeting space, snack bar, banquet facilities
and retail sales of golf related products. Retail sales shall constitute no
more than 15% of the space accessible to public space of the CLUBHOUSE.
      COLLECTOR STREET. A street that moves traffic between arterial streets
and funnels traffic out of residential areas, as depicted by the city’s
Comprehensive Plan.
      COLLEGE. See UNIVERSITY.
      COLLOCATION. A space on an existing or proposed telecommunication tower
that can be used for the installation and/or mounting of antennas or radio or
cellular communication equipment.
      COMMERCIAL DISTRICT. Refers to the NC, LC, GC, OC, CB and HC Districts.
      COMMISSION. See PLAN COMMISSION.
      COMMUNITY CENTER. A structure available to the public for community
activities, meetings, banquets, projects, gatherings and the like. A COMMUNITY
CENTER may be able to be reserved by the public for private parties and events.
      COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. Refers to the city’s Comprehensive Plan. The plan
includes goals and objectives for economic development, city image and
identity, transportation, land use and the like. The city’s Comprehensive Plan
was developed and adopted by the Plan Commission pursuant to the I.C. 36-7-4-
500 and includes any part and/or policies separately adopted and any amendment
to the plan and/or the policies.
      CONDITION OF APPROVAL. Stipulations or provisions set forth by the Board
of Zoning Appeals or Plan Commission required as a prerequisite for approval of
a petition.
      CONDOMINIUM. Real estate lawfully subject to I.C. 32-25 et seq. (the
Condominium Law) by the recording of condominium instruments, in which
undivided interests in the common areas and facilities are vested in the
condominium unit owners.
      CONFINED FEEDING. The raising of animals for food, fur or recreation in
lots, pens, ponds, sheds or buildings, where they are confined, fed and
maintained for at least 45 days during any year, and where there is no ground
cover or vegetation present over at least half of the animals’ confinement
area.
      CONFINED FEEDING OPERATION (LARGE). Any livestock operation engaged in
the confined feeding of at least 1,000 cattle, 1,000 swine, 10,000 sheep or
30,000 hens or ducks. All thresholds are defined by IDEM.
      CONFINED FEEDING OPERATION (MEDIUM). Any livestock operation engaged in
the confined feeding of between 300 to 999 cattle, 750 to 999 swine, 3,000 to
9,999 sheep, 9,000 to 29,999 hens or 10,000 to 29,999 ducks. All thresholds are
defined by IDEM.
      CONFINED FEEDING OPERATION (SMALL). Any livestock operation engaged in
the confined feeding of less than 300 cattle, 750 swine, 3,000 sheep, 9,000
hens or 10,000 ducks. All thresholds are defined by IDEM.
      CONSTRUCTION. Includes building, erecting, moving or any physical
operations on the premises which are required for construction. Excavation,
fill, paving and the like shall be considered part of CONSTRUCTION.
      CONSTRUCTION PLAN(S). The maps or drawings showing the specific location
and design of improvements to be installed in accordance with the requirements
of this chapter and the state’s Building Code as a condition of approval.
      CONTAMINATE. To have hazardous materials or regulated substances mixed
into an aquifer formerly void of such substances.
      CONTINUOUS MOUND. A landscape feature used for screening in which a
continuous raised section of earth is used to block or partially block
visibility from one side to the other. In particular, CONTINUOUS MOUNDS are
linear with a top elevation (crest) relatively consistent from one end to the
other.
      CORNER LOT. See LOT, CORNER.
      COUNTY. Wayne County, Indiana.
      COVENANTS. Private and legal restrictions of various kinds on the usage
of lots, typically within a subdivision and applied by the subdivider. In the
case of public health, safety and welfare, COVENANTS may be applied by the Plan
Commission, that are recorded with the plat and deed. COVENANTS can also be
placed on commercial and industrial developments. Unless specifically agreed
to, COVENANTS are not enforceable by the Plan Commission or its designees.
However, they are enforceable in civil court by interested or affected parties.
      CUL-DE-SAC. A street having one end open to traffic and being permanently
terminated by a vehicular turnaround at the other end.
      DANCE/NIGHT CLUB. An establishment for entertainment with table seating,
stage (or area) for musical performances and floor area designated for dancing.
      DAY CARE. See CHILD CARE CENTER.
      DECK. An accessory structure which is on the ground or is elevated from
ground level and is open to the sky.
      DECORATIVE STONE. Generally smooth, attractive and small rocks used in
landscape beds. River rock is a common type of DECORATIVE STONE. Pea gravel is
not considered DECORATIVE STONE. Generally, DECORATIVE STONE is between one
inch in diameter up to three inches in diameter and should not include fine
material.
      DEDICATION. The setting apart of land or interests in land for use by the
municipality or public by ordinance, resolution or entry in the official
minutes as by the recording of a plat.
      DEMOLITION. The complete removal or destruction of any structure
excluding its foundation.
      DEPARTMENT OF METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT. The Planning Department of the
city.
      DETACHED BUILDING. See DETACHED STRUCTURE.
      DETACHED STRUCTURE. A structure that has no structural connection with
the primary structure or any other building or structure.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3593.png]
 
      DETENTION POND. See POND, DETENTION.
      DEVELOPED LOT. See LOT, DEVELOPED.
      DEVELOPER. The owner or legal representative of land proposed to be
subdivided or residentially/commercially/industrially utilized.
      DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS. Height, bulk, density, environmental performance
standards and other standards for development as set forth in this chapter,
including landscaping, parking and other required improvements, excluding those
provisions which specifically regulate the use, per se, of property.
      DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS VARIANCE. See VARIANCE, DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
      DISCHARGE. The off-site release of any regulated substance or hazardous
materials that are not immediately contained and cleaned up so that it poses no
threat to the aquifer.
      DISTILLERY. A large-scale operation that produces liquors. A DISTILLERY
does not include a micro-distillery.
      DISTILLERY, MICRO-. A small, independent distillery that produces limited
quantities of beverage-grade spirit alcohol, often sold for consumption on the
premises. A MICRO- DISTILLERY is sometimes called a CRAFT DISTILLERY or NANO-
DISTILLERY.
      DISTRICT. See ZONING DISTRICT.
      DNR. The Indiana Department of Natural Resources.
      DOMESTIC PETS. See PETS, DOMESTIC.
      DRIVE, PRIVATE. See STREET, PRIVATE.
      DRIVE-THROUGH ESTABLISHMENT. A place of business, being operated for the
sale and purchase at retail of food and other goods, services or entertainment,
which is laid out and equipped so as to allow its patrons to be served or
accommodated while remaining in their automobiles.
      DUPLEX. See DWELLING, SINGLE- FAMILY ATTACHED.
      DWELLING. A building or structure or portion thereof, conforming to all
requirements applicable to the district in which it is located, all Building
Codes and that is used exclusively for residential occupancy, including single-
family attached dwelling units, single-family detached dwelling unit and
multiple-family dwelling units, but excluding hotels, motels and boarding
houses.
      DWELLING, MANUFACTURED HOME. A single-family dwelling unit designed and
built in a factory, installed as a permanent residence, which bears a seal
certifying that it was built in compliance with the Federal Manufactured
Housing Construction and Safety Standards Law (being 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et
seq.), and which also complies with the following specifications:
         (a)   Was constructed after 1-1-1981 and exceeds 950 square feet of
occupied space;
         (b)   Is attached to a permanent foundation of masonry construction
and has a permanent concrete or concrete block perimeter enclosure constructed
in accordance with the One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code;
         (c)   Has wheels, axles and towing chassis removed;
         (d)   Has a pitched roof with a minimum of two vertical units to 12
horizontal units (2:12 pitch); and
         (e)   Consists of two or more sections which, when joined, have a
minimum dimension of 23 feet in width for at least 60% of its length.
      DWELLING, MOBILE HOME. A transportable dwelling unit which is a minimum
of eight feet in width and which is built on a permanent foundation or tied
down with perimeter skirting when connected to the required utilities, and
includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical system
contained therein, and which was manufactured either:
         (a)   Prior to 6-15-1976 and bears a seal attached pursuant to I.C. 9-
13-2-103.2, certifying that it was built in compliance with the standards
established by the state’s Administrative Building Council; or
         (b)   Subsequent to or on 6-15-1976 and bears a seal, certifying that
it was built in compliance with the Federal Mobile Home Construction and Safety
Standards.
      DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A residential structure designed to be
occupied by four or more families, with the number of families in residence not
exceeding the number of dwelling units provided.
      DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. See DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY ATTACHED or
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY DETACHED.
      DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY ATTACHED. An attached residential dwelling unit
designed to be occupied by two or three families, with the number of families
in residence not exceeding the number of dwelling units provided.
      DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY DETACHED. A detached residential dwelling unit
designed to be occupied by one family. A single-family dwelling shall be at
least 23 feet wide for 60% of its length.
      DWELLING SITE. A site within a manufactured home park and/or mobile home
park with required improvements and utilities that is leased for the long-term
placement of a manufactured home and/or mobile home.
      DWELLING SIZE. The overall square footage of a dwelling unit. The
DWELLING SIZE does not include a garage, carport, deck, unfinished storage,
patio or open porch.
      DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. See DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY ATTACHED.
      DWELLING UNIT. A single unit for owner occupancy or for rent/lease,
physically separated from any other dwelling units which may be in the same
structure, and providing complete and independent living facilities for one or
more persons, including permanent provisions for living, sleeping, cooking and
sanitation. Examples of a DWELLING UNIT include a single-family dwelling,
multiple-family dwelling, manufactured home dwelling and farmstead.
      EASEMENT. A grant by a property owner (“grantor”) to specific persons,
the general public, corporations, utilities or others (“grantee” or “easement
holder”), for the purpose of providing services or access to the property.
      ED-MED-TECH PARK DISTRICT. Refers to the EP District.
      ELECTRONIC CHANGEABLE COPY. See SIGN, ELECTRONIC CHANGEABLE COPY.
      EPA. United States Environmental Protection Agency.
      EROSION. The wearing away of the land surface by water, wind, ice,
gravity or other geological agents.
      ESTABLISHED BUILDING SETBACK. See SETBACK, ESTABLISHED BUILDING.
      EXCESSIVE EXTRACTION. A withdrawal of ground water from an aquifer that
results in or may result in the lowering of the water level or piezometric
surface to such an extent as to interfere with the normal operation of existing
private, industrial or municipal water wells. EXCESSIVE EXTRACTION is also
defined as withdrawal from an aquifer which will lead to desaturation of the
aquifer or desaturation to a point where consolidation of the aquifer material
occurs, preventing any further recharge of the aquifer from occurring.
      EXOTIC, PETS. See PETS, EXOTIC.
      EXPRESSWAY. See INTERSTATE/ EXPRESSWAY.
      FAA. Federal Aviation Administration.
      FAIR HOUSING FACILITY (LARGE). To prevent the discrimination of mentally
or physically disabled persons, these facilities have been identified as types
of housing that are permitted in certain districts, but still must meet “non-
discriminatory” health, fire, safety and building regulations. These facilities
include:
         (a)   Group homes for children in need of service under I.C. 31-34-
1 or children who have committed a delinquent act under I.C. 31-37-2-2, I.C.
31-37-2-3 or I.C. 31-37-2-5; and specifically a facility that houses more than
ten children;
         (b)   Residential facility for the developmentally disabled which
provides residential services for more than eight developmentally disabled
individuals as described in I.C. 12-28-4.
      FAIR HOUSING FACILITY (SMALL). To prevent the discrimination of mentally
or physically disabled persons, these facilities have been identified as types
of housing that are permitted in any single-family or multiple-family
residential zoning districts, but still must meet “non-discriminatory” health,
fire, safety and building regulations. These facilities include:
         (a)   Group homes for children in need of service under I.C. 31-34-
1 or children who have committed a delinquent act under I.C. 31-37-2-2, I.C.
31-37-2-3 or I.C. 31-37-2-5; and specifically a facility that houses not more
than ten children;
         (b)   Residential facility for the developmentally disabled, which
provides residential services for eight developmentally disabled individuals or
less as described in I.C. 12-28-4; and
         (c)   Residential facility for the mentally ill, which provides
residential services for mentally ill individuals as described in I.C. 12-28-4.
No two residential facilities for the mentally ill shall be within 3,000 feet
of one another in the planning jurisdiction as stated in the state code.
      FAMILY. An individual, or two or more persons related by blood, marriage
or adoption, or a group of not more than three persons, not related by blood,
marriage or adoption, living together as a single housekeeping unit in a
dwelling unit.
      FARMSTEAD. A single-family dwelling unit that is located on and used in
connection with a farm.
      FBFM. Flood Boundary and Floodway Map.
      FCC. Federal Communications Commission.
      FEMA. United States Federal Emergency Management Agency.
      FHBM. Flood Hazard Boundary Map.
      FINANCIAL SERVICES OFFICE. See OFFICE, FINANCIAL SERVICES.
      FIRM. Flood Insurance Rate Map.
      FIXTURE, CUTOFF. A luminaire that:
         (a)   Projects at least 90% of the total lamp lumens below 80 degrees
from vertical;
         (b)   Does not allow more than 10% of the total lamp lumens above 80
degrees from vertical; and
         (c)   Does not allow more than 2.5% of the total lamp lumens above 90
degrees from vertical.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3595.png]
 
      FIXTURE, FULL-CUTOFF. A luminaire that:
         (a)   Projects at least 90% of the total lamp lumens below 80 degrees
from vertical;
         (b)   Does not allow more than 10% of the total lamp lumens above 80
degrees from vertical; and
         (c)   Does not allow any lamp lumens above 90 degrees from vertical.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3597.png]
 
      FIXTURE, NON-CUTOFF. A luminaire with no control of the horizontal
distribution of luminance.
      FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE (FPG). The elevation of the regulatory flood, plus
two feet at any given location in the SFHA.
      FLOODPLAIN. The relatively flat area or low land adjoining the channel of
a river or stream which has been or may be covered by flood water. The
FLOODPLAIN includes the channel, floodway and floodway fringe. FLOODPLAIN
boundaries are to be determined by using the Floodway-Flood Boundary Maps of
the Federal Insurance Administration/Federal Emergency Management
Administration.
      FLOOD, REGULATORY. A flood having a peak discharge which can be equaled
or exceeded on the average of once in a 100-year period, as calculated by a
method and procedure which is acceptable to and approved by the state’s Natural
Resources Commission. Further, this flood is equivalent to a flood having a 1%
probability of occurrence in any given year.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3599.png]
 
      FLOODWAY, REGULATORY. The channel of a river or stream and those portions
of the floodplains adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to
efficiently carry and discharge peak flow of the regulatory flood of any river
or stream and, is that area covered by flood waters in significant downstream
motion or covered by significant volumes of stored water during the occurrence
of the regulatory flood.
      FLOOR AREA. The sum of all horizontal surface areas of all floors of all
roofed portions of a building enclosed by and within the surrounding exterior
walls or roofs, or to the centerline(s) of party walls separating such
buildings or portions thereof. FLOOR AREA of a building shall exclude exterior
open balconies and open porches.
      FLOOR AREA, MAIN. The portion of floor area constructed, completed and
usable for living purposes with normal living facilities which includes
sleeping, dining, cooking, working, entertainment, common space linking rooms,
areas for personal hygiene or combination of those areas located on the first
(or nearest ground level) floor of the structure. The MAIN FLOOR AREA of a
primary structure does not include a garage, carport, deck, unfinished storage,
patio or open porch.
      FOOD TRUCK. A licensed motor vehicle equipped and approved by the Health
Department to prepare and sell food from locations permitted on-street by city
code or on private property as permitted by this chapter. Food delivery trucks
(e.g., Peapod, Schwans) shall not be considered FOOD TRUCKS. FOOD TRUCKS that
are supplied with food prepared in a commercial kitchen, restaurant or
production facility for the purpose of retail sales of meals and snacks from a
service window (or the like) on the truck shall qualify.
      FOUNDATION. The supporting member of a wall or structure.
      FREEWAY. See INTERSTATE/ EXPRESSWAY.
      FRONT FACING STRUCTURE. Any building facade that is within 45 degrees of
parallel to an adjacent public or private street.
      FRONT LINE. With respect to a building, the foundation line that is
nearest the front lot line.
      FRONT LOT LINE. See LOT LINE, FRONT.
      FRONT YARD. See YARD, FRONT.
      FRONTAGE. See LOT FRONTAGE.
      GARAGE. An attached or detached building designed to house one or more
motor vehicles with:
         (a)   At least one eight-foot wide garage door;
         (b)   A driveway or other improved surface allowing a motor vehicle to
gain access to the garage from a public street, private street or alley; and
         (c)   Interior space at least nine feet wide and 19 feet deep allowing
a vehicle to be parked inside.
      GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION SYSTEM (GIS). A computer system that stores and
links non-graphic attributes or geographically referenced data with graphic map
features to allow a wide range of information processing and display
operations, as well as map production, analysis and modeling.
      GIS. See GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION SYSTEM (GIS).
      GOLF COURSE. An area of terrain on which the game of golf is played
during daylight hours. A GOLF COURSE includes greens, fairways, natural areas.
A GOLF COURSE may also include a driving range when integrated with the golf
course operations and hours.
      GRADE, FINISHED. The average elevation of the finished surface of the
ground within ten feet of the structure after final grading.
      GRANTEE. A person to whom an interest in property is granted.
      GRAVEL. Course and small rocks used for driveways, road beds and other
engineering purposes. Pea gravel and lava rock are considered other types of
GRAVEL. Generally, GRAVEL is between one-fourth inch in diameter up to three
inches in diameter and may also include fine material that acts as a binder.
      GROSS FLOOR AREA. The sum of all horizontal floor area of all floors
within a structure.
      GROUND FLOOR AREA. See FLOOR AREA, MAIN.
      GROUND WATER. The water contained within the earth’s surface recharged
from precipitation, streams, ponds and lakes.
      GROUP HOME.
         (a)   A facility that houses not more than ten children that are
either:
            1.   In need of service under I.C. 31-34-1; or
            2.   Children who have committed a delinquent act under I.C. 31-37-
2-2, I.C. 31-37-2-3 or I.C. 31-37-2-5.
         (b)   GROUP HOMES are not subject to covenants, deeds or other
instruments pertaining to the transfer, sale, lease or use of property that
would permit the residential use of property, but prohibit the use of that
property as a group home as a matter of state public policy reasons. GROUP
HOMES cannot be prohibited on the grounds that they are a business, the persons
living in a group home are not related or any other reason. All GROUP HOMES
must abide by I.C. 31-27-5 and shall be a licensed facility with the state,
meeting fire codes, building codes and specific group home regulations.
      HALF STORY. A story within a building located above the eave line of the
roof structure having windows in gables or dormers. “Above the eave line” shall
include floor elevations of the HALF STORY within one foot of physically being
above the eave line.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3601.png]
 
      HARDSHIP. A difficulty with regard to one’s ability to improve land
stemming from the application of the development standards of this chapter,
which may or may not be subject to relief by means of variance. In and of
themselves, self-imposed situations and claims based on a perceived reduction
of or restriction on economic gain shall not be considered HARDSHIPS. Self-
imposed situations include: the purchase of land with actual or constructive
knowledge that, for reasons other than physical characteristics of the
property; the development standards herein will inhibit the desired
improvement; any improvement initiated in violation of the standards of this
chapter; any result of land division requiring variance from the development
standards of this chapter in order to render that site buildable.
      HAUNTED HOUSE. See SEASONAL ATTRACTION.
      HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. A material which is defined in one or more of the
following categories.
         (a)   CARCINOGENIC. A gas, liquid or solid which is normally
considered to be cancer causing or mutagenic (e.g., PCBs in some waste oils).
         (b)   CORROSIVE. Any material, whether acid or alkaline, which will
cause severe damage to human tissue, or in case of leakage might damage or
destroy other containers of hazardous materials and cause the release of their
contents (e.g., battery acid, phosphoric acid and lye).
         (c)   EXPLOSIVE. A reactive gas, liquid or solid which will vigorously
and energetically react uncontrollably if exposed to heat, shock, pressure or
combinations thereof (e.g., dynamite, organic peroxides and ammonium nitrate).
         (d)   HIGHLY TOXIC. A gas, liquid or solid so dangerous to humans as
to afford an unusual hazard to life (e.g., parathion and chlorine gas).
         (e)   IGNITABLE. A liquid with a flashpoint of less than 140°F; a
solid which may cause fires through friction, spontaneous chemical changes or
absorption of moisture; an oxidizer (e.g., gasoline, white phosphorous,
peroxide).
         (f)   MODERATELY TOXIC. A gas, liquid or solid which, through repeated
exposure or in a single large dose, can be hazardous to humans (e.g.,
Atrazine).
         (g)   REACTIVE. A substance that reacts violently with water; forms
potentially explosive mixtures with water; generates cyanide or sulfide fumes
in quantities dangerous to human health; or is capable of detonation (e.g.,
sodium).
      HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE. Substances as listed in 40 C.F.R. part 116,
Protection of Environment, in quantities greater than listed in 40 C.F.R. part
117, Protection of Environment, based on the authority of §§ 311(b)(2)(A) and
501(a), Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.).
      HEIGHT. See STRUCTURE HEIGHT.
      HIGH IMPACT DISTRICT. Refers to the HI District.
      HOBBY FARMING. The use of land for purposes, including dairying,
pasturage, apiculture, agriculture, horticulture, floriculture, viticulture and
animal and poultry husbandry. Processing and storage of harvested produce or
other end products shall not be allowed on site. The HOBBY FARMING use(s) shall
not exceed 40% of the land area of the lot and shall abide by all setback
regulations. HOBBY FARMING cannot be the primary income source for the owner,
operator or household on site. HOBBY FARMING shall not include feed lots, stock
yards or the commercial feeding of garbage or offal to swine or other animals.
      HOME BASED BUSINESS (TYPE 1). A business activity conducted completely
within a dwelling unit, carried on by any lawful resident of the property and
is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling for residential
purposes. HOME BASED BUSINESS (TYPE 1) uses may include a home office,
professional services, internet business or clergy office and are further
listed and regulated in §
165.272.
      HOME BASED BUSINESS (TYPE 2). A business activity conducted completely
within a dwelling unit, carried on by any lawful resident of the property and
one employee and is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling
for residential purposes. HOME BASED BUSINESS (TYPE 2) uses may include
domestic crafts, art and music teaching, tutoring or hair cutting/styling and
are further listed and regulated in §
165.272.
      HOME BASED BUSINESS (TYPE 3). A business activity conducted completely
within a dwelling unit and/or an accessory structure, carried on by any lawful
resident of the property and his or her employees and is clearly incidental and
secondary to the use of the dwelling for residential purposes. HOME BASED
BUSINESS (TYPE 3) uses may include assembly of products, automobile repair,
landscaping/lawn care business or light manufacturing and are further listed
and regulated in §
165.272.
      HOMEOWNER ASSOCIATION. See OWNERS’ ASSOCIATION.
      HOSPITAL. An institution providing primary health services and medical or
surgical care to persons, primarily inpatients, suffering from illness,
disease, injury and other abnormal physical or mental conditions and including,
as an integral part of the institution, related facilities, such as
laboratories, outpatient facilities, training facilities, medical offices and
staff residences.
      HOTEL. A building in which temporary overnight lodging is provided and
offered to the public for a fee; and in which ingress and egress to and from at
least 90% of all rooms is made through an inside lobby, hallway or other
internal space; and which is staffed by at least one person at all hours. A
HOTEL may include incidental and complementary uses such as a restaurant,
business services and swimming pools. An attached conference center or indoor
water park may also be included with a HOTEL. Fees for overnight rooms must be
charged by one-day or greater increments.
      HOUSEHOLD PET. See PETS, HOUSEHOLD.
      HUB HEIGHT. The distance measured from grade to the central axis of the
rotors on a horizontal axis wind turbine.
      I.A.C. Indiana Administrative Code.
      I.C. Indiana Code.
      IDEM. Indiana Department of Environmental Management.
      ILLUMINANCE. The total amount of visible light illuminating (incident
upon) a point on a surface from all directions above the surface (i.e., how
brightly a surface is illuminated). ILLUMINANCE is measured in lux.
      IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. Any material that prevents absorption of storm water
into the ground such as concrete or asphalt. This does not include gravel, rock
or stone.
      IMPERVIOUS SURFACE COVERAGE. The area of a lot occupied by the primary
structure, any accessory structures and impervious surface.
      IMPROVED LOT. See LOT, IMPROVED.
      IMPROVEMENT. Any permanent structure that becomes part of, placed upon or
is affixed to real estate or any alteration to the land.
      IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMIT. A permit issued under this chapter, prior to
receiving a building permit, permitting a person, firm or corporation to erect,
construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, occupy, use, improve, remove, convert
or demolish any building or structure within its jurisdiction, or permitting a
person to change the condition of the land.
      IMPROVEMENT, OFF-SITE. Any premises not located within the area of the
property to be subdivided, used or built upon whether or not in the same
ownership of the applicant for subdivision approval.
      INCIDENTAL. A minor occurrence or condition which is customarily
associated with a permitted use and is likely to ensue from normal operations.
      INDOT. Indiana Department of Transportation.
      INDUSTRY, LIGHT. See MANU- FACTURING, LIGHT.
      INDUSTRY, HEAVY. See MANU- FACTURING, HEAVY.
      INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT. Refers to the IC, I1 and I2 Districts.
      INDUSTRIAL SALES. A business or operation that sells products
predominantly used by industrial users. Products may included, but are not
limited to: welding supplies; fasteners; motors; and bearings.
      INFILL LOT. A vacant lot in an established and previously developed area
where 90% of all lots within 200 feet or all adjacent lots, whichever
encompasses more lots, have a primary structure.
      INSTITUTIONAL DISTRICT. Refers to the IS District.
      INTENSE AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT. Refers to the IA District. The IA DISTRICT
shall not be considered an agricultural district.
      INTERIOR LOT. See LOT, INTERIOR.
      INTERSTATE/EXPRESSWAY. Any roadway that operates at a high service level,
consists of limited access, is divided, carries region-wide traffic and is
generally classified as part of the interstate system, as depicted in the
city’s Comprehensive Plan.
      JUNK. An automobile, truck, other motor vehicle, watercraft, large
appliances, furniture or like materials which have been damaged to such an
extent that they cannot be operated under their own power or used and/or will
require major repairs before being made usable. This also includes such a
vehicle which does not comply with state or city vehicle licensing or other
laws or ordinances.
      JUNK YARD. A place, usually outdoors, where waste or discarded used
property, including but not limited to automobiles, farm implements and trucks,
is accumulated and is or may be salvaged for reuse or resale. This does not
include industrial scrap metal or accumulation of organic matter.
      JURISDICTION. See PLANNING JURISDICTION.
      JUVENILE DETENTION FACILITY. A facility that holds children or minors
(typically under 18 years of age) for punishment and/or counseling as a result
of sentencing by a court of jurisdiction for criminal or antisocial behavior.
      KENNEL. A place primarily for boarding dogs, cats or other household pets
that are ordinarily bred for sale as pets, including temporary care facilities
for animals for compensation.
      LANDSCAPE AREAS. Places on a lot or abutting right-of-way that are
identified for application of landscaping regulations. LANDSCAPE AREAS include:
street tree planting areas; parking lot planting areas; foundation planting
areas; bufferyard areas; and perimeter planting areas. The below image
conceptually demonstrates the general location of each LANDSCAPE AREA.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3603.png]
 
      LANDSCAPE BUFFER. A continuous landscaped area designed, maintained and
used for screening and separation of uses, lots or structures.
      LANDSCAPE MATERIAL. Trees, shrubs, plants, decorative fences, retaining
walls, walls, earthen mounds, irrigation systems, flower beds, decorative
rocks, edging, mulch, stakes and the like. Artificial trees, shrubs, ground
cover and flowers are not considered LANDSCAPE MATERIAL.
      LANDSCAPE STRUCTURE. Decorative fences, walls, retaining walls, edging
and the like.
      LANDSCAPING. The improvements of a lot with grass, shrubs, trees and
other vegetation and/or ornamental objects. LANDSCAPING may include pedestrian
walks, flower beds, berms, fountains and other similar natural and human-made
objects designed and arranged to produce an aesthetically pleasing effect.
      LEGAL NON-CONFORMING LOT OF RECORD. Any legally established and recorded
lot prior to the effective date of this chapter, or its subsequent amendments,
that no longer meet the lot- specific development standards.
      LEGAL NON-CONFORMING SIGN. Any sign lawfully existing on the effective
date of this chapter, or its subsequent amendments, that no longer meets the
development standards.
      LEGAL NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURE. Any continuously occupied, lawfully
established structure prior to the effective date of this chapter, or its
subsequent amendments, that no longer meets the development standards.
      LEGAL NON-CONFORMING USE. Any continuous, lawful use of structures, land
or structures and land in combination established prior to the effective date
of this chapter, or its subsequent amendments that is no longer a permitted use
in the zoning district where it is located.
      LOADING SPACE. An off-street space for temporary parking of delivery and
pickup vehicles.
      LOCAL STREET. See STREET, LOCAL.
      LOMA. FEMA Letter of Map Amendment.
      LOMR. FEMA Letter of Map Revision.
      LOT. A piece, parcel or tract of land designated by its owner or
developer to be used, developed or built upon as a unit under single or
multiple ownership or control. There are generally three types of LOTS
identified in this chapter: interior lots; corner lots; and through lots.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3605.png]
 
      LOT AREA. The area of a horizontal plane bounded by the front, side and
rear lot lines, excepting any easement or right-of-way for public streets.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3607.png]
 
      LOT, BUILDABLE. See LOT, IMPROVED.
      LOT, CORNER. A lot situated at the intersection of two streets or which
fronts a street on two or more sides forming an interior angle of less than 135
degrees.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3609.png]
 
      LOT COVERAGE. The area of a lot occupied by the primary structure, any
accessory structures and impervious surface.
      LOT DEPTH. The horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines.
(See graphics for LOT AREA.)
      LOT, DEVELOPED. A lot with structures situated thereon.
      LOT FRONTAGE. The length of the front lot line bordering upon a public
right-of-way. The LOT FRONTAGE is determined by measuring the total distance in
which the front lot line touches a public right-of-way. LOT FRONTAGE
requirement for a cul-de-sac lot is one-half the distance required for standard
lots.
      LOT, IMPROVED. A lot upon which a structure may be constructed and
occupied as a result of the fact that it has frontage on and access to an
improved street, meets minimum setback requirements and has all necessary
utilities available to the lot such as sewer, water, electricity and the like.
      LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot or a through lot.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3611.png]
 
      LOT LINE. A line marking the boundary between the subject lot and an
adjacent lot, right-of-way, common area, lake or waterway. A LOT LINE is also
known as a PROPERTY LINE.
      LOT LINE, FRONT. The line marking the boundary between the lot and the
abutting street, right-of-way or a lake or watercourse
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3617.png]
 
      LOT LINE, REAR. The lot line that is opposite and farthest from the front
lot line. (See graphic for LOT LINE, FRONT.)
      LOT LINE, SIDE. A lot boundary line other than a front or rear lot line.
(See graphic for LOT LINE, FRONT.)
      LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is a part of a subdivision recorded in the
office of the County Recorder, or a parcel or lot described by metes and
bounds, a description of which has been so recorded.
      LOT, THROUGH. A lot fronting on two parallel or approximately parallel
streets, or abutting two streets which do not intersect at the boundaries of
the lot. Also includes lots fronting on both a street and a watercourse or
lake. Accessory buildings are allowed in front yards facing watercourses or
lakes.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3619.png]
 
      LOT WIDTH. The distance between the side lot lines as measured at the
established building setback. Cul-de-sac and irregular shaped lots shall
measure their front LOT WIDTHS along the front setback line from one side lot
line to the other. (See graphic for LOT AREA.)
      LOW IMPACT DEVELOPMENT TECHNIQUES. A subset of BMPs that use non-
structural and structural techniques to minimize the impact of development on
the hydrology of a site. Examples include: preservation of natural areas,
vegetative filter and buffers and pervious paving materials.
      LOW VOLTAGE. A direct current (i.e., DC) electrical system. For example,
most landscape lighting purchased from home improvement stores are low voltage
systems using DC.
      LOW WATTAGE LIGHT. A lighting fixture which generally does not cause
issues with light trespass or glare. Under no circumstances does a LOW WATTAGE
LIGHT not exceed the lumen output of a 100-watt incandescent bulb, 26-watt
compact fluorescent bulb or 14-watt LED bulb. Examples of a LOW WATTAGE LIGHT
include a carriage light on a residence or dusk-to-dawn post lamp in front of a
residence. Under no circumstances shall a mercury vapor, metal halide, mercury-
halide, sodium vapor, neon or xenon lamp be considered a LOW WATTAGE LIGHT.
      LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest elevation described among the following:
         (a)   The lowest floor of a structure;
         (b)   The basement floor;
         (c)   The garage floor, if the garage is connected to the structure;
         (d)   The first floor of a structure elevated on pilings or
constructed on a crawl space; and
         (e)   The floor level of an enclosure structure below an elevated
structure where the walls are designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic
flood forces by allowing for the entry and exit of flood water; and at least
two openings are designed and maintained for the entry and exit of flood water.
The openings shall provide a total area of at least one square inch for every
one square foot of enclosed floor area subject to flooding. The bottom of an
opening can be no more than one foot above grade. Doorways and windows do not
qualify as “openings” under this clause.
      LUMENS. Unit of luminous flux in the international system of units (SI)
equal to one candela per steradian. Used to measure the amount of light emitted
by lamps.
      LUX. Unit of illuminance in the international system of units (SI) equal
to one lumen per square meter.
      MAIN FLOOR AREA. See FLOOR AREA, MAIN.
      MANEUVERING SPACE. An open space in a parking area which:
         (a)   Is immediately adjacent to a parking space;
         (b)   Is used for turning, backing or driving forward a motor vehicle
into such parking space; but
         (c)   Is not used for the parking of or storage of motor vehicles.
      MANUAL CHANGEABLE COPY. See SIGN, MANUAL CHANGEABLE COPY.
      MANUFACTURED HOME. See DWELLING, MANUFACTURED HOME.
      MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. A parcel of land containing two or more dwelling
sites, with required improvements and utilities, that are leased for the long-
term placement of mobile home dwellings and/or manufactured home dwellings and
shall include any street used or intended for use as part of the facilities of
such MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. A MANUFACTURED HOME PARK does not involve the
sales of mobile home dwellings or manufactured home dwellings in which
unoccupied units are parked for inspection or sale.
      MANUFACTURED HOME PARK DISTRICT. Refers to the MP District.
      MANUFACTURING, HEAVY. The assembly, fabrication or processing of goods
and materials using processes that ordinarily have greater than minimal impacts
on the environment, or that otherwise do not constitute light manufacturing,
and which may include open uses and outdoor storage. HEAVY MANUFACTURING
generally includes processing and fabrication of products made from extracted
or raw materials. HEAVY MANUFACTURING shall not include any use that is
otherwise listed specifically in any zoning district as a permitted use or
special exception.
      MANUFACTURING, LIGHT. The assembly, fabrication or processing of goods
and materials using processes that ordinarily do not create noise, smoke, fume,
odors, glare or health or safety hazards outside of the structure or lot where
such assembly, fabrication or processing of goods are housed entirely within an
enclosed building. LIGHT MANUFACTURING generally includes processing and
fabrication of finished products predominantly from previously prepared
materials. LIGHT MANUFACTURING shall not include any use that is otherwise
listed specifically in any zoning district as a permitted use or special
exception.
      MARKER (SURVEY). A stake, pipe, rod, nail or any other object which is
not intended to be a permanent point for record purposes.
      MASTER PLAN. See COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
      MAXIMUM LOT COVERAGE. The highest amount of impervious surface coverage
permitted by this chapter.
      MEDICAL CENTER. A medical clinic dedicated primarily for students,
employees and associates from a college or university.
      MEDICAL CLINIC. An establishment in which human patients are admitted for
medical or dental study or treatment and in which the services of at least two
physicians or dentists are provided.
      MEDICAL OFFICE. See OFFICE, MEDICAL.
      METEOROLOGICAL TOWER. A tower that hosts weather instrumentation to
evaluate meteor- ological conditions.
      MICRO-BREWERY. See BREWERY, MICRO-.
      MICRO-DISTILLERY. See DISTILLERY, MICRO-.
      MINOR STREET. See STREET, LOCAL.
      MIXED-USE OVERLAY DISTRICT. Refers to the MUO District.
      MOBILE HOME. See DWELLING, MOBILE HOME.
      MOBILE HOME PARK. See MANUFACTURED HOME PARK.
      MODULAR HOME. See DWELLING, MANUFACTURED.
      MONUMENT (SURVEY). A permanent physical structure which marks the
location of a corner or other survey point.
      MOTEL. A building in which temporary overnight lodging is provided and
offered to the public for a fee; and in which ingress and egress to and from
11% to 100% of all rooms is made through exterior spaces; and which is staffed
by at least one person for at least 18 hours per day. A MOTEL may include
incidental and complementary uses such as a café, business services and
swimming pool. Fees for overnight rooms shall be charged by one-day or greater
increments.
      MOTOR HOME. See RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Any passenger vehicle, truck, tractor, tractor-trailer,
truck-trailer, trailer, boat, recreational vehicle, semi-trailer or any other
vehicle propelled or drawn by mechanical power.
      MOUND. A landscape feature used for screening in which earth is piled up
in irregular, round or oblong shapes. Particularly, MOUNDS do not have
consistent crest elevations, but are irregular in form and overlapping such to
emulate a more natural landscape feature. MOUNDS in combination with other
landscape material are used to block or partially block visibility from one
side to the other.
      MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT. Refers to the M1 and M2 Districts.
      MURAL. See SIGN, MURAL.
      NACELLE. A housing, cover or structure that surrounds a generator and its
mechanical and electrical components, typically associated with a wind turbine.
      NATURAL STONE. A building or landscaping material which is derived from
the earth in whole, or that is human-made from durable material to
significantly resemble earth-formed stone. NATURAL STONE includes earth-formed
stone which is quarried, cut or otherwise formed for its intended use as a
building or landscaping material. NATURAL STONE does not include cinder block,
split-faced block, brick, mortar, ceramic tile, porcelain, concrete pavers,
asphalt blocks or the like.
      NAUTICAL MILE. A nautical mile is equal to 6,076.1155 feet or 1,852
meters.
      NEIGHBORHOOD TRANSITION OVERLAY DISTRICT. Refers to the NTO District.
      NFIP. The National Flood Insurance Program.
      NGVD. The National Geodetic Vertical Datum of 1929.
      NIT. A photometric unit of illuminative brightness equal to cd/m2
(candelas per square meter).
      NOISE-SENSITIVE USE. The use of a structure for a purpose that would be
adversely impacted by noise associated with nearby aircraft operations
including aircraft overflights. NOISE- SENSITIVE USES include, but are not
limited to, residences, schools, places of worship, child care facilities,
retirement homes and nursing homes.
      NON-CONFORMING BUILDING. See NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURE.
      NON-CONFORMING LOT OF RECORD. A lot which was created such that it does
not conform to the regulations of the district in which it is located.
      NON-CONFORMING SIGN. A sign or portion thereof, which was designed,
erected or structurally altered such that it does not conform to the
regulations of the district in which it is located.
      NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURE. A building, structure or portion thereof, which
was designed, erected or structurally altered such that it does not conform to
the regulations of the district in which it is located.
      NON-CONFORMING USE. A use which does not conform with the use regulations
of the district in which it is located.
      NORTH CORRIDOR OVERLAY DISTRICT. Refers to the NCO District.
      NURSING HOME. A private home for the care of the aged or infirm, or any
other person in need of nursing care; and which does not contain equipment for
surgical care or for treatment of disease or injury, and is not primarily
designed for patients being treated for mental illness or alcohol or drug
addiction.
      OFFICE. A place in which business, professional and/or clerical
activities are conducted. OFFICES shall include medical offices, government
offices and office functions which serve other off-site land uses.
      OFFICE, CONSTRUCTION TRADE. Electrical contractor, general contractor,
heating and cooling contractor, landscaping contractor, plumbing contractor
office and the like.
      OFFICE, DESIGN SERVICE. Architecture firm, engineering firm, graphic
design firm, planning firm and the like.
      OFFICE, FINANCIAL SERVICES. Accounting office, bank or credit union,
investment firm and the like.
      OFFICE, GENERAL SERVICE. Employment service, insurance office, law
office, membership association, publishing corporate office, reading clinic,
real estate office, secretarial service, service organization, temporary
service agency, title company, trade office, travel agency and the like.
      OFFICE, MEDICAL SERVICE. Emergency medical clinic, dental clinic, medical
clinic, optical clinic, rehabilitation clinic, veterinarian clinic/hospital and
the like.
      OFFICIAL ZONING MAP. A map of the city, that legally denotes the
boundaries of zoning districts as they apply to the properties within the
planning jurisdiction. There is only one OFFICIAL ZONING MAP and it is kept up
to date by the Plan Commission and the Zoning Administrator.
      OFFICIAL ZONING MAP COPIES. A map of the city, that legally denotes the
boundaries of zoning districts as they apply to the properties within the
planning jurisdiction. These maps may be out of date.
      OFF-SITE IMPROVEMENT. See IMPROVEMENT, OFF-SITE.
      OPEN SPACE. An area of land not covered by buildings, structures, parking
areas or accessory uses except for recreational structures. OPEN SPACE may
include nature areas, streams, floodway fringe, meadows or open fields
containing baseball fields, football fields, soccer fields, golf courses,
swimming pools, bicycle paths and the like. OPEN SPACE does not include street
rights-of-way, floodways, wetlands, platted lots, private yards or land for
future development.
      ORNAMENTAL TREE. A deciduous tree that does not grow to over 30 feet in
height at maturity. ORNAMENTAL TREES typically are flowering trees.
      OSHA. Occupational Safety and Health Administration.
      OUTDOOR PET. See PETS, OUTDOOR.
      OUTDOOR STORAGE. See STORAGE, OUTDOOR.
      OWNER. Any person, group of persons, firm or firms, corporation or
corporations, or any other legal entity having legal title to or sufficient
proprietary interest in the land sought to be subdivided under these
regulations, or their legal representative.
      OWNERS’ ASSOCIATION. A legal means for managing common areas or common
property amongst a multiple-lot or multiple-owner development, established in
perpetuity. A common type of OWNERS’ ASSOCIATION is a homeowner association for
a subdivision, which is incorporated as a legal entity and is managed by an
elected board of directors. A simpler type of OWNERS’ ASSOCIATION can be a
contract between all the owners committing one another to the maintenance cost
of shared assets (e.g., a private street or retention pond).
      PARCEL. See LOT.
      PARENT TRACT. A lot of record as recorded on the effective date of this
chapter. Multiple pieces (lots) owned by one person, persons in partnership or
a company and are contiguous shall together be considered one PARENT TRACT.
Streets, rivers, easements and other built or natural features shall not
constitute a separation of two or more pieces of land owned by one person,
persons in partnership or a company.
      PARK, PUBLIC. A parcel of land available to the public for passive and
active recreation and is maintained and governed by the city.
      PARKING GARAGE. A parking garage is a primary structure used by the
public to park vehicles for short- or long-term purposes.
      PARKING, REQUIRED. The minimum number of off-street parking spaces
specified for a particular use or uses by this chapter.
      PARKING SPACE, AUTOMOBILE. Space within a public or private parking area
for the storage of one passenger automobile or commercial vehicle under a one
and one-half-ton capacity.
      PARKS AND RECREATION DISTRICT. Refers to the PR District.
      PAVED. A durable surface for parking, driving, riding or similar
activities that utilizes asphalt, concrete, brick, paving blocks or similar
material. Crushed gravel, stone, rock, dirt, sand or grass are not permitted as
a PAVED SURFACE.
      PERFORMANCE BOND. An amount of money or other negotiable security paid by
the subdivider, developer or property owner, or his or her surety to the city
which guarantees the subdivider, developer, property owners or his or her
surety will perform all actions required by the city regarding an approved plat
or in other situations as stated forth in this chapter and/or as deemed by the
Zoning Administrator that provides that if the subdivider, developer, property
owner or his or her surety defaults and fails to comply with the provisions of
his or her approval, the subdivider, developer, property owner or his or her
surety will pay damages up to the limit of the bond, or the surety will itself
complete the requirements of the approval.
      PERMANENT FOUNDATION. A structural system for transposing loads from a
structure to the earth at a depth below the established frost line without
exceeding the safe bearing capacity of the supporting soil.
      PERMANENT PERIMETER ENCLOSURE. A permanent perimeter structural system
completely enclosing the space between the floor joists of the home and the
ground, except for the necessary openings, constructed in accordance with the
One-and Two-Family Dwelling Code.
      PERMITTED USE. See USE, PERMITTED.
      PERSON. A corporation, firm, partnership, association, organization, unit
of government or any other group that acts as a unit, as well as a natural
person.
      PERSONAL SERVICE. An establishment, other than an office, in which
services other than health care are rendered to consumers on an individual
basis, such as barber shops and beauty parlors.
      PETS, DOMESTIC. Animals commonly used as household pets, protection,
companions and for assistance to disabled persons. DOMESTIC PETS shall include
animals that are cared for and treated in a manner acceptable for pet dogs,
cats and birds. DOMESTIC PETS shall include, but not be limited to, dogs, cats,
parakeets, parrots, finches, lizards, spiders, guinea pigs, hamsters, gerbils,
rats, mice, rabbits, aquarium fish, ferrets and snakes if cared for in the
manner described above.
      PETS, EXOTIC. Animals raised and bred healthy and humanely for unique
pets or entertainment, or animals rescued from the wild or from zoos. EXOTIC
ANIMALS are primarily securely caged animals. EXOTIC ANIMALS do not include
outdoor pets, household pets or farm animals. Examples of EXOTIC ANIMALS
include: lions; tigers; wolves; coyotes; and elephants.
      PETS, HOUSEHOLD. Domestic pets maintained healthy and humanely within the
confines of a dwelling unit. HOUSEHOLD PETS includes hobby breeding of domestic
animals as long as the frequency of breeding is limited to one litter per year
per household (i.e., not one litter per animal). HOUSEHOLD PETS do not include
outdoor pets, farm animals, pigmy goats, potbelly pigs or rabbits. Examples of
HOUSEHOLD PETS include: dogs; cats; mice; snakes; hamsters; ferrets; and birds.
      PETS, OUTDOOR. Domestic pets maintained healthy and humanely within the
confines of the lot. OUTDOOR PETS includes hobby breeding of domestic animals
as long as the frequency of breeding is limited to one litter per year per
household. OUTDOOR PETS do not include farm animals, rabbits, mice, snakes,
hamsters, ferrets or birds. Examples of OUTDOOR PETS include: dogs and cats.
      PLACE OF WORSHIP. Structures or outdoor areas used for public worship,
which may include ancillary uses such as educational, cultural or social
gatherings.
      PLAN COMMISSION. A group serving a single local government jurisdiction
established under I.C. 36-7-1-2, as amended. The city’s Plan Commission is
Advisory Plan Commission.
      PLANNED DEVELOPMENT (PD). A large-scale unified development meeting the
requirements for zoning approval under the provisions of §§
165.240 through
165.246. Generally, a PLANNED DEVELOPMENT consists of a parcel or parcels of
land, controlled by a single landowner, to be developed as a single entity
which does not correspond in size of lots, bulk or type of structures, density,
lot coverage and required open space to the regulations established in any
district of this chapter. Clustered housing (dwellings built in innovative lot
arrangements around common open space) and zero lot line housing (dwellings
built immediately adjacent to lot lines) are possible as part of PLANNED
DEVELOPMENTS. A PLANNED DEVELOPMENT requires approval through a zoning map
amendment.
      PLANNING DIRECTOR. See ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
      PLANNING JURISDICTION. Richmond, Indiana, and the contiguous
unincorporated area over which the city exercises planning and zoning
authority.
      PLANNING STAFF. The Zoning Administrator and all employees of the Plan
Commission of the city under the supervision of the Zoning Administrator and
subject to the authority of the Zoning Administrator.
      PLAT. A map or chart that shows a division of land and/or the layout for
subdivisions that is intended to be filed for record.
      PLAT COMMITTEE. A subcommittee of the Plan Commission which may be
assigned review and approval authority for types of subdivisions or phases of
the subdivision approval process per state code.
      PLAT, PRIMARY. The primary plat, pursuant to the I.C. 36-7-4-700, is the
plat and plans upon which the approval of a proposed subdivision are based. The
PRIMARY PLAT AND PLANS shall be subject to public notice and public hearing
according to law and according to Plan Commission rules. (Under former state
statutes, the PRIMARY PLAT was referred to as a PRELIMINARY PLAT.)
      PLAT, SECONDARY. The secondary plat, pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-700, is the
final plat document in recordable form. A SECONDARY PLAT shall substantially
conform with the preceding primary plat. The SECONDARY PLAT AND PLANS are not
subject to public notices and public hearings.
      POND, DETENTION. A pond designed to be used as a means to detain or
temporarily hold storm water as part of a storm water drainage system. A
DETENTION POND is designed to be dry most of the time and to detain storm water
for no longer than 24 to 72 hours after a storm event.
      POND, RECREATIONAL. A pond designed to permanently hold water and be used
primarily for recreational and/or scenic purposes.
      POND, RETENTION. A pond designed to be used as a means to retain or
permanently hold storm water as part of a storm water drainage system. A
RETENTION POND generally retains storm water to some normal water level but may
also temporarily detain additional amounts of storm water above the normal
water level.
      POOL, SWIMMING. See SWIMMING POOL.
      PORCH. A roofed-over structure projecting out from the wall or walls of a
main structure and commonly open to the weather in part.
      POTABLE WATER: Water that is satisfactory for drinking, culinary and
domestic purposes, meeting current state and federal drinking water standards.
      PRACTICAL DIFFICULTY. A difficulty with regard to one’s ability to
improve land stemming from regulations of this chapter. A PRACTICAL DIFFICULTY
is not a hardship; rather, it is a situation where the owner could comply with
the regulations within this chapter, but would like a variance from the
development standards to improve his or her site in a practical manner. For
instance, a person may request a variance from a side yard setback due to a
large tree which is blocking the only location that would meet the development
standards for a new garage location.
      PRIMARY ARTERIAL. See STREET, PRIMARY ARTERIAL.
      PRIMARY PLAT. See PLAT, PRIMARY.
      PRIMARY STRUCTURE. The structure in which the principal use of the lot or
premises is located or conducted, with respect to residential uses, the primary
structure shall be the main dwelling. Parking garages are considered a PRIMARY
STRUCTURE.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3621.png]
 
      PRIMARY USE. See USE, PRIMARY.
      PRINCIPAL USE. See USE, PRIMARY.
      PRIVATE STREET. See STREET, PRIVATE.
      PROHIBITED USE. A use that is not permitted under any circumstances.
      PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT. Any street, street feature (e.g., signs), sidewalk,
path, public utility, drainage facility, public park or any other public
facility that is for the general public’s use, or part of a public system
(e.g., utility, drainage system or street system) for which a municipal unit
may ultimately assume the responsibility for maintenance and operation. PUBLIC
IMPROVEMENTS include off-site improvements to public facilities committed to by
an applicant, off-site improvements to public facilities required as a
condition of approval and any required on-site improvements to public right-of-
way or other public land.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any area on public or private property that is easily
accessible and clearly visible to the general public. If located on private
property, the area shall be open to the general public and clearly visible from
adjacent public property such as a street or other public thoroughfare or
sidewalk.
      PUBLIC/PRIVATE PARKING AREA. A group of parking spaces in an open area
not including any part of a street or alley, designed or used for temporary
parking of motor vehicles.
      PUBLIC STREET. See STREET, PUBLIC.
      PUBLIC UTILITY. See UTILITY, PUBLIC.
      PUBLIC WAY. Highways, streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, lanes or
alleys.
      PUTRESCIBLE WASTE. Putrescible waste includes household food waste; green
waste; animal matter (including dead animals or animal parts); unstable or
untreated biosolids; and certain wastes arising from commercial and industrial
sources that decompose and breakdown quickly, decay or spoil, or become putrid.
      RADIO/TV STATION. The broadcast building for the production of radio and
television programing, not to include and telecommunication towers.
      RAISING OF FARM ANIMALS. Any livestock operation that falls below the
thresholds of a confined feeding operation as defined by IDEM.
      REAR LOT LINE. See LOT LINE, REAR.
      REAR YARD. See YARD, REAR.
      RECREATION CENTER/PLAY CENTER. An enclosed structure containing
recreational facilities, such as a tennis court, swimming pool or gymnasium.
This shall not include outdoor amphitheaters, tennis courts or swimming pools.
      RECREATIONAL POND. See POND, RECREATIONAL.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicular-type portable structure without
permanent foundation that can be towed, hauled or driven and primarily designed
as a temporary living accommodation for recreational, camping and travel use
and including, but not limited to, travel trailers, truck campers, camping
trailers, boats and self-propelled motor homes. A RECREATIONAL VEHICLE shall
not be used as living quarters.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK. Any commercially zoned site, lot, field or
tract of land under single ownership, or ownership of two or more people,
designed with facilities for short-term occupancy for recreational vehicles
only.
      RECYCLING COLLECTION POINT. A facility where residential and small
business recycling (e.g., newspaper and office paper, plastic and glass bottles
and food and soda cans) is dropped off by the consumer for collection by a
waste management operation.
      RECYCLING PROCESSING. A facility which intakes waste stream material
intended for recycling and then separates those materials for transport as raw
materials to other industries, or that sheds, crushes, pelletizes or
disassembles materials prior to transporting as raw materials. RECYCLING
PROCESSING does not include a foundry, glass melting furnaces, incinerator,
manufacturing, outdoor metal shredding, retail sales, junk yard, landfill or
scrap metal yard.
      REGISTERED LAND SURVEYOR. A land surveyor properly licensed and
registered or through reciprocity permitted to practice in the state.
      REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER. An engineer properly licensed and
registered or through reciprocity permitted to practice in the state.
      REGULATED SUBSTANCE. Any liquid or water soluble solid which has the
potential to contaminate the aquifer.
      REGULATORY FLOOD. See FLOOD, REGULATORY.
      REGULATORY FLOODWAY. See FLOODWAY, REGULATORY.
      REPLAT. The process for a legal change in a recorded subdivision plat.
REPLATTING is required for changes that affects street layout, common area,
drainage, number of lots, lot line adjustments, a commitment, a condition, an
easement or other major changes.
      RESCUE STATION. A place where public or private ambulance service is
based.
      RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT. Refers to the R1, R2, R3, UR, M1, M2 and MP
Districts.
      RESIDENTIAL FACILITY FOR THE DEVELOPMENTALLY DISABLED (LARGE). A
residential facility which provides residential services for more than eight
developmentally disabled individuals as described in I.C. 12-28-4.
      RESIDENTIAL FACILITY FOR THE DEVELOPMENTALLY DISABLED (SMALL). A
residential facility which provides residential services for eight
developmentally disabled individuals or less as described in I.C. 12-28-4.
      RESIDENTIAL FACILITY FOR THE MENTALLY ILL. A residential facility which
provides residential services for mentally ill individuals as described in I.C.
12-28-4. No two RESIDENTIAL FACILITIES FOR THE MENTALLY ILL shall be within
3,000 feet of one another in the planning jurisdiction as stated in state code.
      RESPONSIBLE PARTY. For purposes of issuing a notice of violation, the
following persons shall be considered RESPONSIBLE PARTIES, with liability for
fines and responsibility for remedy of the violation: the property owner(s);
persons with any possessory interest in the property and/or any persons and/or
their agents who have caused the violation. Any owner, tenant, builder,
developer, possessor of interest, architect, designer, property manager,
equipment operator known or suspected to be responsible in part or in whole for
a violation of this chapter.
      RESTAURANT. An establishment whose use is the selling of food in a ready-
to-consume state, in individual servings, in which the customer consumes these
foods while seated at tables or counters located in or immediately adjacent to
the building in which the use is located, and which may include carry-out
service. RESTAURANT shall include that portion of any establishment which sells
prepared food, such as a bakery or a delicatessen, and which is used for
seating for the consumption of food on the premises.
      RETAIL, TYPE 1, VERY LOW INTENSITY. Retail businesses that have very
little impact on neighboring properties, traffic generation and public safety.
Example businesses include: art and craft gallery; flower shop; gift shop
(small); jewelry store; and news dealer.
      RETAIL, TYPE 2, LOW INTENSITY. Retail businesses that have a low impact
on neighboring properties, traffic generation and public safety. Example
businesses include: bakery; book store (small); convenience store (small);
craft gallery (small); drug store (small); and meat market.
      RETAIL, TYPE 3, MEDIUM INTENSITY. Retail businesses that have a moderate
impact on neighboring properties, traffic generation and public safety. Example
businesses include: antique shop; apparel shop; art and craft supplies; book
store; boutique; building supply store (small); convenience store (large);
department store (small); drug store (large); fabric shop; furniture shop
(small); garden shop; gift shop (large); grocery/supermarket (small); home
electronics/appliance store (small); liquor sales; music/media shop; office
supply store (small); party/event store (small); pawn shop; pet grooming/
store; plant nursery; print shop/copy center; pro shop; quick cash/check
cashing; shoe store/repair; sign shop; sporting goods (small); variety store
(small); and video/DVD rental.
      RETAIL, TYPE 4, HIGH INTENSITY. Retail businesses that have a high impact
on neighboring properties, traffic generation and public safety. Example
businesses include: building supply store (large); department store (large);
furniture store (large); grocery/supermarket (large); home electronics/
appliance (large); office supply store (large); party/event store (large);
sporting goods store (large); superstore and variety store (large).
      RETAIL, TYPE 5, VERY HIGH INTENSITY. Retail businesses that have a very
high impact on neighboring properties, traffic generation and public safety.
Example businesses include: automobile sales; boat sales; construction vehicle
sales; farm equipment sales; manufactured home sales; semi-tractor-trailer
sales; and tool/equipment sales rental.
      RETAIL, TYPE 6, SPECIAL HANDLING. Retail businesses that sell products
that require special handling due to risks to public safety. Example businesses
include: fireworks sales; gun sales; and hunting store.
      RETENTION POND. See POND, RETENTION.
      RETIREMENT COMMUNITY. An age-restricted development, which may include
detached and attached dwelling units and apartments.
      RETREAT CENTER. An establishment where people go for spirituality,
treatments, rest and learning; and where people go for events (e.g., weddings,
celebrations and family reunions). RETREAT CENTERS may include overnight
accommodations as a co-use.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by
transportation facilities, public utilities or other special public uses.
RIGHTS-OF-WAY intended for any use involving maintenance by a public agency
shall be dedicated to the public use by the maker of the plat on which such
right-of-way is established.
      ROAD. See STREET.
      ROW. See RIGHT-OF-WAY.
      SATELLITE DISH. An apparatus capable of receiving communications from a
transmitter relay located in a planetary orbit, or broadcast signals from
transmitting towers.
      SCHOOL. A public or private institution which offers instruction in any
of the branches of learning and study comparable to that taught in the public
schools under the state’s school laws, including pre-kindergarten,
kindergarten, elementary school and junior and senior high schools, but
excluding trade, business or commercial schools.
      SCHOOL, TRADE, BUSINESS OR COMMERCIAL. An educational facility which
offers instruction specific to a trade, business or commercial practice.
      SCRAP METAL YARD. A general industrial use established independent or
ancillary to and connected with another general industrial use, which is
concerned exclusively in new and salvaged metal pipes, wire, beams, angles,
rods, machinery, parts, filings, clippings and/or all other metal items of
every type, and which acquires such items incidental to its connection with the
other general industrial use or by purchase, consignment which stores, grades,
processes, melts, cuts, dismantles, compresses, cleans or in any way prepares
said items for reuse by the connected other general industrial use or for
storage, sale or shipment and/or use in other industries or businesses
including open hearth, electric furnaces and foundry operations. Such an
establishment shall not include junk yards, dumps or automobile or other
vehicle graveyards.
      SEASONAL ATTRACTION. A temporary entertainment use often associated with
holidays (e.g., haunted house).
      SECONDARY PLAT. See PLAT, SECONDARY.
      SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance between the building line and a
lot line or in a case where the property runs to the centerline of the street,
the minimum horizontal distance between the building line and the right-of-way
as proposed in the city’s Comprehensive Plan.
      SETBACK, AVERAGE. An average of the front yard, side yard or rear yard
setbacks of structures on the three nearest lots on both sides of the subject
property (i.e., six structures in total). If the subject property is a corner
lot, the average of the front yard, side yard or rear yard setback of
structures on adjacent lots to the subject property, along with the structures
on lots directly across the street from the subject property shall be used.
      SEXUALLY-ORIENTED ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS. An establishment which
regularly offers live entertainment, lingerie or nude modeling, or presentation
of motion pictures or publications by any photographic, electronic, digital,
magnetic or other media which are distinguished or characterized by their
emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating specified sexual
activities or specific anatomical areas; or, offers massage therapy or body
work except when performed by a massage therapist licensed by the state,
certified by the National Certification Board for Therapeutic Massage and
Bodywork or the American Massage Therapy Association, or under the direct
supervision of a licensed physician; or, advertises or holds itself in any
forum as “XXX”, “adult” or “sex”.
      SEXUALLY-ORIENTED MATERIALS. Materials including still or motion
pictures, books, magazines, other periodicals or other depiction recorded on
paper, electronic, digital, video, magnetic or other media, which are
distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting,
describing or relating specified sexual activities or specific anatomical
areas; or, instruments, devices or paraphernalia either designed as a
representation of human genital organs or female breasts, or designed or
marketed primarily for use to stimulate human genital organs.
      SEXUALLY-ORIENTED RETAIL BUSINESS. An establishment which advertises or
holds itself in any forum as “XXX”, “adult” or “sex”, or which has stock in
trade or floor area devoted to the sale, rental or display of sexually-oriented
materials.
      SEXUALLY-ORIENTED RETAIL BUSINESS, ACCESSORY. An establishment with at
least 10%, but less than 40% of its stock in trade or gross floor area devoted
to the sale, rental or display of sexually-oriented materials.
      SFHA. Special flood hazard area.
      SHRUB. A plant distinguished from a tree by having several or many woody
stems projecting from the ground or a single stem with very low branches which
keeps the head of the plant close to the ground (e.g., yew). Other
characteristics include heights typically pruned to stay under six feet, but
never exceeding 12 feet maturity (e.g., lilac, burning bush, hydrangea and
spirea varieties). SHRUBS also include perennial plants with a woody base,
multiple-stems projecting from the ground and which grow to a maximum height of
ten feet (e.g., butterfly bush). SHRUBS may be deciduous or evergreens.
      SIDE LOT LINE. See LOT LINE, SIDE.
      SIDE YARD. See YARD, SIDE.
      SIGN. Any device that conveys a commercial message which is affixed to a
structure, painted on a structure, mounted on or resting on the ground or
projected onto a surface. A SIGN also includes devices that serve the purpose
of attracting attention to an object, product, place, activity, institution,
organization or business. Devices described in this chapter as not being a sign
are exempt. The graphic below depicts the primary types of SIGNS. Regulations
for each type of SIGN varies by zoning district.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3623.png]
 
      SIGN, ANIMATED. A type of sign or device which:
         (a)   Depicts motion pictures or animation with five or more frame
changes per second;
         (b)   Is projected onto a surface and that moves across that surface;
         (c)   Is created by rapid movement of one or more lasers; or
         (d)   Emits audible sound, odor or visible matter.
      SIGN AREA. The entire area within a single continuous perimeter enclosing
the extreme limits of a sign, including all background area figures and
letters. However, such perimeter shall not include any structural elements
lying outside the limits of the sign which are not part of the information,
visual attraction or symbolism of the sign.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3625.png]
 
      SIGN, AWNING. A sign attached to or written on an awning of a building.
ILLUMINATED AWNINGS SIGNS are lit from under or behind the awning structure, or
by lights mounted to the facade above the awning. NON-ILLUMINATED AWNING SIGNS
do not have designated lighting for the purpose of making the sign readable at
night.
      SIGN, CHANGEABLE COPY. A device that allows a message, graphic or light
intensity to be changed periodically using either:
         (a)   Physical letters, numbers or shapes temporarily attached to a
sign face; or
         (b)   Electronic signals transmitted to an LED, LCD or similar
electronic display. May also be referred to as a CHANGEABLE COPY.
      SIGN, COMMERCIAL. A sign containing a commercial message (e.g., a
business name, logo, slogan, graphic or branded color scheme).
      SIGN, CYCLICAL MESSAGE. A changeable copy sign with a change rate of once
every seven seconds or greater, but not greater than once every eight hours
(e.g., a cyclical message at a school that announces upcoming events, time and
temperature). May also be referred to as a CYCLICAL MESSAGE.
      SIGN, DIRECTIONAL. A sign intending to direct the safe flow of vehicular
and pedestrian traffic and includes “enter”, “exit” and “arrow” signs.
      SIGN, ELECTRONIC CHANGEABLE COPY. A cyclical message sign or changeable
copy sign that allows a message to be changed every seven seconds or greater
time using electronic signals transmitted to an LED, LCD or similar electronic
display.
      SIGN ENVELOPE. The pre-assigned and approved area on the facade of a
multiple-tenant building for permanent wall signs to be mounted.
      SIGN FACE. The surface intended for the display of information on the
sign.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3627.png]
 
      SIGN, FLASHING MESSAGE. A changeable copy sign with a change rate of less
than seven seconds, including the change rate of any single pixel or light
element on the sign (e.g., text that pans in and out, text that turns on and
off rapidly, text that moves and video and motion graphics produced on an LED
or LCD display). May also be referred to as a FLASHING MESSAGE.
      SIGN, GAS-INFLATABLE. Any device which is capable of being expanded by
any gas and used on a permanent or temporary basis to attract attention to a
product or event. This definition includes both hot-air and gas-filled balloons
tethered or otherwise anchored to the ground.
      SIGN, GROUND. A sign in which the bottom edge of the sign is permanently
affixed to the ground. A MONUMENT SIGN is another name for a GROUND SIGN. (See
graphic for SIGN.)
      SIGN, ILLUMINATED. A sign which has characters, letters, figures, designs
or outline illuminated by electric lights or luminous tubes as a part of the
sign proper, or which is illuminated by reflectors.
      SIGN, INFLATABLE. A device that is inflated in order to drawn attention
to the business and/or advertise its products.
      SIGN, MANUAL CHANGEABLE COPY. A changeable copy sign that allows a
message to be changed periodically using physical letters and numbers,
typically made of plastic, that affix to the sign (e.g., snap to the sign face
or inserted into a channel).
      SIGN, MONUMENT. See GROUND SIGN.
      SIGN, MURAL. A sign painted onto the side of a building, a wall, ground
or structure. A MURAL SIGN is regulated as a wall sign in this chapter. (See
graphic for SIGN.)
      SIGN, NON-COMMERCIAL. Any sign wording, logo or other representation
that, directly or indirectly, does not name, advertise or call attention to a
business, product, service or other commercial activity.
      SIGN, NON-CONFORMING. See NON- CONFORMING SIGN.
      SIGN, PERMANENT. A sign that is designed or intended to be used
indefinitely, or used indefinitely without change in the same state or place,
including, but not limited to, business signs, directional signs, residential
complex or subdivision signs and illuminated signs.
      SIGN, POLE. A sign that is supported by one or more poles, posts or
braces upon the ground, not attached to or supported by any building, with a
clear space in excess of six feet from the finished grade to the bottom of the
sign face. (See graphic for SIGN.)
      SIGN, PORTABLE. Any sign not permanently attached to the ground or other
permanent structure, or a sign designed to be transported, including, but not
limited to: signs designed to be transported by means of wheels; signs
converted to A- or T-frames; menu or sandwich board signs; balloons used as
signs; umbrellas used for advertising; and signs attached to or painted on
vehicles parked and visible from the public right-of-way, unless said vehicle
is used in normal day-to-day operations of the business. (See graphic for
SIGN.)
      SIGN, PROJECTING. Any sign other than a wall sign affixed to any
structure or wall whose leading edge extends beyond such structure or wall.
(See graphic for SIGN.)
      SIGN, ROOF. A sign which is erected, constructed and maintained above any
portion of the roof. (See graphic for SIGN.)
      SIGN, STATIC MESSAGE. A device that maintains the same message, graphic
or light intensity for at least eight hours. May also be referred to as a
STATIC MESSAGE.
      SIGN SURFACE. See SIGN FACE.
      SIGN, TEMPORARY. An on-premises advertising device not fixed to a
permanent foundation, for the purpose of conveying information, knowledge or
ideas to the public about a subject related to the activities on the premises
upon which it is located.
      SIGN, WALL. A sign attached to and/or integral with exterior wall or
window surface of a building, the face of which is parallel to the surface and
which does not project more than nine inches from the surface. (See graphic for
SIGN.)
      SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT. Refers to the R1, R2, R3 and UR
Districts.
      SITE PLAN. A map of a site, drawn accurately to scale, showing existing
and proposed features of the site including, but not limited to, buildings and
other structures, circulation, grading, trees and landscaping, sufficient for
review. A SITE PLAN shall serve as the development plan regulated by I.C. 36-7-
4-1400.
      SPECIAL EXCEPTION. The authorization of a use that is designated as such
by this chapter as being permitted in the district concerned if it meets
special conditions, is found to be appropriate and upon application, is
specifically authorized by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
      SPECIMEN TREE. Trees with a caliper of 24 inches or greater.
      SPORTS COMPLEX. An indoor or outdoor facility that is designed for sport
activities, training, competition, games and spectating that is open to the
public or open to members. These facilities may include support facilities
like: concession stands; bleachers; restrooms; and batting cages when in
conjunction with sport fields like: football field; baseball diamond; soccer
field; volleyball court; swimming pool; velodrome; tennis court; or
combinations thereof.
      SPORTS FIELD. An outdoor football field, baseball diamond, soccer field,
volleyball court, tennis court or the like.
      STATE. The State of Indiana.
      STORAGE, OUTDOOR. The outdoor accumulation of goods, junk, motor
vehicles, equipment, products or materials for permanent or temporary holding.
      STORED VEHICLES. A parked motor vehicle that is either:
         (a)   Not licensed with the Bureau of Motor Vehicles;
         (b)   Inoperable;
         (c)   Missing a major body, drivetrain, mechanical or interior
component;
         (d)   Missing critical safety components making the vehicle illegal to
drive; or
         (e)   An unmoved motor vehicle.
      STORY. The portion of a structure included between the surface of any
floor and the surface of the floor next above it or, if there be no floor above
it, then the space between the floor and the ceiling next above it. Any portion
of a STORY exceeding 14 feet in height shall be considered as an additional
STORY for each 14 feet or fraction.
      STREET. Any vehicular right-of-way that is:
         (a)   An existing state, county or municipal roadway;
         (b)   Shown upon a plat approved pursuant to law;
         (c)   Approved by other official action; or
         (d)   Shown on a plat duly filed and recorded in the office of the
County Recorder prior to the appointment of a Plan Commission and the grant to
such Plan Commission to review plats; includes the land between the street
lines, whether improved or unimproved.
      STREET, LOCAL. A street that typically carries a low volume of traffic
and low speeds from adjacent land uses to the arterial streets, sometimes via a
collector street as depicted by the city’s Comprehensive Plan.
      STREET, MAJOR ARTERIAL. A street with access control, restricted parking
and that collects and distributes traffic to and from minor arterials, as
depicted by the city’s Comprehensive Plan.
      STREET, MINOR ARTERIAL. A street with access control, restricted parking
and that collects and distributes traffic to and from local streets, as
depicted by the city’s Comprehensive Plan.
      STREET, PRIVATE. Vehicular streets and driveways, paved or unpaved, that
are maintained by the owner(s) and that are wholly within private property
except where they intersect with other streets within public rights-of-way.
      STREET, PUBLIC. All property dedicated or intended for public highway,
freeway or roadway purpose or subject to public easements therefor.
      STRUCTURAL ALTERATION. Any change in the supporting members of a building
or structure such as bearing walls, partitions, columns, beams or girders, or
any change in the footprint or increase in the size of living space. Also,
substantial roofing and siding work when repairs are made to the structure
beneath.
      STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected which requires location on the
ground or attachment to something having a location on the ground, including,
but not limited to, buildings, sheds, detached garages, mobile homes,
manufactured homes, above-ground storage tanks, freestanding signs and other
similar items.
      STRUCTURE HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the finished grade
to the highest point of the roof.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3629.png]
 
      STUDIO ARTS. Karate studio, dance studio, art studio and the like.
      SUBDIVISION. Either:
         (a)   The division of a lot into two or more smaller lots so that all
resulting lots have development rights; or
         (b)   The combination of two or more lots into a larger lot so that
the resulting lot allows development across what was a property line.
      SURFACE IMPOUNDMENT. A topographic depression, excavation or diked area,
primarily formed from earthen materials (lined or unlined) and designed to hold
accumulated liquid wastes, wastes containing free liquids or sludges that were
not backfilled or otherwise covered during periods of deposition; depression
may be dry if deposited liquid has evaporated, volatilized or leached, or wet
with exposed liquid; structures that may be more specifically described as
lagoon, pond, aeration pit, settling pond, tailings pond, sludge pit and the
like; also, a SURFACE IMPOUNDMENT that has been covered with soil after final
deposition of waste materials (i.e., buried or backfilled).
      SWIMMING POOL. A self-contained body of water at least 18 inches deep and
eight feet in diameter or width and used for recreational purposes. It may be
above or below ground level, and shall be considered an accessory structure.
      TECHNICAL REVIEW. The review of a proposed project for compliance with
this chapter, other regulations in the city’s code of ordinances, engineering
standards, best practices for urban design, best practices for site design,
best practices for reducing incompatibility and the like, when authorized by
this chapter or otherwise authorized.
      TECHNICAL REVIEW COMMITTEE. The Zoning Administrator and other city staff
assigned by the Plan Commission as a standing committee, plus any consultants
or advisors assigned on a case-by-case basis to review an application, case or
petition.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITY. A land based facility, consisting of towers,
antennas, accessory structures or other structures intended for use in
connection with the commercial transmission or receipt of radio or television
signals or any other spectrum-based transmissions/receptions.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWER. Any structure that is designed and constructed
primarily for the purpose of supporting one or more antennas. The term
includes: radio and television transmission towers; microwave towers; cellular
telephone and wireless communication towers; alternative tower structures; and
the like.
      TEMPORARY USE/STRUCTURE. See USE, TEMPORARY.
      THEATER. A facility for audio and visual productions and performing arts,
excluding adult motion picture theaters and adult entertainment businesses.
      THOROUGHFARE. A public way or public place that is included in the
Thoroughfare Plan. The term includes the entire right-of-way for public use of
the THOROUGHFARE and all surface and subsurface improvements on it such as
sidewalks, curbs, shoulders and utility lines and mains.
      THOROUGHFARE PLAN. The official plan, now and hereafter adopted, which
includes a street plan, sets forth the location, alignment, dimensions,
identification and classification of existing and proposed streets, and other
thoroughfares, as found in the city’s Comprehensive Plan.
      THROUGH LOT. See LOT, THROUGH.
      TOWER. See TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWER.
      TOWER ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. Any structure located at the tower’s base for
housing receiving or transmitting equipment.
      TOWER SETBACK. The horizontal distance from the base of the tower to an
abutting property line and/or proposed right-of-way.
      TRANSITIONAL CORRIDOR OVERLAY DISTRICT. Refers to the TCO District.
      TWO-PAGE LAYOUT. The two-page layout accompanying each zoning district in
§§
165.085 through
165.108 (as set out in the ordinance codified herein). The TWO-PAGE LAYOUT
includes zoning district intents, permitted uses, special exception uses and
basic zoning district information.
      UNDERLYING DISTRICT. A base district zone is the existing zoning district
of the subject lot:
         (a)   Prior to the approval of a planned development; or
         (b)   Prior to the effects of an overlay district.
      UNIVERSITY. An establishment for higher education, primarily for students
to earn a degree. Ancillary uses include, but are not limited to, academic
research, academic publishing, student housing, continuing education and
performing arts for the community. Primary structures include a residence hall,
staff housing, dining hall, office building, classroom building, stadium,
gymnasium, library, broadcasting facility, student center, sport court, arena,
nature center, medical center, parking lots and parking decks when used in
conjunction with providing higher education.
      UNIVERSITY DISTRICT. Refers to the UV District.
      UNMOVED MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle that has been parked in the same
place for a minimum of 80 days over any 90-day period of time. Parking in the
same place shall be inclusive of a motor vehicle that has been moved,
reoriented or re-parked on the same lot or lots used in combination, and in the
same general area.
      USE. The purposes for which land, building or structure thereon is
designed, arranged or intended, or for which it is occupied, maintained, let or
leased.
      USE, PERMITTED. A use which may be lawfully established in a particular
district or districts provided it conforms with all applicable requirements,
regulations and standards.
      USE, PRIMARY. The main use of land or buildings as distinguished from an
accessory use. A PRIMARY USE may be either a permitted use or a special
exception.
      USE, TEMPORARY. A land use or structure established for a limited and
fixed period of no more than four months with the intent to discontinue such
use or structure upon the expiration of the time period.
      USE VARIANCE. See VARIANCE, USE.
      UTILITY.
         (a)   Every plant or equipment within the state used for:
            1.   The conveyance of telegraph and telephone messages;
            2.   The production, transmission, delivery or furnishing of heat,
light, water or power, either directly or indirectly to the public; or
            3.   Collection, treatment, purification and disposal in a sanitary
manner of liquid and solid waste, sewage, night soil and industrial waste.
         (b)   The term does not include a municipality that may acquire, own
or operate facilities for the collection, treatment, purification and disposal
in a sanitary manner of liquid and solid waste, sewage, night soil and
industrial waste. A warehouse owned or operated by any person, firm, limited
liability company or corporation engaged in the business of operating a
warehouse business for the storage of used household goods is not a public
utility within the meaning of this section.
      UTILITY FACILITY, ABOVE GROUND. Permanently located and installed
electrical generators, pipeline pumping stations, public wells, telephone
exchanges, utility substations and the like.
      UTILITY, PUBLIC.
         (a)   Any person, firm or corporation duly authorized to furnish under
public regulation to the public, electricity, gas, steam, telephone, fiber
optics, transportation, water or sewage systems. The term does not include a
municipality that may acquire, own or operate any of the foregoing facilities;
or
         (b)   Every corporation, company, partnership, limited liability
company, individual, association of individuals, their lessees, trustees or
receivers appointed by a court, that may own, operate, manage or control any
plant or equipment within the state for the:
            1.   Conveyance of telegraph or telephone messages;
            2.   Production, transmission, delivery or furnishing of heat,
light, water or power; or
            3.   Collection, treatment, purification and disposal in a sanitary
manner of liquid and solid waste, sewage, night soil and industrial waste.
      VARIANCE, DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS. A specific approval granted by the Board
of Zoning Appeals in the manner prescribed by this chapter, to deviate from the
development standards (such as height, bulk, area) that this chapter otherwise
prescribes.
      VARIANCE, USE. The approval of a use other than that prescribed by this
chapter.
      VARIETY STORE. A retail establishment that sells a multitude of consumer
goods.
      VEHICLE. See MOTOR VEHICLE.
      WAREHOUSE STORAGE FACILITY. A structure or group of structures containing
individual storage units of 200 square feet or less with access to each unit
only for the storage and warehousing of personal property. WAREHOUSE STORAGE
FACILITIES do not include activities of any kind including wholesaling,
retailing, servicing or repair of household or commercial goods in conjunction
with storage.
      WELLFIELD. A tract of land, either continuous or disjointed, which
contains a number of existing or proposed wells for supplying water as
specified in the wellfield protection maps.
      WELLHEAD. The specific location of a well (a hole or shaft dug or drilled
to obtain water) and/or any structure built over or extending from a well.
      WELLHEAD PROTECTION LOCAL PLANNING TEAM (LPT). Individuals with interest
in the protection of local ground water resources who have participated in the
development of the wellhead protection plan. A list of current members of the
LPT will be maintained on file with the Department of Metropolitan Development.
      WIND TURBINE. A generator, wind- catching device (e.g., rotors), nacelle
and any other mechanical or electronic equipment located inside the nacelle.
      WIND TURBINE, HORIZONTAL AXIS. A wind turbine with the rotation centered
around a hub which is relatively parallel to the ground.
      WIND TURBINE, VERTICAL AXIS. A wind turbine with the rotation centered
around a hub which is relatively perpendicular to the ground.
      WIND TURBINE SYSTEM HEIGHT. The overall height above grade of the wind to
energy tower plus the rotor.
      WIND TURBINE SYSTEM, LARGE. A conversion system designed to generate
electricity from wind, consisting of a wind turbine, wind turbine tower or
other mounting device, foundation and other structural components. Inversion
equipment within or attached to a primary structure, wires conveying
electricity to a electrical panel and other electronic equipment within or
attached to a primary structure shall not be considered part of the LARGE WIND
TURBINE SYSTEM. A LARGE WIND TURBINE SYSTEM shall have rated power of at least
50kW and may have maximum limits as applied by this chapter.
      WIND TURBINE SYSTEM, SMALL. A conversion system designed to generate
electricity from wind, consisting of a wind turbine, wind turbine tower or
other mounting device, foundation and other structural components. Inversion
equipment within or attached to a primary structure, wires conveying
electricity to a electrical panel and other electronic equipment within or
attached to a primary structure shall not be considered part of the SMALL WIND
TURBINE SYSTEM. A SMALL WIND TURBINE SYSTEM shall have rated power less than
50kW.
      WIND TURBINE TOWER. A pole-like device used to mount a horizontal axis
wind turbine.
      WIND TURBINE TOWER HEIGHT. The distance measured from grade to the bottom
of the nacelle.
      YARD. A space on the same lot with a primary structure that is open and
unobstructed, except as otherwise authorized by this chapter. All required
yards shall be kept free of all material including but not limited to,
buildings, structures, material for sale, storage, advertising, or display to
attract attention and parking lots.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3631.png]
 
      YARD, FRONT. The horizontal space between the nearest foundation of a
building or structural appurtenance, or roof eave (whichever is closer) to the
front lot line, extending to the side lines of the lot, and measured as the
shortest distance from that foundation to the front lot line. (See graphic for
YARD.)
      YARD, REAR. The horizontal space between the nearest foundation or
structural appurtenance of a building to a rear lot line and that rear lot
line, extending to the side lines of the lot, and measured as the shortest
distance from the foundation to the rear lot line. Corner lots do not have REAR
YARDS, rather they have two side yards. (See graphic for YARD.)
      YARD, SIDE. The horizontal space between the nearest foundation or
structural appurtenance of a building to the side lot line. (See graphic for
YARD.)
      ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The officer appointed by and/or delegated the
responsibility for the administration of this chapter’s regulations by the Plan
Commission. The term ZONING ADMINISTRATOR includes his or her authorized
representatives.
      ZONING DISTRICT. Areas within the city for which uniform zoning
regulations governing use, height, area, size, intensity of use of buildings
and land and open spaces about buildings are established by this chapter.
ZONING DISTRICTS are drawn on the official zoning map.
      ZONING MAP. See OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2020, Art. 11)
§ 165.004 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is adopted by the city pursuant to its authority under the laws
of the state, I.C. 36-7-4 et seq.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 1.04)
§ 165.005 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is intended to guide the growth and development of the city in
accordance with the city’s Comprehensive Plan for the following purposes:
   (A)   Basic rights. To secure adequate light, air, convenience of access and
safety from fire, flood and other dangers, which may include providing adequate
open spaces for light, air and outdoor uses;
   (B)   General welfare. To promote the public health, safety, morals,
comfort, convenience and general welfare;
   (C)   Development and growth. To promote the orderly, responsible and
beneficial development and growth of the areas within the planning jurisdiction
in accordance with the city’s land use policy;
   (D)   Character. To protect the character and stability of agricultural,
residential, institutional, commercial, industrial and natural areas;
   (E)   Circulation. To minimize or avoid congestion on public streets and to
ensure safe, convenient and efficient traffic circulation;
   (F)   Environmental integrity. To preserve and enhance the scenic beauty,
aesthetics and environmental integrity of the planning jurisdiction;
   (G)   Compatibility. To bring about compatibility between different land
uses and to protect the scale and character of existing development from the
encroachment of incompatible uses;
   (H)   Intensity. To regulate and restrict the use of buildings, structures
and land for business, industry, residence and other uses;
   (I)   Public service. To define the powers and duties of administrative
officers and bodies, and to establish procedures for the implementation and
enforcement of this chapter; and
   (J)   Compliance. To require ongoing compliance with the regulations and
punitive recourse for non- compliance regarding the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 1.05)
§ 165.006 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure shall be located, erected, constructed, reconstructed, moved,
altered, converted, enlarged or used, nor shall any piece of land be used, nor
shall any existing use be expanded except when in full compliance with all
provisions of this chapter and the permits and certificates required by this
chapter have lawfully been issued. For information regarding non-conforming
structures, see §§
165.435 through
165.440.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 1.06)
§ 165.007 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision or the application of any provision of this chapter is held
unconstitutional or invalid by the courts, the remainder of this chapter or the
application of such provision to other circumstances shall not be affected.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 1.07)
§ 165.008 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Minimum requirements. The provisions of this chapter are the minimum
requirements necessary for the protection of the health, safety, comfort,
morals, convenience and general welfare of the people at large.
   (B)   Conflict or inconsistency.
      (1)   Internal. Unless otherwise specifically stated within this chapter,
if two or more provisions of this chapter are in conflict or are inconsistent
with one another, then the more restrictive provision shall apply.
      (2)   Federal, state and local.
         (a)   Whenever a provision of this chapter imposes a greater
restriction or a higher standard than is required by any state or federal code
or regulation or other city ordinance or regulation, the provision of this
chapter shall apply.
         (b)   Whenever a provision of any state or federal code or regulation
or other city ordinance or regulation imposes a greater restriction or a higher
standard than is required by this chapter, the provision of the state or
federal code or regulation or other city ordinance or regulation shall apply.
      (3)   Other. Whenever a private covenant, contract, commitment, agreement
or other similar private land use regulation imposes a greater restriction or a
higher standard than is required by a provision of this chapter, the city is
not obligated to enforce the provisions of such private covenants, contracts,
commitments, agreements or other similar regulations.
   (C)   Text. If differences are found between the meaning or implication of
any drawing, table, figure, title or section heading, the text of this chapter
shall apply.
   (D)   Timeframes. Unless specifically noted otherwise, timeframes stated
within this chapter shall be calculated to include weekdays, weekends and
holidays. If a timeframe ends on a Saturday, Sunday or holiday that the city
offices are closed, the timeframe will be extended to the end of the next
business day.
   (E)   Delegation of authority. If a provision in this chapter requires the
Zoning Administrator or other city officer to perform an act or duty, that
provision shall also include any person working under the authority and
supervision of the Zoning Administrator unless specified otherwise.
   (F)   Mandatory and permissive terms. The words “shall” or “must” are always
mandatory. The words “may” or “should” are always permissive.
   (G)   Words used. If words used in this chapter are not defined in §
165.003, they shall be construed to be the common usage of the language. Any
legal or technical words not defined in this chapter shall be construed to be
as defined by appropriate lexicon or current and common dictionary.
   (H)   Tense. If words are used in a specific tense (past, future or present)
it shall be construed to include all tenses, unless the context clearly
indicates a single tense.
   (I)   Singular/plural form. If words are used in singular form, the plural
form shall apply and vice versa, unless the context clearly indicates the
contrary.
   (J)   Gender. If a feminine term is used, the masculine shall also apply and
vice versa.
   (K)   Conjunctions. The word “and” shall be construed to include all
connected items in a series, conditions and provisions. The word “or” shall be
construed to include one or more of the items in a series, conditions and
provisions, unless the context clearly suggests the contrary.
   (L)   Rounding. If a formula is used within this chapter and results in a
non-whole number of an indivisible object or feature, the non-whole number
shall be rounded to the next highest whole number.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 1.08)
§ 165.009 JURISDICTIONAL AREA.
   This chapter applies to all land within the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 1.09)
§ 165.010 REPEALER.
   The following city ordinances are hereby repealed and are replaced by this
chapter and official zoning map:
   (A)   Zoning Ordinance:
Ch. 154 of the prior code of ordinances, and its associated zoning map; and
   (B)   Subdivision Control:
Ch. 153 of the prior code of ordinances, as amended.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 1.10)
§ 165.011 TRANSITION RULES.
   (A)   Plan Commission. Any application (e.g., development plan review or
primary plat) filed with the Plan Commission or its designees that is full and
complete prior to the effective date of this chapter shall be regulated by the
terms and conditions of the zoning ordinance and/or subdivision control
ordinance that were in place at the time of filing. However, all administrative
procedures and fees shall follow those established in this chapter.
   (B)   Rezoning. Any application for a zone map amendment (rezoning) filed
with the Plan Commission, or its designees, that is full and complete prior to
the effective date of this chapter shall continue through the process to
completion pursuant to the terms and conditions of the zoning ordinance that
were in place at the time of filing. However, if there is a specific use for
which the rezone was proposed, and that use would no longer be permitted in the
proposed zoning district, or if the proposed zoning district no longer exists
under this chapter, the Zoning Administrator shall amend the application such
that the request for rezoning would accomplish the same end goal for the
applicant.
   (C)   Board of Zoning Appeals. Any application (e.g., development standards
variance or administrative appeal) filed with the Board of Zoning Appeals that
is full and complete prior to the effective date of this chapter shall continue
the process pursuant to the terms and conditions of the zoning ordinance that
were in place at the time of filing; provided that:
      (1)   Required. The application is still required by the terms of this
chapter; or
      (2)   Additional approvals. If the proposed use or development requires
additional approvals from the Board of Zoning Appeals pursuant to the terms of
this chapter that were not required under the previous ordinances, the
application will be amended to include only those additional approvals that are
now required and within the jurisdiction of the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   (D)   Planned development.
      (1)   Detailed development plan. A detailed development plan for a
Planned Development District filed with the Plan Commission or its designees
that is full and complete prior to the adoption of an amendment to the Planned
Development District ordinance and/or concept plan shall continue the process
pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Planned Development District
ordinance and/or concept plan in place prior to the amendment.
      (2)   Final development plan. A final development plan for a Planned
Development District filed with the Plan Commission or its designees that is
full and complete prior to the adoption of an amendment to the Planned
Development District ordinance and/or concept plan shall continue the process
pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Planned Development District
ordinance and/or concept plan in place prior to the amendment. If the final
development plan is compliant with a detailed development plan that was
approved prior to the adoption of such amendment to the Planned Development
District ordinance and/or concept plan, then the final development plan may be
considered for approval utilizing the same standards that applied to the
detailed development plan.
   (E)   Building sites. All new building sites shall meet the requirements of
the unified development ordinance unless:
      (1)   Building permit. A complete building permit application was filed
and is still valid;
      (2)   Improvement location permit. A complete improvement location permit
application was filed and is still valid;
      (3)   Buildable lot. A parcel was approved as a buildable lot by the Plan
Commission (valid primary or secondary plat) or the Board of Zoning Appeals
(valid development standards variance) prior to the effective date of this
chapter; or
      (4)   Primary plat. A complete and valid primary plat application has
been filed with the Planning Department prior to the effective date of this
chapter.
   (F)   Recorded commitments.
      (1)   Any recorded commitments for a lot as a part of rezoning,
established prior to this chapter’s effective date, shall remain in effect and
in force regardless of allowances provided in this chapter.
      (2)   Recorded commitments for a lot as part of a rezoning may petition
for those commitments to be removed or modified through the zoning map
amendment (i.e., rezoning) process.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 1.11)
§ 165.012 ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER.
   The Zoning Administrator shall have the primary responsibility for
administration of this chapter within the city’s planning jurisdiction.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 1.12)
§ 165.013 ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL.
   The Enforcement Officer shall have the primary responsibility for
enforcement of this chapter within the city’s planning jurisdiction.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 1.13)
§ 165.014 SAVING PROVISIONS.
   This chapter shall not be construed as eliminating or reducing any action
now pending under, or by virtue of, an existing law or previous zoning
ordinance, subdivision control ordinance or related ordinance. This chapter
shall not be construed as discontinuing, reducing, modifying or altering any
penalty accruing or about to accrue.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 1.14)
§ 165.015 EFFECT OF ANNEXATION OR VACATION ON ZONING.
   The Plan Commission shall be guided by the principles and directives of the
city’s Comprehensive Plan and this chapter in making recommendations to the
Common Council regarding zoning district classifications for newly annexed
areas.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 1.15)
§ 165.016 STATUTORY CHANGES.
   Whenever Indiana Code cited in this chapter has been amended or superseded,
this chapter shall be deemed amended in reference to the new or revised code.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 1.16)
§ 165.017 REFERENCES.
   Whenever any agency, department, position, document, map or publication
referenced in this chapter changes, the new or substitute agency, department,
position, document, map or publication shall be deemed incorporated into this
chapter.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 1.17)
§ 165.018 CERTIFICATION AND ADOPTION.
   This chapter was adopted by the Common Council of the city on 7-6-2010. This
chapter became effective 30 days following the City Plan Commission’s
certification of amendments made by the Common Council.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 1.30)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 165.030 COMMON COUNCIL; SUMMARY OF POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The powers and duties of the Common Council are described below. Duties
should be interpreted as activities that are obligations. Powers should be
interpreted as activities that are optional and may be initiated:
   (A)   Common Council duties.
      (1)   Documents. Adopt, reject or amend the city’s Comprehensive Plan,
strategic plans or this chapter that have been certified and submitted by the
Plan Commission;
      (2)   Amendments. Adopt, reject or amend proposals to amend or partially
repeal the text of the city’s Comprehensive Plan, strategic plans or this
chapter that has been certified and submitted by the Plan Commission;
      (3)   Zoning map. Adopt, reject or amend proposals to amend the official
zoning map certified and submitted by the Plan Commission;
      (4)   Fee schedule. Adopt, reject or amend a fee schedule;
      (5)   Enforcement. Enforce regulations and procedures of the city’s
Comprehensive Plan and this chapter to the extent of the local resolutions,
ordinances and state law; and
      (6)   Other. Other duties as permitted by Indiana Code.
   (B)   Common Council powers.
      (1)   Document amendment initiation. Initiate amendments to the city’s
Comprehensive Plan, strategic plans or this chapter by making the proposal to
the Plan Commission;
      (2)   Zoning map amendment initiation. Initiate amendments to the
official zoning map by making the proposal to the Plan Commission; and
      (3)   Other. Other powers as permitted by Indiana Code.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 1.25)
§ 165.031 PLAN COMMISSION; SUMMARY OF POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The powers and duties of the Plan Commission are described below. Duties
should be interpreted as activities that are obligations. Powers should be
interpreted as activities that are optional and may be initiated:
   (A)   Plan Commission duties.
      (1)   Documents. Adopt and maintain the Common Council-approved City
Comprehensive Plan and this chapter as authorized under state law;
      (2)   Rules of procedure. Adopt and maintain rules and procedures for
holding meetings, holding public hearings and administrating and enforcing the
city’s Comprehensive Plan and this chapter;
      (3)   Records. Maintain complete records of all meetings, hearings,
correspondences and affairs of the Plan Commission;
      (4)   Materials. Publish and make available to the public all plans,
ordinances and other related material that are the responsibility of the Plan
Commission;
      (5)   Process and seal. Adopt and maintain a permitting process and seal
used to certify official or approved documents;
      (6)   Recommendations for documents. Certify and submit recommendations
to the Common Council including new versions of and revisions to the city’s
Comprehensive Plan, this chapter and official zoning map;
      (7)   Recommendations for planned developments. Certify and submit
recommendations to the Common Council for adopting a Planned Development
District;
      (8)   Fiscal records. Maintain monetary and fiscal records of the Plan
Commission;
      (9)   Budget. Prepare and submit an annual budget to the Common Council;
      (10)   Plats. Approve or deny plats or replats of subdivisions;
      (11)   Waivers. Approve or deny request for waivers to the subdivision
requirements of this chapter;
      (12)   Development plans. Approve or deny development plans and
amendments to development plans;
      (13)   Names. Approve or deny proposed subdivision names, street names
and addresses in new developments;
      (14)   Enforcement. Enforce regulations and procedures of the city’s
Comprehensive Plan and this chapter to the extent of the local resolutions,
ordinances and state law; and
      (15)   Other. Other duties as permitted by Indiana Code.
   (B)   Plan Commission powers.
      (1)   Staff. Hire, remove and determine job descriptions for support
staff with the Planning Department;
      (2)   Committees. Establish advisory committees as necessary;
      (3)   Funding. Seek funding assistance through grant programs as
necessary;
      (4)   Distribution. Distribute copies or summaries of the city’s
Comprehensive Plan or this chapter to the general public and development
community;
      (5)   Compensation. Determine the compensation for support staff and
members as provided within the budget submission to Common Council; and
      (6)   Other. Other powers as permitted by Indiana Code.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 1.26)
§ 165.032 BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS; SUMMARY OF DUTIES.
   The duties of the Board of Zoning Appeals are described below. Duties should
be interpreted as activities that are obligations:
   (A)   Appeals. Hear and determine appeals from, and review any order,
requirement, decision or determination made by an administrative official or
commission (except the Plan Commission) charged with the enforcement of this
chapter;
   (B)   Exceptions. Authorize exceptions to the zoning district and overlay
district regulations only in the classes of uses or in particular situations as
specified in this chapter;
   (C)   Variances. Authorize, on appeal in specific cases, variances from the
terms of this chapter;
   (D)   Interpretations. Interpret the official zoning map; and
   (E)   Other. Other duties as permitted by Indiana Code.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 1.27)
§ 165.033 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR; SUMMARY OF DUTIES.
   The duties delegated by the Plan Commission to the Zoning Administrator are
described below. Duties should be interpreted as activities that are
obligations:
   (A)   Plan Commission files. Maintain complete records of all meetings,
hearings, correspondences, budgets, rules of procedure, memberships, term
expirations and general affairs of the Plan Commission;
   (B)   Plan Commission meetings. Serve as staff for the Plan Commission and
any of its committees by setting agendas, conducting research, distributing
meeting information and serving as Plan Commission Secretary;
   (C)   Publish. Publish and make available to the public all plans,
ordinances and other related material that are the responsibility of the Plan
Commission;
   (D)   Public interaction. Be available as a first point of contact for
planning and zoning questions from the public;
   (E)   Administrative decisions. Make admini- strative decisions based on the
standards and procedures in this chapter;
   (F)   Interpretations. Interpret the standards in this chapter;
   (G)   Applications. Process applications submitted to the Planning
Department;
   (H)   Review. Review permit applications and issue or deny permits submitted
to the Planning Department;
   (I)   Inspections and enforcement. Complete field inspections of
improvements, structures and uses to verify compliance with this chapter;
   (J)   Recommendations. Prepare and present Plan Commission recommendations
to other commissions and boards; and
   (K)   Other. Other duties that may be delegated by the Plan Commission from
time to time.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 1.28)
§ 165.034 PLAN COMMISSION CERTIFICATION.
   This chapter was certified with a favorable recommendation for adoption then
forwarded to the legislative body. Amendments were made to the certified draft
by the Common Council. The amendments to this chapter were then certified on 7-
22-2010 by the city’s Plan Commission.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 1.29)
ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 165.045 ESTABLISHMENT OF STANDARD ZONING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Each of the standard zoning districts in this chapter stand alone and
is not a part of a hierarchy or pyramidal system of zoning. Only those uses and
development standards which are expressly permitted and noted for each zoning
district apply to that zoning district.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the city has established the
following zoning districts:
Zoning District Code Zoning District Name Zoning District Purpose
Zoning District Code Zoning District Name         Zoning District Purpose
                                                  This district is established
AG                   Agricultural                 for agricultural areas and
                                                  buildings associated with
                                                  agricultural production.
                                                  This district is established
                                                  for a mix of retail,
                                                  commercial, entertainment,
                                                  governmental and professional
                                                  uses with upper floor office
CB                   Central Business             and residential uses that
                                                  complement a urban commercial
                                                  setting. This district is
                                                  intended primarily for the
                                                  existing central business
                                                  area.
                                                  This district is established
                                                  for higher education, medical
EP                   Ed-Med-Tech Park             offices and technology
                                                  business uses in a business
                                                  park setting.
                                                  This district is established
GC                   General Commercial           for a wide variety of retail,
                                                  service, entertainment and
                                                  dining establishments.
                                                  This district is established
                                                  for commercial uses that are
                                                  closely related to the
                                                  special needs of the
HC                   Highway Commercial           traveling public, interstate
                                                  commerce, trucking and, in
                                                  general, vehicular traffic
                                                  along interstates and major
                                                  state highways.
                                                  This district is established
HI                   High Impact                  for uses that may have a high
                                                  impact to the community.
                                                  This district is established
I1                   Low to Moderate Intensity    for low to moderate intensity
                     Industrial                   industrial uses and light
                                                  manufacturing facilities.
                                                  This district is established
I2                   High Intensity Industrial    for high intensity industrial
                                                  uses and heavy manufacturing
                                                  facilities.
                                                  This district is established
                                                  for medium to high intensity
                                                  agricultural operations or
IA                   Intense Agricultural         operations likely to have a
                                                  significant adverse impact on
                                                  surrounding non-agricultural
                                                  uses.
                                                  This district is established
                                                  for light to moderate
                                                  intensity industrial uses,
                                                  industrial uses with showroom
IC                   Industrial Commercial        sales, distribution
                                                  facilities with retail sales
                                                  and outdoor commercial sales
                                                  and maintenance of large
                                                  vehicles and construction
                                                  equipment.
                                                  This district is established
IS                   Institutional                for institutional and
                                                  municipal owned lands for
                                                  public purpose and use.
                                                  This district is established
                                                  for a variety of moderate-
LC                   Limited Commercial           scale, moderate-intensity
                                                  retail goods, service,
                                                  entertainment and dining
                                                  establishments.
                                                  This district is established
M1                   Multiple-Family Residential  for two- to four-unit
                                                  buildings on single lot.
                                                  This district is established
                                                  for apartment complexes and
M2                   Multiple-Family Residential  other large scale multiple-
                                                  family residential
                                                  development.
                                                  This district is established
                                                  for developments (mobile or
                                                  manufactured home parks)
MP                   Manufactured Home Park       which typically lease
                                                  dwelling sites for single-
                                                  wide and double-wide
                                                  manufactured homes.
                                                  This district is established
                                                  for small-scale, low
NC                   Neighborhood Commercial      intensity businesses offering
                                                  retail goods and services for
                                                  the convenience of nearby
                                                  neighborhoods.
                                                  This district is established
OC                   Outdoor Commercial           for businesses with
                                                  significant outdoor display
                                                  areas for merchandise.
                                                  This district is established
PR                   Parks and Recreation         for parks, recreational
                                                  areas, open space and trails.
                                                  This district is established
R1                   Low Density Single-Family    for single-family detached,
                     Residential                  medium to large sized homes
                                                  on large sized lots.
                                                  This district is established
R2                   Medium Density Single-Family for single-family detached,
                     Residential                  medium sized homes on medium
                                                  sized lots.
                                                  This district is established
R3                   High Density Single-Family   for single-family detached,
                     Residential                  small to medium sized homes
                                                  on small sized lots.
                                                  This district is established
UR                   Urban Residential            for a mix of residential uses
                                                  on small lots.
                                                  This district is established
UV                   University                   for various uses related to
                                                  the higher educational needs
                                                  of a university or college.
 
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 1.18)
§ 165.046 ESTABLISHMENT OF OVERLAY DISTRICTS.
   The overlay districts as noted below have been established to add additional
and unique development standards which will help the city accomplish its goals.
For the purpose of this chapter, the following overlay districts have been
established for the purpose as stated:
 
Zoning   Zoning
District District Name Zoning District Purpose
Code
         Airport       This district is established to disallow land uses which are in conflict with
ACO      Compatibility or are adversely affected by normal airport operations, to help mitigate
         Overlay       wildlife incursions and to promote compatible uses.
         Aquifer       This district is established to guide development and existing uses in those
APO      Protection    areas where an aquifer has been identified as deserving of detailed standards
         Overlay       because of the existence of a wellfield providing potable water to the local
                       water utility.
                       This district is established to promote the city’s goals for specific areas
MUO      Mixed-Use     zoned General Commercial with existing development plans or zoning approvals
         Overlay       in place prior to the adoption of this chapter that would otherwise not be
                       permitted in this chapter.
         North         This district is established to promote the city’s goals for the north U.S.
NCO      Corridor      27 corridor and gateway by promoting safe pedestrian and vehicular
         Overlay       circulation, architectural enhancements, high quality site design and a sense
                       of place.
         Neighborhood  This district is established to promote the city’s goals for specific
NTO      Transition    neighborhoods, including the recognition of historic character, within the
         Overlay       city to evolve to appropriate mixed-uses compatible with adjacent and nearby
                       existing homes.
         Transitional  This district is established to permit logical and appropriate transition
TCO      Corridor      from residential or low intensity commercial uses to higher intensity mixed-
         Overlay       uses.
 
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 1.19)
§ 165.047 ESTABLISHMENT OF PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICTS.
   As provided for in this chapter, only the following standard zoning
districts may be rezoned to a Planned Development District: PR; AG; IA; R1; R2;
R3; UR; M1; M2; UV; IS; NC; LC; GC; OC; CB; HC; EP; IC; I1; I2; and HI.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 1.20)
§ 165.048 ZONING DISTRICT LAND USES.
   The layout for each standard zoning district in §§
165.085 through
165.108 identifies land uses allowed in that district. Such land uses are of
two kinds: permitted uses and special exception uses. The city’s permitted and
special exception uses for each district are noted in the “permitted use” and
“special exception use” columns on each layout.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 1.21)
§ 165.049 UNLISTED LAND USES.
   Any land use not listed in either the permitted use or special exception use
column of a particular zoning district shall be prohibited in that particular
zoning district.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 1.22)
§ 165.050 QUESTIONABLE LAND USES.
   Any land use not listed in either the permitted use or special exception use
column of a particular zoning district, but that is similar or related to a use
that is a permitted use or a special exception use in that zoning district may
be deemed permitted through a questionable land use interpretation by the
Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 1.23)
§ 165.051 LAND USE MATRIX.
 PR AG IA R1 R2 R3 UR M1 M2 MP UV IS NC LC GC OC CB HC EP I1 I2 I3 HI
                                         PR AG IA R1 R2 R3 UR M1 M2 MP UV IS NC LC GC OC CB HC EP I1 I2 I3 HI
Accessory Uses
   Agricultural tourism                 P                                           
   Airport, private                     S                                           
   Dwelling unit                      S  S    S                                       
   Farmer’s market                  P  P                                           
   Heliport, private                    S                                  S    S  S  S
   Home business (Type 1)               P    P  P  P  P  P  P  P                           
   Home business (Type 2)               P    S  S  S  S                                 
   Home business (Type 3)               S                                           
   Large wind turbine system          S  S              S    S  S    S  S  S    S  S  S  S  S  S
   Roadside sales                       P                                           
   Small wind turbine system          P  P  P  P  P  P    P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P
Agricultural Uses
   Agricultural crop production         P  P                                         
   Confined feeding operation (small)   S  P                                         
   Confined feeding operation (large)     S                                         
   Farm implement sales                 S                                           
   Grain elevator                         P                                    P     
   Hobby farming                        P  P  P                                       
   Land conservation                    P  P                                         
   Orchard                              P  P                                         
   Processing of agricultural products  S  P                                    S  P   
   Raising of exotic animals            S  P                                         
   Raising of farm animals              P  P                                         
   Roadside sales                       P  P                                         
   Sales of agricultural products       S  P                                    P     
   Stable (private)                     P  P                                         
   Storage of agricultural products     P  P                                    P  P   
   Tree farm                            P  P                                         
   Truck farming                        P  P                                         
   Vineyard                             P  P                                         
   Wholesale tree nursery               P  P                                         
Commercial Uses
   Amusement center                                                 P               
   Amusement park                                                                 P
   Automobile dealership                                            P               
   Automobile oriented business                                     P    P    P       
   Bank machine/ATM                                       P    P      P  P  P           
   Banquet hall                                                     P               
   Bar/tavern                                             S          P  P  P           
   Barber/beauty shop                                     P    P      P  P             
   Billiard/arcade room                                   P          P  P             
   Bowling alley                                          P          P               
   Broadcast studio                                       P          P  P             
   Campground                         P  S                                           
   Club or lodge                                              P      P  P             
   Coffee shop                                            P    P      P  P             
   Coin laundry                                           P          P               
   Commercial training facility or                          P        P               
school
   Country club                       P                            S                 
   Dance/night club                                       P        P  P  P             
   Day care                                                   P    P  P  P    P         
   Delicatessen                                           P    P    P  P  P             
   Driving range                      P                                             
   Equipment rental                                                 P        P       
   Equipment sales                                                  P        P       
   Farmer’s market                  P  S                    P          P             
   Fitness center/health club                             P        P  P  P             
   Funeral home or mortuary                                       P  P  P             
   Gas station                                                    P  P    P           
   Golf course                        P                                             
   Health spa/day spa                                             P  P  P             
   Hotel/motel                                            P        P  P  P  P           
   Ice cream shop                                             P    P  P  P             
   Kennel (commercial)                  S  S                        S                 
   Kennel (home enterprise)             S                                           
   Machinery rental                                                 P        P       
   Machinery sales                                                  P        P       
   Miniature golf                     P                            P  P    P           
   Movie theater                                                  P  P  P             
   Office, construction trade                                     P  P          P     
   Office, design services                                        P  P  P    P    P     
   Office, general services                                     P  P  P  P    P         
   Office, medical services                                       P  P  P  P  P         
   Paintball facility                 S                            P  P          S  P   
   Photography studio                                           P  P  P  P             
   Plant nursery                        P                                           
   Race track                                                                     P
   Recreation center/play center      P                          P  P  P               
   Recreation vehicle rental                                        P        P       
   Recreation vehicle sales                                         P        P       
   Restaurant                                                     P  P  P  P           
   Restaurant with drive-up window                        S        P  P    P           
   Retail (Type 1), very low intensity                    P    P  P  P  P  P             
   Retail (Type 2), low intensity                         P      P  P  P  P             
   Retail (Type 3), medium intensity                              P  P  P  P    P       
   Retail (Type 4), high intensity                                P  P    P    P       
   Retail (Type 5), very high intensit                              S    P           
   Retail (Type 6), outdoor sales                                   P               
   Retail (Type 7), special handling                                S               
   Sexually-oriented retail business                            P                   
   Shooting range (indoor)                                        S                 
   Shooting range (outdoor)                                                       P
   Skating rink                                                   P  P               
   Sports complex (indoor)            S                    P        P  P          S     
   Sports complex (outdoor)           P                    P        S                 
   Stable                               P                                           
   Studio arts                                                P  P  P  P  P             
   Swimming pool                      P                      P      P  P               
   Tailor/pressing shop                                       P  P  P  P  P             
   Tanning salon                                                P  P  P               
   Tattoo/piercing parlor                                         P  P               
   Watercraft rental                  S                              P        P       
   Watercraft sales                                                 P        P       
   Waterpark                          S                            S                 
   Winery                               S                          P  P  P             
Industrial Uses
   Assembly                                                                 P  P  P   
   Construction material landfill                                                 P
   Distribution facility                                                    P  P  P   
   Electrical generation plant                                                    P
   Flex-space                                                               P  P  P   
   Food production/processing                                                 P  P   
   Gravel/sand mining                                                             P
   Hazardous waste landfill                                                       S
   Heavy equipment repair                                                       P   
   Heavy manufacturing                                                          P   
   Incinerator                                                                  S   
   Junk yard                                                                      P
   Light manufacturing                                                      P  P  P   
   Liquid fertilizer storage/                                                   P   
distribution
   Outdoor storage                                                            S  P   
   Recycling processing                                                         P   
   Rendering plant                                                                S
   Research center, chemical                                                  P     
   Research center, medical                                               P    P     
   Research center, technological                                         P  P  P     
   Sanitary landfill/refuse dump                                                  S
   Scrap metal yard                                                               P
   Sewage treatment plant                                   P                    P  P
   Sign painting/fabrication                                                P  P  P   
   Storage tanks (hazardous)                                                      S
   Storage tanks (nonhazardous)                                               S  P   
   Telecommunication facility         S  S                    S          S  S  S  S  P  P  P
   Testing lab                                                                P  P   
   Tool and die shop                                                        P  P  P   
   Transfer station                                                             P  P
   Transfer station (recycling/waste)                                         S  P  P
   Utility facility, above ground                                             P  P  P
   Warehouse                                                                P  P  P   
   Warehouse storage facility                                                 P  P   
   Water treatment plant                                    P                    P   
   Welding                                                                    P  P   
Institutional Uses
   Airport, public                                          P                       
   Bus station                                            P  P          P    S         
   Camp                                                     P                       
   Cemetery/mausoleum                   S                    P                       
   Child care institution                                   P                       
   Church, temple or mosque                               P  P  P        P             
   Community center                                       P  P      P  P  P    P         
   Composting facility, public            P                  S                       
   Crematory                                                S                       
   Government office                                        P      P  P  P    P         
   Government operation (non-office)                        P      P  P  P        P    P
   Heliport, public                                         P              P         
   Hospital                                                 P          P    P         
   Jail                                                     S          P             
   Juvenile detention facility                                        P            P
   Library                                                P  P          P    P         
   Medical center                                         P                         
   Museum                                                 P  P          P             
   Nature center                      P                      P                       
   Park                               P                    P                         
   Parking lot, public                                    P            P             
   Police, fire or rescue station       S    S  S  S          P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  S      S   
   Pool, public                       P                    P  P                       
   Post office                                            P  P          P    P         
   Prison                                                                         S
   Recycling collection point                               S    S  S  S            P   
   Retreat center                                           P                       
   School (P-12)                                            P          P             
   Skate park                         P                                             
   Stadium                            S                    P  S                      P
   Trade or business school                                 P      P  P  P    P         
   University or college                                  P                         
Residential Uses
   Assisted living facility                           P      P                       
   Bed and breakfast                    S    S      S                                 
   Dwelling, mobile home                                P                           
   Dwelling, multiple-family (2 or 3              P  P  P    P                         
units)
   Dwelling, multiple-family (4 to 6                S  P    P                         
units)
   Dwelling, multiple-family (7 to 15                 P    P                         
units)
   Dwelling, multiple-family (16+ unit                S                             
   Dwelling, single-family attached               P  P  P                             
   Dwelling, single-family detached     P  P  P  P  P  P  P  S  S                           
   Dwelling unit (first floor)                                        S             
   Dwelling unit (upper floors)                   P            S  S      P             
   Fair housing facility (large)                            P                       
   Fair housing facility (small)        P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P      P                       
   Manufactured home park                               P                           
   Nursing home                                       P      P                       
   Residence hall                                         P                         
   Retirement community                               P  P                           
 
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, App. A)
OFFICIAL ZONING MAP
§ 165.065 DESCRIPTION.
   The map labeled “official zoning map” maintained by the Plan Commission is
hereby included as part of this chapter and is to function as the means to
apply a zoning district to each lot within the city’s jurisdiction. The zoning
map shall be formally known as the “Official Zoning Map” and it may be cited
and referred to as the “Richmond Zoning Map” or the “Zoning Map”.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 1.24)
§ 165.066 LOCATION.
   The Official Zoning Map will be located in the Planning Department and
maintained by the Plan Commission.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 1.24)
§ 165.067 ZONING DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   Standard zoning districts. The standard zoning district boundaries
shall be shown on the official zoning map. The two-digit abbreviations for the
standard zoning districts appearing in this chapter or a specific color noted
on the map legend shall be used to identify the zoning districts on the map.
   (B)   Overlay districts. The overlay district boundaries shown on the
official zoning map shall be interpreted as follows.
      (1)   Labeling. An overlay district shall be noted on the official zoning
map with a hatch or textured pattern and be noted as such on the map legend.
      (2)   Fully covered. A lot that is fully covered (bounded) by an overlay
district shall be interpreted to be subject to the overlay district standards
found in §§
165.120 through
165.127,
165.140 through
165.148,
165.160 through
165.165,
165.180 through
165.186,
165.200 through
165.205 and
165.220 through
165.226.
      (3)   Partially covered. A lot that is partially covered (i.e.,
transected) by an overlay district shall be interpreted to be subject to the
overlay district standards to the extent the lot area is covered by the overlay
district.
   (C)   Standards. Zoning district boundaries on the official zoning map shall
be interpreted as follows.
      (1)   Streets. Zoning district boundaries shown within or parallel to the
lines of streets, easements and transportation rights-of-way shall be deemed to
follow the centerline of the affected street, easement or right-of-way.
      (2)   Section lines. Zoning district boundaries indicated as following or
being parallel to section or fractional sectional lines, platted lot lines or
city’s corporation lines shall be construed as following or paralleling such
lines.
      (3)   Water. Zoning district boundaries indicated as approximately
following the centerline of streams, rivers or other moving bodies of water
shall be construed to follow such centerlines.
      (4)   Vacated. Whenever any street, alley, public way, railroad right-of-
way, waterway or other similar area is vacated by proper authority, the zoning
districts adjoining each side of vacated areas shall be extended automatically
to the center of the vacated area. All areas included in the vacation shall
thereafter be subject to all regulations of the extended zoning districts. The
following exception applies: in the event of a partial vacation, the adjoining
zoning district or zoning district nearest the portion vacated shall be
extended automatically to include all of the vacated area.
   (D)   Disputes. Any disputes as to the exact zoning district boundaries
shall be determined by the Zoning Administrator. The Zoning Administrator may
refuse to make a determination when he or she cannot definitely determine the
location of a zoning district boundary. The Plan Commission may then interpret
the location of the zoning district boundary with reference to the scale of the
official zoning map and the purposes set forth in all relevant provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 1.24)
§ 165.068 REGULAR REVISIONS.
   The official zoning map shall be formally revised by the Plan Commission as
changes are made (e.g., rezonings, planned developments or annexations) or as
the Zoning Administrator determines necessary. During the time it takes for
each revision to be made electronically, hand drawn lines and text on a
printout of the previous official zoning map will be appropriate to note zoning
district changes. Revisions may be made at any time to correct drafting errors,
clerical errors or omissions on the map.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 1.24)
§ 165.069 COPIES.
   (A)   Print copies of the official zoning map may be distributed.
   (B)   Each copy of the official zoning map shall be accurate only to the
date on which it was last modified.
   (C)   The date of the latest revision shall be printed on copies of the
official zoning map.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 1.24)
§ 165.070 DAMAGE, DESTRUCTION OR LOSS.
   (A)   In the event the official zoning map becomes damaged, destroyed, lost
or difficult to interpret, the Plan Commission may prepare a new map which
shall depict the official zoning map as best as possible, and shall supersede
the prior map upon approval by the Common Council.
   (B)   The new map shall not have the effect of amending the official zoning
map.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 1.24)
ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 165.085 PARKS AND RECREATION (PR) DISTRICT.
   (A)   PR District intent, permitted uses and special exception uses. The PR
(Parks and Recreation) District is intended to be used as follows.
      (1)   District intent.
         (a)   Use type and intensity.
            1.   All intensities of active and passive recreation including
parks, picnic areas, trails, playgrounds and sports fields; and
            2.   Used to protect land for open space and conservation areas.
         (b)   Application of PR District.
            1.   Existing and new facilities;
            2.   PR Districts are typically spot zoned and distributed around
the community; and
            3.   Buffer and transitional zoning district.
         (c)   Development standards. Promote high quality recreational areas
for public use and enjoyment.
         (d)   Appropriate adjacent zoning districts. All zoning districts.
         (e)   Plan Commission.
            1.   Use the PR District for existing and new parks and recreation
facilities; and
            2.   Protect the land and uses within the PR District from
residential, commercial and industrial encroachment through the use of
appropriate buffers and setbacks.
         (f)   Board of Zoning Appeals. Protect the integrity of land and uses
within the PR District.
      (2)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Accessory permitted uses.
            1.   Farmer’s market; and
            2.   Small wind turbine system.
         (b)   Commercial permitted uses.
            1.   Campground;
            2.   Country club;
            3.   Driving range;
            4.   Farmer’s market;
            5.   Golf course;
            6.   Miniature golf;
            7.   Recreation center/play center;
            8.   Seasonal attraction;
            9.   Sports complex (outdoor); and
            10.   Swimming pool.
         (c)   Institutional permitted uses.
            1.   Nature center;
            2.   Park;
            3.   Pool, public; and
            4.   Skate park.
      (3)   Special exception uses.
         (a)   Accessory special exception uses.
            1.   Dwelling unit; and
            2.   Large wind turbine system.
         (b)   Commercial special exception uses.
            1.   Paintball facility;
            2.   Sports complex (indoor);
            3.   Watercraft rental; and
            4.   Waterpark.
         (c)   Industrial special exception uses. Telecommunication facility.
         (d)   Institutional special exception uses. Stadium.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 2.01)
   (B)   PR District development standards.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3633.png]
 
      (1)   Lots.
         (a)   Minimum lot area. N/A.
         (b)   Minimum lot width. Fifty feet.
         (c)   Sewer and water. Sanitary sewer and water utility not required
unless within 300 feet of water/sewer utility connection.
      (2)   Setbacks.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3635.png]
 
         (a)   Minimum front yard setback. Fifty feet for primary and accessory
structures.
         (b)   Minimum side yard setback. Fifty feet for primary and accessory
structures.
         (c)   Minimum rear yard setback. Fifty feet for primary and accessory
structures.
      (3)   Lot coverage.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3637.png]
 
         (a)   Maximum lot coverage. Fifty percent of lot area.
         (b)   Minimum main floor area. N/A.
         (c)   Minimum dwelling unit size. N/A.
         (d)   Maximum primary structures. No limit.
      (4)   Maximum structure height.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3639.png]
 
         (a)   Forty feet for primary structure;
         (b)   Twenty feet for accessory structure; and
         (c)   Two and one-half stories.
   (C)   Additional development standards that apply.
      (1)   Accessory structure. See §
165.262(A) and (B).
      (2)   Density and intensity. See §
165.265.
      (3)   Driveway. See §
165.266(A) and (D).
      (4)   Environmental. See §
165.267.
      (5)   Fence and wall. See §
165.268(A) and (B).
      (6)   Floodplain. See §
165.270.
      (7)   Height. See §
165.271.
      (8)   Landscaping. See §§
165.305,
165.306,
165.311 and
165.312.
      (9)   Lighting. See §
165.275.
      (10)   Lot. See §
165.277.
      (11)   Parking. See §§
165.325 and
165.331.
      (12)   Performance. See §
165.282.
      (13)   Public improvement. See §
165.283.
      (14)   Setback. See §
165.284(A).
      (15)   Sewer and water. See §
165.285.
      (16)   Sign. See §§
165.345 and
165.350.
      (17)   Special exception. See §
165.287.
      (18)   Storage tank. See §
165.288(B).
      (19)   Structure. See §
165.289.
      (20)   Telecommunication. See §
165.290.
      (21)   Temporary use. See §
165.291(A) and (B).
      (22)   Trash receptacle. See §
165.292.
      (23)   Vision clearance. See §
165.293
      (24)   Wind turbine system. See §
165.294(A) and (B).
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 2.02)
§ 165.086 AGRICULTURAL (AG) DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent, permitted uses and special exception uses.
      (1)   District intent. The AG (Agricultural) District is intended to be
used as follows.
         (a)   Use type and intensity. Low to medium intensity general
agricultural operations.
         (b)   Application of AG District. Existing agricultural land.
         (c)   Development standards. Enact development standards to maximize
protection of common agricultural practices.
         (d)   Appropriate adjacent zoning districts. PR, AG, IA, R1, R2, R3,
M1, MP, UV, IS, NC, LC, GC, OC, HC, EP, IC, I1, I2 and HI.
         (e)   Plan Commission.
            1.   Use the AG District for existing agricultural land; and
            2.   Protect the land and operations within the AG District from
residential, commercial and industrial encroachment through the use of
appropriate buffers and setbacks.
         (f)   Board of Zoning Appeals. Protect the integrity of land and
operations within the AG District.
      (2)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Accessory permitted uses.
            1.   Agricultural tourism;
            2.   Farmers market;
            3.   Home business (Type 1);
            4.   Home business (Type 2);
            5.   Roadside sales; and
            6.   Small wind turbine system.
         (b)   Agricultural permitted uses.
            1.   Agricultural crop production;
            2.   Hobby farming;
            3.   Land conservation;
            4.   Orchard;
            5.   Raising of farm animals;
            6.   Roadside sales;
            7.   Stable (private);
            8.   Storage of agricultural products;
            9.   Tree farm;
            10.   Truck farming;
            11.   Vineyard; and
            12.   Wholesale tree nursery.
         (c)   Commercial permitted uses.
            1.   Plant nursery; and
            2.   Stable.
         (d)   Residential permitted uses.
            1.   Dwelling, single-family detached; and
            2.   Fair housing facility (small).
      (3)   Special exception uses.
         (a)   Accessory special exception uses.
            1.   Airport, private;
            2.   Dwelling unit;
            3.   Heliport, private;
            4.   Home business (Type 3); and
            5.   Large wind turbine system.
         (b)   Agricultural special exception uses.
            1.   Confined feeding operation (small);
            2.   Farm implement sales;
            3.   Processing of agricultural products;
            4.   Raising of exotic animals; and
            5.   Sales of agricultural products.
         (c)   Commercial special exception uses.
            1.   Campground;
            2.   Farmer’s market;
            3.   Kennel (commercial);
            4.   Kennel (home enterprise);
            5.   Seasonal attraction; and
            6.   Winery.
         (d)   Industrial special exception uses. Telecommunication facility.
         (e)   Institutional special exception uses.
            1.   Cemetery/mausoleum; and
            2.   Police or fire station.
         (f)   Residential special exception uses. Bed and breakfast.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 2.03)
   (B)   AG District development standards.
      (1)   Lots.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3641.png]
 
         (a)   Minimum lot area. One acre.
         (b)   Minimum lot width. Two hundred feet.
         (c)   Sewer and water. Sanitary sewer and water utility are not
required.
      (2)   Setbacks.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3643.png]
 
         (a)   Minimum front yard setback. Seventy-five feet for primary and
accessory structures.
         (b)   Minimum side yard setback.
            1.   Forty feet for primary structure; and
            2.   Twenty feet for accessory structure; ten feet on all legacy
lots less than one acre.
         (c)   Minimum rear yard setback.
            1.   Forty feet for primary structure; and
            2.   Twenty feet for accessory structure; ten feet on all legacy
lots less than one acre.
      (3)   Lot coverage.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3645.png]
 
         (a)   Maximum lot coverage. Thirty percent of lot area.
         (b)   Minimum main floor area. N/A.
         (c)   Minimum dwelling unit size. One thousand square feet.
         (d)   Maximum primary structures. No limit.
      (4)   Maximum structure height.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3647.png]
 
         (a)   Forty feet for primary structure;
         (b)   Twenty-five feet for accessory structure; and
         (c)   Two and one-half stories.
   (C)   Additional development standards that apply.
      (1)   Accessory dwellings. See §
165.261.
      (2)   Accessory structure. See §
165.262(A) and (B).
      (3)   Confined feeding. See §
165.264.
      (4)   Density and intensity. See §
165.265.
      (5)   Driveway. See §
165.266(A) and (B).
      (6)   Environmental. See §
165.267.
      (7)   Fence and wall. See §
165.268(A) and (C).
      (8)   Floodplain. See §
165.270.
      (9)   Height. See §
165.271.
      (10)   Home business. See §
165.272(A) through (C).
      (11)   Keeping of animals. See §
165.273(C).
      (12)   Kennel. See §
165.274(A) and (B).
      (13)   Landscaping. See §§
165.305,
165.306,
165.311 and
165.312.
      (14)   Lighting. See §
165.275.
      (15)   Lot. See §
165.277.
      (16)   Outdoor storage. See §
165.281(A).
      (17)   Parking. See §
165.325.
      (18)   Performance. See §
165.282.
      (19)   Setback. See §
165.284(A).
      (20)   Sewer and water. See §
165.285.
      (21)   Sign. See §§
165.345 and
165.346.
      (22)   Special exception. See §
165.287.
      (23)   Storage tank. See §
165.288(C).
      (24)   Structure. See §
165.289.
      (25)   Telecommunication. See §
165.290.
      (26)   Temporary use. See §
165.291(A) and (B).
      (27)   Trash receptacle. See §
165.292.
      (28)   Vision clearance. See §
165.293.
      (29)   Wind turbine system. See §
165.294(A) and (B).
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 2.04)
§ 165.087 INTENSE AGRICULTURAL (IA) DISTRICT.
   (A)   IA District intent, permitted uses and special exception uses.
      (1)   District intent. The IA (Intense Agricultural) District is intended
to be used as follows.
         (a)   Use type and intensity. Medium to high intensity agricultural
operations that may have a higher impact on adjacent properties.
         (b)   Application of IA District. Existing agricultural land.
         (c)   Development standards. Enact strict development standards to
maximize protection of common agricultural practices.
         (d)   Appropriate adjacent zoning districts. PR, AG, IA, I1, I2 and
HI.
         (e)   Plan Commission.
            1.   Use the IA District for existing agricultural land; and
            2.   Protect the land and operations within the IA District from
residential, commercial and industrial encroachment through the use of
appropriate buffers and setbacks.
         (f)   Board of Zoning Appeals.
            1.   Protect the integrity of land and operations within the IA
District; and
            2.   Be sensitive to the potential for water pollution and other
negative impacts to nearby agricultural, residential and commercial land.
      (2)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Accessory permitted uses. Small wind turbine system.
         (b)   Agricultural permitted uses.
            1.   Agricultural crop production;
            2.   Confined feeding operation (small);
            3.   Grain elevator;
            4.   Hobby farming;
            5.   Land conservation;
            6.   Orchard;
            7.   Processing of agricultural products;
            8.   Raising of exotic animals;
            9.   Raising of farm animals;
            10.   Roadside sales;
            11.   Sales of agricultural products;
            12.   Stable (private);
            13.   Storage of agricultural products;
            14.   Tree farm;
            15.   Truck farming;
            16.   Vineyard; and
            17.   Wholesale tree nursery.
         (c)   Institutional permitted uses. Composting facility, public.
         (d)   Residential permitted uses.
            1.   Dwelling, single-family detached; and
            2.   Fair housing facility (small).
      (3)   Special exceptions uses.
         (a)   Agricultural special exception uses. Confined feeding operation
(large).
         (b)   Commercial special exception uses. Kennel (commercial).
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 2.05)
   (B)   IA District development standards.
      (1)   Lots.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3649.png]
 
         (a)   Minimum lot area. Five acres.
         (b)   Minimum lot width. One thousand six hundred feet.
         (c)   Sewer and water. Sanitary sewer and water utility are not
required.
      (2)   Setbacks.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3651.png]
 
         (a)   Minimum front yard setback. Seven hundred fifty feet for primary
and accessory structures.
         (b)   Minimum side yard setback. Seven hundred fifty feet for primary
and accessory structures.
         (c)   Minimum rear yard setback. Seven hundred fifty feet for primary
and accessory structures.
      (3)   Lot coverage.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3653.png]
 
         (a)   Maximum lot coverage. Fifteen percent of lot area.
         (b)   Minimum main floor area. N/A.
         (c)   Minimum dwelling unit size. One thousand square feet.
         (d)   Maximum primary structures. No limit.
      (4)   Maximum structure height.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3655.png]
 
         (a)   Forty feet for primary structure.
         (b)   Thirty feet for accessory structure.
   (C)   Additional development standards that apply.
      (1)   Accessory structure. See §
165.262(A).
      (2)   Confined feeding. See §
165.264.
      (3)   Density and intensity. See §
165.265.
      (4)   Driveway. See §
165.266(A) and (B).
      (5)   Environmental. See §
165.267.
      (6)   Fence and wall. See §
165.268(A) and (C).
      (7)   Floodplain. See §
165.270.
      (8)   Height. See §
165.271.
      (9)   Home business. See §
165.272(A) through (C).
      (10)   Keeping of animals. See §
165.273(C).
      (11)   Kennel. See §
165.274(A).
      (12)   Landscaping. See §§
165.305,
165.306,
165.311 and
165.312.
      (13)   Lighting. See §
165.275.
      (14)   Lot. See §
165.277.
      (15)   Parking. See §
165.325.
      (16)   Performance. See §
165.282.
      (17)   Public improvement. See §
165.283
      (18)   Setback. See §
165.284(A) and (B).
      (19)   Sewer and water. See §
165.285.
      (20)   Signs. See §§
165.345 and
165.349.
      (21)   Special exception. See §
165.287.
      (22)   Storage tank. See §
165.288(C).
      (23)   Structure. See §
165.289.
      (24)   Temporary use. See §
165.291(A).
      (25)   Trash receptacle. See §
165.292.
      (26)   Vision clearance. See §
165.293.
      (27)   Wind turbine system. See §
165.294(A) and (B).
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 2.06)
§ 165.088 LOW DENSITY SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL (R1) DISTRICT.
   (A)   R1 District intent, permitted uses and special exception uses.
      (1)   District intent. The R1 (Low Density Single-Family Residential)
District is intended to be used as follows.
         (a)   Use type and intensity. Low density single-family detached homes
on large sized lots.
         (b)   Application of R1 District.
            1.   Existing and new development; and
            2.   Small area zoning.
         (c)   Development standards. Promote low-impact development in harmony
with a natural setting.
         (d)   Appropriate adjacent zoning districts. PR, AG, R1, R2, R3, IS
and NC.
         (e)   Plan Commission. Use the R1 District for existing developments
and carefully for new residential development.
         (f)   Board of Zoning Appeals. Allow a special exception use only when
it is compatible with the surrounding residential areas.
      (2)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Accessory permitted uses.
            1.   Home business (Type 1); and
            2.   Small wind turbine system.
         (b)   Agricultural permitted uses. Hobby farming.
         (c)   Residential permitted uses.
            1.   Dwelling, single-family detached; and
            2.   Fair housing facility (small).
      (3)   Special exception uses.
         (a)   Accessory special exception uses.
            1.   Dwelling unit; and
            2.   Home business (type 2).
         (b)   Institutional special exception uses. Police or fire station
         (c)   Residential special exception uses.
Bed and breakfast.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 2.07)
   (B)   R1 District development standards.
      (1)   Lots.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3657.png]
 
         (a)   Minimum lot area. Twenty-two thousand square feet.
         (b)   Minimum lot width. One hundred feet.
         (c)   Sewer and water. Sanitary sewer and water utility required.
      (2)   Setbacks.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3659.png]
 
         (a)   Minimum front yard setback. Thirty feet for primary and
accessory structures.
         (b)   Minimum side yard setback. Ten feet for primary and accessory
structures.
         (c)   Minimum rear yard setback.
            1.   Thirty feet for primary structure; and
            2.   Ten feet for accessory structure.
      (3)   Lot coverage.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3661.png]
 
         (a)   Maximum lot coverage. Fifty percent of lot area.
         (b)   Minimum main floor area. N/A.
         (c)   Minimum dwelling unit size. One thousand two hundred square
feet.
         (d)   Maximum primary structures. One per lot.
      (4)   Maximum structure height.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3663.png]
 
         (a)   Forty feet for primary structure.
         (b)   Twenty feet for accessory structure.
         (c)   Two and one-half stories.
   (C)   Additional development standards that apply.
      (1)   Accessory structure. See §
165.262(A) and (C).
      (2)   Architecture. See §
165.263(A).
      (3)   Density and intensity. See §
165.265.
      (4)   Driveway. See §
165.266(A) and (C).
      (5)   Environmental. See §
165.267.
      (6)   Fence and wall. See §
165.268(A) and (D).
      (7)   Floodplain. See §
165.270.
      (8)   Height. See §
165.271.
      (9)   Home business. See §
165.272(A) and (B).
      (10)   Keeping of animals. See §
165.273(A).
      (11)   Landscaping. See §§
165.305 through
165.307,
165.311 and
165.312.
      (12)   Lighting. See §
165.275.
      (13)   Lot. See §
165.277.
      (14)   Outdoor storage. See §
165.281(A).
      (15)   Parking. See §§
165.325 and
165.326.
      (16)   Performance. See §
165.282.
      (17)   Public improvement. See §
165.283.
      (18)   Setback. See §
165.284(A).
      (19)   Sewer and water. See §
165.285.
      (20)   Sign. See §§
165.345 and
165.347.
      (21)   Special exception. See §
165.287.
      (22)   Storage tank. See §
165.288(A).
      (23)   Structure. See §
165.289.
      (24)   Temporary use. See §
165.291(A) and (C).
      (25)   Vision clearance. See §
165.293.
      (26)   Wind turbine system. See §
165.294(A).
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, §§ 2.07, 2.08)
§ 165.089 MEDIUM DENSITY SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL (R2) DISTRICT.
   (A)   R2 District intent, permitted uses and special exception uses.
      (1)   District intent. The R2 (Medium Density Single-Family Residential)
District is intended to be used as follows.
         (a)   Use type and intensity. Medium density single-family detached
homes on medium sized lots.
         (b)   Application of R2 District.
            1.   Existing and new development; and
            2.   Small to large area zoning.
         (c)   Development standards. Promote low impact development.
         (d)   Appropriate adjacent zoning districts. PR, AG, R1, R2, R3, UR,
UV, IS and NC.
         (e)   Plan Commission. Use the R2 District for existing developments
and carefully for new residential development.
         (f)   Board of Zoning Appeals. Allow a special exception use only when
it is compatible with the surrounding residential areas.
      (2)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Accessory permitted uses.
            1.   Home business (Type 1); and
            2.   Small wind turbine system.
         (b)   Residential permitted uses.
            1.   Dwelling, single-family detached; and
            2.   Fair housing facility (small).
      (3)   Special exception uses.
         (a)   Accessory special exception uses. Home business (Type 2).
         (b)   Institutional special exception uses. Police or fire station
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 2.09)
   (B)   R2 District development standards.
      (1)   Lots.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3665.png]
 
         (a)   Minimum lot area. Twelve thousand square feet.
         (b)   Minimum lot width. Eighty feet.
         (c)   Sewer and water. Sanitary sewer and water utility required.
      (2)   Setbacks.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3667.png]
 
         (a)   Minimum front yard setback. Thirty feet for primary and
accessory structures.
         (b)   Minimum side yard setback.
            1.   Ten feet for primary structures; and
            2.   Five feet for accessory structures.
         (c)   Minimum rear yard setback.
            1.   Thirty for primary structures; and
            2.   Five feet for accessory structures.
      (3)   Lot coverage.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3671.png]
 
         (a)   Maximum lot coverage. Fifty percent of lot area.
         (b)   Minimum main floor area. N/A.
         (c)   Minimum dwelling unit size. One thousand square feet.
         (d)   Maximum primary structures. One per lot.
      (4)   Maximum structure height.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3669.png]
 
         (a)   Forty feet for primary structure;
         (b)   Twenty feet for accessory structure; and
         (c)   Two and one-half stories.
   (C)   Additional development standards that apply.
      (1)   Accessory structure. See §
165.262(A) and (C).
      (2)   Architecture. See §
165.263(A).
      (3)   Density and intensity. See §
165.265.
      (4)   Driveway. See §
165.266(A) and (C).
      (5)   Environmental. See §
165.267.
      (6)   Fence and wall. See §
165.268(A) and (D).
      (7)   Floodplain. See §
165.270.
      (8)   Height. See §
165.271.
      (9)   Home business. See §
165.272(A) and (B).
      (10)   Keeping of animals. See §
165.273(A).
      (11)   Landscaping. See §§
165.305 through
165.307,
165.311 and
165.312.
      (12)   Lighting. See §
165.275.
      (13)   Lot. See §
165.277.
      (14)   Outdoor storage. See §
165.281(A).
      (15)   Parking. See §§
165.325 and
165.326.
      (16)   Performance. See §
165.282.
      (17)   Public improvement. See §
165.283.
      (18)   Setback. See §
165.284(A).
      (19)   Sewer and water. See §
165.285.
      (20)   Sign. See §§
165.345 and
165.347
      (21)   Special exception. See §
165.287.
      (22)   Storage tank. See §
165.288(A).
      (23)   Structure. See §
165.289.
      (24)   Temporary use. See §
165.291(A) and (C).
      (25)   Vision clearance. See §
165.293.
      (26)   Wind turbine system. See §
165.294(A).
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 2.10)
§ 165.090 HIGH DENSITY SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL (R3) DISTRICT.
   (A)   R3 District intent, permitted uses and special exception uses.
      (1)   District intent. The R3 (High Density Single-Family Residential)
District is intended to be used as follows.
         (a)   Use type and intensity. High density single-family detached
homes on small sized lots.
         (b)   Application of R3 District.
            1.   Existing and new development; and
            2.   Small to large area zoning.
         (c)   Development standards. Promote low impact development.
         (d)   Appropriate adjacent zoning districts. PR, AG, R1, R2, R3, UR,
M1, M2, MP, UV, IS, NC and LC.
         (e)   Plan Commission. Use the R3 District for existing developments
and carefully for new residential development.
         (f)   Board of Zoning Appeals. Allow a special exception use only when
it is compatible with the surrounding residential areas.
      (2)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Accessory permitted uses.
            1.   Home business (type 1); and
            2.   Small wind turbine system.
         (b)   Residential permitted uses.
            1.   Dwelling, single-family detached; and
            2.   Fair housing facility (small).
      (3)   Special exception uses.
         (a)   Accessory special exception uses. Home business (Type 2).
         (b)   Institutional special exception uses. Police or fire station.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 2.11)
   (B)   R3 District development standards.
      (1)   Lots.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3673.png]
 
         (a)   Minimum lot area. Eight thousand square feet.
         (b)   Minimum lot width. Fifty feet.
         (c)   Sewer and water. Sanitary sewer and water utility required.
      (2)   Setbacks.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3675.png]
 
         (a)   Minimum front yard setback. Twenty feet for primary and
accessory structures.
         (b)   Minimum side yard setback. Six feet for primary and accessory
structures.
         (c)   Minimum rear yard setback.
            1.   Thirty feet for primary structures; and
            2.   Five feet for accessory structures.
      (3)   Lot coverage.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3677.png]
 
         (a)   Maximum lot coverage. Eight percent of lot area.
         (b)   Minimum main floor area. N/A.
         (c)   Minimum dwelling unit size. One thousand square feet.
         (d)   Maximum primary structures. One per lot.
      (4)   Maximum structure height.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3679.png]
 
         (a)   Forty feet for primary structure;
         (b)   Twenty feet for accessory structure; and
         (c)   Two and one-half stories.
   (D)   Additional development standards that apply.
      (1)   Accessory structure. See §
165.262(A) and (C).
      (2)   Architecture. See §
165.263(A).
      (3)   Density and intensity. See §
165.265.
      (4)   Driveway. See §
165.266(A) and (C).
      (5)   Environmental. See §
165.267.
      (6)   Fence and wall. See §
165.268(A) and (D).
      (7)   Floodplain. See §
165.270.
      (8)   Height. See §
165.271.
      (9)   Home business. See §
165.272(A) and (B).
      (10)   Keeping of animals. See §
165.273(A).
      (11)   Landscaping. See §§
165.305 through
165.307,
165.311 and
165.312.
      (12)   Lighting. See §
165.275.
      (13)   Lot. See §
165.277.
      (14)   Outdoor storage. See §
165.281(A).
      (15)   Parking. See §§
165.325 and
165.326.
      (16)   Performance. See §
165.282.
      (17)   Public improvement. See §
165.283.
      (18)   Setback. See §
165.284(A).
      (19)   Sewer and water. See §
165.285.
      (20)   Sign. See §§
165.345 and
165.347.
      (21)   Special exception. See §
165.287.
      (22)   Storage tank. See §
165.288(A).
      (23)   Structure. See §
165.289.
      (24)   Temporary use. See §
165.291(A) and (C).
      (25)   Vision clearance. See §
165.293.
      (26)   Wind turbine system. See §
165.294(A).
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 2.12)
§ 165.091 URBAN RESIDENTIAL (UR) DISTRICT.
   (A)   UR District intent, permitted uses and special exception uses.
      (1)   District intent. The UR (Urban Residential) District is intended to
be used as follows.
         (a)   Use type and intensity. Medium to high density single-family
detached homes, single-family attached homes and multiple-family homes on small
sized lots.
         (b)   Application of UR District.
            1.   Existing residential development; and
            2.   Limited use for new development.
         (c)   Development standards. Flexible development standards to
accommodate existing developments.
         (d)   Appropriate adjacent zoning districts. PR, R2, R3, UR, M1, M2,
UV, IS, NC, LC and CB.
         (e)   Plan Commission. Use the UR District for existing developments
and limited use for new development.
         (f)   Board of Zoning Appeals. Allow a special exception use only when
it is compatible with the surrounding residential areas.
      (2)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Accessory permitted uses. Home business (Type 1).
         (b)   Residential permitted uses.
            1.   Dwelling, multiple-family (two or three units);
            2.   Dwelling, single-family attached;
            3.   Dwelling, single-family detached;
            4.   Dwelling unit (upper floors); and
            5.   Fair housing facility (small).
      (3)   Special exception uses.
         (a)   Accessory special exception uses. Home business (Type 2).
         (b)   Residential special exception uses. Bed and breakfast.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 2.13)
   (B)   Urban residential (UR) district.
      (1)   Lots.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3681.png]
 
         (a)   Minimum lot area. Five thousand square feet.
         (b)   Minimum lot width. Forty feet.
         (c)   Sewer and water. Sanitary sewer and water utility required.
      (2)   Setbacks.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3683.png]
 
         (a)   Minimum front yard setback. Fifteen feet for primary and
accessory structures.
         (b)   Minimum side yard setback. Five feet for primary and accessory
structures.
         (c)   Minimum rear yard setback.
            1.   Twenty-five feet for primary structure; and
            2.   Five feet for accessory structure.
      (3)   Lot coverage.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3685.png]
 
         (a)   Maximum lot coverage. Eight percent of lot area.
         (b)   Minimum main floor area. N/A.
         (c)   Minimum dwelling unit size. Nine hundred square feet with an
average of 1,000 square feet.
         (d)   Maximum primary structures. One per lot.
      (4)   Maximum structure height.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3687.png]
 
         (a)   Forty feet for primary structure;
         (b)   Twenty feet for accessory structure; and
         (c)   Two and one-half stories.
   (C)   Additional development standards that apply.
      (1)   Accessory structure. See §
165.262(A) and (C).
      (2)   Architecture. See §
165.263(A).
      (3)   Density and intensity. See §
165.265.
      (4)   Driveway. See §
165.266(A) and (C).
      (5)   Environmental. See §
165.267.
      (6)   Fence and wall. See §
165.268(A) and (D).
      (7)   Floodplain. See §
165.270.
      (8)   Height. See §
165.271.
      (9)   Home business. See §
165.272(A) and (C).
      (10)   Keeping of animals. See §
165.273(A).
      (11)   Landscaping. See §§
165.305 through
165.307,
165.311 and
165.312.
      (12)   Lighting. See §
165.275.
      (13)   Outdoor storage. See §
165.281(A).
      (14)   Parking. See §§
165.325 and
165.327.
      (15)   Performance. See §
165.282.
      (16)   Public improvement. See §
165.283.
      (17)   Setback. See §
165.284(A).
      (18)   Sewer and water. See §
165.285.
      (19)   Sign. See §§
165.345 and
165.347.
      (20)   Special exception. See §
165.287.
      (21)   Storage tank. See §
165.288(A).
      (22)   Structure. See §
165.289.
      (23)   Temporary use. See §
165.291(A).
      (24)   Vision clearance. See §
165.293.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 2.14)
§ 165.092 MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL (M1) DISTRICT.
   (A)   M1 District intent, permitted uses and special exception uses.
      (1)   District intent. The M1 (Multiple- Family Residential) District is
intended to be used as follows.
         (a)   Use type and intensity. Medium density two-family homes on small
to medium sized lots.
         (b)   Application of M1 District.
            1.   Existing and new development; and
            2.   Small area zoning.
         (c)   Development standards. Enact stringent development standards to
protect the quality of life for tenants and surrounding zoning districts.
         (d)   Appropriate adjacent zoning districts. PR, AG, R3, UR, M1, M2,
MP, UV, IS, NC and LC.
         (e)   Plan Commission. Use the M1 District for existing developments
and carefully for new multiple-family residential development.
         (f)   Board of Zoning Appeals. Allow a special exception use only when
it is compatible with the surrounding residential areas
      (2)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Accessory permitted uses.
            1.   Home business (Type 1); and
            2.   Small wind turbine system.
         (b)   Residential permitted uses.
            1.   Dwelling, multiple-family (two or three units);
            2.   Dwelling, single-family attached;
            3.   Dwelling, single-family detached; and
            4.   Fair housing facility (small).
      (3)   Special exception uses. Residential special exception uses:
dwelling, multiple-family (four to six units).
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 2.15)
   (B)   M1 District development standards.
      (1)   Lots.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3689.png]
         (a)   Minimum lot area. Six thousand square feet.
         (b)   Minimum lot width. Fifty feet.
         (c)   Sewer and water. Sanitary sewer and water utility required.
      (2)   Setbacks.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3691.png]
 
         (a)   Minimum front yard setback. Twenty-five feet for primary and
accessory structures.
         (b)   Minimum side yard setback.
            1.   Twenty feet aggregate setback for primary structures, with
eight feet minimum setback for any one side yard or zero feet for attached
dwellings with a common wall on the property line; and
            2.   Accessory structures five feet.
         (c)   Minimum rear yard setback.
            1.   Thirty feet for primary structure; and
            2.   Fifteen feet for accessory structure
      (3)   Lot coverage.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3693.png]
 
         (a)   Maximum lot coverage. Fifty percent of lot area.
         (b)   Minimum main floor area. N/A.
         (c)   Minimum dwelling unit size. One thousand square feet.
         (d)   Maximum density. Six units per acre.
         (e)   Maximum primary structures. One per lot.
      (4)   Maximum height structure.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3699.png]
 
         (a)   Forty feet for primary structure;
         (b)   Twenty feet for accessory structure; and
         (c)   Two stories.
   (C)   Additional development standards that apply.
      (1)   Accessory structure. See §
165.262(A) and (D).
      (2)   Density and intensity. See §
165.265.
      (3)   Driveway. See §
165.266(A) and (D).
      (4)   Environmental. See §
165.267.
      (5)   Fence and wall. See §
165.268(A) and (D).
      (6)   Floodplain. See §
165.270.
      (7)   Height. See §
165.271.
      (8)   Home business. See §
165.272(A).
      (9)   Keeping of animals. See §
165.273(A).
      (10)   Landscaping. See §§
165.305 through
165.307,
165.311 and
165.312.
      (11)   Lighting. See §
165.275.
      (12)   Lot. See §
165.277.
      (13)   Outdoor storage. See §
165.281(A).
      (14)   Parking. See §§
165.325 and
165.328.
      (15)   Performance. See §
165.282.
      (16)   Public improvement. See §
165.283.
      (17)   Setback. See §
165.284(A).
      (18)   Sewer and water. See §
165.285.
      (19)   Sign. See §§
165.345 and
165.348.
      (20)   Special exception. See §
165.287.
      (21)   Storage tank. See §
165.288(A).
      (22)   Structure. See §
165.289.
      (23)   Temporary use. See §
165.291(A) and (C).
      (24)   Trash receptacle. See §
165.292.
      (25)   Vision clearance. See §
165.293.
      (26)   Wind turbine system. See §
165.294(A).
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 2.16)
§ 165.093 INTENSE MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL (M2) DISTRICT.
   (A)   M2 District intent, permitted uses and special exception uses.
      (1)   District intent. The M2 (Intense Multiple-Family Residential)
District is intended to be used as follows.
         (a)   Use type and intensity. Medium to high density two and three-
family homes on varying sized lots.
         (b)   Application of M2 District.
            1.   Existing and new development; and
            2.   Small area zoning.
         (c)   Development standards. Enact stringent development standards to
protect the quality of life for tenants and surrounding zoning districts.
         (d)   Appropriate adjacent zoning districts. PR, R3, UR, M1, M2, MP,
UV, IS, NC, LC, GC and HC.
         (e)   Plan Commission. Use the M2 District for existing developments
and carefully for new multiple-family residential development.
         (f)   Board of Zoning Appeals. Allow a special exception use only when
it is compatible with the surrounding residential areas.
      (2)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Accessory permitted uses.
            1.   Home business (Type 1); and
            2.   Small wind turbine system.
         (b)   Residential permitted uses.
            1.   Assisted living facility;
            2.   Dwelling, multiple-family (two or three units);
            3.   Dwelling, multiple-family (four to six units);
            4.   Dwelling, multiple-family (seven to 15 units);
            5.   Dwelling, single-family attached;
            6.   Fair housing facility (small);
            7.   Nursing home; and
            8.   Retirement community.
      (3)   Special exception uses.
         (a)   Accessory special exception uses. Large wind turbine system.
         (b)   Residential special exception uses.
            1.   Dwelling, multiple-family (16+ units); and
            2.   Dwelling, single-family detached.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 2.17)
   (B)   M2 District development standards.
      (1)   Lots.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3701.png]
 
         (a)   Minimum lot area. Fourteen thousand square feet.
         (b)   Minimum lot width. One hundred feet.
         (c)   Sewer and water. Sanitary sewer and water utility required.
      (2)   Setbacks.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3703.png]
 
         (a)   Minimum front yard setback. Twenty-five feet for primary and
accessory structures.
         (b)   Minimum side yard setback. Sixteen feet for primary and
accessory structures.
         (c)   Minimum rear yard setback.
            1.   Forty feet for primary structure; and
            2.   Fifteen feet for accessory structure.
      (3)   Lot coverage.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3708.png]
 
         (a)   Maximum lot coverage. Seventy percent of lot area.
         (b)   Minimum main floor area. N/A.
         (c)   Minimum dwelling unit size. Seven hundred square feet with an
average of 900 square feet.
         (d)   Maximum density. Twelve units per acre.
         (e)   Maximum primary structures. Ten per lot.
      (4)   Maximum structure height.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3710.png]
 
         (a)   Sixty feet for primary structure;
         (b)   Twenty feet for accessory structure; and
         (c)   Four stories.
   (C)   Additional development standards that apply.
      (1)   Accessory structure. See §
165.262(A) and (D).
      (2)   Density and intensity. See §
165.265.
      (3)   Driveway. See §
165.266(A) and (D).
      (4)   Environmental. See §
165.267.
      (5)   Fence and wall. See §
165.268(A) and (D).
      (6)   Floodplain. See §
165.270.
      (7)   Height. See §
165.271.
      (8)   Home business. See §
165.272(A).
      (9)   Keeping of animals. See §
165.273(B).
      (10)   Landscaping. See §§
165.305,
165.306,
165.308,
165.311 and
165.312.
      (11)   Lighting. See §
165.275.
      (12)   Lot. See §
165.277.
      (13)   Outdoor storage. See §
165.281(A).
      (14)   Parking. See §§
165.325 and
165.328.
      (15)   Performance. See §
165.282.
      (16)   Public improvement. See §
165.283.
      (17)   Setback. See §
165.284(A).
      (18)   Sewer and water. See §
165.285.
      (19)   Signs. See §§
165.345 and
165.348.
      (20)   Special exception. See §
165.287.
      (21)   Storage tank. See §
165.288(A).
      (22)   Structure. See §
165.289.
      (23)   Temporary use. See §
165.291(A).
      (24)   Trash receptacle. See §
165.292.
      (25)   Vision clearance. See §
165.293.
      (26)   Wind turbine system. See §
165.294(A) and (B).
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 2.18)
§ 165.094 MANUFACTURED HOME PARK (MP) DISTRICT.
   (A)   MP District intent, permitted uses and special exception uses.
      (1)   District intent. The MP (Manufactured Home Park) District is
intended to be used as follows.
         (a)   Use type and intensity.
            1.   Medium to high intensity lease-lot housing developments; and
            2.   State licensed mobile home parks.
         (b)   Application of MP District.
            1.   Existing and new development; and
            2.   Small area zoning.
         (c)   Development standards. Enact stringent development standards to
protect the quality of life of tenants and surrounding zoning districts.
         (d)   Appropriate adjacent zoning districts. PR, AG, R3, M1, M2, MP,
IS, NC and LC.
         (e)   Plan Commission. Use the MP District for existing developments
and with sensitivity for new residential development.
         (f)   Board of Zoning Appeals. Allow a special exception use only when
it is compatible with the surrounding residential areas.
      (2)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Accessory permitted uses.
            1.   Home business (Type 1); and
            2.   Small wind turbine system.
         (b)   Residential permitted uses.
            1.   Dwelling, mobile home;
            2.   Manufactured home park; and
            3.   Retirement community.
      (3)   Special exception uses. Residential special exception uses:
dwelling, single-family detached.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 2.19)
   (B)   MP District development standards.
      (1)   Lots.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3712.png]
 
         (a)   Minimum lot area. Five acres.
         (b)   Minimum lot width. Two hundred and fifty feet.
         (c)   Minimum front yard setback. Forty feet to any dwelling site, or
primary or accessory structure.
         (d)   Minimum side yard setback. Twenty feet to any dwelling site, or
primary or accessory structure.
         (e)   Minimum rear yard setback. Twenty feet to any dwelling site, or
primary or accessory structure.
         (f)   Sewer and water. Sanitary sewer and water utility required.
      (2)   Setbacks.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3714.png]
 
         (a)   Minimum dwelling site area. Three thousand square feet.
         (b)   Minimum dwelling site width. Thirty feet.
         (c)   Minimum dwelling site front yard setback. Ten feet from edge of
pavement of interior streets.
         (d)   Minimum dwelling site side yard setback. Five feet for primary
or accessory structure.
         (e)   Minimum dwelling site rear yard setback. Five feet for primary
or accessory structure.
      (3)   Lot coverage.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3716.png]
 
         (a)   Maximum lot coverage. Sixty-five percent of lot area.
         (b)   Minimum dwelling unit size. Eight hundred and sixty square feet.
         (c)   Maximum density. Nine units per acre.
         (d)   Maximum primary structures. One per dwelling site.
      (4)   Maximum structure height.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3718.png]
 
         (a)   Twenty-five feet for primary structure; and
         (b)   Twenty feet for accessory structure.
   (C)   Additional development standards that apply.
      (1)   Accessory structure. See §
165.262(A) and (E).
      (2)   Density and intensity. See §
165.265.
      (3)   Driveway. See §
165.266(A) and (D).
      (4)   Environmental. See §
165.267.
      (5)   Fence and wall. See §
165.268(A) and (D).
      (6)   Floodplain. See §
165.270.
      (7)   Height. See §
165.271.
      (8)   Home business. See §
165.272(A).
      (9)   Keeping of animals. See §
165.273(B).
      (10)   Landscaping. See §
165.305,
165.306,
165.309,
165.311 and
165.312.
      (11)   Lighting. See §
165.275.
      (12)   Lot. See §
165.277.
      (13)   Mobile homes. See §
165.278 .
      (14)   Outdoor storage. See §
165.281(A).
      (15)   Parking. See §§
165.325 and
165.329.
      (16)   Performance. See §
165.282.
      (17)   Public improvement. See §
165.283.
      (18)   Setback. See §
165.284(A).
      (19)   Sewer and water. See §
165.285.
      (20)   Signs. See §§
165.345 and
165.348.
      (21)   Special exception. See §
165.287.
      (22)   Storage tank. See §
165.288(A).
      (23)   Structure. See §
165.289.
      (24)   Temporary use. See §
165.291(A).
      (25)   Trash receptacle. See §
165.292.
      (26)   Vision clearance. See §
165.293.
      (27)   Wind turbine system. See §
165.294(A).
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 2.20)
§ 165.095 UNIVERSITY (UV) DISTRICT.
   (A)   UV District intent, permitted uses and special exception uses.
      (1)   District intent. The UV (University) District is intended to be
used as follows.
         (a)   Use type and intensity. Varying intensities of institutional,
commercial, retail, entertainment and dining uses directly related to
university operations and campus life
         (b)   Application of UV District.
            1.   Existing and new development;
            2.   Only on private or public college or university property;
            3.   Promote the mixture and flexibility of uses that make
universities and colleges unique and functional while protecting the character
of adjacent districts; and
            4.   Enact stringent form standards due to the flexibility
permitted in the UV District.
         (c)   Appropriate adjacent zoning districts. PR, AG, R2, R3, UR, M1,
M2, UV, IS, NC, LC, CB and EP.
         (d)   Plan Commission. Use the UV District for existing developments
and carefully for new development.
         (e)   Board of Zoning Appeals. Allow a special exception use only when
it is compatible with the surrounding areas.
      (2)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Accessory permitted uses. Small wind turbine system.
         (b)   Commercial permitted uses.
            1.   Bank machine/ATM;
            2.   Barber/beauty shop;
            3.   Billiard/arcade room;
            4.   Bowling alley;
            5.   Broadcast studio;
            6.   Coffee shop;
            7.   Coin laundry;
            8.   Dance/night club;
            9.   Delicatessen;
            10.   Fitness center/health club;
            11.   Hotel/motel;
            12.   Office, general services;
            13.   Office, medical services;
            14.   Restaurant;
            15.   Retail (Type 1), very low intensity;
            16.   Retail (Type 2), low intensity;
            17.   Sports complex (indoor); and
            18.   Sports complex (outdoor).
         (c)   Institutional permitted uses.
            1.   Bus station;
            2.   Church, temple or mosque;
            3.   Community center;
            4.   Library;
            5.   Medical center;
            6.   Museum;
            7.   Park;
            8.   Parking lot, public;
            9.   Police or fire station;
            10.   Pool, public;
            11.   Post office;
            12.   Rescue station;
            13.   Stadium; and
            14.   University or college.
         (d)   Residential permitted uses.
            1.   Dwelling, multiple-family (two or three units);
            2.   Dwelling, multiple-family (four to six units);
            3.   Dwelling, multiple-family (seven to 15 units); and
            4.   Residence hall.
      (3)   Special exception uses.
         (a)   Accessory special exception uses. Large wind turbine system.
         (b)   Commercial special exception uses.
            1.   Bar/tavern; and
            2.   Restaurant with drive-up window.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 2.21)
   (B)   UV District development standards.
      (1)   Lots.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3720.png]
 
         (a)   Minimum lot area. Five thousand square feet.
         (b)   Minimum lot width. Fifty feet.
         (c)   Sewer and water. Sanitary sewer and water utility required.
      (2)   Setbacks.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3722.png]
 
         (a)   Minimum front yard setback. Twenty feet for primary and
accessory structures.
         (b)   Minimum side yard setback. Ten feet for primary and accessory
structures.
         (c)   Minimum rear yard setback. Twenty feet for primary and accessory
structures.
      (3)   Lot coverage.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3724.png]
 
         (a)   Maximum lot coverage. Seventy percent of lot area.
         (b)   Minimum main floor area. One thousand square feet.
         (c)   Minimum dwelling unit size.
            1.   Seven hundred square feet per housing unit; and
            2.   One hundred fifty square feet per dormitory room.
         (d)   Maximum primary structures. ten per lot.
      (4)   Maximum structure height.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3726.png]
 
         (a)   Sixty feet for primary structure; and
         (b)   Thirty feet for accessory structure.
   (C)   Additional development standards that apply.
      (1)   Accessory structure. See §
165.262(A) and (F).
      (2)   Density and intensity. See §
165.265.
      (3)   Driveway. See §
165.266(A) and (D).
      (4)   Environmental. See §
165.267.
      (5)   Fence and wall. See §
165.268(A) and (F).
      (6)   Floodplain. See §
165.270.
      (7)   Height. See §
165.271.
      (8)   Landscaping. See §§
165.305,
165.306,
165.308 and
165.310 through165.312.
      (9)   Lighting. See §
165.275.
      (10)   Lot. See §
165.277.
      (11)   Parking. See §§
165.325 and
165.331.
      (12)   Performance. See §
165.282.
      (13)   Public improvement. See §
165.283.
      (14)   Setback. See §
165.284(A).
      (15)   Sewer and water. See §
165.285.
      (16)   Sign. See §§
165.345 and
165.349.
      (17)   Special exception. See §
165.287.
      (18)   Storage tank. See §
165.288(C).
      (19)   Structure. See §
165.289.
      (20)   Temporary use. See §
165.291(A).
      (21)   Trash receptacle. See §
165.292.
      (22)   Vision clearance. See §
165.293.
      (23)   Wind turbine system. See §§
165.294(A) and (B).
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 2.22)
§ 165.096 INSTITUTIONAL (IS) DISTRICT.
   (A)   IS District intent, permitted uses and special exception uses.
      (1)   District intent. The IS (Institutional) District is intended to be
used as follows.
         (a)   Use type and intensity. Varying intensity institutionally owned
lands, including state, county and city facilities.
         (b)   Application of IS District.
            1.   Existing and new development;
            2.   Buffer district or transitional zoning district; and
            3.   Small area zoning.
         (c)   Development standards. Require quality time, place and manner
development standards to minimize impacts on adjacent residential properties
while serving the needs of the overall community.
         (d)   Appropriate adjacent zoning districts. PR, AG, R1, R2, R3, UR,
M1, M2, MP, UV, IS, NC, LC, GC, OC, CB, HC, EP, IC, I1 and I2.
         (e)   Plan Commission. Use the IS District for existing developments
and carefully for new institutional development.
         (f)   Board of Zoning Appeals. Allow a special exception use only when
it is compatible with the surrounding areas.
      (2)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Accessory permitted uses. Small wind turbine system.
         (b)   Commercial permitted uses.
            1.   Commercial training facility or school;
            2.   Farmer’s market;
            3.   Seasonal attraction; and
            4.   Swimming pool.
         (c)   Industrial permitted uses.
            1.   Sewage treatment plant; and
            2.   Water treatment plant.
         (d)   Institutional Permitted Uses
            1.   Airport, public;
            2.   Bus station;
            3.   Camp;
            4.   Cemetery/mausoleum;
            5.   Child care institution;
            6.   Church, temple or mosque;
            7.   Community center;
            8.   Government office;
            9.   Government operations (non-office);
            10.   Heliport, public;
            11.   Hospital;
            12.   Library;
            13.   Museum;
            14.   Nature center;
            15.   Police or fire station;
            16.   Pool, public;
            17.   Post office;
            18.   Rescue station ;
            19.   Retreat center;
            20.   School (P-12); and
            21.   Trade or business school.
         (e)   Residential permitted uses.
            1.   Assisted living facility;
            2.   Fair housing facility (large);
            3.   Fair housing facility (small); and
            4.   Nursing home.
      (3)   Special exception uses.
         (a)   Accessory special exception uses. Large wind turbine system.
         (b)   Industrial special exception uses. Telecommunication facility.
         (c)   Institutional special exception uses.
            1.   Composting facility, public;
            2.   Crematory;
            3.   Jail;
            4.   Recycling collection point;
            5.   Sports complex; and
            6.   Stadium.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 2.23)
   (B)   IS District development standards.
      (1)   Lots.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3728.png]
 
         (a)   Minimum lot area. N/A.
         (b)   Minimum lot width. N/A.
         (c)   Sewer and water. Sanitary sewer and water utility required.
      (2)   Setbacks.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3730.png]
 
         (a)   Minimum front yard setback. Thirty feet for primary and
accessory structures.
         (b)   Minimum side yard setback. Ten feet for primary and accessory
structures.
         (c)   Minimum rear yard setback. Twenty feet for primary and accessory
structures.
      (3)   Lot coverage.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3732.png]
 
         (a)   Maximum lot coverage. Seventy percent of lot area.
         (b)   Minimum main floor area. One thousand square feet.
         (c)   Maximum primary structures. No limit.
      (4)   Maximum structure height.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3734.png]
 
         (a)   Sixty feet for primary structure; and
         (b)   Thirty feet for accessory structure.
   (C)   Additional development standards that apply.
      (1)   Accessory structure. See §
165.262(A) and (G).
      (2)   Architecture. See §
165.263(B).
      (3)   Density and intensity. See §
165.265.
      (4)   Driveway. See §
165.266(A) and (D).
      (5)   Environmental. See §
165.267.
      (6)   Fence and wall. See §
165.268(A) and (F).
      (7)   Floodplain. See §
165.270.
      (8)   Height. See §
165.271.
      (9)   Landscaping. See §
165.305,
165.306,
165.308 and
165.310 through
165.312.
      (10)   Lighting. See §
165.275.
      (11)   Lot. See §
165.277.
      (12)   Parking. See §§
165.325 and
165.331.
      (13)   Performance. See §
165.282.
      (14)   Public improvement. See §
165.283.
      (15)   Setback. See §
165.284(A).
      (16)   Sewer and water. See §
165.285.
      (17)   Sign. See §§
165.346 and
165.349.
      (18)   Special exception. See §
165.287.
      (19)   Storage tank. See §
165.288(C).
      (20)   Structure. See §
165.289.
      (21)   Telecommunication. See §
165.290.
      (22)   Temporary use. See §
165.291(A) and (D).
      (23)   Trash receptacle. See §
165.292.
      (24)   Vision clearance. See §
165.293.
      (25)   Wind turbine system. See §
165.294(A) and (B).
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 2.24)
§ 165.097 NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL (NC) DISTRICT.
   (A)   NC District intent, permitted uses and special exception uses.
      (1)   District intent. The NC (Neighborhood Commercial) District is
intended to be used as follows.
         (a)   Use type and intensity. Low intensity commercial uses.
         (b)   Application of NC District.
            1.   Existing and new development;
            2.   Buffer district or transitional zoning district; and
            3.   Small area zoning.
         (c)   Development standards.
            1.   Require quality time, place and manner development standards
to minimize impacts on adjacent residential properties while encouraging
economic vitality; and
            2.   Minimize light, noise, water and air pollution.
         (d)   Appropriate adjacent zoning districts. PR, AG, R1, R2, R3, UR,
M1, M2, MP, UV, IS, NC, LC, GC, OC, CB, HC and EP.
         (e)   Plan Commission. Use the NC District for existing developments
and carefully for new commercial development.
         (f)   Board of Zoning Appeals.
            1.   Allow a special exception use only when it is compatible with
the surrounding areas; and
            2.   Be sensitive to aesthetics and the potential for light
pollution, noise pollution, pedestrian safety and vehicular safety.
      (2)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Accessory permitted uses. Small wind turbine system.
         (b)   Commercial permitted uses.
            1.   Bank machine/ATM;
            2.   Barber/beauty shop;
            3.   Club or lodge;
            4.   Coffee shop;
            5.   Day care;
            6.   Delicatessen;
            7.   Office, financial;
            8.   Ice cream shop;
            9.   Retail (Type 1), very low intensity;
            10.   Studio arts; and
            11.   Tailor/pressing shop.
         (c)   Institutional permitted uses.
            1.   Church, temple or mosque; and
            2.   Police or fire station.
      (3)   Special exception uses. Residential special exception uses:
dwelling unit (upper floors)
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 2.25)
   (B)   NC District development standards.
      (1)   Lots.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3736.png]
 
         (a)   Minimum lot area. Five thousand square feet.
         (b)   Maximum lot area. Two acres.
         (c)   Minimum lot width. Forty feet.
         (d)   Sewer and water. Sanitary sewer and water utility required.
      (2)   Setbacks.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3738.png]
 
         (a)   Minimum front yard setback. Fifteen feet for primary and
accessory structures.
         (b)   Minimum side yard setback. Ten feet for primary and accessory
structures.
         (c)   Minimum rear yard setback. Twenty feet for primary and accessory
structures.
      (3)   Lot coverage.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3740.png]
 
         (a)   Maximum lot coverage. Sixty-five percent of lot area.
         (b)   Minimum main floor area. One thousand square feet.
         (c)   Maximum main floor area. Five thousand square feet per
establishment.
         (d)   Minimum dwelling unit size. Seven hundred square feet with an
average of 900 square feet.
         (e)   Maximum primary structures. Three per lot.
      (4)   Maximum structure height.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3742.png]
 
         (a)   Thirty-five feet for primary structure; and
         (b)   Twenty feet for accessory structure.
   (C)   Additional development standards that apply.
      (1)   Accessory structure. See §
165.262(A) and (H).
      (2)   Architecture. See §
165.263(A).
      (3)   Density and intensity. See §
165.265.
      (4)   Driveway. See §
165.266(A) and (D).
      (5)   Environmental. See §
165.267.
      (6)   Fence and wall. See §
165.268(A) and (F).
      (7)   Floodplain. See §
165.270.
      (8)   Height. See §
165.271.
      (9)   Home business. See §
165.272(A).
      (10)   Keeping of animals. See §
165.273(B).
      (11)   Landscaping. See §§
165.305,
165.306,
165.308 and
165.310 through
165.312.
      (12)   Lighting. See §
165.275.
      (13)   Lot. See §
165.277.
      (14)   Outdoor dining. See §
165.279.
      (15)   Outdoor display. See §
165.280(A).
      (16)   Parking. See §§
165.325,
165.330 and
165.331.
      (17)   Performance. See §
165.282.
      (18)   Public improvement. See §
165.283.
      (19)   Setback. See §
165.284(A).
      (20)   Sewer and water. See §
165.285.
      (21)   Sign. See §§
165.345 and
165.350.
      (22)   Special exception. See §
165.287.
      (23)   Storage tank. See §
165.288(A).
      (24)   Structure. See §
165.289.
      (25)   Temporary use. See §
165.291(A), (D) and (E).
      (26)   Trash receptacle. See §
165.292.
      (27)   Vision clearance. See §
165.293.
      (28)   Wind turbine system. See §
165.294(A).
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 2.26)
§ 165.098 LIMITED COMMERCIAL (LC) DISTRICT.
   (A)   LC District intent, permitted uses and special exception uses.
      (1)   District intent. The LC (Limited Commercial) District is intended
to be used as follows.
         (a)   Use type and intensity. Low intensity commercial uses.
         (b)   Application of LC District.
            1.   Existing and new development;
            2.   Buffer district or transitional zoning district; and
            3.   Small area zoning.
         (c)   Development standards.
            1.   Require development standards to minimize impacts on adjacent
residential properties while encouraging economic vitality;
            2.   Strive for most parking to be on side and rear of primary
structure; and
            3.   Minimize light, noise, water and air pollution.
         (d)   Appropriate adjacent zoning districts. PR, AG, R3, UR, M1, M2,
MP, UV, IS, NC, LC, GC, OC, HC and EP.
         (e)   Plan Commission. Use the LC District for existing developments
and carefully for new commercial development.
         (f)   Board of Zoning Appeals.
            1.   Allow a special exception use only when it is compatible with
the surrounding areas; and
            2.   Be sensitive to aesthetics and the potential for light
pollution, noise pollution, pedestrian safety and vehicular safety.
      (2)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Accessory permitted uses. Small wind turbine system.
         (b)   Commercial permitted uses.
            1.   Bank machine/ATM;
            2.   Barber/beauty shop;
            3.   Club or lodge;
            4.   Coffee shop;
            5.   Day care;
            6.   Delicatessen;
            7.   Fitness center/health club;
            8.   Gas station;
            9.   Health spa/day spa;
            10.   Ice cream shop;
            11.   Office, financial;
            12.   Office, general services;
            13.   Photography studio;
            14.   Recreation center/play center;
            15.   Retail (Type 1), very low intensity;
            16.   Retail (Type 2), low intensity;
            17.   Sexually-oriented retail business;
            18.   Studio arts;
            19.   Tailor/pressing shop; and
            20.   Tanning salon.
         (c)   Institutional permitted uses. Police or fire station.
      (3)   Special exception uses.
         (a)   Accessory special exception uses. Large wind turbine system.
         (b)   Institutional special exception uses. Recycling collection
point.
         (c)   Residential special exception uses. Dwelling unit (upper
floors).
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 2.27)
   (B)   LC District development standards.
      (1)   Lots.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3744.png]
 
         (a)   Minimum lot area. Five thousand square feet.
         (b)   Minimum lot width. Fifty feet.
         (c)   Sewer and water. Sanitary sewer and water utility required.
      (2)   Setbacks.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3746.png]
 
         (a)   Minimum front yard setback.
            1.   Ten feet for primary and accessory structures; and
            2.   Five feet for parking lots.
         (b)   Minimum side yard setback. Ten feet for primary and accessory
structures.
         (c)   Minimum rear yard setback. Ten feet for primary and accessory
structures.
      (3)   Lot coverage.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3748.png]
 
         (a)   Maximum lot coverage. Seventy percent of lot area.
         (b)   Minimum main floor area. One thousand square feet.
         (c)   Minimum dwelling unit size. Seven hundred square feet with an
average of 900 square feet.
         (d)   Maximum primary structures. Five per lot.
      (4)   Maximum structure height.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3750.png]
 
         (a)   Thirty-five feet for primary structure; and
         (b)   Twenty feet for accessory structure.
   (C)   Additional development standards that apply.
      (1)   Accessory structure. See §
165.262(A) and (J).
      (2)   Architecture. See §
165.263(B).
      (3)   Density and intensity. See §
165.265.
      (4)   Driveway. See §
165.266(A) and (D).
      (5)   Environmental. See §
165.267.
      (6)   Fence and wall. See §
165.268(A) and (F).
      (7)   Floodplain. See §
165.270.
      (8)   Height. See §
165.271.
      (9)   Landscaping. See §§
165.305,
165.306,
165.308 and
165.310 through
165.312.
      (10)   Lighting. See §
165.275.
      (11)   Loading. See §
165.276.
      (12)   Lot. See §
165.277.
      (13)   Outdoor display. See §
165.280(A).
      (14)   Parking. See §§
165.325 and
165.331.
      (15)   Performance. See §
165.282.
      (16)   Public improvement. See §
165.283.
      (17)   Setback. See §
165.284(A).
      (18)   Sewer and water. See §
165.285.
      (19)   Sexually-oriented businesses. See §
165.286.
      (20)   Sign. See §§
165.345 and
165.350.
      (21)   Special exception. See §
165.287.
      (22)   Storage tank. See §
165.288(C).
      (23)   Structure. See §
165.289.
      (24)   Telecommunication. See §
165.290.
      (25)   Temporary use. See §
165.291(A), (D), (E) and (F).
      (26)   Trash receptacle. See §
165.292.
      (27)   Vision clearance. See §
165.293.
      (28)   Wind turbine system. See §
165.294(A) and (B).
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 2.28)
§ 165.099 GENERAL COMMERCIAL (GC) DISTRICT.
   (A)   GC District intent, permitted uses and special exception uses.
      (1)   District intent. The GC (General Commercial) District is intended
to be used as follows.
         (a)   Use type and intensity. Moderate intensity commercial and office
uses.
         (b)   Application of GC District.
            1.   Existing and new development; and
            2.   Small to medium area zoning.
         (c)   Development standards.
            1.   Require moderate development standards to minimize impacts on
adjacent properties while encouraging economic vitality; and
            2.   Minimize light, noise, water and air pollution.
         (d)   Appropriate adjacent zoning districts. PR, AG, M2, IS, NC, LC,
GC, OC, HC, EP, I1 and I2.
         (e)   Plan Commission. Use the GC District for existing developments
and carefully for new commercial development.
         (f)   Board of Zoning Appeals.
            1.   Allow a special exception use only when it is compatible with
the surrounding areas; and
            2.   Be sensitive to aesthetics and the potential for light
pollution, noise pollution, pedestrian safety and vehicular safety.
      (2)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Accessory permitted uses. Small wind turbine system.
         (b)   Commercial permitted uses.
            1.   Amusement center;
            2.   Automobile oriented business;
            3.   Bank machine/ATM;
            4.   Banquet hall;
            5.   Bar/tavern;
            6.   Barber/beauty shop;
            7.   Billiard/arcade room;
            8.   Bowling alley;
            9.   Broadcast studio;
            10.   Club or lodge;
            11.   Coffee shop;
            12.   Coin laundry;
            13.   Commercial training facility or school;
            14.   Dance/night club;
            15.   Day care;
            16.   Delicatessen;
            17.   Fitness center/health club;
            18.   Funeral home or mortuary;
            19.   Gas station;
            20.   Health spa/day spa;
            21.   Hotel/motel;
            22.   Ice cream shop;
            23.   Micro-brewery;
            24.   Micro-distillery;
            25.   Miniature golf;
            26.   Movie theater;
            27.   Office, construction trade;
            28.   Office, design services;
            29.   Office, financial;
            30.   Office, general services;
            31.   Office, medical services;
            32.   Paintball facility;
            33.   Photography studio;
            34.   Recreation center/play center;
            35.   Restaurant;
            36.   Restaurant with drive-up window;
            37.   Retail (Type 1), very low intensity;
            38.   Retail (Type 2), low intensity;
            39.   Retail (Type 3), medium intensity;
            40.   Retail (Type 4), high intensity;
            41.   Skating rink;
            42.   Sports complex (indoor);
            43.   Studio arts;
            44.   Swimming pool;
            45.   Tailor/pressing shop;
            46.   Tanning salon;
            47.   Tattoo/piercing parlor; and
            48.   Winery.
         (c)   Institutional permitted uses.
            1.   Community center;
            2.   Government office;
            3.   Government operations (non- office);
            4.   Police or fire station;
            5.   Rescue station; and
            6.   Trade or business school.
      (3)   Special exception uses.
         (a)   Accessory special exception uses. Large wind turbine system.
         (b)   Commercial special exception uses.
            1.   Country club;
            2.   Kennel (commercial);
            3.   Shooting range (indoor);
            4.   Sports complex (outdoor); and
            5.   Waterpark.
      (4)   Institutional special exception uses. Recycling collection point.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 2.29)
   (B)   GC District development standards.
      (1)   Lots.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3752.png]
 
         (a)   Minimum lot area. Five thousand square feet.
         (b)   Minimum lot width. Fifty feet.
         (c)   Sewer and water. Sanitary sewer and water utility required.
      (2)   Setbacks.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3754.png]
 
         (a)   Minimum front yard setback. Twenty-five feet for primary and
accessory structures.
         (b)   Minimum side yard setback. Fifteen feet of aggregate setback for
primary and accessory structures, with a five-foot minimum setback for any one
side yard.
         (c)   Minimum rear yard setback. Thirty-five feet for primary and
accessory structures.
      (3)   Lot coverage.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3756.png]
 
         (a)   Maximum lot coverage. Eight percent of lot area.
         (b)   Minimum main floor area. One thousand square feet.
         (c)   Maximum primary structures. No limit.
      (4)   Maximum structure height.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3758.png]
 
         (a)   Forty feet for primary structure; and
         (c)   Twenty-five feet for accessory structure.
   (C)   Additional development standards that apply.
      (1)   Accessory structure. See §
165.262(A) and (J).
      (2)   Architecture. See §
165.263(B).
      (3)   Density and intensity. See §
165.265.
      (4)   Driveway. See §
165.266(A) and (D).
      (5)   Environmental. See §
165.267.
      (6)   Fence and wall. See §
165.268(A) and (F).
      (7)   Fireworks. See §
165.269.
      (8)   Floodplain. See §
165.270.
      (9)   Height. See §
165.271.
      (10)   Kennel. See §
165.274(A).
      (11)   Landscaping. See §§
165.305,
165.306,
165.308 and
165.310 through
165.312.
      (12)   Lighting. See §
165.275.
      (13)   Loading. See §
165.276.
      (14)   Lot. See §
165.277.
      (15)   Outdoor display. See §
165.280(A).
      (16)   Parking. See §§
165.325 and
165.331.
      (17)   Performance. See §
165.282.
      (18)   Public improvement. See §
165.283.
      (19)   Setback. See §
165.284(A).
      (20)   Sewer and water. See §
165.285.
      (21)   Signs. See §§
165.345 and
165.351.
      (22)   Special exception. See §
165.287.
      (23)   Storage tank. See §
165.288(C).
      (24)   Structure. See §
165.289.
      (25)   Telecommunication. See §
165.290.
      (26)   Temporary use. See §
165.291(A). (E) and (F).
      (27)   Trash receptacle. See §
165.292.
      (28)   Vision clearance. See §
165.293.
      (29)   Wind turbine system. See §
165.294(A) and (B).
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 2.30)
§ 165.100 OUTDOOR COMMERCIAL (OC) DISTRICT.
   (A)   OC District intent, permitted uses and special exception uses.
      (1)   District intent. The OC (Outdoor Commercial) District is intended
to be used as follows.
         (a)   Use type and intensity. Heavy intensity commercial, primarily
for businesses with a significant portion of their stock in trade being
displayed outdoors.
         (b)   Application of OC District.
            1.   Existing and new development; and
            2.   Spot to small area zoning.
         (c)   Development standards.
            1.   Utilize strict development standards to minimize impacts on
adjacent properties; and
            2.   Minimize noise, water, air pollution and especially light
pollution.
         (d)   Appropriate adjacent zoning districts. PR, AG, IS, NC, LC, GC,
OC, HC, EP, I1 and I2.
         (e)   Plan Commission. Use the OC District for existing developments
and carefully for new commercial development.
         (f)   Board of Zoning Appeals.
            1.   Allow a special exception use only when it is compatible with
the surrounding areas; and
            2.   Be sensitive to aesthetics and the potential for light
pollution, noise pollution, pedestrian safety and vehicular safety.
      (2)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Accessory permitted uses. Small wind turbine system.
         (b)   Commercial permitted uses.
            1.   Amusement center;
            2.   Automobile dealership;
            3.   Automobile oriented business;
            4.   Bank machine/ATM;
            5.   Banquet hall;
            6.   Bar/tavern;
            7.   Barber/beauty shop;
            8.   Billiard/arcade room;
            9.   Bowling alley;
            10.   Broadcast studio;
            11.   Club or lodge;
            12.   Coffee shop;
            13.   Coin laundry;
            14.   Commercial training facility or school;
            15.   Dance/night club;
            16.   Day care;
            17.   Delicatessen;
            18.   Equipment rental;
            19.   Equipment sales;
            20.   Firearm sales;
            21.   Fitness center/health club;
            22.   Funeral home or mortuary;
            23.   Gas station;
            24.   Health spa/day spa;
            25.   Hotel/motel;
            26.   Ice cream shop;
            27.   Machinery rental;
            28.   Machinery sales;
            29.   Micro-brewery;
            30.   Micro-distillery;
            31.   Miniature golf;
            32.   Movie theater;
            33.   Office, construction trade;
            34.   Office, design services;
            35.   Office, financial;
            36.   Office, general services;
            37.   Office, medical services;
            38.   Paintball facility;
            39.   Photography studio;
            40.   Recreation center/play center;
            41.   Recreation vehicle rental;
            42.   Recreation vehicle sales;
            43.   Restaurant;
            44.   Restaurant with drive-up window;
            45.   Retail (Type 1), very low intensity;
            46.   Retail (Type 2), low intensity;
            47.   Retail (Type 3), medium intensity;
            48.   Retail (Type 4), high intensity;
            49.   Retail (Type 5), very high intensity;
            50.   Retail (Type 6), special handling;
            51.   Skating rink;
            52.   Sports complex (indoor);
            53.   Studio arts;
            54.   Swimming pool;
            55.   Tailor/pressing shop;
            56.   Tanning salon;
            57.   Tattoo/piercing parlor;
            58.   Watercraft rental;
            59.   Watercraft sales; and
            60.   Winery.
         (c)   Institutional permitted uses.
            1.   Community center;
            2.   Government office;
            3.   Government operations (non-office);
            4.   Police or fire station;
            5.   Rescue station; and
            6.   Trade or business school.
      (3)   Special exception uses.
         (a)   Accessory special exception uses. Large wind turbine system.
         (b)   Institutional special exception uses. Recycling collection
point.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 2.31)
   (B)   OC District development standards.
      (1)   Lots.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3760.png]
 
         (a)   Minimum lot area. Twenty-five thousand square feet.
         (b)   Minimum lot width. One hundred feet.
         (c)   Sewer and water. Sanitary sewer and water utility required.
      (2)   Setbacks.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3762.png]
 
         (a)   Minimum front yard setback. Forty feet for primary and accessory
structures.
         (b)   Minimum side yard setback. Thirty feet for primary and accessory
structures.
         (c)   Minimum rear yard setback. Thirty-five feet for primary and
accessory structures.
      (3)   Lot coverage.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3764.png]
 
         (a)   Maximum lot coverage. Eight percent of lot area.
         (b)   Minimum main floor area. One thousand square feet.
         (c)   Maximum primary structures. No limit.
      (4)   Maximum structure height.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3766.png]
 
         (a)   Thirty-five feet for primary structure; and
         (b)   Twenty-five feet for accessory structure.
   (C)   Additional development standards that apply.
      (1)   Accessory structure. See §
165.262(A) and (J).
      (2)   Architecture. See §
165.263(B).
      (3)   Density and intensity. See §
165.265.
      (4)   Driveway. See §
165.266(A) and (D).
      (5)   Environmental. See §
165.267.
      (6)   Fence and wall. See §
165.268(A) and (F).
      (7)   Floodplain. See §
165.270.
      (8)   Height. See §
165.271.
      (9)   Landscaping. See §§
165.305,
165.306,
165.308 and
165.310 through
165.312.
      (10)   Lighting. See §
165.275.
      (11)   Loading. See §
165.276
      (12)   Lot. See §
165.277.
      (13)   Outdoor display. See §
165.280(B).
      (14)   Parking. See §§
165.325 and
165.331.
      (15)   Performance. See §
165.282.
      (16)   Public improvement. See §
165.283.
      (17)   Setback. See §
165.284(A).
      (18)   Sewer and water. See §
165.285.
      (19)   Signs. See §§
165.345 and
165.351.
      (20)   Special exception. See §
165.287.
      (21)   Storage tank. See §
165.288(C).
      (22)   Structure. See §
165.289.
      (23)   Temporary use. See §
165.291(A), (E) and (F).
      (24)   Trash receptacle. See §
165.292.
      (25)   Vision clearance. See §
165.293.
      (26)   Wind turbine system. See §
165.294(A) and (B).
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 2.32)
§ 165.101 CENTRAL BUSINESS (CB) DISTRICT.
   (A)   CB District intent, permitted uses and special exception uses.
      (1)   District intent. The CB (Central Business) District is intended to
be used as follows.
         (a)   Use type and intensity. Moderate intensity commercial and office
uses.
         (b)   Application of CB District.
            1.   Existing and new development; and
            2.   Small to medium area zoning.
         (c)   Development standards.
            1.   Require quality time, place and manner development standards
to minimize impacts on adjacent properties while encouraging economic vitality;
and
            2.   Minimize light, noise, water and air pollution.
         (d)   Appropriate adjacent zoning districts. PR, UR, UV, IS, NC and
CB.
         (e)   Plan Commission. Use the CB District for existing developments
and carefully for new commercial development.
         (f)   Board of Zoning Appeals.
            1.   Allow a special exception use only when it is compatible with
the surrounding areas; and
            2.   Be sensitive to aesthetics and the potential for light
pollution, noise pollution, pedestrian safety and vehicular safety.
      (2)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Accessory permitted uses. Small wind turbine system.
         (b)   Commercial permitted uses.
            1.   Bank machine/ATM;
            2.   Bar/tavern;
            3.   Barber/beauty shop;
            4.   Billiard/arcade room;
            5.   Broadcast studio;
            6.   Club or lodge;
            7.   Coffee shop;
            8.   Dance/night club;
            9.   Day care;
            10.   Delicatessen;
            11.   Farmer’s market;
            12.   Fitness center/health club;
            13.   Funeral home or mortuary;
            14.   Health spa/day spa;
            15.   Hotel/motel;
            16.   Ice cream shop;
            17.   Micro-brewery;
            18.   Micro-distillery;
            19.   Movie theater;
            20.   Office, design services;
            21.   Office, financial;
            22.   Office, general services;
            23.   Office, medical services;
            24.   Photography studio;
            25.   Restaurant
            26.   Retail (Type 1), very low intensity;
            27.   Retail (Type 2), low intensity;
            28.   Retail (Type 3), medium intensity;
            29.   Studio arts;
            30.   Tailor/pressing shop; and
            31.   Winery.
         (c)   Institutional permitted uses.
            1.   Bus station;
            2.   Parking lot, public;
            3.   Post office;
            4.   Rescue station;
            5.   School (P-12); and
            6.   Trade or business school.
         (d)   Residential permitted uses. Dwelling unit (upper floors).
      (3)   Special exception uses.
         (a)   Industrial special exception uses. Telecommunication facility.
         (b)   Residential special exception uses. Dwelling unit (first floor).
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 2.33; Ord. 36-2020, passed - -2020)
   (B)   CB District development standards.
      (1)   Lots.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3768.png]
 
         (a)   Minimum lot area. One thousand square feet.
         (b)   Minimum lot width. N/A.
         (c)   Sewer and water. Sanitary sewer and water utility required.
      (2)   Setbacks.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3770.png]
 
         (a)   Minimum front yard setback. N/A.
         (b)   Minimum side yard setback. N/A.
         (c)   Minimum rear yard setback. N/A.
      (3)   Lot coverage.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3772.png]
 
         (a)   Maximum lot coverage. One hundred percent of lot area.
         (b)   Minimum main floor area. One thousand square feet.
         (c)   Minimum dwelling unit size. Seven hundred square feet with an
average of 900 square feet.
         (d)   Maximum density. Fifty units per acre.
         (e)   Maximum primary structures. Two per lot.
      (4)   Maximum structure height.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3774.png]
 
         (a)   Sixty feet for primary structure; and
         (b)   Twenty feet for accessory structure.
   (C)   Additional development standards that apply.
      (1)   Accessory structure. See §
165.262(A) and (I).
      (2)   Density and intensity. See §
165.265.
      (3)   Driveway. See §
165.266(A).
      (4)   Environmental. See §
165.267.
      (5)   Fence and wall. See §
165.268(A).
      (6)   Floodplain. See §
165.270.
      (7)   Height. See §
165.271.
      (8)   Home business. See §
165.272(A).
      (9)   Keeping of animals. See §
165.273(B).
      (10)   Landscaping. See §§
165.305,
165.306,
165.308 and
165.310 through
165.312.
      (11)   Lighting. See §
165.275.
      (12)   Loading. See §
165.276.
      (13)   Lot. See §
165.277.
      (14)   Outdoor dining. See §
165.279.
      (15)   Outdoor display. See §
165.280(A).
      (16)   Parking. See §§
165.325,
165.330 and
165.331.
      (17)   Performance. See §
165.282.
      (18)   Public improvement. See §
165.283.
      (19)   Setback. See §
165.284(A).
      (20)   Sewer and water. See §
165.285.
      (21)   Sign. See §§
165.345 and
165.350.
      (22)   Special exception. See §
165.287.
      (23)   Storage tank. See §
165.288(A).
      (24)   Structure. See §
165.289.
      (25)   Telecommunication. See §
165.290.
      (26)   Temporary use. See §
165.291(A) and (D) through (F).
      (27)   Trash receptacle. See §
165.292.
      (28)   Vision clearance. See §
165.293.
      (29)   Wind turbine system. See §
165.294(A).
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 2.34)
§ 165.102 HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL (HC) DISTRICT.
   (A)   HC District intent, permitted uses and special exception uses.
      (1)   District intent. The HC (Highway Commercial) District is intended
to be used as follows.
         (a)   Use type and intensity. Moderate to high intensity commercial
uses.
         (b)   Application of HC District. 
            1.   Existing and new development; and
            2.   Small to medium area zoning.
         (c)   Development standards.
            1.   Require quality time, place and manner development standards
to minimize impacts on adjacent properties while encouraging economic vitality;
and
            2.   Minimize light, noise, water and air pollution.
         (d)   Appropriate adjacent zoning districts. PR, AG, M2, IS, NC, LC,
GC, OC, HC, EP, IC and I1.
         (e)   Plan Commission. Use the HC District for existing developments
and carefully for new commercial development.
         (f)   Board of Zoning Appeals.
            1.   Allow a special exception use only when it is compatible with
the surrounding areas; and
            1.   Be sensitive to aesthetics and the potential for light
pollution, noise pollution, pedestrian safety and vehicular safety.
      (2)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Accessory permitted uses. Small wind turbine system.
         (b)   Commercial permitted uses.
            1.   Automobile oriented business;
            2.   Bank machine/ATM;
            3.   Bar/tavern;
            4.   Gas station;
            5.   Hotel/motel;
            6.   Micro-brewery;
            7.   Micro-distillery;
            8.   Miniature golf;
            9.   Office, medical services;
            10.   Restaurant;
            11.   Restaurant with drive-up window;
            12.   Retail (Type 3), medium intensity;
            13.   Retail (Type 4), high intensity;
            14.   Retail (Type 5), very high intensity; and
            15.   Retail (Type 6), special handling.
         (c)   Institutional permitted uses.
            1.   Police or fire station; and
            2.   Rescue station.
      (3)   Special exception uses.
         (a)   Accessory special exception uses. Large wind turbine system.
         (b)   Industrial special exception uses. Telecommunication facility.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 2.35)
   (B)   HC District development standards.
      (1)   Lots.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3776.png]
 
         (a)   Minimum lot area. Twenty thousand square feet.
         (b)   Minimum lot width. One hundred feet.
         (c)   Sewer and water. Sanitary sewer and water utility required.
      (2)   Setbacks.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3778.png]
 
         (a)   Minimum front yard setback.
            1.   Twenty feet for primary or accessory structures; and
            2.   Ten feet for parking lots.
         (b)   Minimum side yard setback. Twenty-five feet for primary and
accessory structures.
         (c)   Minimum rear yard setback. Twenty-five feet for primary and
accessory structures.
      (3)   Lot coverage.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3780.png]
 
         (a)   Maximum lot coverage. Eighty percent of lot area.
         (b)   Minimum main floor area. One thousand square feet.
         (c)   Maximum primary structures. Five per lot.
      (4)   Maximum structure height.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3782.png]
 
         (a)   Forty feet for primary structure; and
         (b)   Twenty feet for accessory structure.
   (C)   Additional development standards that apply.
      (1)   Accessory structure. See §
165.262(A) and (J).
      (2)   Architecture. See §
165.263(B).
      (3)   Density and intensity. See §
165.265.
      (4)   Driveway. See §
165.266(A) and (D).
      (5)   Environmental. See §
165.267.
      (6)   Fence and wall. See §
165.268(A) and (F).
      (7)   Fireworks. See §
165.269.
      (8)   Floodplain. See §
165.270.
      (9)   Height. See §
165.271.
      (10)   Landscaping. See §§
165.305,
165.306,
165.308 and
165.310 through
165.312.
      (11)   Lighting. See §
165.275.
      (12)   Loading. See §
165.276.
      (13)   Lot. See §
165.277.
      (14)   Outdoor display. See §
165.280(A).
      (15)   Parking. See §§
165.325 and
165.331.
      (16)   Performance. See §
165.282.
      (17)   Public improvement. See §
165.283.
      (18)   Setback. See §
165.284(A).
      (19)   Sewer and water. See §
165.285.
      (20)   Signs. See §§
165.345 and
165.352.
      (21)   Special exception. See §
165.287.
      (22)   Storage tank. See §
165.288(C).
      (23)   Structure. See §
165.289.
      (24)   Telecommunication. See §
165.290.
      (25)   Temporary use. See §
165.291(A), (E) and (F).
      (26)   Trash receptacle. See §
165.292.
      (27)   Vision clearance. See §
165.293.
      (28)   Wind turbine system. See §
165.294(A) and (B).
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 2.36)
§ 165.103 ED-MED-TECH PARK (EP) DISTRICT.
   (A)   EP District intent, permitted uses and special exception uses.
      (1)   District intent. The EP (Ed-Med-Tech Park) District is intended to
be used as follows.
         (a)   Use type and intensity. Moderate to high intensity education,
medical and technology park.
         (b)   Application of EP District.
            1.   Existing and new development; and
            2.   Small to medium area zoning.
         (c)   Development standards.
            1.   Require moderate development standards to minimize impacts on
adjacent properties while encouraging economic vitality; and
            2.   Minimize light, noise, water and air pollution.
         (d)   Appropriate adjacent zoning districts. PR, AG, UV, IS, NC, LC,
GC, OC, HC, EP and I1.
         (e)   Plan Commission. Use the EP District for existing developments
and carefully for new commercial development.
         (f)   Board of Zoning Appeals.
            1.   Allow a special exception use only when it is compatible with
the surrounding areas; and
            2.   Be sensitive to aesthetics and the potential for light
pollution, noise pollution, pedestrian safety and vehicular safety.
      (2)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Accessory permitted uses. Small wind turbine system.
         (b)   Commercial permitted uses.
            1.   Day care;
            2.   Office, design services;
            3.   Office, general services; and
            4.   Office, medical services.
         (c)   Industrial permitted uses.
            1.   Research center, medical; and
            2.   Research center, technological.
         (d)   Institutional permitted uses.
            1.   Community center;
            2.   Government office;
            3.   Heliport, public;
            4.   Hospital;
            5.   Library;
            6.   Post office; and
            7.   Trade or business school.
      (3)   Special exception uses.
         (a)   Accessory special exception uses.
            1.   Heliport, private; and
            2.   Large wind turbine system.
         (b)   Industrial special exception uses. Telecommunication facility.
         (c)   Institutional special exception uses.
            1.   Bus station; and
            2.   Police or fire station.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 2.37)
   (B)   EP District development standards.
      (1)   Lots.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3784.png]
 
         (a)   Minimum lot area. One acre.
         (b)   Minimum lot width. One hundred and twenty feet.
         (c)   Sewer and water. Sanitary sewer and water utility required.
      (2)   Setbacks.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3786.png]
 
         (a)   Minimum front yard setback.
            1.   Fifty feet for primary and accessory structures; and
            2.   Thirty feet for parking lots.
         (b)   Minimum side yard setback. Forty feet for primary and accessory
structures.
         (c)   Minimum rear yard setback. Forty feet for primary and accessory
structures.
      (3)   Lot coverage.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3788.png]
 
         (a)   Maximum lot coverage. Seventy- five percent of lot area.
         (b)   Minimum main floor area. Three thousand square feet.
         (c)   Maximum primary structures. Ten per lot.
      (4)   Maximum structure height.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3790.png]
 
         (a)   Sixty feet for primary structure; and
         (b)   Twenty feet for accessory structure.
   (C)   Additional development standards that apply.
      (1)   Accessory structure. See §
165.262(A) and (K).
      (2)   Density and intensity. See §
165.265.
      (3)   Driveway. See §
165.266(A) and (D).
      (4)   Environmental. See §
165.267.
      (5)   Fence and wall. See §
165.268(A) and (F).
      (6)   Floodplain. See §
165.270.
      (7)   Height. See §
165.271.
      (8)   Landscaping. See §§
165.305,
165.306,
165.308,
165.311 and
165.312.
      (9)   Lighting. See §
165.275.
      (10)   Lot. See §
165.277.
      (11)   Parking. See §§
165.325 and
165.331.
      (12)   Performance. See §
165.282.
      (13)   Public improvement. See §
165.283.
      (14)   Setback. See §
165.284(A).
      (15)   Sewer and water. See §
165.285.
      (16)   Sign. See §§
165.345 and
165.353.
      (17)   Special exception. See §
165.287.
      (18)   Storage tank. See §
165.288(C).
      (19)   Structure. See §
165.289.
      (20)   Telecommunication. See §
165.290.
      (21)   Temporary use. See §
165.291(A) and (F).
      (22)   Trash receptacle. See §
165.292.
      (23)   Vision clearance. See §
165.293.
      (24)   Wind turbine system. See §
165.294(A) and (B).
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 2.38)
§ 165.104 INDUSTRIAL COMMERCIAL (IC) DISTRICT.
   (A)   IC District intent, permitted uses and special exception uses.
      (1)   District intent. The IC (Industrial Commercial) District is
intended to be used as follows.
         (a)   Use type and intensity. Light to moderate intensity industrial
uses which benefit from having outdoor displays of merchandise, retail sales of
products associated with the company, and outdoor recreational vehicle sales
and service.
         (b)   Application of IC District.
            1.   Existing and new development; and
            2.   Spot and small area zoning near Williamsburg Pike and I-70.
         (c)   Development standards.
            1.   Require moderate development standards to minimize impacts on
adjacent properties while encouraging economic vitality; and
            2.   Minimize light, noise, water and air pollution.
         (d)   Appropriate adjacent zoning districts. PR, AG, IS, HC, IC, I1
and I2.
         (e)   Plan Commission. Use the IC District for existing developments
and carefully for new development.
         (f)   Board of Zoning Appeals.
            1.   Allow a special exception use only when it is compatible with
the surrounding areas; and
            2.   Be sensitive to aesthetics and the potential for light
pollution, noise pollution, pedestrian safety and vehicular safety.
      (2)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Accessory permitted uses. Small wind turbine system.
         (b)   Commercial permitted uses.
            1.   Automobile oriented business;
            2.   Equipment rental;
            3.   Equipment sales;
            4.   Machinery rental;
            5.   Machinery sales;
            6.   Micro-brewery;
            7.   Micro-distillery;
            8.   Office, financial;
            9.   Recreation vehicle rental;
            10.   Recreation vehicle sales;
            11.   Retail (Type 4), high intensity;
            12.   Retail (Type 5), very high intensity;
            13.   Watercraft rental; and
            14.   Watercraft sales.
         (c)   Industrial permitted uses.
            1.   Assembly;
            2.   Distribution facility;
            3.   Flex-space;
            4.   Light manufacturing;
            5.   Research center, technological;
            6.   Sign painting/fabrication;
            7.   Tool and die shop; and
            8.   Warehouse.
         (d)   Institutional permitted uses. Rescue station.
      (3)   Special exception uses.
         (a)   Accessory special exception uses. Large wind turbine system.
         (b)   Industrial special exception uses. Telecommunication facility.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 2.39)
   (B)   IC District development standards.
      (1)   Lots.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3792.png]
 
         (a)   Minimum lot area. One-half acre.
         (b)   Minimum lot width. One hundred feet.
         (c)   Sewer and water. Sanitary sewer and water utility required.
      (2)   Setbacks.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3794.png]
 
         (a)   Minimum front yard setback.
            1.   Sixty feet for primary and accessory structures; and
            2.   Ten feet for parking lots.
         (b)   Minimum side yard setback. Ten feet for primary and accessory
structures or 100% of the facade height, whichever is greater.
         (c)   Minimum rear yard setback. Ten feet for primary and accessory
structures or 100% of the facade height, whichever is greater.
      (3)   Lot coverage.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3796.png]
 
         (a)   Maximum lot coverage. Eighty percent of lot area.
         (b)   Minimum main floor area. Three thousand square feet.
         (c)   Maximum primary structures. Ten per lot.
      (4)   Maximum structure height.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3798.png]
 
         (a)   Forty feet for primary structure; and
         (b)   Twenty feet for accessory structure.
   (C)   Additional development standards that apply.
      (1)   Accessory structure. See §
165.262(A) and (K).
      (2)   Density and intensity. See §
165.265.
      (3)   Driveway. See §
165.266(A) and (D).
      (4)   Environmental. See §
165.267.
      (5)   Fence and wall. See §
165.268(A) and (F).
      (6)   Floodplain. See §
165.270.
      (7)   Height. See §
165.271.
      (8)   Landscaping. See §§
165.305,
165.306,
165.308,
165.311 and
165.312.
      (9)   Lighting. See §
165.275.
      (10)   Lot. See §
165.277.
      (11)   Outdoor storage. See §
165.281(B).
      (12)   Parking. See §§
165.325 and
165.331.
      (13)   Performance. See §
165.282.
      (14)   Public improvement. See §
165.283.
      (15)   Setback. See §
165.284(A).
      (16)   Sewer and water. See §
165.285.
      (17)   Sign. See §§
165.345 and
165.351.
      (18)   Special exception. See §
165.287.
      (19)   Storage tank. See §
165.288(C).
      (20)   Structure. See §
165.289.
      (21)   Telecommunication. See §
165.290.
      (22)   Temporary use. See §
165.291(A) and (E).
      (23)   Trash receptacle. See §
165.292.
      (24)   Vision clearance. See §
165.293.
      (25)   Wind turbine system. See §
165.294(A) and (B).
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 2.40)
§ 165.105 LOW TO MODERATE INTENSITY INDUSTRIAL (I1) DISTRICT.
   (A)   I1 District intent, permitted uses and special exception uses.
      (1)   District intent. The I1 (Low to Moderate Intensity Industrial)
District is intended to be used as follows.
         (a)   Use type and intensity.
            1.   Low to moderate intensity industrial uses;
            2.   Business parks, distribution operations and industrial parks;
and
            3.   Stand alone buildings or multiple primary structures.
         (b)   Application of I1 District. Existing and new development.
         (c)   Development standards.
            1.   Enact development standards to minimize impacts on adjacent
properties while encouraging economic vitality; and
            2.   Minimize light, noise, water and air pollution.
         (d)   Appropriate adjacent zoning districts. PR, AG, IA, IS, GC, OC,
HC, EP, IC, I1, I2 and HI.
         (e)   Plan Commission. Use the I1 District for existing developments
and carefully for new industrial development.
         (f)   Board of Zoning Appeals.
            1.   Allow a special exception use only when it is compatible with
the surrounding areas; and
            1.   Be sensitive to the potential for light pollution, noise
pollution, loading berth placement, pedestrian safety and vehicular safety.
      (2)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Accessory permitted uses. Small wind turbine system.
         (b)   Agricultural permitted uses.
            1.   Grain elevator;
            2.   Sales of agricultural products; and
            3.   Storage of agricultural products.
         (c)   Commercial permitted uses.
            1.   Office, construction trade;
            2.   Office, design services; and
            3.   Industrial sales.
         (d)   Industrial permitted uses.
            1.   Assembly;
            2.   Brewery;
            3.   Distillery;
            4.   Distribution facility;
            5.   Flex-space;
            6.   Food production/processing;
            7.   Light manufacturing;
            8.   Research center, chemical;
            9.   Research center, medical;
            10.   Research center, technological;
            11.   Sign painting/fabrication;
            12.   Telecommunication facility;
            13.   Testing lab;
            14.   Tool and die shop;
            15.   Utility facility, above ground;
            16.   Warehouse;
            17.   Warehouse storage facility; and
            18.   Welding.
         (e)   Institutional permitted uses. Government operations (non-
office).
      (3)   Special exception uses.
         (a)   Accessory special exception uses.
            1.   Heliport, private; and
            2.   Large wind turbine system.
         (b)   Agricultural special exception uses. Processing of agricultural
products.
         (c)   Commercial special exception uses.
            1.   Paintball facility; and
            2.   Sports complex (indoor).
         (d)   Industrial special exception uses.
            1.   Outdoor storage;
            2.   Storage tanks (nonhazardous); and
            3.   Transfer station (recycling/waste).
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 2.41)
   (B)   I1 District development standards.
      (1)   Lots.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3800.png]
 
         (a)   Minimum lot area. One acre.
         (b)   Minimum lot width. One hundred and sixty feet.
         (c)   Sewer and water. Sanitary sewer and water utility required.
      (2)   Setbacks.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3802.png]
 
         (a)   Minimum front yard setback. Thirty feet for primary and
accessory structures or 100% of the facade height, whichever is greater.
         (b)   Minimum side yard setback. Twenty feet for primary and accessory
structures or 100% of the facade height, whichever is greater.
         (c)   Minimum rear yard setback. Thirty feet for primary and accessory
structures or 100% of the facade height, whichever is greater.
      (3)   Lot coverage.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3804.png]
 
         (a)   Maximum lot coverage. Seventy-five of lot area.
         (b)   Minimum main floor area. Three thousand square feet.
         (c)   Maximum primary structures. Ten per lot.
      (4)   Maximum structure height.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3808.png]
 
         (a)   Forty-five feet for primary structure; and
         (b)   Twenty feet for accessory structure.
      (C)   Additional development standards that apply.
      (1)   Accessory structure. See §
165.262(A) and (K).
      (2)   Density and intensity. See §
165.265.
      (3)   Driveway. See §
165.266(A) and (D).
      (4)   Environmental. See §
165.267.
      (5)   Fence and wall. See §
165.268(A) and (F).
      (6)   Floodplain. See §
165.270.
      (7)   Height. See §
165.271.
      (8)   Landscaping. See §§
165.305,
165.306,
165.308,
165.311 and
165.312.
      (9)   Lighting. See §
165.275.
      (10)   Lot. See §
165.277.
      (11)   Outdoor storage. See §
165.281(B).
      (12)   Parking. See §§
165.325 and
165.331.
      (13)   Performance. See §
165.282.
      (14)   Public improvement. See §
165.283.
      (15)   Setback. See §
165.284(A).
      (16)   Sewer and water. See §
165.285.
      (17)   Sign. See §§
165.345 and
165.353.
      (18)   Special exception. See §
165.287.
      (19)   Storage tank. See §
165.288(C).
      (20)   Structure. See §
165.289.
      (21)   Telecommunication. See §
165.290.
      (22)   Temporary use. See §
165.291(A).
      (23)   Trash receptacle. See §
165.292.
      (24)   Vision clearance. See §
165.293.
      (25)   Wind turbine system. See §
165.294(A) and (B).
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 2.42)
§ 165.106 HIGH INTENSITY INDUSTRIAL (I2) DISTRICT.
   (A)   I2 District intent, permitted uses and special exception uses.
      (1)   District intent. The I2 (High Intensity Industrial) District is
intended to be used as follows.
         (a)   Use type and intensity.
            1.   Moderate to high intensity industrial uses;
            2.   Industrial parks, manufacturing facilities and utility usage;
and
            3.   Stand alone buildings or multiple primary structures.
         (b)   Application of I2 District. Existing and new development.
         (c)   Development standards.
            1.   Enact quality time, place and manner development standards to
minimize impacts on adjacent properties while encouraging economic vitality;
and
            2.   Minimize light, noise, water and air pollution.
         (d)   Appropriate adjacent zoning districts. PR, AG, IA, IS, GC, OC,
IC, I1, I2 and HI.
         (e)   Plan Commission. Use the I2 District for existing developments
and carefully for new industrial development.
         (f)   Board of Zoning Appeals.
            1.   Allow a special exception use only when it is compatible with
the surrounding areas; and
            2.   Be sensitive to the potential for light pollution, noise
pollution, loading berth placement, pedestrian safety and vehicular safety.
      (2)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Accessory permitted uses. Small wind turbine system.
         (b)   Agricultural permitted uses.
            1.   Processing of agricultural products; and
            2.   Storage of agricultural products.
         (c)   Commercial permitted uses. Paintball facility.
         (d)   Industrial permitted uses.
            1.   Assembly;
            2.   Brewery;
            3.   Distillery;
            4.   Distribution facility;
            5.   Flex-space;
            6.   Food production/processing;
            7.   Heavy equipment repair;
            8.   Heavy manufacturing;
            9.   Light manufacturing;
            10.   Liquid fertilizer storage/ distribution;
            11.   Outdoor storage;
            12.   Recycling processing;
            13.   Sewage treatment plant;
            14.   Sign painting/fabrication;
            15.   Storage tanks (nonhazardous);
            16.   Telecommunication facility;
            17.   Testing lab;
            18.   Tool and die shop;
            19.   Transfer station;
            20.   Transfer station (recycling/ waste);
            21.   Utility facility, above ground;
            22.   Warehouse;
            23.   Warehouse storage facility;
            24.   Water treatment plant; and
            25.   Welding.
         (e)   Institutional permitted uses. Recycling collection point.
      (3)   Special exception uses.
         (a)   Accessory special exception uses.
            1.   Heliport, private; and
            2.   Large wind turbine system.
         (b)   Industrial special exception uses. Incinerator.
         (c)   Institutional special exception uses. Police, fire or rescue
station.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 2.43)
   (B)   I2 District development standards.
      (1)   Lots.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3810.png]
 
         (a)   Minimum lot area. Three acres.
         (b)   Minimum lot width. Two hundred feet.
         (c)   Sewer and water. Sanitary sewer and water utility required.
      (2)   Setbacks.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3812.png]
 
         (a)   Minimum front yard setback. Thirty feet for primary and
accessory structures or 100% of the facade height, whichever is greater.
         (b)   Minimum side yard setback. Twenty feet for primary and accessory
structures or 100% of the facade height, whichever is greater.
         (c)   Minimum rear yard setback. Thirty feet for primary and accessory
structures or 100% of the facade height, whichever is greater.
      (3)   Lot coverage.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3814.png]
 
         (a)   Maximum lot coverage. Seventy- five feet of lot area.
         (b)   Minimum main floor area. Three thousand square feet.
         (c)   Maximum primary structures. Ten per lot.
      (4)   Maximum structure height.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3816.png]
 
         (a)   Fifty feet for primary structure; and
         (b)   Seventy feet for accessory structure.
   (C)   Additional development standards that apply.
      (1)   Accessory structure. See §
165.262(A) and (K).
      (2)   Density and intensity. See §
165.265.
      (3)   Driveway. See §
165.266(A) and (D).
      (4)   Environmental. See §
165.267.
      (5)   Fence and wall. See §
165.268(A) and (F).
      (6)   Floodplain. See §
165.270.
      (7)   Height. See §
165.271.
      (8)   Landscaping. See §§
165.305,
165.306,
165.308,
165.311 and
165.312.
      (9)   Lighting. See §
165.275.
      (10)   Lot. See §
165.277.
      (11)   Outdoor storage. See §
165.281(C).
      (12)   Parking. See §§
165.325 and
165.331.
      (13)   Performance. See §
165.282.
      (14)   Public improvement. See §
165.283.
      (15)   Setback. See §
165.284(A).
      (16)   Sewer and water. See §
165.285.
      (17)   Sign. See §§
165.345 and
165.353.
      (18)   Special exception. See §
165.287.
      (19)   Storage tank. See §
165.288(C).
      (20)   Structure. See §
165.289.
      (21)   Telecommunication. See §
165.290.
      (22)   Temporary use. See §
165.291(A).
      (23)   Trash receptacle. See §
165.292.
      (24)   Vision clearance. See §
165.293.
      (25)   Wind turbine system. See §
165.294(A) and (B).
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 2.44)
§ 165.107 HIGH IMPACT (HI) DISTRICT.
   (A)   HI District intent, permitted uses and special exception uses.
      (1)   District intent. The HI (High Impact) District is intended to be
used as follows.
         (a)   Use type and intensity. All intensities of high impact uses.
         (b)   Application of HI District. Existing and new development.
         (c)   Development standards.
            1.   Enact quality time, place and manner development standards to
minimize impacts on adjacent properties while encouraging economic vitality;
and
            2.   Minimize light, noise, water and air pollution.
         (d)   Appropriate adjacent zoning districts. PR, AG, IA, I1, I2 and
HI.
         (e)   Plan Commission.
            1.   Use the HI District for existing high impact developments and
carefully for new high impact development; and
            1.   Be sensitive to environmental protection.
         (f)   Board of Zoning Appeals.
            1.   Allow a special exception use only when it is compatible with
the surrounding areas; and
            2.   Be sensitive to the potential for light pollution, noise
pollution, loading berth placement, pedestrian safety and vehicular safety.
      (2)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Accessory permitted uses. Small wind turbine system.
         (b)   Commercial permitted uses.
            1.   Amusement park;
            2.   Race track; and
            3.   Shooting range (outdoor).
         (c)   Industrial permitted uses.
            1.   Construction material landfill;
            2.   Electrical generation plant;
            3.   Gravel/sand mining;
            4.   Junk yard;
            5.   Scrap metal yard;
            6.   Sewage treatment plant;
            7.   Telecommunication facility;
            8.   Transfer station;
            9.   Transfer station (recycling/ waste); and
            10.   Utility facility, above ground.
         (d)   Institutional permitted uses.
            1.   Government operations (non- office);
            2.   Juvenile detention facility; and
            3.   Stadium.
      (3)   Special exception uses.
         (a)   Accessory special exception uses.
            1.   Heliport, private; and
            2.   Large wind turbine system.
         (b)   Industrial special exception uses.
            1.   Hazardous waste landfill;
            2.   Rendering plant;
            3.   Sanitary landfill/refuse dump; and
            4.   Storage tanks (hazardous).
         (c)   Institutional special exception uses. Prison.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 2.45)
   (B)   HI District development standards.
      (1)   Lots.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3818.png]
 
         (a)   Minimum lot area. Twenty acres.
         (b)   Minimum lot width. Two hundred and fifty feet.
         (c)   Sewer and water. Sanitary sewer and water utility required.
      (2)   Setbacks.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3820.png]
 
         (a)   Minimum front yard setback. One hundred and fifty feet for
primary and accessory structures.
         (b)   Minimum side yard setback. One hundred feet for primary and
accessory structures.
         (c)   Minimum rear yard setback. One hundred feet for primary and
accessory structures.
      (3)   Lot coverage.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3822.png]
 
         (a)   Maximum lot coverage. Fifty percent of lot area.
         (b)   Minimum main floor area. Five hundred square feet.
         (c)   Maximum primary structures. No limit.
      (4)   Maximum structure height.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3824.png]
 
         (a)   Forty feet for primary structure; and
         (b)   Twenty feet for accessory structure.
   (C)   Additional development standards that apply.
      (1)   Accessory structure. See §
165.262(A) and (K).
      (2)   Density and intensity. See §
165.265.
      (3)   Driveway. See §
165.266(A) and (D).
      (4)   Environmental. See §
165.267.
      (5)   Fence and wall. See §
165.268(A) and (F).
      (6)   Floodplain. See §
165.270.
      (7)   Height. See §
165.271.
      (8)   Landscaping. See §§
165.305,
165.306,
165.308,
165.311 and
165.312.
      (9)   Lighting. See §
165.275.
      (10)   Lot. See §
165.277.
      (11)   Outdoor storage. See §
165.281(C).
      (12)   Parking. See §§
165.325 and
165.331.
      (13)   Performance. See §
165.282.
      (14)   Public improvement. See §
165.283.
      (15)   Setback. See §
165.284(A).
      (16)   Sewer and water. See §
165.285
      (17)   Sign. See §§
165.345 and
165.353.
      (18)   Special exception. See §
165.287.
      (19)   Storage tank. See §
165.288(C).
      (20)   Structure. See §
165.289.
      (21)   Telecommunication. See §
165.290.
      (22)   Temporary use. See §
165.291(A).
      (23)   Trash receptacle. See §
165.292.
      (24)   Vision clearance. See §
165.293.
      (25)   Wind turbine system. See §
165.294(A) and (B).
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 2.46)
§ 165.108 APPROPRIATE ADJACENT DISTRICTS.
Adjacent Zoning District of Subject Property
District
         PR AG IA R1 R2 R3 UR M1 M2 MP UV IS NC LC GC OC CB HC EP IC I1 I2 HI
Adjacent Zoning District of Subject Property
District
         PR AG IA R1 R2 R3 UR M1 M2 MP UV IS NC LC GC OC CB HC EP IC I1 I2 HI
PR       X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X
AG       X  X  X  X  X  X    X    X  X  X  X  X  X  X    X  X    X  X  X
IA       X  X  X                                    X  X  X
R1       X  X    X  X  X            X  X                     
R2       X  X    X  X  X  X        X  X  X                     
R3       X  X    X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X                   
UR       X        X  X  X  X  X    X  X  X  X      X             
M1       X  X        X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X                   
M2       X          X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X      X           
MP       X  X        X    X  X  X    X  X  X                   
UV       X  X      X  X  X  X  X    X  X  X  X      X    X         
IS       X  X    X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X   
NC       X  X    X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X         
LC       X  X        X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X    X  X         
GC       X  X              X      X  X  X  X  X    X  X    X  X   
OC       X  X                    X  X  X  X  X    X  X    X  X   
CB       X            X        X  X  X        X             
HC       X  X              X      X  X  X  X  X    X  X  X  X     
EP       X  X                  X  X  X  X  X  X    X  X    X     
IC       X                      X            X    X  X  X   
I1       X  X  X                  X      X  X    X  X  X  X  X  X
I2       X  X  X                  X      X  X        X  X  X  X
HI       X  X  X                                    X  X  X
 
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 2.47)
AIRPORT COMPATIBILITY OVERLAY (AOC) DISTRICT
§ 165.120 INTENT.
   (A)   The Airport Compatibility Overlay (ACO) District is intended to:
      (1)   Minimize land uses located in close proximity to an airport that
may adversely impact the airport’s operations;
      (2)   Discourage land uses located in close proximity to an airport that
may be adversely impacted by the airport’s operations;
      (3)   Minimize wildlife incursions on airport property or airspace,
particularly migratory birds;
      (4)   Disallow tall structures that impede aircraft operations;
      (5)   Disallow lighting and other development features that could disrupt
aircraft operations;
      (6)   Encourage land uses that add value to and complement the airport;
and
      (7)   Reduce risk to life and property from aircraft crashes.
   (B)   (1)   By assuring all development at the airport and development
around the airport are compatible, three benefits are gained.
      (2)   They are:
         (a)   Maximize the opportunity for federal and state funding
(typically 80% and 10% of all costs respectively) for airport expansions,
acquisitions and improvements;
         (b)   Maximize the FAA’s support for airport expansion and increases
in operations; and
         (c)   Minimize complaints and remonstration against airport expansion
and increases in operations. See the next paragraph for further clarification
on the importance of this overlay district.
   (C)   All airports that receive Federal grants are obligated by contract to
follow FAA Advisory Circulars; essentially they become “mandatory circulars”.
Failure to follow the Advisory Circulars may result in forfeiture of current
funding and/or loss of standing to apply for future funding.
   (D)   The regulations and restrictions for the ACO District are based on FAA
Advisory Circulars, NTSB crash statistics, FAA Land Use Planning Guides, State
of Indiana Tall Structures Act (being I.C. 8-21-10), the 2004 Land Use Report
from the National Association of State Aviation Official, University of
Berkeley Transportation Institute’s study on the location of general aviation
aircraft accidents in relationship to runways, and the Aircraft Owner’s and
Pilot’s Association’s Guide to Airport Noise and Compatibility of Land Use.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 3.01A)
§ 165.121 EFFECT OF LAND USES.
   All permitted uses in the base zoning district are permitted in the ACO
District except as restricted in §
165.125. All special exception uses permitted in the base zoning district are
allowed as such in the ACO District except as restricted in §
165.125.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 3.01B)
§ 165.122 EFFECT ON DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   The development standards from the base zoning district shall apply to the
ACO District in addition to the development standards described in §
165.126.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 3.01C)
§ 165.123 APPLICABILITY.
   The following requirements apply to all land within the ACO District as
defined in §
165.124 and were created per FAA Advisory Circular AC 150.2500-33B. Under no
circumstances shall a planned development or rezoning of property change the
applicability of the ACO District’s land use restrictions and additional
development standards.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 3.02)
§ 165.124 BOUNDARY.
   The boundaries for the ACO District shall include any land fully or
partially within five nautical miles (30,380.59 feet) of the airport property
and may be shown on the Official Zoning Map as a hatched or textured pattern,
and noted in the map legend as the Airport Compatibility Overlay (ACO)
District.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 3.03)
§ 165.125 RESTRICTION OF PERMITTED AND SPECIAL EXCEPTION LAND USES.
   (A)   Effect on base zoning. All uses allowed as a permitted use or special
exception use in the base zoning district shall remain permitted except as
described in divisions (B), (C) and (D) below.
   (B)   Within five statute miles of the airport.
      (1)   Prohibited land uses and site features. When the airport facility
is fully or partially located within five statute miles of the subject
property, the following land uses and site features shall not be allowed as a
permitted use or special exception use:
         (a)   Grain elevator;
         (b)   Grain storage, outdoor or open;
         (c)   Recycling processing, outdoor or open;
         (d)   Sanitary landfill/refuse dump;
         (e)   Putrescible waste processing or disposal facility;
         (f)   Transfer station, outdoor or open (grain/fruit/vegetables); and
         (g)   Transfer station, outdoor or open (recycling/putrescible waste).
      (2)   Discouraged land uses and site features. When the airport’s
facility is fully or partially located within five statute miles from the
boundary of the subject property, the following land use and site feature shall
not be allowed as a permitted use. However, they may be granted as a special
exception when the base zoning district permits the land use as a permitted use
or special exception use; or if the base zoning district permits the site
feature:
         (a)   Golf course;
         (b)   Constructed wetlands;
         (c)   Recreation pond;
         (d)   Retention pond;
         (e)   Wastewater treatment facility;
         (f)   Aquaculture; and
         (g)   Livestock production.
   (C)   Within 10,000 feet of the airport; prohibited land uses and site
features. When the airport facility is fully or partially located within 10,000
feet of the subject property, the following land uses and site features shall
not be allowed as a permitted use or special exception:
      (1)   All land uses and site features listed in division (B)(1) above;
      (2)   Wetland;
      (3)   Golf course;
      (4)   Recreational pond;
      (5)   Retention pond;
      (6)   Wastewater treatment facility;
      (7)   Aquaculture; and
      (8)   Livestock production.
   (D)   Within one nautical mile of the airport: prohibited land uses and site
features. When the airport facility and/or a 1,500 feet runway extension line
(i.e., an imaginary line extending the centerline of an existing or proposed
runway) is fully or partially located within one nautical mile from the
boundary of the subject property, the following land uses and site features
shall not be allowed as a permitted use or special exception:
      (1)   All land uses and site features listed in division (C) above;
      (2)   Assisted living;
      (3)   Auditorium;
      (4)   Bed and breakfast;
      (5)   Boarding house;
      (6)   Composting facility;
      (7)   Construction material landfill;
      (8)   Child care institution;
      (9)   Church, temple or mosque;
      (10)   Dwelling, manufactured home;
      (11)   Dwelling, multiple-family;
      (12)   Dwelling, single-family attached;
      (13)   Dwelling, single-family detached;
      (14)   Dwelling unit (upper floors);
      (15)   Electrical generation plant;
      (16)   Ethanol plant (or other biofuel plant);
      (17)   Fair housing facility (large);
      (18)   Fair housing facility (small);
      (19)   Hospital;
      (20)   Incinerator;
      (21)   Library, public;
      (22)   Liquid fertilizer storage/distribution;
      (23)   Manufactured home park;
      (24)   Mobile home park;
      (25)   Movie theater;
      (26)   Nursing home;
      (27)   Radio/TV station;
      (28)   Retirement community;
      (29)   Sanitary landfill/refuse dump;
      (30)   School (P-12);
      (31)   Stadium;
      (32)   Storage tanks (hazardous);
      (33)   Telecommunication facility;
      (34)   Trade or business school; and
      (35)   University or college.
   (E)   Discretion of the Zoning Administrator. The Zoning Administrator may
restrict any additional land use or site feature not listed if it is either a:
      (1)   Noise sensitive land use. A noise sensitive land uses that would
now or in the future likely be negatively impacted by airport and aircraft
operations;
      (2)   Life safety risk. A land use where a large number of people gather
for events or a large number of people work in a small area which, if a
airplane crashed, could injure or kill numerous people; or
      (3)   A wildlife attractant. A land use that encourages migratory,
raptor, vulture or other large birds to land, eat or reside on the subject
property, or that attracts wild animals to or toward the airport’s vicinity.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 3.04)
§ 165.126 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   The following development standards are required as follows in order to
promote the intent of the ACO District and meet the goals and objectives of the
city’s Comprehensive Plan.
   (A)   Effect on development standards of the base zoning. All development
standards in the base zoning district shall remain permitted except as
described in divisions (B), (C) and (D) below.
   (B)   Cross-reference.
      (1)   Federal Aviation Administration. The maximum height of any
structure shall be in accordance with Federal Aviation Regulations (FAR) Part
77.
      (2)   State Department of Transportation. New structures and additions or
alterations to existing structures are subject to review by the State
Department of Transportation when within five nautical miles of the airport
facility. All developments in this area shall review I.C. 8-21-10 for
determination of applicability and notification standards.
      (3)   Plan Commission. Any zoning ordinance amendment or rezoning which
results in an allowance for tall structures or noise sensitive land uses within
five nautical miles of the airport, or that allows structures greater than 500
feet above ground level shall comply with I.C. 8-21-10 and I.C. 36-7-4-604(i).
      (4)   Board of Zoning Appeals. Any request for a variance that may result
in a structure’s height exceeding the thresholds outlined in I.C. 8-21-10 shall
comply with I.C. 36-7-4-918.5.
   (C)   Within 10,000 feet of the airport. When the airport facility is fully
or partially located within 10,000 feet from the boundary of the subject
property, the following development standards apply.
      (1)   Waiver to not remonstrate. All applicants, regardless of whether
they are requesting a land use currently considered noise sensitive or not,
shall be required to sign a waiver indicating that they, nor their heirs or
successors shall have the right to remonstrate against the airports operations
or any future airport expansions; that they understand that the airport
facility is expected to expand; and that they understand that the frequency of
aircraft, hours of aircraft operation and types of aircraft will likely expand.
The waiver shall be signed and placed in the Zoning Administrator’s files prior
to granting an improvement location permit. Subdivisions of land shall be
required to record the waiver as a deed restriction in perpetuity on each
resulting lot. The waiver shall also be recorded at the County Recorder’s
Office within five days of the improvement location permit’s issuance or else
the improvement location permit shall be void.
      (2)   Wetlands. Construction of a new primary structure or a 50%
expansion of an existing primary structure on properties with wetlands shall be
required to drain or fill the wetlands and mitigate the environmental damage
according to state and federal regulations; or shall prepare and implement a
wildlife mitigation plan assuring that any current or future wildlife hazards
are addressed immediately. The wildlife mitigation plat shall be written
according to FAA Advisory Circular and other FAA published guidance.
      (3)   Storm water management. All management of on-site storm water shall
be achieved by drainage swales, detention ponds and/or piping the water to a
retention pond facility, constructed with appropriate wildlife management
techniques, outside of the 10,000 feet buffer around the airport. Detention
ponds shall have under-drains to help dissipate water, and shall be designed to
fully drain within 48 hours of a storm event.
   (D)   Within one nautical mile.
      (1)   Maximum lot coverage. Thirty percent for residential, 55% for
commercial and institutional and 70% for industrial zoning districts.
      (2)   Landscaping standards.
         (a)   Minimize attractiveness. Landscaping within in the ACO District
shall be designed and maintained to minimize its attractiveness to wildlife.
         (b)   Turf grass. At least 80% of all land not covered by a building,
structure, wetland, creek, natural lake or woodlot shall be maintained with
turf grass. Turf grasses shall be selected based on minimizing attraction of
wildlife.
      (3)   Lighting standards. Adjustments to lighting standards are as
follows.
         (a)   Fixture limitations. No parking lot lighting, street lighting,
exterior building lighting or landscape lighting shall be allowed to project
upward or horizontally. All lighting mounted on a pole, structure or building
shall be a full cutoff fixture.
         (b)   Movement limitations. No lighting shall spin, oscillate or blink
within the ACO District, except the airport’s fixtures and equipment installed
on or off the airport property.
      (4)   Location standards. No structure shall be located within 1,000 feet
of a runway unless it is uses as a part of the airport facility or aviation
operation.
      (5)   Airport noise. Any noise restrictions in §§
165.260 through
165.294,
165.305 through
165.312,
165.325 through
165.332 and
165.345 through
165.353 shall not apply to the airport, airport facility or aircraft
operations.
      (6)   Noise mitigation. Any permitted primary structures used for office,
institutional, residential or medical purposes are encouraged to be constructed
to a Sound Transmission Class of 50.
      (7)   Site design standards. Site design of any property or design of any
structure shall not resemble an airport, taxiway or runway.
      (8)   Setback from airport. All structures, except structures of the
airport, shall be setback at least 100 feet from airport property; and at least
500 feet from the centerline of each existing and proposed runway, and from an
imaginary line extending the centerline of the existing and proposed runways by
1,500 feet.
      (9)   Condition of a variance. As a condition of approval as a special
exception, the Board of Zoning Appeals may require a wildlife mitigation plan
be prepared and implemented according to FAA Advisory Circular and other FAA
published guidance, and require assurances that any current or future wildlife
hazards are addressed immediately.
      (10)   Discretion of the Zoning Administrator. The Zoning Administrator
may require additional and reasonable development standard that serve the
district’s intent when necessary.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 3.05)
§ 165.127 CONDITIONS OF VARIANCES, SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS AND OTHER APPROVALS.
   (A)   Wildlife hazard mitigation, condition of approval. As a condition of
approval as a special exceptions or use variance, the Board of Zoning Appeals
may require a wildlife mitigation plan be prepared and implemented according to
FAA Advisory Circular and other FAA published guidance, and require assurances
that any current or future wildlife hazards are addressed immediately.
   (B)   Noise mitigation, condition of approval. As a condition of approval as
a special exception or use variance, the Board of Zoning Appeals may require a
primary structure to be constructed to a Sound Transmission Class of 50,
commonly used when soundproofing homes near airports. This requirement would
result in the ceiling, walls and windows to all be constructed to a reasonably
higher standard necessary to mitigate airport noise.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 3.06)
AQUIFER PROTECTION OVERLAY (APO) DISTRICT
§ 165.140 INTENT.
   (A)   Generally. The intent of the Aquifer Protection Overlay (APO) District
is to guide development and existing uses in those areas where an aquifer has
been identified as deserving of detailed standards because of the existence of
a wellfield providing potable water to the local water utility. This District
also stems from § 1428 of the 1986 Amendment to the Federal Safe Drinking Water
Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 300h-7, that mandates that every state develop a
wellhead protection program to protect public water supplies which utilize a
groundwater source.
   (B)   Land use restrictions. Uses that utilize or contain volatile,
poisonous, toxic or other material hazardous to the potability of water are
restricted or prohibited.
   (C)   Development standard restrictions.
      (1)   Prevent the contamination of groundwater resources;
      (2)   Prevent excessive extraction of the groundwater resources;
      (3)   Regulate land use activities that store, handle or produce
hazardous material;
      (4)   Require the use of best management practices (regulatory and non-
regulatory) for the protection of existing and future groundwater sources of
drinking water;
      (5)   Identify the responsibility of the city, as the local governmental
unit, and the Department of Metropolitan Development, as the responsible agent
for the city, in protecting groundwater resources in the city; and
      (6)   Prevent any increase in the risk of contamination of the aquifer
from existing or future uses.
   (D)   Application of District. Two zoning districts, designated as the East
Aquifer Protection District and the West Aquifer Protection District are
designated on the Official Zoning Map.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 3.07A)
§ 165.141 EFFECT ON LAND USES.
   All permitted uses in the base zoning district are permitted in the APO
District except as prohibited in §
165.145(G). All special exception uses permitted in the base zoning district
are allowed as such in the APO District except as prohibited in §
165.145(G).
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 3.07B)
§ 165.142 EFFECT OF DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   The development standards from the base zoning district shall apply to the
APO District in addition to the development standards described in §
165.145.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 3.07C)
§ 165.143 APPLICABILITY.
   The following requirements apply to all land within the APO District as
defined in §
165.144. Under no circumstances shall a planned development or rezoning of
property change the applicability of the APO District’s land use restrictions
and additional development standards.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 3.08)
§ 165.144 JURISDICTIONAL BOUNDARY.
   Two Aquifer Protection areas are hereby established the Aquifer Protection
Overlay (APO) District; an East Aquifer Protection District, and a West Aquifer
Protection District and shall be noted independently on the Official Zoning
Map.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 3.09)
§ 165.145 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Exemptions. Notwithstanding any prohib- ition or other requirements
under this chapter, special exemptions and limited exclusions are authorized
for:
      (1)   Transportation of any regulated substances through the Aquifer
Protection Districts, provided the transporting vehicle is in continuous
transit;
      (2)   Storage of fuel and lubricants for on-site vehicle and/or machinery
operations, either in above ground storage facilities or in underground storage
tanks that meet U.S. EPA standards as set forth in IDEM requirements and
regulations (329 I.A.C. 9-1-1);
      (3)   The use, storage, handling and/or production of regulated
substances associated with non-routine maintenance or repair of property or
equipment, shall be limited to normal business use, as identified in the
information supplied for the certificate of conformance;
      (4)   Regulated substances provided they are packaged for personal or
household use or are present in the same form and concentration as a product
packaged for use by the general public. In no case shall regulated substances
claimed under this exclusion include hydrocarbons or halogenated hydrocarbon
solvents. The inventory of such regulated substances shall be limited to normal
business use, as identified in the information supplied for the certificate of
conformance;
      (5)   Office supplies that are used for the operation of on-site
administrative offices, provided such supplies are prepackaged in a form ready
for use;
      (6)   Sales or distribution establishments that store and handle
regulated substances for resale in their original containers;
      (7)   Geotechnical borings; and
      (8)   Facilities used in the transmission and distribution of electricity
by an electric utility authorized to provide service in the Aquifer Protection
District.
   (B)   Water recharge. Any storm water structure within the East Aquifer
Protection District shall be designed to provide for a maximum rate of recharge
into the groundwater system. Any recharge system shall be constructed to the
satisfaction of the Engineer of the city preferably using low impact
development techniques that serve to both detoxify pollution and provide for
infiltration to recharge the aquifer. Acceptable examples include, but are not
limited to, permeable pavements, bio-retention areas, constructed wetlands and
grassy swales. The use of dry wells, French drains and gravel-lined ditches
that do not provide for detoxification is prohibited. Site plans exceeding five
acres must:
      (1)   Include an approval by a licensed professional qualified in the
field of groundwater hydrology; and
      (2)   Be acceptable to the City Engineer.
   (C)   Sanitary sewers. Except where service is not currently available, all
sewage disposal within the Districts must be through sanitary sewers and the
publicly owned treatment works or holding tanks. Infiltration and leach field
systems are prohibited. Sanitary sewer lines shall be inspected by the city’s
Sanitary District for exfiltration and/or infiltration at least once every five
years.
   (D)   Paved surfaces. The use of salt and other substances for ice control
shall be minimized consistent with public highway safety requirements.
   (E)   Outside storage. Hazardous substances as defined in division (G) below
and regulated substances in storage containers totaling 55 gallons or greater
in whole or in part which have the potential to contaminate the aquifer and
could leach or diffuse by rain or wind into the sub-surface soils either
directly or indirectly shall be permitted to be stored outside only in areas
with secondary containment and/or diversionary structures designed so that said
leaching or diffusion of said materials or substances does not occur and an
accidental spill is contained on an impermeable surface for total recapture.
   (F)   Restrictions within the districts.
      (1)   No facility shall be permitted to construct or cause to be
constructed, any underground storage tanks, except as set out in division (A)
(2) above;
      (2)   Fertilizers, pesticides (including, but not limited to, herbicides,
insecticides, fungicides, rodenticides) or other leachable materials shall not
be used in amounts which result in groundwater contamination and shall be used
and disposed of in accordance with the state Pesticide Review Board and all
federal label instructions;
      (3)   Disposal of liquid or leachable wastes on or in the land is
prohibited; and
      (4)   Extractive operations, except for potable quality water, are
prohibited, except for construction, which may replace topsoil and re-vegetate
as quickly as possible.
   (G)   Special restrictions within the districts. Except as allowed in
division (A) above, the following uses remain prohibited in the Aquifer
Protection Districts, even if they shall be allowed by right in the underlying
zoning district:
      (1)   Regulated substances. The manufacturing, compounding, processing,
packaging and/or assembling and storage of any federally regulated pesticides
(including, but not limited to, herbicides, insecticides, fungicides,
rodenticides and disinfectants), acids, radioactive materials, coke or gas,
metal electroplating exclusively, chemical packaging facilities, composting,
sanitary and/or demolition landfills, battery and/or tire storage and
collection facilities, paper pulp or the tanning of hides or the rendering of
animals;
      (2)   Land application. Land application of waste water, surface
impoundments for waste treatment or storage, waste burning areas, pipelines
except natural gas and water, and all classes of injection wells except
geothermal heat pumps utilizing a “closed loop” system;
      (3)   Hazardous material storage. The manufacturing, compounding,
processing, packaging and/or assembling and storage of hazardous materials,
excluding manufacturing, compounding, processing, packaging and/or assembling
and storage for on-site usage. These hazardous materials, as periodically
updated, include:
         (a)   Any hazardous substance, toxic, chemical or hazardous waste as
listed in the following federal regulations:
            1.   Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act (SARA) of 1986, §
302 Extremely Hazardous Substances List (40 C.F.R. part 300, App. A and B);
            2.   Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and
Liability Act Superfund (CERCLA) of 1980, Hazardous Substances List (40 C.F.R.
part 302, Table 302.4);
            3.   SARA of 1986, Section 313, Toxic Chemicals List (40 C.F.R. §
372.45); and
            4.   Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) of 1976 and 1984
Amendments, Hazardous Wastes List (P and U Categories) (40 C.F.R. § 261.33 (e)
and (f)).
         (b)   Note: the lists referenced in divisions (G)(3)(a)1. through (G)
(3)(a)4. above, are summarized on the Title III List of Lists - Chemicals
Subject to Reporting Under Title III of the Superfund Amendments and
Reauthorization Action (SARA) of 1986, published July 1987, U.S. EPA. (See
www.epa.gov/ceppo/pubs/title3.pdf).
         (c)   If it can be demonstrated that the chemical characteristics of a
specific hazardous material set forth in this division (G) above (such as, but
not limited to, gases and insoluble solids) pose no risk to the aquifer, an
exemption may be granted by the Department of Metropolitan Development in
consultation with the County Emergency Management Agency.
      (4)   Manufacturing of regulated substances. The manufacturing,
compounding, processing, packaging and/or assembling and storage of regulated
substances not included in division (G)(3) above must be in accordance with
best management practices.
   (H)   Best management practices plan. Businesses, facilities or activities
that use or store regulated substances in excess of five gallons of a liquid,
or 25 pounds of a solid, shall develop and maintain a best management practices
plan that includes:
      (1)   A list of regulated substances;
      (2)   Secondary containment for storage and use area;
      (3)   Disposal procedures;
      (4)   Emergency spill procedures and notification;
      (5)   Appropriate training for workers; and
      (6)   The management plan, which may include forms or information
prepared for other governmental agencies, shall be placed on file with the
Department of Metropolitan Development and the County Emergency Management
Agency, and shall be updated in a timely manner whenever a change affecting the
management plan occurs.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 3.10)
§ 165.146 PROCESS SUPPLEMENT.
   Prior to preliminary plan approval by the Department of Metropolitan
Development, the applicant shall provide a certificate of conformance with the
Aquifer Protection District regulations, issued by the City Engineer in a
timely manner, for all proposed land use activities in the East and West
Districts within the city. A building permit in conformity with this chapter
shall be required prior to the commencement of any development activity.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 3.11)
§ 165.147 MONITORING.
   (A)   Inspections. Inspections, during normal business hours, may be
required to verify compliance with the aquifer protection regulations. Such
inspections shall be performed by the city or its designee.
   (B)   Reporting of discharges.
      (1)   The discharge of greater than ten pounds or one gallon of any
regulated substance shall be reported immediately by the facility owner,
operator or responsible party by calling 911.
      (2)   Discharges of hazardous materials shall comply with federal EPA
reporting requirements.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 3.12)
§ 165.148 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Review and administration. The Department of Metropolitan Development
shall be responsible for the review of all development plans within the Aquifer
Protection Districts, and other related matters that may arise in the
administration of this chapter.
   (B)   Reporting requirements. It shall be the responsibility of the city’s
Department of Metropolitan Development to provide the Wellhead Protection Local
Planning Team with copies of conformance certificates, regulated substances
registration information and facilities inspection reports.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 3.13)
NORTH CORRIDOR OVERLAY (NCO) DISTRICT
§ 165.160 INTENT.
   The North Corridor Overlay (NCO) District is intended to promote the city’s
goals for the north U.S. 27 corridor and gateway by promoting safe pedestrian
and vehicular circulation, architectural enhancements, high quality site design
and a sense of place. The standards are also intended to maximize consistency
of signs and minimize “clutter” that can be distracting to drivers.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 3.14A)
§ 165.161 EFFECT ON LAND USES.
   All permitted uses in the base zoning district are permitted as such in the
NCO District. All special exception uses permitted in the base zoning district
are allowed as such in the NCO District.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 3.14B)
§ 165.162 EFFECT ON DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   The development standards from the base zoning district shall apply to the
NCO District except as described otherwise in §
165.165.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 3.14C)
§ 165.163 APPLICABILITY.
   The following requirements apply to all land within the NCO District as
defined in §
165.164. The city shall carefully consider any attempt to circumvent the NCO
District’s land use restrictions and additional development standards
regulations with a planned development or rezoning of property.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 3.15)
§ 165.164 JURISDICTIONAL BOUNDARY.
   The jurisdictional boundaries for the NCO District shall be shown on the
Official Zoning Map as a hatched or textured pattern and noted on the map
legend as the NCO District.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 3.16)
§ 165.165 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   The following development standards are required in order to achieve the
intent of the NCO District and meet the goals and objectives of the city’s
Comprehensive Plan.
   (A)   Lot planting standards. The following lot planting standards supersede
the lot planting standards in §
165.308 (Lot Planting Standards).
      (1)   Lot planting quantity. The quantities listed below are in addition
to landscape materials that may be required by other regulations in the
applicable landscape standards.
         (a)   Foundation plantings. Primary structures with facades that face
a street shall plant one shrub for every 12 lineal feet of facade that faces
the street. If the facade that faces the street is greater than 25 feet in
height, instead of shrubs, the required plant material shall be ornamental
trees at a ratio of one tree per every 20 lineal feet of facade. This provision
applies to all facades that face a street.
         (b)   Yard plantings.
            1.   Lots 14,000 square feet or less shall plant two canopy trees.
Each tree shall have a caliper measurement of at least two inches.
            2.   Lots over 14,000 square feet, but less than 28,000 square
feet, shall plant three canopy trees. Each tree shall have a caliper
measurement of at least two inches.
            3.   Lots 28,000 square feet or more shall plant four canopy trees,
plus one canopy tree for every additional 15,000 square feet of lot size above
28,000 square feet. Each tree shall have a caliper measurement of at least two
inches. Under no circumstances shall more than 12 trees be required for this
provision.
      (2)   Lot planting placement.
         (a)   Foundation plantings. Foundation plantings shall be used to
decoratively landscape the facade facing the street and be shall located within
ten feet of that foundation. When ornamental trees are required as a
replacement to shrubs, the ornamental trees shall be located within 18 feet of
that foundation.
         (b)   Yard plantings. Yard plantings shall be planted in the front or
side yard.
   (B)   Parking lot planting standards. The following parking lot planting
standards supersede the parking lot planting standards in §
165.310 (Parking Lot Planting Standards).
      (1)   Parking lot planting quantity. The quantities listed below are in
addition to landscape materials that may be required by other landscaping
regulations in this section.
         (a)   Parking lot perimeter plantings. Parking lots with ten or more
spaces shall have one deciduous tree per 35 feet of parking lot perimeter and
one shrub per 16 feet of parking lot perimeter. Each tree shall have a caliper
measurement of at least two inches and each shrub shall be a two gallon
container.
         (b)   Parking lot perimeter planting exemption. Portions of parking
lot perimeter that is immediately adjacent to a building on the same lot shall
be exempt from the calculation for determining quantity.
         (c)   Parking lot interior plantings. Parking lots with 20 or more
parking spaces shall have one landscape island for every 20 spaces. Each
landscape island shall be at least 180 square feet in area or at least as large
as the drip line area of the tree(s), which ever is greater. Each landscape
island shall contain at least one tree per 180 square feet in area. Each tree
shall have a caliper measurement of at least two inches. Parking lot landscape
islands shall be maintained with, grass, ground cover, plant materials and/or
mulch; gravel shall not be permitted. If a parking lot only has one aisle then
the required landscape islands shall be installed as landscape bumpouts.
      (2)   Parking lot planting placement.
         (a)   Parking lot perimeter plantings. Parking lot perimeter plantings
shall be installed within ten feet of the parking lot edge. Clustering and
inconsistent spacing of perimeter plantings is encouraged to imitate natural
vegetation. Equal spacing of perimeter planting is discouraged. All sides of a
parking lot shall have parking lot perimeter plantings installed in proportion
to the lineal feet of parking lot perimeter per side.
         (b)   Parking lot interior plantings. Landscape islands shall be
distributed equally throughout the parking lot.
   (C)   Sign standards. The following sign standard apply to the NCO District.
      (1)   Pole signs. The NCO District shall disallow pole signs.
      (2)   Ground signs. The NCO District shall require all exposed foundation
and sign bases to be at least 50% brick or natural stone. Also, all ground
signs shall have landscape beds equal in area to the sign area; and shall be
maintained with flowers and/or ornamental shrubs.
   (D)   Architectural standards. In addition to the architectural standards in
§
165.263(B), all front facades and facades that face an interstate, highway or
arterial street shall have at least 33% of non-window portions of the facade be
brick or natural stone.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 3.17)
TRANSITIONAL CORRIDOR OVERLAY (TCO) DISTRICT
§ 165.180 INTENT.
   (A)   The Transitional Corridor Overlay (TCO) District is intended to
promote the city’s goals for transitional corridors (e.g., Chester Boulevard)
within the city by promoting appropriate, and prescribed transitional
opportunities when land is assembled and strict development standards are
applied.
   (B)   Primarily this overlay district’s intent is to allow existing
residential areas along the “transitional corridor” to evolve to higher
intensity uses when done so in larger tracts and sensitively to existing
residential uses behind or next to the subject site.
   (C)   Further, the intent is to allow existing residential uses to continue
indefinitely as it is currently zoned; until a day the property owner decides
to redevelop (assuming their property meets the prerequisites), sell to a
developer who is assembling land or the like.
   (D)   Generally, the applicable development standard should reduce curb cuts
along the “transitional corridor,” buffer adjacent existing residential uses,
have high architectural standards, place parking on side and rear yards to the
extent possible, have high quality signs, not have pole signs and have
meaningful landscaping to help beautify the site and corridor.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 3.18A)
§ 165.181 EFFECT ON LAND USES.
   (A)   All permitted uses in the base zoning district are permitted as such
in the TCO District until which time it is redeveloped as described below. All
special exception uses permitted in the base zoning district are allowed as
such in the TCO District until which time it is redeveloped as described below.
   (B)   The act of assembling land and applying for redevelopment, and meeting
the prerequisites for redevelopment within the TCO District shall trigger the
loss of some permitted and special exception uses and gaining of others. The
full and completed list of permitted uses and special exception uses are
described below.
      (1)   Commercial permitted uses.
         (a)   Barber/beauty shop;
         (b)   Coffee shop;
         (c)   Day care;
         (d)   Delicatessen;
         (e)   Health spa/day spa;
         (f)   Ice cream shop;
         (g)   Office, design services;
         (h)   Office, general services;
         (i)   Office, medical services;
         (j)   Photography studio;
         (k)   Retail (Type 1), very low intensity;
         (l)   Retail (Type 2), low intensity; and
         (m)   Studio arts.
      (2)   Institutional permitted uses.
         (a)   Community center;
         (b)   Government office;
         (c)   Library; and
         (d)   Post office.
      (3)   Commercial special exception uses.
         (a)   Restaurant; and
         (b)   Retail (Type 3), medium intensity.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 3.18B)
§ 165.182 EFFECT ON DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   The development standards from the base zoning district shall apply to
the TCO District until which time it is redeveloped as described below.
   (B)   The act of assembling land and applying for redevelopment, and meeting
the prerequisites for redevelopment within the TCO District shall trigger a
change in development standards as described in §
165.186.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 3.18C)
§ 165.183 APPLICABILITY.
   The following requirements apply to all land within the TCO District as
defined in §
165.184. The city shall carefully consider any attempt to circumvent the TCO
District’s land use restrictions and additional development standards
regulations with a planned development or rezoning of property.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 3.19)
§ 165.184 JURISDICTIONAL BOUNDARY.
   The jurisdictional boundaries for the TCO District shall be shown on the
Official Zoning Map as a hatched or textured pattern and noted on the map
legend as the TCO District.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 3.20)
§ 165.185 REDEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Prerequisite for redevelopment. The below criteria are mandatory for
any lot or lots used in combination to be entitled to the permitted land uses
and special exception uses described in §§
165.180 through
165.183. Additionally, an application to redevelop the lot or lots used in
combination shall be filed indicating interest in “transition”.
      (1)   Minimum lot area. The minimum lot area required shall be at least
one-half acre.
      (2)   Minimum lot frontage. The minimum lot frontage shall be 120 feet.
      (3)   Contiguity. The lot or lots used in combination shall be adjacent
on at least one side, not including the transitional corridor (e.g., Chester
Boulevard) or rear yard, with either:
         (a)   A pre-existing commercial or institutional development;
         (b)   A perpendicular road to the “transitional corridor”; or
         (c)   A previously approved redevelopment of land utilizing the TCO
District standards.
      (4)   Commitment to reduce curb cuts. When the lot or lots used in
combination have more than one curb cut off of the “transitional corridor” the
applicant shall be required to reduce the number of curb cuts and width of
existing curb cuts if unnecessarily too wide. The curb cut standard this
division (A)(4) shall strictly apply.
      (5)   Protection of intent. The proposed development will not seek
variances that supersede the intent of TCO District.
   (B)   Permitted and special exception uses. The list in §§
165.180 through
165.183 represents the permitted uses and special exception uses for the TCO
District. This list is only applicable to lot or lots used in combination which
clearly meet the prerequisites for redevelopment listed in this section. The
base zoning district’s permitted uses and special exception uses apply until a
time the lot is redeveloped.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 3.21)
§ 165.186 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   The following development standards are required for redevelopment projects
in order to promote the intent of the TCO District and meet the goals and
objectives of the city’s Comprehensive Plan. The base zoning district’s
development standard apply until a time the lot is redeveloped.
   (A)   Lot planting standards. The following lot planting standards supersede
the lot planting standards in §
165.308 (Non-Residential Lot Planting Standards).
      (1)   Lot planting quantity. The quantities listed below are in addition
to landscape materials that may be required by other landscaping regulations in
this section.
         (a)   Foundation plantings. Primary structures with facades that face
a street shall plant one shrub for every 12 lineal feet of facade that faces
the street. If the facade that faces the street is greater than 25 feet in
height, instead of shrubs, the required plant material shall be ornamental
trees at a ratio of one tree per every 20 lineal feet of facade. This provision
applies to all facades that face a street.
         (b)   Yard plantings.
            1.   Lots 14,000 square feet or less shall plant two canopy trees.
Each tree shall have a caliper measurement of at least two inches.
            2.   Lots over 14,000 square feet, but less than 28,000 square
feet, shall plant three canopy trees. Each tree shall have a caliper
measurement of at least two inches.
            3.   Lots 28,000 square feet or more shall plant four canopy trees,
plus one canopy tree for every additional 15,000 square feet of lot size above
28,000 square feet. Each tree shall have a caliper measurement of at least two
inches. Under no circumstances shall more than 12 trees be required for this
provision.
      (2)   Lot planting placement.
         (a)   Foundation plantings. Foundation plantings shall be used to
decoratively landscape the facade facing the street and be located within ten
feet of that foundation. When ornamental trees are required as a replacement to
shrubs, the ornamental trees shall be located within 18 feet of that
foundation.
         (b)   Yard plantings. Yard plantings shall be planted in the front or
side yard.
   (B)   Parking lot planting standards. The following parking lot planting
standards supersede the parking lot planting standards in §
165.310 (Parking Lot Planting Standards).
      (1)   Parking lot planting quantity. The quantities listed below are in
addition to landscape materials that may be required by other landscaping
regulations in this section.
         (a)   Parking lot perimeter plantings. Parking lots with ten or more
spaces shall have one deciduous tree per 35 feet of parking lot perimeter and
one shrub per 16 feet of parking lot perimeter. Each tree shall have a caliper
measurement of at least two inches and each shrub shall be a two gallon
container.
         (b)   Parking lot perimeter planting exemption. Portions of parking
lot perimeter that is immediately adjacent to a building on the same lot shall
be exempt from the calculation for determining quantity.
         (c)   Parking lot interior plantings. Parking lots with 20 or more
parking spaces shall have one landscape island for every 20 spaces. Each
landscape island shall be at least 180 square feet in area or at least as large
as the drip line area of the tree(s), which ever is greater. Each landscape
island shall contain at least one tree per 180 square feet in area. Each tree
shall have a caliper measurement of at least two inches. Parking lot landscape
islands shall be maintained with grass, ground cover, plant materials and/or
mulch; gravel shall not be permitted. If a parking lot only has one aisle then
the required landscape islands shall be installed as landscape bumpouts.
      (2)   Parking lot planting placement.
         (a)   Parking lot perimeter plantings. Parking lot perimeter plantings
shall be installed within ten feet of the parking lot edge. Clustering and
inconsistent spacing of perimeter plantings is encouraged to imitate natural
vegetation. Equal spacing of perimeter planting is discouraged. All sides of a
parking lot shall have parking lot perimeter plantings installed in proportion
to the lineal feet of parking lot perimeter per side.
         (b)   Parking lot interior plantings. Landscape islands shall be
distributed equally throughout the parking lot.
   (C)   Sign standards.
      (1)   Sign quantity. One permanent wall or ground sign may be installed
on a lot with a permitted commercial land use.
      (2)   Sign area. The sign area shall not exceed eight square feet.
      (3)   Ground sign design.
         (a)   Maximum height. The maximum sign height shall be six feet above
ground level.
         (b)   Materials. A ground sign shall be made of professional grade
sign fabrication materials that are designed to withstand exposure to weather,
sun, wind and temperature change. Sign materials shall not include extruded
plastic letters.
         (c)   Changeable copy. Ground signs shall not include electronic
changeable copy or manual changeable copy.
         (d)   Aesthetic. Ground signs shall be designed to fit the character
of a residential neighborhood.
         (e)   Framing and mounting. Ground signs shall be enframed, affixed to
the ground.
         (f)   Location. A ground sign shall be located perpendicular to the
street, in the front yard and be setback at least eight feet from any right-of-
way, five feet from any public sidewalk, two feet from any on-site sidewalk and
ten feet from side property lines. Ground signs shall not impede pedestrian
circulation or safety.
         (g)   Illumination. A ground sign shall not be illuminated internally
or externally.
      (4)   Wall sign design.
         (a)   Maximum height. Ten feet above ground level.
         (b)   Materials. Signs shall be made of professional grade sign
fabrication materials that are designed to withstand exposure to weather, sun,
wind and temperature change. Sign materials shall not include extruded plastic
letters.
         (c)   Changeable copy. Wall signs shall not include electronic
changeable copy or manual changeable copy.
         (d)   Aesthetic. Wall signs shall be designed to fit the character of
a residential neighborhood.
         (e)   Location on facade. A wall sign shall be permanently attached to
the first floor of the front facade of a primary structure, fully within ten
feet of the front door, or entrance customers are expected to use.
         (f)   Installation restrictions. A wall sign shall not project from
the facade by more than three inches or be hung from a porch ceiling.
         (g)   Illumination. A wall sign shall not be illuminated internally or
externally.
   (D)   Architectural standards. In addition to the architectural standards in
§
165.263(B), the following apply.
      (1)   New construction. Existing residential shall be redeveloped into
unified commercial development.
      (2)   Complementary design. If more than one new building is being build
on the same lot or lots used in combination, they all shall be significantly
complementary of one another. However, the building(s) on the lot or lots used
in combination may be unique to other commercial buildings along the corridor.
      (3)   Four-sided architecture. The architectural style, materials, color,
design and theme on the front elevation shall be applied to all elevations of
the structure.
      (4)   Variations in mass. Structures shall incorporate variations in
height, mass, roof forms and changes in wall planes. Lineal/strip development
(i.e., strip mall) shall not be permitted to exceed four storefronts or a front
facade over 250 feet, whichever is more restrictive.
      (5)   Roof design. All new construction shall be designed to have pitched
roofs greater or equal to six vertical units to 12 horizontal units (6:12
pitch). Buildings with 3,000 square feet or greater footprint shall be required
to have roof designs with multiple roof planes to break the monotony of a
simple gable roof.
   (E)   Access standards. If the city’s Comprehensive Plan, Thoroughfare Plan
or a subarea plan calls for a frontage street running parallel or relatively
parallel with a highway, primary arterial or secondary arterial; or calls for
an access street, then the development shall dedicate the necessary right-of-
way or half-right-of-way and construct its share of the frontage or access
street as per the details of the city’s Comprehensive Plan, Thoroughfare Plan
or subarea plan. If the frontage or access street is determined by the City
Engineer as not ready to proceed, then an amount equal to the construction cost
shall be contributed to the city and placed in escrow until a time when the
road is ready to be constructed.
   (F)   Accessory structure standards. All accessory structures that are
permitted in the base zoning district shall be permitted in the TCO District.
The following additional standards apply.
      (1)   Four-sided architecture. The architectural style, materials, color
and design on the front elevation shall be applied to all elevations of the
accessory structure.
      (2)   Relationship to primary structure. All accessory structures shall
be architecturally complementary in materials and colors to the primary
structure.
   (G)   Entrance and drive standards. The following location standards for
entrances and drives shall be met. However, if an alternative layout is
proposed and accepted by the Zoning Administrator and the Technical Review
Committee for a proposed development, then these standards may be waived by the
Zoning Administrator for that particular project.
      (1)   Adjacent properties. Entrances and drives shall be located
immediately across from existing entrances and drives. When the lot(s)
immediately across the street are undeveloped, the new entrances and drives
shall be designed as much as possible to allow the undeveloped lot to match
entrances and drives with the proposed development.
      (2)   Adjoining properties. Entrances and drives shall be shared between
adjoining properties with the use of cross-access easements to reduce the
number of entrances and drives. No more than two properties may share a single
entrance or drive.
      (3)   Assembled lots. When two or more lots have been assembled, each
having their own curb cut onto the “transitional corridor”, the development
shall be required to reduce the number of curb cuts by at least 50%. Also, any
existing driveway that is greater than 24 feet shall be required to reduce the
width of the curb cut per the discretion of the Technical Review Committee.
Under no circumstances shall the Technical Review Committee require anything
less than 11-foot lanes if wider lanes existed prior to redevelopment.
   (H)   Buffering. The following bufferyard standards supersede the standards
in §
165.312 (Bufferyard Planting Standards).
      (1)   Applicability. The following bufferyard standards apply to and uses
permitted in the TCO District when adjacent to any R1, R2, R3 or UR Zoning
District.
      (2)   Location. Bufferyards shall be installed along all segments where
the redevelopment project is contiguous with a lot with a single-family
residential land use or is a single-family residential zoning district. An
easement, alley or similar break between two lots shall not constitute a loss
of adjacency. However, a street right-of-way shall constitute a break in
contiguity.
      (3)   Depth. Bufferyards shall be six feet deep and shall not count
toward required setbacks.
      (4)   Plant quantities. The following plant material shall be installed
within the buffer yard:
         (a)   One evergreen tree per 20 feet of contiguous boundary with the
conflicting zoning district shall be planted;
         (b)   One shrub per ten feet of contiguous boundary with the
conflicting zoning district shall be planted; and
         (c)   One deciduous canopy tree per 75 feet of contiguous boundary.
      (5)   Solid wood fence. A six-foot tall, solid wood fence shall be
installed six to eight feet from the property line.
      (6)   Placement. Clustering and inconsistent spacing of bufferyard
plantings is encouraged to imitate natural vegetation. Equal spacing of
perimeter planting is discouraged. Landscape materials shall be installed to
provide the most benefit to the neighboring, less intense lot (i.e., screen the
dumpster from views from a residential patio).
   (I)   Parking lot standards. All parking lots shall be linked to adjacent
parking lots for internal circulation when possible. When no adjacent
commercial or institutional land use exists, the parking lot shall be designed
to connect in the future to those lots. The Technical Review Committee shall
have the discretion to waive this requirement when strong evidence exists to
suggest this regulation is unnecessary.
   (J)   Trash receptacles. All dumpsters shall be fully surrounded by brick
masonry walls on three sides and a high quality gate. The wall and gate shall
be at least 18 inches greater in height than the type of trash receptacle
intended to be used. Failure to keep the gate closed when not being accessed
shall be considered a violation of this chapter. Lastly, trash receptacles
shall be located in an inconspicuous location at least 30 feet from any
property line shared with a residential uses. The Technical Review Committee
shall have discretion to determine the best location of trash receptacles, gate
location and place limits on the hours a trash hauler can empty dumpsters when
the subject lot is adjacent to residentially zoned lots.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 3.22)
NEIGHBORHOOD TRANSITION OVERLAY (NTO) DISTRICT
§ 165.200 INTENT.
   (A)   The Neighborhood Transition Overlay (NTO) District is intended to
promote the city’s goals for specific neighborhoods, including the recognition
of historic character, within the city to evolve to appropriate mixed-uses
compatible with adjacent and nearby existing homes.
   (B)   Transition to mixed-uses shall always result in a more stable
neighborhood and promote safe pedestrian and vehicular circulation, traffic
management, high quality site design, stabilization of structures and a sense
of place.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 3.23A)
§ 165.201 EFFECT ON LAND USES.
   (A)   All permitted uses in the base zoning district are permitted as such
in the NTO District. All special exception uses permitted in the base zoning
district are allowed as such in the NTO District.
   (B)   In addition to the base zoning district’s permitted uses, the
following list of uses are allowed as a special exception.
      (1)   Commercial special exception uses.
         (a)   Office, design services;
         (b)   Office, general services;
         (c)   Photography studio; and
         (d)   Retail (Type 1), very low intensity.
      (2)   Residential special exception uses. Bed and breakfast.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 3.23B)
§ 165.202 EFFECT ON DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   The development standards from the base zoning district shall apply to the
NTO District except as described otherwise in §
165.205.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 3.23C)
§ 165.203 APPLICABILITY.
   The following requirements apply to all land within the NTO District as
defined in §
165.204. The city shall carefully consider any attempt to circumvent the NTO
District’s land use restrictions and additional development standards
regulations with a planned development or rezoning of property.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 3.24)
§ 165.204 JURISDICTIONAL BOUNDARY.
   The jurisdictional boundaries for the NTO District shall be shown on the
Official Zoning Map as a hatched or textured pattern and noted on the map
legend as the NTO District.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 3.25)
§ 165.205 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   The following development standards are required in order to promote the
intent of the NTO District and meet the goals and objectives of the city’s
Comprehensive Plan.
   (A)   Maximum lot coverage. The maximum lot coverage in the NTO District
shall be 72%.
   (B)   Sign standards.
      (1)   Sign quantity. One permanent wall or ground sign may be installed
on a lot with a permitted commercial land use.
      (2)   Sign area. The sign area shall not exceed eight square feet.
      (3)   Ground sign design.
         (a)   Maximum height. The maximum sign height shall be six feet above
ground level.
         (b)   Materials. A ground sign shall be made of professional grade
sign fabrication materials that are designed to withstand exposure to weather,
sun, wind and temperature change. Sign materials shall not include extruded
plastic letters.
         (c)   Changeable copy. Ground signs shall not include electronic
changeable copy or manual changeable copy.
         (d)   Aesthetic. Ground signs shall be designed to fit the character
of a residential neighborhood.
         (e)   Framing and mounting. Ground signs shall be enframed, affixed to
the ground.
         (f)   Location. A ground sign shall be located perpendicular to the
street, in the front yard and be setback at least eight feet from any right-of-
way, five feet from any public sidewalk, two feet from any on-site sidewalk and
ten feet from side property lines. Ground signs shall not impede pedestrian
circulation or safety.
         (g)   Illumination. A ground sign shall not be illuminated internally
or externally.
      (4)   Wall sign design.
         (a)   Maximum height. Ten feet above ground level;
         (b)   Materials. Signs shall be made of professional grade sign
fabrication materials that are designed to withstand exposure to weather, sun,
wind and temperature change. Sign materials shall not include extruded plastic
letters;
         (c)   Changeable copy. Wall signs shall not include electronic
changeable copy or manual changeable copy;
         (d)   Aesthetic. Wall signs shall be designed to fit the character of
a residential neighborhood;
         (e)   Location on facade. A wall sign shall be permanently attached to
the first floor of the front facade of a primary structure, fully within ten
feet of the front door, or entrance customers are expected to use;
         (f)   Installation restrictions. A wall sign shall not project from
the facade by more than three inches or be hung from a porch ceiling; and
         (g)   Illumination. A wall sign shall not be illuminated internally or
externally.
   (C)   Parking location. Parking areas may be established in the rear yard
and shall be setback at least one foot from the rear property line and five
feet from side property lines. Under no circumstances shall off-street parking
spaces be located in the front yard of the lot.
   (D)   Parking quantity. The minimum required off-street parking spaces for
the commercial land uses shall be one off-street parking space per 400 square
feet of spaced dedicated to the commercial land use; plus one parking space per
dwelling unit. The Technical Review Committee may grant up to 50% relief from
this standard if on-street parking spaces are available with 400 feet of the
subject lot.
   (E)   Parking lot surface. All off-street parking area surfaces shall be
paved with asphalt, concrete, brick or porous pavers.
   (F)   Parking lot landscaping. At least two ornamental trees or three shrubs
shall be planted between parking lots and side lot lines.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 3.26)
MIXED-USE OVERLAY (MUO) DISTRICT
§ 165.220 INTENT.
   The Mixed-Use Overlay (MUO) District is intended to promote the city’s goals
for specific areas zoned General Commercial with existing development plans or
zoning approvals in place prior to the adoption of the UDO that would otherwise
not be permitted in the UDO.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 3.27A)
§ 165.221 EFFECT ON LAND USES.
   (A)   All permitted uses in the base zoning district are permitted as such
in the MUO District.
   (B)   In addition to the base zoning district’s permitted uses, the
following list of uses is permitted.
      (1)   Agricultural permitted uses.
         (a)   Agricultural crop production;
         (b)   Land conservation;
         (c)   Orchard;
         (d)   Tree farm; and
         (e)   Vineyard.
      (2)   Institutional permitted uses.
         (a)   Bus station;
         (b)   Camp;
         (c)   Cemetery/mausoleum;
         (d)   Child care institution;
         (e)   Church, temple or mosque;
         (f)   Community center;
         (g)   Government office;
         (h)   Government operations (non- office);
         (i)   Hospital;
         (j)   Library;
         (k)   Museum;
         (l)   Nature center park;
         (m)   Police, fire or rescue station;
         (n)   Pool, public;
         (o)   Post office;
         (p)   Retreat center; and
         (q)   School (P-12).
      (3)   Residential permitted uses.
         (a)   Dwelling, multiple-family (two or three units);
         (b)   Dwelling, multiple-family (four to six units);
         (c)   Dwelling, multiple-family (seven to 15 units);
         (d)   Dwelling, multiple-family (16+ units);
         (e)   Dwelling, single-family attached;
         (f)   Dwelling, single-family detached; and
         (g)   Fair housing facility (small).
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 3.27B)
§ 165.222 EFFECT ON DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   The development standards from the base zoning district shall apply to the
MUO District except as described otherwise in §
165.226.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 3.27C)
§ 165.223 APPLICABILITY.
   The following requirements apply to all land within the MUO District as
defined in §
165.224. The city shall carefully consider any attempt to circumvent the MUO
District’s land use restrictions and additional development standards
regulations with a planned development or rezoning of property.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 3.28)
§ 165.224 JURISDICTIONAL BOUNDARY.
   The jurisdictional boundaries for the MUO District shall be shown on the
Official Zoning Map as a hatched or textured pattern and noted on the map
legend as the MUO District.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 3.29)
§ 165.225 PREREQUISITES.
   (A)   Minimum lot area. The minimum lot area required to qualify for the MUO
District shall be 40 acres at the time of this chapter’s adoption; which may be
comprised of one or more contiguous lots all under the same single ownership.
   (B)   Base zoning district. The base zoning district shall have been a
commercial zoning district at the time of the chapter’s adoption.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 3.30)
§ 165.226 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   The following development standards are required in order to promote the
intent of the MUO District and meet the goals and objectives of the city’s
Comprehensive Plan.
   (A)   Agricultural uses. Any portion of a lot used for an agricultural use
shall be regulated by all applicable development standards for the AG District.
   (B)   Institutional uses. Any portion of a lot used for an institutional use
shall be regulated by all applicable development standards for the IS District.
   (C)   Single-family residential uses. Any portion of a lot used for a
single-family residential use shall be regulated by all applicable development
standards for the R2 District.
   (D)   Multiple-family residential uses. Any portion of a lot used for a
multiple-family residential use shall be regulated by all applicable
development standards for the M2 District.
   (E)   All other uses. Any portion of a lot used for any other permitted use
shall be regulated by the base zoning district’s applicable development
standards.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 3.31)
PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT
§ 165.240 INTENT.
   (A)   Generally. The Planned Development (PD) District is intended to
provide flexible development standards in order for the development to result
in a significantly better design than what would have been the result under the
zoning regulations. The first priority for the city is to make sure the
development exceeds the quality that would have resulted from traditional
application of the zoning ordinance. The second priority is to confirm that a
PD District is necessary due to any of the following:
      (1)   A development with complex mixes of land uses, or mixes of land
uses within buildings;
      (2)   A development on a unique geological feature, or on a site with a
notable quality natural features, or on a site with a notable quantity of
natural features; and
      (3)   A development with a notably unique or innovative design.
   (B)   Plan Commission.
      (1)   Any parcel that meets the prerequisites specified herein may be
considered for a PD District.
      (2)   The necessity for variances shall not by itself justify a
developers pursuit of a PD District.
      (3)   The base zoning district and the city’s Comprehensive Plan shall be
used to determine the appropriateness of the dominant land use in the PD
District.
      (4)   The proposed development shall be a clear benefit to the community.
   (C)   Common Council.
      (1)   Under no circumstance is the Common Council required to rezone a
property as a PD District;
      (2)   Rezone a property to a PD District only after the Plan Commission
provides a favorable recommendation;
      (3)   Require commitments that will improve the quality of the
development;
      (4)   Restrict particular land uses that would not be appropriate for the
district; and
      (5)   Assure the development is consistent with the city’s Comprehensive
Plan.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 4.01A)
§ 165.241 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Predominantly in line with the permitted uses and special exception
uses in the base zoning district;
      (2)   Predominantly in line with the city’s Comprehensive Plan;
      (3)   Compatible with surrounding land uses (if developed) or adjacent
zoning districts (if not developed); and
      (4)   Flexible only to the extent permitted in this subchapter.
   (B)   Development standards.
      (1)   Generally consistent with the intent of the base zoning district;
      (2)   Predominantly in line with the city’s Comprehensive Plan;
      (3)   Compatible with surrounding land uses and adjacent zoning
districts; and
      (4)   Flexible only to the extent permitted in this subchapter.
   (C)   Design standards.
      (1)   Predominantly in compliance with the design standards in §§
165.260 through
165.294,
165.305 through
165.312,
165.325 through
165.332 and
165.345 through
165.353; and
      (2)   Flexible only to the extent permitted in this subchapter.
   (D)   Construction standards. Fully in compliance with the city’s
construction and engineering standards.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 4.01B)
§ 165.242 PREREQUISITES.
   (A)   Ownership. The entire property proposed for a PD District shall be
under single ownership, or if multiple owners exist, a legal document shall be
provided (e.g., contract, legal partnership or corporation) indicating that all
owners of the property support and desire to develop the land as a planned
development. The legal document or a letter signed by each owner shall indicate
who the owners appoint as their representative through the process.
   (B)   Site area. The minimum land area required for a PD District is five
acres.
   (C)   Regulating ordinance. Concurrent to the process of rezoning a property
to PD District, the developer shall prepare a regulating ordinance for review
and approval by the Plan Commission. The regulating ordinance shall be in a
format provided by the Zoning Administrator.
   (D)   Timing of rezoning. A property shall not be rezoned to a PD District
prior to final review of a regulating ordinance by the Plan Commission. The
adoption of the regulating ordinance shall occur concurrently to the rezoning
of the property to a PD District.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 4.01C)
§ 165.243 GENERAL DESCRIPTION AND APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Description. A Planned Development (PD) District is a special zoning
district that can be petitioned for by a property owner allowing for a stand
alone ordinance to be adopted which becomes the regulations for a proposed
development.
   (B)   Creation. The procedure for the creation of a PD District shall be
consistent with the process set forth in §§
165.455 through
165.470.
   (C)   Official zoning map. Once a planned development is approved, it shall
be identified as a PD District on the Official Zoning Map, and shall include
the ordinance number for the regulating ordinance.
   (D)   PD District regulations.
      (1)   Development standards. The development standards from the base
zoning district shall apply a PD District unless an alternate base zoning
district is assigned by the Plan Commission; or unless the regulating
ordinance’s standards supersedes the base zoning ordinance’s development
standards.
      (2)   Design standards. The set of design standards applicable to the
most similar type of subdivision shall apply to a PD District, unless:
         (a)   An alternate set of design standards are assigned by the Plan
Commission; or
         (b)   The regulating ordinance’s standards supersedes the design
standards.
      (3)   Permitted land uses. The land uses within a PD District shall be
determined by the regulating ordinance. Any unspecified land uses shall not be
permitted. Vague land uses or land use categories shall not be permitted in a
regulating ordinance.
      (4)   Land use consistency. The dominant land use for a PD District shall
be incorporated in the regulating ordinance as follows.
         (a)   If the original zoning district was PR then the development
shall be at least 65% single-family residential. No industrial land uses shall
be permitted.
         (b)   If the original zoning district was AG or IA then the
development shall be at least 80% single-family residential. No industrial land
uses shall be permitted.
         (c)   If the original zoning district was R1, R2 or R3 then the
development shall be at least 75% single-family, two-family and/or three-family
residential. No industrial land uses shall be permitted.
         (d)   If the original zoning district was UR, M1, M2 or MP then the
development shall be at least 60% single-family or multiple-family residential.
No industrial land uses shall be permitted.
         (e)   If the original zoning district was UV or IS then the
development shall be at least 50% institutional land uses. No industrial land
uses shall be permitted.
         (f)   If the original zoning district was NC, LC, GC, OC, CB or HC
then the development shall be at least 50% commercial land uses. Up to 20% may
be industrial land uses.
         (g)   If the original zoning district was EP, IC, I1, I2 or HI then
the development shall be at least 50% office or industrial land uses. No more
than 15% of the development may be residential land uses.
         (h)   If the original zoning district was HI then the development
shall be at least 80% high intensity industrial land use. No residential land
uses shall be permitted.
      (5)   Applicability of this chapter. If the PD District or regulating
ordinance is silent or does not address a particular development standard,
design standard or other specification that is regulated by this chapter, then
the standard of the closest relating zoning district shall apply.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, 4.02)
§ 165.244 PROCEDURE.
   All proceedings brought under this subchapter are subject to the rules of
procedure of the Plan Commission. All applications that involve subdivision of
a land shall also be subject to the subdivision procedures established by §§
165.455 through
165.470.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 4.03)
§ 165.245 LIMITATION OF REVISIONS.
   (A)   Public health and safety. Additions or modifications to this chapter
that directly effect public health and safety shall apply to any PD District
whether prior to or during development.
   (B)   Deviation from this chapter. A PD District and its regulating
ordinance shall not modify or supersede the applicability of §§
165.001 through
165.018,
165.030 through
165.034,
165.045 through
165.051,
165.065 through
165.070,
165.120 through
165.127,
165.140 through
165.148,
165.160 through
165.165,
165.180 through
165.186,
165.200 through
165.205,
165.220 through
165.226,
165.240 through
165.246,
165.435 through
165.440,
165.455 through
165.470,
165.485 through
165.488,
165.500 through
165.514 and
165.999.
   (C)   Failure to comply. If a PD District is no longer proceeding in
accordance with its regulating ordinance, commitments, conditions, covenants or
time related requirements imposed by its regulating ordinance, the fullest
extent of §§
165.500 through
165.514 and
165.999 may be use by the Enforcement Official to cause remedy.
   (D)   Rezoning to standard district. All PD Districts, including phases or
subdistricts, once 70% built-out are subject to being rezoned into an
appropriate standard zoning district if the Plan Commission deems it necessary
to better administer the development.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 4.04)
§ 165.246 REQUIRED PERMANENT OPEN SPACE.
   (A)   Open space.
      (1)   No PD District shall be approved, unless the design provides for
the prescribed percentage of permanent landscaped or natural open space. Open
space may be designated through the use of common area or other legal
mechanisms such as conservation easements to the satisfaction of the Plan
Commission and Common Council.
      (2)   The minimum required permanent open space shall be as follows:
         (a)   Fifty percent when the original zoning district was PR;
         (b)   Thirty-five percent when the original zoning district was AG or
IA;
         (c)   Twenty-five percent when the original zoning district was R1, R2
or R3;
         (d)   Twenty percent when the original zoning district was UR, M1, M2,
MP, UV, IS, NC, LC, GC, OC, CB, HC, EP, IC, I1 or I2; and
         (e)   Forty percent when the original zoning district was HI.
   (B)   Mixed-uses. In the case of a mixed-uses development, single-family
areas shall generally have 25% permanent open space and non-single-family areas
shall generally have 20% permanent open space. The distribution of permanent
open space shall strive to preserve existing natural features (e.g., woodlots
and wetlands).
   (C)   Development in stages. If the planned development is to be constructed
in phases, permanent open space shall be provided for each phase of the
development.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 4.05)
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
§ 165.260 GENERAL.
   (A)   General. This subchapter contains development standards that are
arranged by category. There are two ways to determine which development
standards apply to a specific zoning district. They are:
      (1)   Generally. Refer to the layouts in §§
165.085 through
165.108 for a specific zoning district. In the “Additional Development
Standards that Apply” division for that specific zoning district are listed the
development standards which apply. Only the sections noted in the “Additional
Development Standards that Apply” division apply to that zoning district; and
      (2)   District icons. Each development standard section begins with an
introductory sentence followed by icons with zoning district abbreviations
(e.g., R1 for the Low Density Single-Family Residential District). These zoning
district icons note that the development standards written in that section
apply to that zoning district:
         (a)   Accessory dwelling standards (AD);
         (b)   Accessory structure standards (AS);
         (c)   Architectural standards (AR);
         (d)   Confined feeding standards (CF);
         (e)   Density and intensity standards (DI);
         (f)   Driveway standards (DW);
         (g)   Environmental standards (EN);
         (h)   Fence and wall standards (FW);
         (i)   Fireworks retail standards (FR);
         (j)   Floodplain standards (FP);
         (k)   Height standards (HT);
         (l)   Home business standards (HB);
         (m)   Keeping of animals standards (KA);
         (n)   Kennel standards (KL);
         (o)   Landscaping standards (LA);
         (p)   Lighting standards (LT);
         (q)   Loading standards (LD);
         (r)   Lot standards (LO);
         (s)   Manufactured housing standards (MH);
         (t)   Outdoor dining standards (OD);
         (u)   Outdoor display area standards (DA);
         (v)   Outdoor storage standards (OS);
         (w)   Parking standards (PK);
         (x)   Performance standards (PF);
         (y)   Public improvement standards (PI);
         (z)   Setback standards (SB);
         (aa)   Sewer and water standards (SW);
         (bb)   Sexually-oriented business standards (SX);
         (cc)   Sign standards (SI);
         (dd)   Special exception standards (SE);
         (ee)   Storage tank standards (SR);
         (ff)   Structure standards (ST);
         (gg)   Telecommunication facility standards (TC);
         (hh)   Temporary use and structure standards (TU);
         (ii)   Trash receptacle standards (TR);
         (jj)   Vision clearance standards (VC); and
         (kk)   Wind turbine system standards (WT).
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.01)
   (B)   Icon key.
AG Agricultural District
CB Central Business District
EP Ed-Med-Tech Park District
GC General Commercial District
HC Highway Commercial District
HI High Impact District
I1 Low to Moderate Intensity Industrial District
I2 High Intensity Industrial District
IA Intense Agricultural District
IC Industrial Commercial District
IS Institutional District
LC Limited Commercial District
M1 Multiple-Family Residential District
M2 Intense Multiple-Family Residential District
MP Manufactured Home Park District
NC Neighborhood Commercial District
OC Outdoor Commercial District
PR Parks and Recreation District
R1 Low Density Single-Family Residential District
R2 Medium Density Single-Family Residential District
R3 High Density Single-Family Residential District
UR Urban Residential District
UV University District
 
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.02)
§ 165.261 ACCESSORY DWELLING STANDARDS.
   This accessory dwelling standards section applies to the following zoning
district: HI. The intent of the accessory dwelling standards is to provide an
opportunity for an accessory dwelling while ensuring that specific conditions
are met to protect the health, safety and welfare of the residents. The
following standards apply.
   (A)   Applicability. An accessory dwelling shall meet the applicable
setbacks and structure heights for accessory structures as indicated on the
layout.
      (1)   Minimum front yard setback. The minimum front yard setback shall be
as indicated on the applicable layout in §§
165.085 through
165.108.
      (2)   Minimum side yard setback. The minimum side yard setback shall be
as indicated on the applicable layout in §§
165.085 through
165.108.
      (3)   Minimum rear yard setback. The minimum rear yard setback shall be
as indicated on the applicable layout in §§
165.085 through
165.108.
      (4)   Maximum structure height. The maximum structure height shall be as
indicated on the applicable layout in §§
165.085 through
165.108.
   (B)   Permits. An improvement location permit shall be required prior to the
construction of an accessory dwelling or the conversion of an accessory
structure to an accessory dwelling.
   (C)   Types. An accessory dwelling may be permitted on a lot only if the
primary structure (i.e., primary dwelling) is owner-occupied.
      (1)   Permitted. An accessory dwelling may include a guest house, mother-
in-law suite or any single dwelling.
      (2)   Prohibited. A mobile home, manufactured home, recreational vehicle,
semi-tractor trailer, boat, motor vehicle or trailer; in part, in whole or of
the like, shall not be permitted as an accessory dwelling.
   (D)   Relationship.
      (1)   Use. An accessory dwelling shall be ancillary and complementary to
the use of the primary structure (i.e., primary dwelling). An accessory
dwelling shall not be permitted if the primary structure was converted to
anything other than single-family residential.
      (2)   Timing. An accessory dwelling shall not be constructed on a lot
prior to the construction of the primary structure (i.e., primary dwelling).
   (E)   Quantity and size.
      (1)   Maximum number. No more than one accessory dwelling shall be
permitted on a lot.
      (2)   Size. An accessory dwelling shall be a minimum of 500 square feet
and shall not exceed 40% of the square feet of the primary structure (i.e.,
primary dwelling). If the square feet of the primary structure is less than
1,250 square feet the accessory dwelling shall be between 400 square feet and
600 square feet in area.
   (F)   Design.
      (1)   Attachment. The accessory dwelling may be attached to or detached
from the primary structure (i.e., primary dwelling).
      (2)   Minimum components. The accessory dwelling shall contain bathroom,
kitchen and sleeping facilities.
      (3)   Driveway. An accessory dwelling shall utilize the driveway of the
primary structure (i.e., primary dwelling).
      (4)   Parking. At least one parking space shall be available for an
accessory dwelling.
      (5)   Utilities. An accessory dwelling shall utilize the utility
connections that serve the primary structure (i.e., primary dwelling).
      (6)   Home business. A home business (Type 1) or home business (Type 2)
may be conducted within an accessory dwelling during or after use as an
accessory dwelling, and according to §
165.272(A) (Type 1 Home Business Standards) and §
165.272(B) (Type 2 Home Business Standards).
      (7)   Exemptions. A detached accessory dwelling shall be exempt from
complying with the architectural standards and landscaping standards.
      (8)   Accessory structures.
         (a)   A detached accessory dwelling shall be considered ancillary and
complementary to the primary structure (i.e., primary dwelling). The accessory
dwelling shall not be permitted to have its own accessory structures; all
accessory structures on the lot shall be considered accessory to the primary
structure (i.e., primary dwelling).
         (b)   Accessory dwellings shall not count towards the maximum number
and maximum size standards for accessory structures included in accessory
structure standards.
      (9)   Physical appearance. The exterior finish and facade of any
accessory dwelling shall match, closely resemble or significantly complement
the materials and colors used on the primary structure (i.e., primary
dwelling).
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.03)
§ 165.262 ACCESSORY STRUCTURE STANDARDS.
   (A)   AS-01: general accessory structure standards. This accessory structure
standards division (A) applies to the following zoning districts: PR; AG; IA;
R1; R2; R3; UR; M1; M2; MP; UV; IS; NC; LC; GC; OC; CB; HC; EP; IC; I1; I2; and
HI. The intent of the accessory structure standards is to permit accessory
structures that meet the needs of property owners while protecting the health,
safety and welfare of the residents. The following standards apply.
      (1)   Cross-reference. Some accessory structures are regulated
independent of the accessory structure standards. The following types of
structures are regulated in other sections:
         (a)   Accessory dwellings. See accessory dwelling standards;
         (b)   Fences and walls. See fence and wall standards;
         (c)   Outdoor dining. See outdoor dining standards;
         (d)   Parking lots. See parking standards;
         (e)   Signs. See sign standards;
         (f)   Storage tanks. See storage tank standards;
         (g)   Swimming pools. Swimming pools shall meet the regulations within
these accessory structure standards sections and the Indiana Administrative
Code (675 I.A.C. 20: Swimming Pool Code);
         (h)   Telecommunication facilities. See telecommunication facility
standards; and
         (i)   Trash receptacles. See trash receptacle standards.
      (2)   Applicability.
         (a)   Minimum front yard setback. The minimum front yard setback shall
be as indicated on the applicable layout in §§
165.085 through
165.108.
         (b)   Minimum side yard setback. The minimum side yard setback shall
be as indicated on the applicable layout in §§
165.085 through
165.108.
         (c)   Minimum rear yard setback. The minimum rear yard setback shall
be as indicated on the applicable layout in §§
165.085 through
165.108.
         (d)   Maximum structure height. The maximum structure height shall be
as indicated on the applicable two-page layout in §§
165.085 through
165.108.
      (3)   Permits. An improvement location permit shall be required prior to
the installation or construction of an accessory structure greater than 200
square feet unless specifically noted otherwise. In circumstances where a
permit is not required, the accessory structure shall still meet all applicable
accessory structure standards.
      (4)   Types.
         (a)   Permitted accessory structures.
            1.   A construction trailer shall be permitted on any lot for the
duration of a construction project; from the date a building permit or
improvement location permit has been issued until 30 days after the certificate
of occupancy has been issued.
            2.   A construction trailer may be located within ten feet of a
property line regardless of the setback requirements for the applicable zoning
district. However, a construction trailer shall still be applicable to §
165.293 (Vision Clearance Triangle Standards).
         (b)   Prohibited accessory structures.
            1.   A mobile home, manufactured home, recreational vehicle, semi-
tractor trailer, boat, motor vehicle or trailer; in part, in whole or of the
like, shall not be permitted as an accessory structure.
            2.   Temporary and portable storage units (e.g., PODS) shall not be
permitted as a permanent accessory structure. See temporary use and structure
standards.
      (5)   Maintenance. All accessory structures shall be properly maintained
and kept in good condition.
      (6)   Exemption.
         (a)   Satellite dish. Satellite dishes less than two feet in diameter
shall be exempt when installed on a rooftop, wall or on the ground. Ground-
mounted satellite dishes shall be setback at least 30 feet from a front
property line and ten feet from all other property lines.
         (b)   Solar panel. Solar panels that are roof-mounted or ground-
mounted shall be exempt if the cumulative square footage of all solar panels do
not exceed 75% of the footprint of the primary structure, when roof-mounted;
and 600 square feet if ground-mounted. Solar panels shall not be ground-
mounted in the front yard.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.04)
   (B)   AS-02: parks and recreation and agricultural accessory structure
standards. This accessory structure standards division (B) applies to the
following zoning districts: PR; and AG. The following standards apply.
      (1)   Types.
         (a)   Storage-based. Storage-based accessory structures shall be
permitted. Storage-based accessory structures shall include barns, boat houses,
carports, detached garages, greenhouses, mini-barns, pole structures, pool
houses, sheds and other structures used primarily for storage.
         (b)   Recreation-based. Recreation- based accessory structures shall
be permitted. Recreation-based accessory structures shall include decks,
gazebos, hot tubs, ground-mounted satellite dishes, sport courts, swimming
pools and other structures used primarily for recreation.
      (2)   Relationship.
         (a)   Use. An accessory structure shall relate to the primary use of
the lot or the zoning district’s permitted uses.
         (b)   Timing. An accessory structure may be installed or constructed
on a lot prior to the construction of the primary structure or without the
existence of the primary structure.
      (3)   Quantity and size.
         (a)   Maximum quantity. No more than ten storage-based accessory
structures shall be permitted on a lot. There is no limit on recreation- based
accessory structures.
         (b)   Maximum size. There is no maximum size.
      (4)   Location. Storage-based and recreation- based accessory structures
shall only be allowed in side yards and rear yards with the following
exceptions:
         (a)   Basketball goals. A basketball goal along a driveway or mounted
on the garage shall not be considered a sport court. However, a basketball goal
shall meet the front yard setback requirement.
         (b)   Detached garage. A detached garage may be placed forward of a
primary structure, but only if it is side loading and to the side of the
primary structure’s facade.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.05)
   (C)   AS-03: residential accessory structure standards. This accessory
structure standards division (C) applies to the following zoning districts: R1;
R2; R3; and UR. The following standards apply.
      (1)   Types.
         (a)   Storage-based. Storage-based accessory structures shall be
permitted. Storage-based accessory structures shall include carports, detached
garages, greenhouses, mini-barns, pool houses, sheds and other structures used
primarily for storage.
         (b)   Recreation-based. Recreation-based accessory structures shall be
permitted. Recreation-based accessory structures shall include decks, gazebos,
hot tubs, ground-mounted satellite dishes, sport courts, swimming pools and
other structures used primarily for recreation.
      (2)   Relationship.
         (a)   Use. An accessory structure shall relate to the primary use of
the lot.
         (b)   Timing. An accessory structure shall not be installed or
constructed on a lot prior to completing construction of the primary structure
(i.e., issuance of the certificate of occupancy).
      (3)   Quantity and size.
         (a)   Maximum quantity. No more than three storage-based accessory
structures shall be permitted on a lot. There is no limit on recreation-based
accessory structures.
         (b)   Maximum size. The cumulative square footage of all storage-based
accessory structures shall not exceed 75% of the footprint of the primary
structure; except for lots over one acre which shall be regulated as follows:
            1.   Lots with one to two acres. The cumulative square footage of
all storage-based accessory structures on a lot with one to two acres of land
shall not exceed 150% of the footprint of the primary structure. All accessory
structures shall also meet the primary structure setback standards due to their
potentially large footprint.
            2.   Lots with two acres or more. The cumulative square footage of
all storage-based accessory structures on a lot with more than two acres of
land shall not exceed 200% of the footprint of the primary structure. All
accessory structures shall also meet the primary structure setback standards
due to their potentially large footprint.
      (4)   Materials. The exterior finish and facade of all storage-based
accessory structures greater than 200 square feet shall match, closely resemble
or significantly complement the materials and colors used on the primary
structure.
      (5)   Location. Storage-based and recreation-based accessory structures
shall only be allowed in side yards and rear yards with the following
exceptions: a basketball goal along a driveway or mounted on the garage shall
not be considered a sport court. However, a basketball goal shall meet the
front yard setback requirement.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.06)
   (D)   AS-04: multiple-family accessory structure standards. This accessory
structure standards division (D) applies to the following zoning districts: M1;
and M2. The following standards apply.
      (1)   Types.
         (a)   Support-based. Support-based accessory structures shall be
permitted.
            1.   Support-based accessory structures shall include a management
office, sales office, maintenance facility, enclosed vending, laundry, trash
compactors, recycling containers, dumpsters and other structures customarily
incidental to the development.
            2.   Support-based accessory structures shall be subordinate to the
residential component of the development
            3.   Support-based accessory structures shall be located, designed
and intended to serve only the needs of the development and its residents.
            4.   Support-based accessory structures shall present no visible
evidence of its non-residential nature to areas outside the development.
         (b)   Storage-based. Except for garages and carports, storage-based
accessory structures specific to each dwelling unit shall not be permitted.
         (c)   Recreation-based. Recreation- based accessory structures shall
include an indoor fitness room, indoor or outdoor sport courts, indoor or
outdoor swimming pool, indoor or outdoor play equipment and other recreation
features customarily incidental to the development.
      (2)   Relationship.
         (a)   Use. An accessory structure shall relate to the primary use of
the lot and be solely used in connection with the primary use.
         (b)   Timing.
            1.   Support-based. A support- based accessory structure may be
installed or constructed on a lot prior to the construction of the primary
structure.
            2.   Storage-based. A storage- based accessory structure shall not
be installed or constructed on a lot prior to completing construction of the
primary structure (i.e., issuance of the certificate of occupancy).
      (3)   Quantity and size.
         (a)   Maximum quantity. No more than four support-based accessory
structures shall be permitted for any development. There is no limit on
storage-based and recreation-based accessory structures.
         (b)   Maximum size. There is no maximum size.
      (4)   Materials. The exterior finish and facade of all accessory
structures greater than 200 square feet shall match, closely resemble or
significantly complement the materials and colors used on the primary
structure.
      (5)   Location. Support-based and storage- based accessory structures are
not restricted to any specific yards.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.07)
   (E)   AS-05: manufactured home park accessory structure standards. This
accessory structure standards division (E) applies to the following zoning
district: MP. The following standards apply.
      (1)   Types.
         (a)   Support-based. Support-based accessory structures shall be
permitted in areas on the lot that are not dwelling sites.
            1.   Support-based accessory structures shall include a management
office, sales office, maintenance facility, indoor fitness room, indoor or
outdoor sport courts, indoor or outdoor swimming pool, indoor or outdoor play
equipment, enclosed vending, laundry, emergency storm shelter and other
structures customarily incidental to the development.
            2.   Support-based accessory structures shall be subordinate to the
residential component of the development.
            3.   Support-based accessory structures shall be located, designed
and intended to serve only the needs of the development and its residents.
            4.   Support-based accessory structures shall present no visible
evidence of its non-residential nature to areas outside the development.
         (b)   Storage-based. Storage-based accessory structures in the form of
detached garages, carports and sheds shall be permitted on dwelling sites.
         (c)   Recreation-based. Recreation- based accessory structures in the
form of decks and ground-mounted satellite dishes shall be permitted on
dwelling sites.
      (2)   Relationship.
         (a)   Use. An accessory structure shall relate to the primary use of
the lot and be solely used in connection with the primary use.
         (b)   Timing.
            1.   Support-based. A support-based accessory structure may be
installed or constructed on a lot prior to the construction of a primary
structure. They also may be installed or constructed prior to installation of a
primary structure on a dwelling site.
            2.   Dwelling site accessory structures. Storage-based and
recreation-based accessory structures shall not be installed or constructed on
a lot or a dwelling site prior to the construction or installation of the
primary structure.
      (3)   Quantity and size.
         (a)   Maximum quantity per development. No more than four support-
based accessory structures shall be permitted for any development. There is no
limit on recreation-based accessory structures.
         (b)   Maximum quantity per dwelling site. Each dwelling site shall be
permitted one shed in addition to a carport or garage. No additional storage-
based accessory structures shall be permitted on a dwelling site.
         (c)   Maximum size. The total area of storage-based accessory
structures on a dwelling site shall not exceed 25% of the dwelling site area or
600 square feet, whichever is less.
      (4)   Materials. The exterior finish and facade of all accessory
structures greater than 200 square feet shall match, closely resemble or
significantly complement the materials and colors used on the primary
structure.
      (5)   Location. Storage-based and recreation-based accessory structures
shall only be allowed in side yards and rear yards with the following
exception: a basketball goal along a driveway or mounted on the garage shall
not be considered a sport court. However, a basketball goal shall meet the
front yard setback requirement.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.08)
   (F)   AS-06: university accessory structure standards. This accessory
structure standards division (F) applies to the following zoning district: UV.
The following standards apply.
      (1)   Types.
         (a)   Support-based. Support-based accessory structures shall be
permitted. Support-based accessory structures shall include a maintenance
facility, mechanical structure, stand-alone restroom facility, storage
building, enclosed vending, kiosk or other structure used in support of the
primary structure.
         (b)   Recreation-based. Recreation- based accessory structures shall
be permitted. Recreation-based accessory structures shall include a deck,
fountain, pavilion, picnic shelter, public art display, sport court, terrace,
play equipment or other structures that add a recreational element to the
primary use of the lot.
      (2)   Relationship.
         (a)   Use. An accessory structure shall relate to the primary use of
the lot and be solely used in connection with the specific primary use.
         (b)   Timing. An accessory structure may be installed or constructed
on a lot prior to the construction of the primary structure.
      (3)   Quantity and size.
         (a)   Maximum quantity. There is no limit on support-based or
recreation-based accessory structures.
         (b)   Maximum size. There is no maximum size.
      (4)   Materials. The exterior finish and facade of all accessory
structures shall match, closely resemble or significantly complement the
character of the district.
      (5)   Location. Support-based and recreation-based accessory structures
shall only be allowed in side yards and rear yards.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.09)
   (G)   AS-07: institutional accessory structure standards. This accessory
structure standards division (G) applies to the following zoning district: IS.
The following standards apply.
      (1)   Types.
         (a)   Support-based. Support-based accessory structures shall be
permitted. A support-based accessory structure shall include a maintenance
facility, mechanical structure, freestanding canopy, stand-alone restroom
facilities, storage building, enclosed vending, kiosk or structures used in
support of the primary structure.
         (b)   Recreation-based. Recreation- based accessory structures shall
be permitted. A recreation-based accessory structure shall include a deck,
fountains, pavilion, picnic shelter, public art display, sport courts, terrace,
playground equipment or other structures that add a recreational element to the
primary use of the lot.
      (2)   Relationship.
         (a)   Use. An accessory structure shall relate to the primary use of
the lot and be solely used in connection with the specific primary use.
         (b)   Timing. A support-based accessory structure shall not be
installed or constructed on a lot prior to the construction of a primary
structure. A recreation-based accessory structure may be installed or
constructed prior to the construction of the primary structure.
      (3)   Quantity and size.
         (a)   Maximum quantity. Up to eight support-based accessory structures
shall be permitted on a lot. There is no limit on recreation-based accessory
structures.
         (b)   Maximum size. There is no maximum size.
      (4)   Materials. The exterior finish and facade of all accessory
structures shall match, closely resemble or significantly complement the
character of the district.
      (5)   Location. Support-based and recreation-based accessory structures
shall only be allowed in side yards and rear yards.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.10)
   (H)   AS-08: neighborhood commercial accessory structure standards. This
accessory structure standards division (H) applies to the following zoning
district: NC. The following standards apply.
      (1)   Types.
         (a)   Support-based. Support-based accessory structures shall be
permitted. Support-based accessory structures shall include a storage building,
refrigeration/freezer unit, freestanding canopy, mechanical structure or other
structure used in support of the primary structure.
         (b)   Recreation-based. Recreation- based accessory structures shall
be permitted. A recreation-based accessory structure shall include a deck,
terrace, play equipment or other structures that add a recreational element to
the primary structure that is consistent with the intent of the district.
      (2)   Relationship.
         (a)   Use. An accessory structure shall relate to the primary use of
the lot and be solely used in connection with the specific primary use.
         (b)   Timing. An accessory structure shall not be installed or
constructed on a lot prior to the construction of the primary structure.
      (3)   Quantity and size.
         (a)   Maximum quantity. No more than one support-based accessory
structure shall be permitted on a lot. There is no limit on recreation-based
accessory structures.
         (b)   Maximum size. The cumulative square footage of all storage-based
accessory structures shall not exceed 800 square feet in area or 10% of the
footprint of the primary structure, whichever is greater.
      (4)   Materials. The exterior finish and facade of all accessory
structures greater than 200 square feet shall match, closely resemble or
significantly complement the materials and colors used on the primary
structure.
      (5)   Location. Support-based and recreation-based accessory structures
shall only be allowed in side yards and rear yards.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.11)
   (I)   AS-09: central business accessory structure standards. This accessory
structure standards division (I) applies to the following zoning district: CB.
The following standards apply.
      (1)   Types.
         (a)   Support-based. Support-based accessory structures shall be
permitted for non-residential uses. Support-based accessory structures shall
include a storage building, refrigeration/freezer unit, mechanical structure,
remote teller or other structure used in support of the primary structure.
         (b)   Recreation-based. Recreation- based accessory structures shall
be permitted for non-residential uses. Recreation-based accessory structures
shall include a deck, fountain, pavilion, public art display, terrace or other
structures that add a recreational element to the primary structure that is
consistent with the intent of the district.
         (c)   Prohibited. Accessory structures for residential uses shall not
be permitted.
      (2)   Relationship.
         (a)   Use. An accessory structure shall relate to the primary use of
the lot and be solely used in connection with the specific primary use.
         (b)   Timing. An accessory structure shall not be installed or
constructed on a lot prior to the construction of the primary structure.
      (3)   Quantity and size.
         (a)   Maximum quantity. One support-based accessory structure shall be
permitted on a lot. There is no limit on recreation-based accessory structures.
         (b)   Maximum size. A support-based accessory structure shall not
exceed 500 square feet in area or 25% of the footprint of the primary
structure, whichever is greater.
      (4)   Materials. The exterior finish and facade of any accessory
structure shall match, closely resemble or significantly complement the
materials and color used on the primary structures.
      (5)   Location. Support-based and recreation-based accessory structures
shall only be allowed in side yards and rear yards.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.12)
   (J)   AS-10: commercial accessory structure standards. This accessory
structure standards division (J) applies to the following zoning districts: LG;
GC; OC; and HC. The following standards apply.
      (1)   Types.
         (a)   Support-based. Support-based accessory structures shall be
permitted. Support-based accessory structures shall include a maintenance
facility, mechanical structure, freestanding canopy, storage building,
refrigeration/freezer unit or other structures used in support of the primary
structure.
         (b)   Recreation-based. Recreation- based accessory structures shall
be permitted. Recreation-based accessory structures shall include a deck,
fountain, pavilion, picnic shelter, public art display, sport court, terrace,
play equipment or other structures that add a recreational element to the
primary use of the lot.
      (2)   Relationship.
         (a)   Use. An accessory structure shall relate to the primary use of
the lot and be solely used in connection with the specific primary use.
         (b)   Timing. An accessory structure shall not be permitted prior to
the construction of the primary structure.
      (3)   Quantity and size.
         (a)   Maximum quantity. No more than four support-based accessory
structures shall be permitted on a lot. There is no limit on recreation-based
accessory structures.
         (b)   Maximum size. There is no maximum size.
      (4)   Materials. The exterior finish and facade of all accessory
structures over 200 square feet in area shall match, closely resemble or
significantly complement the materials and color used on the primary structure.
      (5)   Location. Support-based and recreation-based accessory structures
shall only be allowed in side yards and rear yards.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.13)
   (K)   AS-11: industrial accessory structure standards. This accessory
structure standards division (K) applies to the following zoning districts: EP;
IC; I1; I2; and HI. The following standards apply.
      (1)   Types.
         (a)   Support-based. Support-based accessory structures shall be
permitted. Support-based accessory structures shall include a cooling tower,
maintenance facility, mechanical structure, storage building, water tower or
other structures used in support of the primary structure.
         (b)   Recreation-based. Recreation-based accessory structures shall be
permitted. Recreation-based accessory structures shall include a deck,
fountain, pavilion, picnic shelter, public art display, sport court, terrace,
play equipment or other structures that add a recreational element to the
primary use of the lot.
      (2)   Relationship.
         (a)   Use. An accessory structure shall relate to the primary use of
the lot and be solely used in connection with the specific primary use.
         (b)   Timing. An accessory structure shall not be installed or
constructed on a lot prior to the construction of the primary structure.
      (3)   Quantity and size.
         (a)   Maximum quantity. No more than eight accessory structures shall
be permitted on a lot. There is no limit on recreation-based accessory
structures.
         (b)   Maximum size. There is no maximum size.
      (4)   Materials. The exterior finish and facade of all accessory
structures over 200 square feet in area shall match, closely resemble or
significantly complement the materials used on the primary structure.
      (5)   Location. Support-based and recreation-based accessory structures
shall only be allowed in side yards and rear yards.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.14)
§ 165.263 ARCHITECTURAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   AR-01: residential and neighborhood commercial architectural
standards. This architectural standards division (A) applies to the following
districts: R1; R2; R3; UR; and NC. The intent of the architectural standards is
to protect the health, safety and welfare of residents by maintaining the
community’s character and improving the quality of life. The following
standards apply.
      (1)   Facade. The front facade of all single-family and two-family
dwellings shall face the public or private street to which the home gains
primary access, except as described below.
         (a)   Corner lots. The front facade may face either street if located
on a corner lot.
         (b)   Large setbacks. A single-family dwelling setback a minimum of
200 feet from the public right-of-way may orient the front facade up to 90
degrees from parallel to that public right-of-way.
      (2)   Roof.
         (a)   Minimum pitch. Five vertical units to 12 horizontal units (5:12
pitch) for the main roof planes.
         (b)   Minimum eave/overhang. All dwellings shall have eaves or
overhangs a minimum of nine inches from the facade’s siding material on at
least 80% of the roofline. The eave/overhang shall be determined after the
installation of masonry.
      (3)   Equipment. All mechanical equipment, air conditioner units, propane
tanks and the like shall not be located forward of the front facade. This
standard applies to each facade that faces a public right-of-way.
      (4)   Garage and carport.
         (a)   Garage capacity. A minimum of a one-car garage is required for
all single-family and two-family dwellings.
         (b)   Garage-forward design. Front-loading garages shall not be
located forward of the facade by more than eight feet on multiple-family units
or single-family units with less than 1,200 square feet of living space.
         (c)   Carport. Carports shall be attached and integrally designed with
the primary structure. The carport’s materials shall be complementary to the
materials of the primary structure.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.15)
   (B)   AR-02: residential and neighborhood commercial architectural
standards. This architectural standards division (B) applies to the following
districts: IS; LC; GC; OC; and HC. The following standards apply.
      (1)   Facade.
         (a)   Front facade. The front facade shall generally face the public
or private street to which the business gains primary access or which has the
greatest exposure to an adjacent street including a highway or an interstate.
On corner lots and through lots, the front facade may face either street. If
the primary structure is greater than 300 feet from the front property line and
greater than 50 feet from all other property lines, its front facade may face
any direction.
         (b)   Other facades. Any other facade (i.e., not the front facade)
that faces an interstate, highway or arterial street shall be finished to a
standard similar to the architectural quality of the front facade, including
building materials, architectural details, windows or faux windows. Facades 30
feet or greater in length or facade faces 420 square feet or greater in area
without visual relief shall not be permitted
      (2)   Site layout. Lineal/strip development shall incorporate variation
in building height, building mass, roof forms and changes in wall planes.
      (3)   Entries. A building greater than 15,000 square feet shall have
clearly defined, highly visible customer entrances featuring at least two of
the following:
         (a)   Canopies or porticos;
         (b)   Overhangs;
         (c)   Arcades;
         (d)   Raised corniced parapets over the door;
         (e)   Peaked roof forms;
         (f)   Arches;
         (g)   Outdoor patios;
         (h)   Architectural details such as tile work and moldings that are
integrated into the building structure and design;
         (i)   Integral planters or wing walls that incorporate landscaped
areas and/or places for sitting;
         (j)   Columns;
         (k)   Awnings; or
         (l)   Enframed window walls.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.16)
§ 165.264 CONFINED FEEDING STANDARDS.
   This confined feeding standards section applies to the following districts:
AG; and IA. The intent of the confined feeding standards is to protect the
health, safety and welfare of residents by regulating the placement and
operation of confined feeding beyond standards required by state and federal
agencies. The following standards apply.
   (A)   Minimum distance from existing uses. All elements of the confined
feeding operation, including animal barns/sheds, lagoons, animal mortality
facilities, parking areas, truck maneuvering areas and accessory facilities
shall meet the following standards.
      (1)   Residential and institutional. The minimum separation to an
existing residential or institutional use shall be 1,300 feet measured from
foundation to foundation.
      (2)   Retail, restaurant or entertainment uses. The minimum separation to
an existing retail, restaurant or entertainment use shall be 1,200 feet
measured from foundation to property line.
   (B)   Reduction of setbacks. The 750-foot required front, side and rear yard
setbacks for confined feeding operations may be reduced if the surrounding land
is restricted from residential, institutional, retail, restaurant and
entertainment uses, resulting in an equivalent setback of 750 feet. The
specific regulations are as follows.
      (1)   Minimum reduction of setbacks.
         (a)   Distance to public right-of-way. Under no circumstances shall
the confined feeding operation be closer than 300 feet from a public right-of-
way, when measured from foundation to right-of-way.
         (b)   Front yard setback. The minimum front yard setback is 100 feet.
         (c)   Side yard setback. The minimum side yard setback is 100 feet.
         (d)   Rear yard setback. The minimum rear yard setback is 100 feet.
      (2)   Options for allowing reduced setbacks. The owner shall secure one
or more the following options for the area off-site, from the adjacent property
owners to meet the 750 feet minimum.
         (a)   Deed restriction. The adjacent property shall be restricted by
deed and recorded at the County Recorder’s office. The deed restriction shall
only be removed by demolition of the confined feeding operation or conversion
to a non-restricted use; and by majority vote of the Plan Commission.
         (b)   Conservation easement. The adjacent property shall be restricted
through conservation easement in perpetuity. The conservation easement shall
only be able to be removed by demolition of the confined feeding operation or
conversion to a non-restricted use; and by majority vote of the Plan
Commission.
   (C)   Animal mortalities. Animal mortalities are subject to the following
standards.
         (a)   Restricted methods. Disposal pits and animal landfills are not
permitted.
         (b)   Permitted methods. On-site incineration, composting and
rendering are permissible. Transporting animal mortalities to an off-site
incinerator, composting facility or rendering plant is permissible.
         (c)   Storage for removal to off-site facility. All animal mortalities
shall be stored in a leak-proof container or facility, and be fully enclosed
with an opaque fence at least six feet in height with a gate to gain access.
         (d)   Frequency of removal. All animal mortalities shall be removed
from the site periodically to assure the on-site storage container or facility
does not exceed its designed capacity.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.17)
§ 165.265 DENSITY AND INTENSITY STANDARDS.
   (A)   Generally. This density and intensity standards section applies to the
following districts: PR; AG; IA; R1; R2; R3; UR; M1; M2; MP; UV; IS; NC; LC;
GC; OC; CB; HC; EP; IC I1; I2; and HI. The intent of the density and intensity
standards is to protect the health, safety and welfare of residents through the
establishment of maximum density and maximum land use intensity requirements.
The following standards apply.
   (B)   Applicability. If a density or intensity standard does not appear on
the layout in §§
165.085 through
165.108 for a zoning district, then a density or intensity standard shall not
apply to that particular zoning district.
      (1)   Maximum density. The maximum density shall be as indicated on the
applicable layout in §§
165.085 through
165.108.
      (2)   Maximum lot coverage. The maximum lot coverage shall be as
indicated on the applicable layout in §§
165.085 through
165.108.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.18)
§ 165.266 DRIVEWAY STANDARDS.
   (A)   DW-01: general driveway standards. This driveway standards division
(A) applies to the following zoning districts: PR; AG; IA; R1; R2; R3; UR; M1;
M2; MP; UV; IS; NC; LC; GC; OC; CB; HC; EP IC; I1; I2; and HI. The intent of
the driveway standards is to maximize safety for drivers. The following
standards apply.
      (1)   Project applicability. Any new or expanded access to a public
right-of-way intended for vehicular or farm equipment use shall be considered a
driveway and shall meet the driveway standards of the unified development
chapter.
         (a)   Residential limits. Access to four or more single-family lots or
access to four or more dwelling sites within a manufactured home park shall be
established as a public or private street and meet the applicable standards
within the city’s construction standards.
         (b)   Non-residential limits. Access to four or more non-residential
lots and that conveys over 2,000 vehicles on average per day shall be
established as a public or private street and meet the applicable standards
within the city’s construction standards.
      (2)   Cross-reference. Some regulations related to driveway standards are
not included in this section. Please refer to the following documents for
additional information and regulations.
         (a)   Street classification. The classification of streets shall be
based on the Thoroughfare Plan.
         (b)   Construction standards. A driveway shall meet or exceed the
city’s construction standards.
      (3)   Permits. A driveway permit shall be required for all driveway cuts
onto public streets. The Board of Public Works reviews and issues the driveway
permit in the city and shall be issued prior to the receipt of an improvement
location permit.
         (a)   State and federal highways. A State Department of Transportation
permit shall be required as a prerequisite to the driveway permit for all
driveway cuts onto state or federal highways.
         (b)   County roads. Streets located outside the corporate limits of
the city shall first get approval for driveway cuts from the County Planning
and Zoning Department.
      (4)   Measurement rules.
         (a)   Between driveway and street intersection. The distance between a
driveway and a street intersection shall be determined by measuring from the
edge of pavement of the driveway to the nearest right-of-way line of the street
that is parallel or mostly parallel to the driveway. This measurement shall be
taken at the right-of-way line of the street to which the driveway gains
access.
         (b)   Between driveways. The distance between driveways shall be
determined by measuring from the edge of pavement of one driveway to the
nearest edge of pavement of the other driveway at the right-of-way line of the
street to which the driveways gain access.
         (c)   Driveway width. The width of a driveway shall be determined by
measuring from one edge of the pavement to the other edge of the pavement at
the right-of-way line of the street to which the driveway gains access.
      (5)   Positioning.
         (a)   Alignment. The centerline of two driveways accessing an arterial
or collector street from opposite sides of the street shall align with each
another, or shall meet the applicable driveway separation requirements.
         (b)   Clear vision of driveways. All driveways shall be located to
reasonably prevent collisions with intersecting traffic.
            1.   Driveways gaining access to streets with a posted speed limit
of 30 mph or less shall be located such that they are visible by a driver for
at least 60 feet after cresting a hill, rounding a curve or passing any other
physical barriers that prevent clear vision.
            2.   Driveways gaining access to streets with a posted speed limit
of 35 mph to 45 mph shall be located such that they are visible by a driver for
at least 120 feet after cresting a hill, rounding a curve or passing any other
physical barriers that prevent clear vision.
            3.   Driveways gaining access to streets with a posted speed limit
of 50 mph or higher shall be located such that they are visible by a driver for
at least 200 feet after cresting a hill, rounding a curve, or passing any other
physical barriers that prevent clear vision.
         (c)   Additional separation. Either the Zoning Administrator or the
Engineer may deny a proposed driveway location or require additional separation
due to other safety concerns, including, but not limited to, width of the
public street, condition of the public street, lack of shoulder, natural or
human-made hazards, adverse shadowing from natural or human-made features, and
adverse drainage on or around the public street.
      (6)   Discretion. The Zoning Administrator, Engineer or Technical Review
Committee may determine if public improvements such as acceleration lanes,
deceleration lanes, passing blisters, wider shoulders or approaches, frontage
streets or other improvements are necessary. See public improvement standards.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.19)
   (B)   DW-02: agricultural driveway standards. This driveway standards
division (B) applies to the following zoning districts: AG; and IA. The
following standards apply.
      (1)   Separation.
         (a)   From street intersection. A driveway shall not be permitted to
be installed within 100 feet of any intersecting street (see “A” in the image
below).
         (b)   From another driveway. A driveway shall not be permitted to be
installed within 60 feet of another driveway (see “B” in the image below).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3541.png]
 
      (2)   Width. A driveway shall not exceed 30 feet in width.
      (3)   Materials. Asphalt, concrete, pavers, other durable paving
materials or gravel shall be acceptable driveway surface materials.
      (4)   Setback. All driveways shall be setback at least ten feet from side
property lines.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.20)
   (C)   DW-03: residential driveway standards. This driveway standards
division (C) applies to the following zoning districts: R1; R2; R3; and UR. The
following standards apply.
      (1)   Separation.
         (a)   From a street intersection. A driveway shall not be permitted to
be installed:
            1.   Within 150 feet of any intersecting street if access is along
an arterial or collector street;
            2.   Within 100 feet of any intersecting street if access is along
a local street; and
            3.   If the lot is not large enough to achieve the required
separation, then the driveway shall be installed at the location farthest from
the intersection.
         (b)   Between driveways. Unless a shared driveway is established, two
or more driveways shall not be permitted to be installed:
            1.   Within 100 feet of each another if access is along an arterial
or collector street (see “B” in the image below).
            2.   Within 16 feet of one another if access is along a local
street (see “B” in the image below).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3543.png]
 
      (2)   Width. A driveway shall be at least nine feet wide, but shall not
exceed ten feet per lane and 20 feet overall.
      (3)   Materials. Driveways shall consist of asphalt, concrete, pavers or
other durable paving material approved by the Zoning Administrator unless
located within the extra-territorial jurisdiction of the city, where gravel
shall be an acceptable driveway surface materials.
      (4)   Setback. Driveways shall be setback at least three feet from side
property lines unless a shared driveway is established.
      (5)   Shared driveway.
         (a)   Easement required. Shared driveways shall be permitted, but they
shall be placed in a shared driveway easement per §
165.388 (Easement Standards) or other legal mechanism but the lot shall have
the required frontage per §
165.277 (Lot Standards).
         (b)   Width. Shared driveways shall not exceed 20 feet in width.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.21)
   (D)   DW-04: non-residential driveway standards. This driveway standards
division (D) applies to the following zoning districts: PR; M1; M2; MP; UV; IS;
NC; LC; GC; OC; HC; EP; IC; I1; I2; AND HI. The following standards apply.
      (1)   Separation.
         (a)   From a street intersection. A driveway shall not be permitted to
be installed:
            1.   Within 150 feet of any intersecting street if access is along
an arterial or collector street (see “A” in the image below).
            2.   Within 100 feet of any intersecting street if access is along
a local street (see “A” in the image below).
            3.   If the lot is not large enough to achieve the required
separation, then the driveway shall be installed at the location farthest from
the intersection.
            4.   Under no circumstances shall a driveway be permitted within 60
feet of any street intersection.
         (b)   Between driveways. Two or more driveways shall not be permitted
to be installed:
            1.   Within 100 feet of one another if access is along an arterial
or collector street (see “B” in the image below); and
            2.   Within 45 feet of one another if access is along a local
street (see “B” in the image below).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3545.png]
 
      (2)   Width. A driveway shall be at least nine feet wide, but shall not
exceed ten feet per lane and 30 feet in overall width.
      (3)   Materials. Driveways shall consist of asphalt, concrete or other
non-porous material approved by the Zoning Administrator.
      (4)   Setback. Driveways shall be setback at least ten feet from side
property lines, except when division (D)(1)(a)3. above applies.
      (5)   Curbs. When curbs are established along the subject property, the
curb shall be extended to the property line from the edge of pavement for all
driveways, following the edge of the driveway.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.22)
§ 165.267 ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS.
   This environmental standards section applies to the following zoning
districts: PR; AG; IA; R1; R2; R3; UR; M1; M2; MP; UV; IS; NC; LC; GC; OC; CB;
HC; EP; IC; I1; I2; and HI. The intent of the environmental standards is to
protect the health, safety and welfare of residents by providing for the
protection of air, soil and water quality on a local level. The following
standards apply.
   (A)   Cross-reference. Some regulations related to environmental standards
are not included in this section. Please refer to the following sections for
additional information and regulations: see §
165.288 (Storage Tank Standards).
   (B)   Prohibitive geology. A development shall provide an engineered site
plan if it contains any of the following:
      (1)   Slope. Pre-development or post development slopes greater than 20%;
      (2)   Rock. Adverse rock formations;
      (3)   Soil. Adverse soils;
      (4)   Stability limitations:
         (a)   Has a low loading rate;
         (b)   Has a low weight-bearing strength; and
         (c)   Has any other feature which will significantly accelerate the
deterioration of a structure or significantly reduce the structure’s stability.
      (5)   Overcoming prohibitive geology. Structures may be permitted if an
engineered site plan is submitted and approved by the Technical Review
Committee.
   (C)   Air quality.
      (1)   Generally. A use shall not discharge fly ash, dust, smoke, vapors,
noxious toxic or corrosive matter or other air pollutants in such concentration
as to conflict with public air quality standards or be detrimental to humans,
animals, vegetation or property.
      (2)   Outdoor burners. Outdoor wood burners and corn burners shall not
discharge ash, smoke or fine particulate matter such that it is detectable
beyond the lot lines of the lot on which it is located. Development in the AG
District shall be exempt from this provision.
   (D)   Soil and water quality.
      (1)   Erosion control.
         (a)   Developments shall be in compliance with the city’s storm water
management ordinance, as codified in
Chapter 55 of this code of ordinances.
         (b)   Developments shall be in compliance with the filing requirements
for erosion control on construction sites as in 327 I.A.C. 15-5 (Rule 5), when
applicable.
         (c)   Sedimentation in adjoining surfaces, drainage systems and
watercourses caused from the development of a lot or use shall not be
permitted. If such sedimentation occurs, it shall be the responsibility of the
owner of the developed lot or use to remove the sedimentation.
      (2)   Fill. All fill materials shall be free of environmentally hazardous
materials. The Zoning Administrator or the city’s MS4 Coordinator may request
representative samples of the fill for testing purposes.
      (3)   Production. No use shall produce pollutants in such a quantity as
to pollute soils, water bodies, adjacent properties or conflict with public
water standards.
      (4)   Storage. No use shall accumulate within the lot, or discharge
beyond the lot lines, any waste, debris, refuse, trash, discarded construction
materials, discarded appliances, scrap metals or rotting wood that are in
conflict with applicable public health, safety and welfare standards unless
expressly permitted by this unified development chapter.
      (5)   Disposal. No waste materials such as garbage, rubbish, trash,
construction material, gasoline, oil, flammables, soils, tars, chemicals,
greases, industrial or agricultural waste or any other material of such nature,
quantity, obnoxiousness, toxicity or temperature that it may contaminate,
pollute or harm the waters or soils shall be deposited, located, stored or
discharged on any lot unless expressly permitted by this unified development
chapter.
   (E)   Environmental feature protective setback. Primary structures,
accessory dwellings, storage-based accessory structures and support based-
accessory structures shall be at least 25 feet from the delineated boundary of
a wetland or the edge of the water at normal pool of a lake, pond, creek,
stream or river.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.23)
§ 165.268 FENCE AND WALL STANDARDS.
   (A)   FW-01: general fence and wall standards. This fence and wall standards
division (A) applies to the following zoning districts: PR; AG; IA; R1; R2; R3;
UR; M1; M2; MP; UV; IS; NC; LC; GC; OC; CB; HC; EP; IC; I1; I2; and HI. The
intent of the fence and wall standards is to ensure neighborliness, visibility
and aesthetic quality; and to protect the health, safety and welfare of the
residents. The following standards apply.
      (1)   Cross-reference. Some regulations related to fence and wall
standards are not included in this section. Please refer to the following
sections and documents for additional information and regulations.
         (a)   Vision clearance. Fences and walls shall meet all vision
clearance standards in §
165.293 (Vision Clearance Triangle Standards).
         (b)   Covenants. Property owners within subdivisions are advised to
investigate applicable declaration of covenants which may impose greater
restrictions than are found in this unified development chapter. The stricter
standard of the two apply to lots with covenants.
      (2)   Permits. No permit shall be required for the installation of a
fence or wall when located within the building envelope (i.e., meets all
setbacks for primary structures).
      (3)   Positioning.
         (a)   Presentation. Fences and walls shall present the non-structural
face outward.
         (b)   Property line. Fences and walls shall be permitted on the
property line.
         (c)   Easement. No fence or wall shall be located within a public or
private easement unless written permission from the easement holder has been
granted.
      (4)   Maintenance. All fences and walls are required to be properly
maintained and kept in good condition.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.24)
   (B)   FW-02: parks and recreation fence and wall standards. This fence and
wall standards division (B) applies to the following zoning district: PR. The
following standards apply.
      (1)   Height. Fences and walls shall not exceed four feet in height when
located within 25 feet of any property line. All other fences shall not exceed
six feet in height.
      (2)   Height exceptions. Fences that surround swimming pools, sport
courts, sport fields and similar amenities that are also located within the
building envelope are allowed to be any height deemed necessary to protect
players, spectators, vehicles and adjacent property; or deemed essential to the
facility to conduct the sport, recreation, or game (i.e., a backstop behind
home plate in a baseball field or a wall for solo tennis practice).
      (3)   Types.
         (a)   Permitted materials. Wood, stone, masonry, wrought iron,
decorative metal and PVC shall be permitted fence and wall materials.
         (b)   Permitted materials for sport and recreation. Vinyl, zinc or
powder coated chain link, galvanized chain link, wood, stone, masonry, wrought
iron, decorative metal and PVC shall be permitted fence and wall materials for
surrounding swimming pools, sport courts, sport fields and similar amenities.
         (c)   Prohibited material. Fences and walls shall not incorporate
barbed wire, above ground electrified wires, razor wire, glass, sharpened top
spikes or similarly hazardous fence materials.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.25)
   (C)   FW-03: agricultural fence and wall standards. This fence and wall
standards division (C) applies to the following zoning districts: AG; and IA.
The following standards apply.
      (1)   Height. Fences and walls around a farmstead, not farm fields, shall
not exceed five feet in height in the front and side yards, and eight feet in
height in the rear yard. Containment fences for livestock, or fences around
farm fields shall not exceed six feet in height. Containment fences for
livestock or exotic animals that are at least 50 feet from all property lines
are allowed up to ten feet in height.
      (2)   Height exceptions. Fences that surround a swimming pool or sport
courts located within the building setbacks, and in the side or rear yard, are
allowed up to eight feet in height.
      (3)   Types.
         (a)   Permitted materials around a farmstead. Wood, stone, masonry,
wrought iron, decorative metal and PVC shall be permitted fence and wall
materials around a farmstead.
         (b)   Permitted materials for containment and farm fields. Vinyl, zinc
or powder coated chain link, galvanized chain link, chicken wire, wire mesh,
agricultural wire, wood, composite outdoor wood, stone, masonry, wrought iron,
decorative metal and PVC shall be permitted fence and wall materials for
containment and for around farm fields.
         (c)   Prohibited material. Except where used for containment purposes,
fences and walls shall not incorporate barbed wire or above ground electrified
wires. Razor wire, broken glass, sharpened top spikes and similarly hazardous
fence material are not permitted.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.26)
   (D)   FW-04: residential fence and wall standards. This fence and wall
standards division (D) applies to the following zoning districts: R1; R2; R3;
UR; M1; and M2. The following standards apply.
      (1)   Height.
         (a)   Front or side yard. Fences and walls in front or side yards
shall not exceed four feet in height.
         (b)   Rear yard. Fences and walls in rear yards shall not exceed six
feet in height when located between the property line and the building
envelope, or eight feet in height when located within the building envelope.
      (2)   Types.
         (a)   Permitted materials in front, side and rear yards. Vinyl, zinc
and powder coated chain link, wood, PVC, composite outdoor wood, stone,
masonry, wrought iron and decorative metal shall be permitted fence and wall
materials.
         (b)   Prohibited material. Fences and walls shall not incorporate
metal or plastic slats in chain link fences. Barbed wire, above ground
electrified wires, razor wire, broken glass, sharpened top spikes or similarly
hazardous fence material are not permitted.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.27)
   (E)   FW-05: manufactured home park fence and wall standards. This fence and
wall standards division (E) applies to the following zoning district: MP. The
following standards apply.
      (1)   Height.
         (a)   Perimeter fences. Fences and walls around the perimeter of a
manufactured home park shall not exceed four feet in height when installed
along a frontage road and six feet in height when located within ten feet of
the property line.
         (b)   Dwelling site fences. Decorative fences up to three and one-half
feet in height are allowed on a dwelling site, but they shall not enclose,
partially enclose or give the perception of being an enclosed dwelling site.
      (2)   Height exceptions. Fences that surround a community swimming pool
or sport court located within the applicable building envelope, and at least 50
feet from the public right-of-way of a perimeter street, are allowed up to
eight feet in height, otherwise the height limit shall be six feet.
      (3)   Types.
         (a)   Permitted materials in front and side yards. Vinyl, zinc or
powder coated chain link, wood, composite outdoor wood, stone, masonry, wrought
iron and decorative metal, shall be permitted fence and wall materials.
         (b)   Prohibited material. Fences and walls shall not incorporate
metal or plastic slats in chain link fences. Barbed wire, above ground
electrified wires, razor wire, broken glass, sharpened top spikes or similarly
hazardous fence material are not permitted.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.28)
   (F)   FW-06: Non-residential fence and wall standards. This fence and wall
standards division (F) applies to the following zoning districts: UV; IS; NC;
LC; GC; OC; HC; Ep; IC; I1; I2; and HI. The following standards apply.
      (1)   Height.
         (a)   Front and side yard. Fences and walls in the front yards or side
yards shall not exceed four feet in height and shall be decorative in
character.
         (b)   Rear yard. Fences and walls in the rear yard shall not exceed
eight feet in height and shall be associated with securing outdoor storage or
vehicles, or industrial uses. Otherwise, all fences or walls in rear yards
shall not exceed six feet in height.
      (2)   Height exceptions.
         (a)   Swimming pool or sport court. Fences that surround a swimming
pool or sport court located within the applicable building envelope, and at
least 50 feet from the public right-of-way of a perimeter street, are allowed
up to eight feet in height, otherwise the height limit shall be six feet.
         (b)   State or federal law. Fences required by state or federal law
shall be permitted to exceed eight feet in height, but shall not be greater
than the minimum height that meets said law.
      (3)   Types.
         (a)   Permitted materials in front and side yards. Wood, composite
outdoor wood, stone, masonry, wrought iron, vinyl, zinc and powder coated chain
link and decorative metal, shall be permitted fence and wall materials.
         (b)   Permitted materials in rear yards. Vinyl, zinc or powder coated
chain link, wood, composite outdoor wood, stone, masonry, wrought iron and
decorative metal, shall be permitted fence and wall materials.
         (c)   Prohibited material. Fences and walls shall not incorporate
metal or plastic slats in chain link fences. Barbed wire, above ground
electrified wires, razor wire, broken glass, sharpened top spikes or similarly
hazardous fence material are prohibited.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.29)
§ 165.269 FR-01: FIREWORKS RETAIL STANDARDS.
   This fireworks retail standards section applies to the following zoning
districts: GC; and HC. The intent of the fireworks retail standards is to
regulate the retail sale of fireworks to protect the health, safety and welfare
of the residents. The following standards apply.
   (A)   Location. Fireworks sales shall be located in a primary structure
equipped with an appropriately sized and charged sprinkler system.
   (B)   Separation. Fireworks sales shall not locate within a 100-foot radius
of a residential district, gasoline station, storage tank and any other land
use that contains highly flammable materials on-site. The distance is measured
from the nearest property line to nearest property line in all directions.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.30)
§ 165.270 FLOODPLAIN STANDARDS.
   (A)   This floodplain standards section applies to the following zoning
districts: PR; AG; IA; R1; R2; R3; UR M1; M2; MP; UV; IS; NC; LC; GC; OC; CB;
HC; EP; IC; I1; I2; and HI.
   (B)   The following standards apply. Cross- reference: see the city’s flood
hazard ordinance,
Chapter 155 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.31)
§ 165.271 HEIGHT STANDARDS.
   This height standards section applies to the following zoning districts: PR;
AG; IA; R1; R2; R3; UR; M1; M2; MP; UV; IS; NC; LC; GC; OC; CB; HC; EP; IC; I1;
I2; and HI. The intent of the height standards is to ensure adequate fire and
life-safety protection for taller structures, and to protect the health, safety
and welfare of the residents in the zoning jurisdiction of the city. The
following standards apply.
   (A)   Cross-reference. Telecommunication towers are not regulated by the
height standards. See telecommunication facility standards (§
165.290) for applicable height standards.
   (B)   Applicability. If a height standard does not appear on the layout for
a zoning district, then a standard does not apply to that particular zoning
district.
      (1)   Maximum structure height for a primary structure. The maximum
structure height for a primary structure shall be per the layout for the
applicable zoning district as found in §§
165.085 through
165.108.
      (2)   Maximum structure height for an accessory structure. The maximum
structure height for an accessory structure shall be per the layout for the
applicable zoning district as found in §§
165.085 through
165.108.
      (3)   Exceptions. When permitted, the following types of structures or
features shall be exempt or partially exempt from the maximum structure height
standards as described.
         (a)   Grain elevators and grain silos used for agricultural purposes
may exceed the maximum structure height, but shall not exceed 100 feet in
height.
         (b)   Barns used predominantly for agricultural purposes may exceed
the maximum structure height, but shall not exceed 50 feet in height.
         (c)   Church steeples, bell towers and religious symbols may exceed
the maximum structure height, but shall not exceed 200% of the height of the
existing or proposed primary structure.
         (d)   Functional chimneys may exceed the maximum structure height, but
shall not extend more than ten feet above the roof’s highest point, or as
required by the Indiana Building Code.
         (e)   Awnings shall be constructed to allow clear passage beneath the
awning. Specifically, no fabric, structural component, decorative element or
the like shall be less than eight feet above the surface beneath the awning.
         (f)   Public utility structures and private water towers may exceed
the maximum structure height, but shall not exceed 150 feet.
         (g)   Roof-mounted antennas that are not located on a front roof plane
may exceed the maximum structure height, but shall not exceed five feet over
the maximum structure height for a primary structure, per the applicable zoning
district, or ten feet above the primary structure’s height, whichever is less.
         (h)   Lattice or pole type towers used for an antenna, when located in
a rear yard, may exceed the maximum structure height, but shall not exceed 20
feet over the maximum structure height for a primary structure, per the
applicable zoning district, or 30 feet above the primary structure’s height,
whichever is less.
         (i)   Roof-mounted mechanical equipment, including elevator bulkheads,
may exceed the maximum structure height, but shall not extend any more than 15
feet above the roof’s highest point; provided that it is architecturally
integrated into the building’s features or is generally screened from view by
an architectural enclosure, parapet or similar feature. Industrial uses shall
be exempt from the integration and screening requirement.
         (j)   Flagpoles may exceed the maximum structure height, but shall not
exceed 30 feet, or ten feet above the height of the primary structure’s height,
whichever is greater.
         (k)   Ham radio towers shall be exempt from the maximum structure
height if the ham radio tower is located on a lot owned by a ham radio operator
that has a valid and active license from the Federal Communication Commission
(FCC).
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.33)
§ 165.272 HOME BUSINESS STANDARDS.
   The intent of the home business standards is to ensure the protection of the
health, safety and welfare of the residents in the zoning jurisdiction of the
city by allowing and regulating home businesses that have minimal impact on the
residential character of neighborhoods.
   (A)   HB-01: type 1 home business standards. This home business standards
division (A) applies to the following zoning districts: AG; IA; R1; R2; R3; UR;
M1; M2; MP; NC; and CB. The following standards apply.
      (1)   Permits. An improvement location permit for a Type 1 home business
shall not be required.
      (2)   Uses. The home business shall be clearly incidental and secondary
to the use of the dwelling unit as a residence.
      (3)   Personnel. No person other than occupants of the dwelling unit
shall be employed in the home based business.
      (4)   Operations.
         (a)   Nuisance. The Type 1 home business shall not generate offensive
noise, vibration, smoke, odors, dust, heat, glare or electrical disturbances.
         (b)   Traffic. The home business shall not generate vehicular traffic
in greater volumes than would normally be expected in the neighborhood in which
it is located.
         (c)   Customers. The home business shall not have patrons or customers
visit the home business.
         (d)   Hours. The hours of operation of the home business shall not
interfere with the use and enjoyment of adjacent properties.
      (5)   Design.
         (a)   Primary structure.
            1.   The home business shall be conducted entirely within the
primary structure, or off-site in a district which permits such use.
            2.   The home business shall not exceed 10% of the square footage
of the primary structure.
            3.   There shall be no visible evidence of the home business,
including, but not limited to, alterations to the exterior of the residence
which change the character of the residence, exterior displays or the outdoor
storage of materials or equipment used in the home business.
         (b)   Accessory structure. No accessory structure shall be utilized
for any part of the Type 1 home business.
         (c)   Parking and loading. Off-street parking and loading facilities
beyond what is common for a residential structure shall not be permitted.
         (d)   Mechanical equipment. The home business shall not require the
installation of mechanical equipment other than that which is common in a
residential structure.
         (e)   Utility service. The home business shall not require the
installation of a sewer, water or electrical utility service that is beyond
what is common in a residential structure. Exceeding typical phone, cable or
internet services for residential property shall be permitted.
         (f)   Signs. Signs shall not be permitted.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.34)
   (B)   HB:02: Type 2 home business standards. This home business standards
division (B) applies to the following zoning districts: AG; IA; R1; R2; R3; and
UR. The following standards apply.
      (1)   Permits. An improvement location permit for a Type 2 home business
shall be required.
      (2)   Uses. The home business shall be clearly incidental and secondary
to the use of the dwelling unit as a residence.
         (a)   Prohibited. The home business shall not include walk-in retail
or wholesale sales.
         (b)   Discretion. Businesses not specifically listed above shall be
interpreted by the Zoning Administrator as to whether the business shall be
permitted as a Type 2 home business.
      (3)   Personnel.
         (a)   Residency. The primary operator shall reside in the dwelling
unit where the home business is located.
         (b)   Employees. One employee who does not reside in the dwelling unit
where the home business is located may be employed at the home business.
      (4)   Operations.
         (a)   Nuisance. The home business shall not generate offensive noise,
vibration, smoke, odors, dust, heat, glare or electrical disturbances.
         (b)   Traffic. The home business shall not generate vehicular traffic
in greater volumes than would normally be expected in the neighborhood in which
it is located.
         (c)   Customers. The home business shall not generate visitors in the
form of patrons or customers in greater volumes than would normally be expected
in the neighborhood.
         (d)   Hours. The hours of operation of the home business shall be no
earlier than 6:00 a.m. and no later than 9:00 p.m., which applies to customers
and employees that do not reside in the dwelling unit where the home business
is located. The hours of operation of the home business shall not interfere
with the use and enjoyment of adjacent residential properties.
      (5)   Design.
         (a)   Primary structure.
            1.   The home business shall be conducted entirely within the
dwelling unit.
            2.   The home business shall not exceed 25% of the square footage
of the dwelling unit or 500 square feet, whichever is less.
            3.   There shall be no visible evidence of the home business,
including, but not limited to, alterations to the exterior of the dwelling unit
which change the character of the dwelling unit, exterior displays or the
outdoor storage of materials or equipment used in the home business.
         (b)   Accessory structure. No accessory structure shall be utilized
for any part of the home business.
         (c)   Parking and loading.
            1.   Off-street parking and loading facilities beyond what is
common for a residential structure shall not be permitted.
            2.   The home business shall not receive more than three deliveries
per week. Deliveries shall be made primarily between 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. by
a vehicle not larger than a box-style truck.
         (d)   Mechanical equipment. The home business shall not require the
installation of mechanical equipment other than that which is common in a
residential structure.
         (e)   Utility service. The home business shall not require the
installation of a sewer, water or electrical utility service that is beyond
what is common in a residential structure. Exceeding typical phone, cable or
internet services for residential property shall be permitted.
         (f)   Signs. One wall sign, not to exceed four square feet, shall be
permitted. The sign shall be permanently attached to the primary structure.
Signs in the yard shall not be permitted.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.35)
   (C)   HB-03: Type 3 home business standards. This home business standards
division (C) applies to the following zoning districts: AG; and IA. The
following standards apply.
      (1)   Permits. An improvement location for a Type 3 home business shall
be required.
      (2)   Permissible home businesses.
         (a)   Permitted. The home business shall be limited to assembly of
products, automobile repair, welding, contracting business, landscaping
business, light manufacturing or a similar use as determined by the Zoning
Administrator.
         (b)   Prohibited. The home business shall not include any kind of
walk-in retail sales.
         (c)   Discretion. Businesses not specifically listed above shall be
interpreted by the Zoning Administrator as to whether the business shall
permitted as a Type 3 home business.
      (3)   Personnel.
         (a)   Residency. The primary operator of the home business shall
reside in the dwelling unit on the same lot where the home business is located.
         (b)   Employees. Five employees who do not reside in the dwelling unit
where the home business is located may be employed by the home business.
      (4)   Operations.
         (a)   Nuisance. The home business shall not generate offensive noise,
vibration, smoke, odors, dust, heat, glare or electrical disturbances.
         (b)   Hours. The hours of operation of the home business shall be no
earlier than 6:00 a.m. and no later than 9:00 p.m., which applies to customers
and employees that do not reside in the dwelling unit where the home business
is located. The hours of operation of the home business shall not interfere
with the use and enjoyment of adjacent residential properties.
      (5)   Design.
         (a)   Primary structure.
            1.   The office component of the home business may be operated in
the dwelling unit.
            2.   The home business shall not exceed 5% of the square footage of
the dwelling unit.
            3.   There shall be no evidence of the home business from
alterations to the exterior of the residence. However, the character of the
property may show minimal evidence of its business use, including exterior
storage of materials, vehicles or equipment used in the home business.
         (b)   Accessory structure.
            1.   The home business shall be primarily conducted within an
accessory structure.
            2.   The home business may consume 100% of the square footage of
the accessory structure.
         (c)   Parking and loading.
            1.   Off-street parking and loading facilities beyond what is
common for the dwelling unit or agricultural use shall not be permitted.
            2.   There shall be no more than seven operable vehicles parked on
the lot at any time, not including those parked inside.
         (d)   Exterior storage.
            1.   Vehicles, trailers and other equipment used in the home
business shall be stored and/or parked in an organized manner that is in an
inconspicuous location.
            2.   All exterior storage shall be located behind the footprint of
the dwelling unit and behind or beside the accessory structure that is the
primary location of the home business.
            3.   All exterior storage shall be screened so it is nearly
invisible from any right-of- way.
         (e)   Mechanical equipment. The home business shall not require the
installation of industrial- grade mechanical equipment. Commercial-grade
mechanical equipment shall be permitted.
         (f)   Utility service. The home business shall not require the
installation of a sewer or water utility service beyond what is common in a
residential structure. Commercial-grade electrical services and exceeding
typical phone, cable or internet services for residential property shall be
permitted.
         (g)   Sign standards. One wall sign shall be permitted on the
accessory structure, or one ground sign shall be permitted in the front yard.
The wall sign or ground sign shall not exceed six square feet in area,
regardless of its distance from the street. If a ground sign, it shall not be
within 15 feet of the front property line or edge of pavement, nor within 15
feet from a side property line.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.36)
§ 165.273 KEEPING OF ANIMALS STANDARDS.
   (A)   KA-01: single-family residential keeping of household and outdoor pets
standards. This keeping of animals standards division (A) applies to the
following zoning districts: R1; R2; R3; UR; and M1. The following standards
apply.
      (1)   Exotic animals. Exotic animals shall not be permitted.
      (2)   Household pets (indoor). Any number of household pets are permitted
as defined.
      (3)   Outdoor pets.
         (a)   Generally. Outdoor pets are permitted as follows in division (A)
(3)(b) below.
         (b)   Maximum number of outdoor pets. One outdoor pet per one-fifth
acre with an absolute maximum of five.
      (4)   Farm animals. All farm animals shall be prohibited except chickens,
which are permitted as follows:
         (a)   Minimum lot area. One-fifth acre;
         (b)   Maximum number of farm animals. Three chickens per lot;
         (c)   Permitted and prohibited types. Hens shall be permitted and
roosters shall be prohibited; and
         (d)   Location. A chicken coop shall be permitted, but only in the
rear yard and within the setbacks applicable to a primary structure in the
subject zoning district.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.37)
   (B)   KA-02: multiple-family residential keeping of household and outdoor
pets standards. This keeping of animals standards division (B) applies to the
following zoning districts: M2; MP; NC; and CB. The following standards apply.
      (1)   Exotic animals. Exotic animals shall not be permitted.
      (2)   Household pets (indoor). Any number of household pets are permitted
as defined.
      (3)   Outdoor pets. Outdoor pets are not permitted.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.38)
   (C)   KA-03: agricultural keeping of farm animals standards. This keeping of
animals standards division (C) applies to the following zoning districts: AG;
and IA. The following standards apply.
      (1)   Exotic animals. One exotic animal is permitted per 25 acres.
      (2)   Household pets (indoor). Any number of household pets are permitted
as defined.
      (3)   Outdoor pets. Outdoor pets are permitted as follows:
         (a)   Minimum lot area. One-fifth acre; and
         (b)   Maximum number of outdoor pets. One outdoor pet per one-fifth
acre with an absolute maximum of six.
      (4)   Farm animals. Farm animals are permitted as follows:
         (a)   Minimum lot area. Five acres for all farm animals, except
chickens, which require one-fifth acre;
         (b)   Minimum pasture area. Two acres or all farm animals, except
chickens, which require one-fifth acre;
         (c)   Maximum animal units. One animal unit per two acres of fenced
pasture, except chickens, which shall not exceed five per lot when the lot area
is less than five acres, otherwise maximum animal units shall be as in the
below table.
         (d)   Determination of animal units. See table below.
 
Animal Type                            Animals Per Animal Unit
Cattle, buffalo and similar            1
Chicken, turkey, pheasant and similar  20
Goat, sheep, llama, alpaca and similar 5
Horse (34 inches or less at withers)   3
Horse, mule, donkey, camel and similar 1
Swine, ostrich, emu and similar        5
 
         (e)   Other animal types. The Zoning Administrator shall determine
“animals per animal unit” for all other species.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.39)
§ 165.274 KENNELS.
   (A)   KL-01: Commercial kennel standards. This kennel standards division (A)
applies to the following zoning districts. The following standards apply.
      (1)   Prerequisites.
         (a)   Minimum lot area. All commercial kennels shall be located on a
lot with a minimum of two acres.
         (b)   Minimum fenced yard. All commercial kennels shall maintain a
minimum one-eightieth acre (544.5 square feet) of outdoor fenced area for each
boarding unit for dogs on premises (i.e., the commercial kennel’s dog
capacity). As a minimum, all commercial kennels that provide services for dogs
shall have a one-quarter acre fenced area.
      (2)   Minimum main floor area. The commercial kennel shall have a
building with a minimum main floor area of 50 square feet per one domestic pet,
with an prerequisite minimum of 1,000 square feet. Newly constructed commercial
kennels, as well as commercial kennels to be located in an existing building
shall have a minimum capacity of 50 square feet of main floor area per one
domestic pet.
      (3)   Commercial kennel building. The building required in division (A)
(2) above shall be mechanically air conditioned and ventilated to eliminate the
need to open windows or doors during warm or hot days. Only the building used
to board or predominantly keep animals shall be subject to this requirement.
      (4)   Hours of operation. The commercial kennel may be staffed 24 hours
per day. The use of outdoor areas shall be limited to eight hours between which
shall be allocated between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. daily.
      (5)   Setback standards. All buildings and outdoor containment areas used
by the commercial kennel shall be a minimum of 100 feet from all property
lines.
      (6)   Noise containment. The commercial kennel shall keep all windows
closed 99% of each day and doors closed 90% of each day.
      (7)   Fence enclosures. All outdoor facilities for domestic pets shall be
fully fenced-in with vinyl, zinc or powder coated chain link fence, or similar
quality product. Invisible fences shall not constitute a sufficient barrier to
keep domestic pets contained or to prevent intrusion by other animals.
      (8)   Waste management. The animal waste shall be managed either by
composting, septic system, sanitary sewer or other method approved by the
County Health Department. The commercial kennel shall submit a waste management
plan to the County Health Department for consideration and determination of
waste management options.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.40)
   (B)   KL-02: home enterprise kennel standards. This kennel standards
division (B) applies to the following zoning district: AG. The following
standards apply.
      (1)   Prerequisites.
         (a)   Minimum lot area. All kennels shall be located on a lot with a
minimum of one acre.
         (b)   Minimum fenced yard. All kennels shall maintain a minimum one-
eightieth acre (544.5 square feet) of outdoor fenced area for each boarding
unit for dogs on premises (i.e., the kennel’s dog capacity).
      (2)   Maximum kennel size. The kennel facility shall not contain more
than six domestic pets that are not the owner of the property. However, no more
than ten domestic pets shall be kept on the property.
      (3)   Kennel building standards.
         (a)   Kennel location. The kennel shall be fully contained in a
dedicated space within the home, or in no more than one accessory structure.
         (b)   Minimum floor area. The kennel shall have a minimum floor area
of 50 square feet per one domestic pet, with a prerequisite minimum of 200
square feet.
         (c)   Kennel facility. The kennel facility shall be mechanically air
conditioned and ventilated to eliminate the need to open windows or doors
during warm or hot days. Only the building used to board or predominantly keep
animals shall be subject to this requirement.
         (d)   Noise containment. The kennel shall keep all windows closed 99%
of each day, and doors closed 90% of each day.
      (4)   Hours of operation. The maximum hours of operation (i.e., hours for
domestic pet owners to pick-up their animal) for the kennel shall be from 6:00
a.m. to 8:00 p.m. daily. The use of outdoor areas shall be limited to two hours
between 8:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. daily.
      (5)   Setback standards. All outdoor areas used by the kennel shall be a
minimum of 50 feet from all property lines.
      (6)   Fence enclosures. All outdoor facilities for domestic pets shall be
fully fenced-in with vinyl, zinc or powder coated chain link fence, or similar
quality product. Invisible fences shall not constitute a sufficient barrier to
keep domestic pets contained or to prevent intrusion by other animals.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.41)
§ 165.275 LIGHTING STANDARDS.
   This lighting standards section applies to the following zoning districts:
PR; AG; IA; R1; R2; R3; UR; M1; M2; MP; UV; IS; NC; LC; GC; OC; CB; HC; EP; IC;
I1; I2; and HI. The intent of the lighting standards is to protect the health,
safety and welfare of the residents within the zoning jurisdiction of the city
by permitting site and facade lighting that has minimal impact on adjacent
property. The following standards apply.
   (A)   Cross-reference.
      (1)   Parking lot lighting. See the parking standards in §§
165.325 through
165.332 for parking lot lighting requirements.
      (2)   Illumination of signs. See the sign standards in §§
165.345 through
165.353 for standards regarding the illumination of signs.
   (B)   Permits. A building permit shall be required for the installation of
lighting, and all light fixtures shall be installed in compliance with the
State Electrical Code.
   (C)   Applicability. The lighting standards apply to all site lighting,
security lighting, landscape lighting and facade-mounted lighting, but not
parking lot lighting or sign lighting. Although most site lighting, security
lighting, landscape lighting and facade lighting is located outside, this
section also applies to any lights mounted inside a structure that is intended
to provide lighting to outdoor spaces.
   (D)   Measurement rules. Measurements of light readings shall be taken at
any point along the property line of the subject property with a light meter
facing the center of the property at any height from the ground level to 35
feet above ground level.
   (E)   Types. All lighting fixtures and poles within a single development or
on a single lot shall be consistent in style, color, size, height and design.
      (1)   Permitted.
         (a)   Pole- and wall-mounted fixtures. Pole- and wall-mounted (e.g.,
wall packs) lighting shall be permitted when they are full-cutoff fixtures.
         (b)   Ground-mounted fixtures. Ground- mounted fixtures shall be
shielded as to greatly minimize light spilling upwards beyond what it is
intended for illumination. Also, the least amount of light necessary shall be
utilized when ground- mounted.
         (c)   Facade highlighting. Low voltage landscaping lighting and low
voltage up-lighting of structure facades and landscaping from ground-mounted
fixtures shall be permitted.
      (2)   Prohibited.
         (a)   Non-cutoff fixtures shall not be permitted.
         (b)   Strobe lights shall not be permitted.
      (3)   Exemptions.
         (a)   Sport field and sport court lighting. Sport field and sport
court lights shall be semi-cutoff or cutoff fixtures, shall not exceed 100 feet
in height and shall be shut-off by 10:00 p.m. Sunday through Thursday and 11:00
p.m. Friday through Saturday.
         (b)   Landscape lighting. Ground- mounted low voltage (i.e., DC)
landscape lighting systems shall be exempt.
         (c)   Recessed lighting. Recessed lighting in eaves with low voltage
or low wattage lighting shall be exempt.
         (d)   Low wattage lights. Low wattage carriage lights, ceiling-mounted
porch lights and dusk-to-dawn pole lights not greater than 15 feet in height
shall be exempt when the total number of said lights does not exceed five on
any single lot.
   (F)   Glare. Light fixtures shall be shielded to prevent glare on streets,
alleys and adjacent properties. Any structural part of the light fixture
providing this shielding shall be permanently affixed.
   (G)   Light trespass.
      (1)   Generally. The maximum allowable light at a property line shall be
five lux, with the following exception below.
      (1)   Adjacent commercial or industrial zoning districts. When the
subject property is located adjacent to a commercial zoning district or an
industrial zoning district, then the allowable light at the property line shall
be 20 lux, but only along the property lines that are adjacent to the specified
zoning districts. However, no light shall cross that adjacent commercial or
industrial property and reach a property line with a noncommercial or non-
industrial district with greater than five lux.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.50)
§ 165.276 LOADING STANDARDS.
   This loading standards section applies to the following zoning districts:
LC; GC; OC; CB; and HC. The intent of loading standards is to protect the
health, safety and welfare of the residents of the zoning jurisdiction of the
city by requiring loading berths to meet certain standards. The following
standards apply.
   (A)   Project applicability. The following loading standards only apply when
a project electively involves a loading docks.
   (B)   Design.
      (1)   Location.
         (a)   Loading docks shall be located so that they are inconspicuous
from public streets. If such a location is not possible, a loading dock clearly
visible from a public street shall be screened by solid structure walls and/or
landscape buffers.
         (b)   Loading docks shall have adequate area for trucks to maneuver in
and out of the facility. Trucks shall not block rights-of-way, streets, alleys,
aisles or other internal circulation when maneuvering into or docked at loading
docks.
      (2)   Surface materials. Loading docks shall be paved with asphalt or
concrete.
      (3)   Drainage. Loading docks shall be constructed to allow proper
drainage away from the structure.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.51)
§ 165.277 LOT STANDARDS.
   This lot standards section applies to the following zoning districts: PR;
AG; IA; R1; R2; R3; UR; M1; M2; MP; UV; IS; NC; LC; GC; OC; CB; HC; EP; IC; I1;
I2; and HI. The intent of the lot standards is to protect the health, safety
and welfare of the residents of the zoning jurisdiction of the city by
establishing area, width and frontage requirements for lots. The following
standards apply.
   (A)   Applicability. If a lot standard does not appear on the layout for a
zoning district, then the standard does not apply to that particular zoning
district.
      (1)   Minimum dwelling site area. The minimum dwelling site area shall be
per each layout in §§
165.085 through
165.108.
      (2)   Minimum dwelling site width. The minimum dwelling site width shall
be per each layout in §§
165.085 through
165.108.
      (3)   Minimum lot area. The minimum lot area shall be per each layout in
§§
165.085 through
165.108.
      (4)   Maximum lot area. The maximum lot area shall be per each layout in
§§
165.085 through
165.108.
      (5)   Minimum lot width. The minimum lot width shall be per each layout
in §§
165.085 through
165.108.
   (B)   Minimum lot frontage; general.
      (1)   Non cul-de-sac lots. The minimum lot frontage on a non cul-de-sac
lot shall be a minimum of 40 feet.
      (2)   Cul-de-sac lots. The minimum lot frontage for lots established on a
cul-de-sac shall be a minimum of 25 feet.
      (3)   Agriculture. The minimum lot frontage for lots in the AG or AI
District shall be 40 feet under all circumstances.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.52)
§ 165.278 MANUFACTURED HOUSING STANDARDS.
   This manufactured housing standards section applies to the following
district: MP. The intent of manufactured housing standards is to promote
quality and safe lease-lot manufactured home and mobile home developments. The
following standards apply.
   (A)   Permits. An improvement location permit shall be required for each
manufactured home dwelling and each mobile home dwelling prior to installation
on a dwelling site, and for all other primary or accessory structures on the
lot or dwelling sites.
   (B)   Design.
      (1)   Dwelling sites.
         (a)   Each dwelling site within a lease-lot development shall have
separate utility connections.
         (b)   Each dwelling site within a lease-lot development with four or
more dwelling sites shall have direct access onto a paved private street.
         (c)   No more than one dwelling shall be placed on a dwelling site.
         (d)   Each dwelling site within a lease-lot development shall be
considered a separate residence for all purposes such as taxing, assessing of
improvements, garbage collection and public utilities.
      (2)   Dwelling units.
         (a)   Each dwelling within a lease-lot development shall either:
            1.   Mobile home. Be placed and tied down on a concrete pad with
perimeter enclosure (i.e., skirting); or
            2.   Modular home. Be permanently mounted on a cinder block or
concrete foundation.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.53)
§ 165.279 OUTDOOR DINING STANDARDS.
   This outdoor dining standards section applies to the following districts:
NC; and CB. The intent of outdoor dining standards is to permit outdoor dining
in appropriate areas while maintaining pedestrian accessibility and
circulation, ensuring the safety of diners and restaurant servers, and
preserving or enhancing the character of the area. The following standards
apply.
   (A)   Prerequisite. Any establishment that wishes to have outdoor dining
partially or fully within the right-of-way shall first get approval from the
city’s Common Council. This approval is necessary because right-of-way is the
exclusive jurisdiction of the city’s Common Council. Therefore, the Zoning
Administrator, Plan Commission or Board of Zoning Appeals cannot process an
improvement location permit or other petition for this use within a right-of-
way without prior approval from the city’s Common Council.
   (B)   Permits. An improvement location permit shall be required prior to
establishing an outdoor dining area. A new permit shall not be required each
year unless changes are proposed in the outdoor dining area.
   (C)   Operations. Generally, outdoor dining is permitted from March 31
through December 1, and from 6:00 a.m. until 11:00 p.m. Sunday through Thursday
and 6:00 a.m. until 12:00 midnight Friday through Saturday.
   (D)   Design.
      (1)   Circulation and accessibility.
         (a)   All outdoor dining areas shall maintain a minimum four-foot wide
pedestrian circulation area along a public sidewalk. The pedestrian circulation
area shall be free of all obstacles including, but not limited to, tree wells,
fire hydrants, street light poles and newspaper boxes. This pedestrian
circulation area shall be maintained at all times.
         (b)   Outdoor dining areas shall not interfere with disability
accessibility, curbs, ramps or driveways.
         (c)   Portions of outdoor dining areas fronting a right-of-way may
have a pedestrian barrier enclosing the outdoor dining area except for ingress/
egress into the establishment. The pedestrian barrier shall meet all of the
following criteria.
            1.   Pedestrian barriers shall be sturdy, stable and have
sufficient weight so they cannot be blown over by wind.
            2.   Pedestrian barriers shall not be permanently attached or
bolted to the sidewalk, unless granted special permission from the Board of
Works.
            3.   Pedestrian barriers shall be at least 30 inches in height to
prevent tripping hazards.
            4.   Pedestrian barriers shall be removed and stored during the off
season, but not on the exterior of the building.
         (d)   Outdoor dining areas that do not front a right-of-way may have a
pedestrian barrier around at least 75% of the outdoor dining area. The
pedestrian barrier shall meet all of the following criteria.
            1.   Pedestrian barriers shall be constructed of wood, composite
wood, stone, masonry, wrought iron, decorative metal or a combination of these
materials.
            2.   Pedestrian barriers shall be permanently attached to the
ground.
            3.   Pedestrian barriers shall be at least 30 inches in height to
prevent tripping hazards.
         (e)   No element of the outdoor dining area shall interfere with
access to any structure.
      (2)   General.
         (a)   A sufficient number of trash containers shall be provided
outdoors and be readily accessible to outdoor diners. However, full service
establishments with outdoor dining areas shall not be required to provide
outdoor trash containers.
         (b)   There shall be no storage of food trays; carts; receptacles for
dirty dishes or trays; carts for utensils; or cooking appliances in any portion
of the outdoor dining area.
         (c)   There shall be no service stations in any portion of the outdoor
dining area.
      (3)   Furniture.
         (a)   To maintain a high quality environment, quality materials shall
be used for outdoor dining areas. Outdoor dining furniture and outdoor trash
containers shall be iron, steel, aluminum, wood or resin. Finishes on the
furniture and trash containers shall be kept relatively free of fading, chips
and rust.
         (b)   Umbrellas are permitted, but shall be flame retardant, color-
fast fabric with an anti-flyback feature.
         (c)   Outdoor dining furniture, trash containers and umbrellas shall
not incorporate signs.
         (d)   Outdoor dining furniture, trash containers and umbrellas shall
be stored during the off-season, but not on the exterior of the building.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.54)
§ 165.280 OUTDOOR DISPLAY AREA STANDARDS.
   (A)   DA-01: outdoor display area standards. This outdoor display area
standards division (A) applies to the following zoning districts: NC; LC; GC;
CB; and HC. The intent of the outdoor display area standards is to permit the
use of outdoor areas for display and sales of merchandise, but to ensure that
such displays are sensitive to the character of the district and do not
jeopardize the health, safety and welfare of the residents of the zoning
jurisdiction of the city. The following standards apply.
      (1)   Project applicability. Outdoor areas that a business or
organization wants to use on a regular basis for outdoor displays shall meet
the outdoor display area standards section.
      (2)   Permits. An improvement location permit shall be required when a
new outdoor display area is proposed. Once a permit is issued for an outdoor
display area, a new permit is not required each time the merchandise changes.
However, a new permit shall be required if the outdoor display area changes.
      (3)   Location.
         (a)   Accessibility. An outdoor display area shall not block any
sidewalk, accessibility ramp or driveway.
         (b)   Setbacks.
            1.   Front yard. An outdoor display area shall meet the primary
structure front yard setback standard identified in the applicable zoning
district in §§
165.085 through
165.108.
            2.   Side and rear yards. An outdoor display area shall meet the
accessory structure side yard and rear yard setbacks standard as identified in
the applicable zoning district in §§
165.085 through
165.108.
         (c)   Proximity to primary structure. An outdoor display area shall
meet at least one of the following proximity standards.
            1.   Every portion of an outdoor display area shall be 15 feet or
less from the front facade of the primary structure.
            2.   Every portion of an outdoor display area shall be 40 feet or
less from a side facade of the primary structure.
            3.   An outdoor display area shall meet the screen requirements in
division (A)(5) below.
      (4)   Size.
         (a)   Maximum area. The cumulative area of all outdoor display areas
shall not exceed 15% of the footprint of the primary structure or tenant space
to which the outdoor display area is associated.
         (b)   Maximum height.
            1.   When products are displayed within an enclosed temporary
structure, the enclosed temporary structure shall not exceed 15 feet in height.
            2.   Products displayed outside shall not exceed 12 feet in height
when located under a canopy or in a sales yard, otherwise all other outdoor
display areas shall not exceed six feet.
      (5)   Screening. When an outdoor display area is more than 15 feet from
the front facade of the primary structure or more than 40 feet from a side
facade of the primary structure, at least one of the following screening
mechanisms shall be installed.
         (a)   Ornate fence. An ornate fence that is four feet to eight feet in
height integrated into the design of the primary structure.
         (b)   Landscaping. A five-foot wide landscape buffer that consists of
one tree and one shrub for every ten feet of perimeter around the outdoor
display area. The trees and shrubs shall be permanently planted and may be
arranged creatively for aesthetic purposes, but shall reasonably screen the
outdoor display area.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.55)
   (B)   DA-02: outdoor commercial outdoor display area standards. This outdoor
display area standards division (B) applies to the following zoning district:
OC. The intent of the outdoor display area standards is to permit the use of
outdoor areas for display and sales of merchandise, but to ensure that such
displays are sensitive to the character of the district and do not jeopardize
the health, safety and welfare of the residents of the zoning jurisdiction of
the city. The following standards apply.
      (1)   Project applicability. Outdoor areas that a business or
organization wants to use on a regular basis for outdoor displays shall meet
the outdoor display area standards section.
      (2)   Permits. An improvement location permit shall be required when a
new outdoor display area is proposed. Once a permit is issued for an outdoor
display area, a new permit is not required each time the merchandise changes.
However, a new permit shall be required if the outdoor display area changes.
      (3)   Location.
         (a)   Accessibility. An outdoor display area shall not block any
sidewalk, accessibility ramp or driveway.
         (b)   Setbacks.
            1.   Front yard. An outdoor display area shall be setback at least
five feet from the front property line, sidewalk or street surface, whichever
results in a greater setback.
            2.   Side and rear yards. An outdoor display area shall be setback
at least ten feet from the side and rear property line.
         (c)   Proximity to primary structure. An outdoor display area does not
need to be within a specified proximity to a primary structure.
      (4)   Size.
         (a)   Maximum area. The cumulative area of all outdoor display areas
may cover up to 70% of the lot.
         (b)   Maximum height. Products displayed outside shall not exceed 14
feet in height when located on an asphalt or concrete surface, or on a physical
display (e.g., an apparatus used to display a vehicle or other merchandise).
      (5)   Screening. Not required.
      (6)   Restricted surfaces. Outdoor display of merchandise shall not occur
within a right-of-way, on grass, on gravel or on any other unimproved surface.
Additionally, driving aisles and customer parking areas shall not be impeded or
used for the display of merchandise.
      (7)   Orderliness. Merchandise displayed outdoors shall be arranged and
maintained in an orderly fashion as to look professional and organized.
Disorderly arrangements and placement shall be considered eyesores and blight,
and considered a violation of these standards.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.56)
§ 165.281 OUTDOOR STORAGE STANDARDS.
   The intent of outdoor storage standards is to protect the health, safety and
welfare and ensure neighborliness and aesthetic quality for the residents
within the city’s zoning jurisdiction.
   (A)   OS-01: general outdoor storage standards. This outdoor storage
standards division (A) applies to the following zoning districts: AG; R1; R2;
R3; UR; M1; M2; and MP. The following standards apply.
      (1)   Prohibited. The outdoor storage of equipment, product, supplies,
materials, machinery, building materials, waste or scrap, pallets and similar
materials shall not be permitted.
      (2)   Stored vehicles. Stored vehicles shall not encroach into a right-
of-way or block or impede an access easement, sidewalk or driving aisle.
      (3)   Recreational vehicles.
         (a)   Quantity. No more than one recreational vehicle shall be stored
outdoors or parked outdoors on a lot at any one time.
         (b)   Parking.
            1.   A recreational vehicle shall be stored or parked on a paved
surface in a rear yard or side yard of a lot such that no part of the
recreational vehicle projects into the front yard.
            2.   A recreational vehicle shall not be stored on the street in
front of or on the driveway of any lot for more than 48 hours in any 30- day
period.
         (c)   Use. At no time shall a stored recreational vehicle be occupied
for living, sleeping or home business purposes.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.57)
   (B)   OS-02: industrial outdoor storage standards. This outdoor storage
standards division (B) applies to the following zoning districts: IC; and I1.
The following standards apply.
      (1)   Industrial outdoor storage. Outdoor storage of vehicles, equipment,
product, supplies, materials, waste or scrap, pallets and the like shall be
permitted if all of the following conditions are met.
         (a)   Location. Outdoor storage areas shall be located in a side yard
or rear yard and shall be setback 30 feet from the property line, or the
setback required for an accessory structure, whichever results in a greater
setback.
         (b)   Screening. Outdoor storage areas shall be screened on all sides
with a solid fence or wall that is six feet tall, or eight feet tall if what is
stored is greater than six feet in height.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.54)
   (C)   OS-03: heavy industrial and high impact outdoor storage standards.
This outdoor storage standards division (C) applies to the following zoning
districts: I1; and HI.
      (1)   Generally. The following standards below apply.
      (2)   Industrial outdoor storage. Outdoor storage of vehicles, equipment,
product, supplies, materials, waste or scrap, pallets and the like shall be
permitted if all of the following conditions are met.
         (a)   Location.
            1.   When adjacent to an I2 or HI Districts. Outdoor storage areas
may be located in a front yard, side yard or rear yard and shall be setback 20
feet from the property line.
            2.   When adjacent to any other district. Outdoor storage areas may
be located in a front yard, side yard or rear yard and shall be setback 100
feet from the front lot line, and 50 feet from all other property lines, or the
minimum applicable setback required for an accessory structure, whichever
results in a greater setback.
         (b)   Screening. Not required.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.54)
§ 165.282 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   This performance standards section applies to the following zoning
districts: PR; AG; IA; R1; R2; R3; UR; MI; M2; MP; UV; IS; NC; LC; GC; OC; CB;
HC; EP; IC; I1; I2; and HI. The intent of the performance standards is to
protect the health, safety and welfare of residents of the zoning jurisdiction
of the city by establishing requirements for noise, vibration, odor and other
performance characteristics. The following standards apply.
   (A)   Cross-reference. See §
165.267 (Environmental Standards) for standards relating to air quality, water
quality and soil quality.
   (B)   Nuisance characteristics. No use shall exhibit obnoxious
characteristics to the extent that it constitutes a public nuisance. No use in
existence on the effective date of this unified development chapter shall be so
altered or modified to conflict with these standards.
      (1)   Electrical disturbance. No use shall cause electrical disturbance
adversely affecting radio, television or other equipment in the vicinity.
      (2)   Noise.
         (a)   No use shall produce noise that, when measured at any of the lot
lines, exceeds 70 decibels from 6:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. or 40 decibels from 9:00
p.m. to 6:00 a.m.
         (B)   Public safety sirens and related apparatus used solely for
public purposes shall be exempt from this standard.
      (3)   Vibration. No use shall cause vibrations or concussions detectable
beyond the lot lines without the aid of instruments.
      (4)   Odor. No use shall emit across the lot lines malodorous gas or odor
in such quantity as to be detectable at any point along the lot lines.
      (5)   Heat and glare. No use shall produce heat or glare in such a manner
as to be a nuisance or create a hazard noticeable from any point beyond the lot
lines.
   (C)   Fire protection. Firefighting equipment and prevention measures
acceptable to the Fire Department and any federal, state, county, city and/or
local authorities that may also have jurisdiction shall be readily available
and apparent when any activity involving the handling or storage of flammable
or explosive materials is conducted.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.67)
§ 165.283 PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS.
   This public improvement standards section applies to the following zoning
districts: PR; IA; R1; R2; R3; UR; M1; M2; MP; UV; IS; NC; LC; GC; OC; CB; HC;
EP; IC; I1; I2; and HI. The intent of the public improvement standards is to
protect the health, safety and welfare of the residents of the zoning
jurisdiction of the city by ensuring public facilities are adequate to serve
development. The following standards apply.
   (A)   Project applicability. Public improvements consistent with the
requirements of this unified development chapter shall be required when one of
the following conditions is met.
      (1)   New primary structure. An improvement location permit for a new
primary structure is obtained.
      (2)   Addition to primary structure. An improvement location permit for
an addition to the primary structure that adds 50% or more square footage is
obtained.
   (B)   Adequate public facilities. Development is permitted only if public
streets, public sidewalks, drainage facilities and public utilities are
adequate to serve the proposed development.
      (1)   Public streets.
         (a)   The Technical Review Committee or the Plan Commission may
require a traffic and street impact study to determine a proposed development’s
impact on public streets. If required, the city shall conduct or procure
services for a traffic and street impact study at the expense of the developer.
         (b)   Based on the results of the study, the Technical Review
Committee or the Plan Commission shall make a determination as to whether the
public street(s) will sufficiently accommodate the increased traffic generated
by the development.
            1.   If the public street(s) is (are) determined to be
insufficient, the Plan Commission may deny the development; or
            2.   The Plan Commission may approve the development with
mitigating conditions. The Technical Review Committee or the Plan Commission
may recommend off-site improvements such as acceleration lanes, deceleration
lanes, passing blisters, wider shoulders or approaches, frontage streets,
shared driveways or other improvements that will provide sufficient facilities
for the increased traffic from the proposed development.
      (2)   Public sidewalks. Public sidewalks shall be required along the edge
of the right-of-way, except when the Zoning Administrator determines the
development is agricultural in nature or the nearest existing public sidewalk
or trail is greater than 500 feet from the subject site. Any required public
sidewalks shall closely align with the existing sidewalks and meet or exceed
the city’s construction standards.
      (3)   Drainage facilities.
         (a)   Storm drainage collection, detention and retention facilities
shall have sufficient capacity to serve the development.
         (b)   If existing storm drainage facilities are not sufficient to
serve the development, the Plan Commission may deny the development or approve
the development with mitigating conditions. The Plan Commission, Technical
Review Committee, City Engineer, MS4 Coordinator or County Surveyor may
recommend off-site improvements that will provide sufficient facilities for the
increased runoff from the proposed development.
      (4)   Public utilities.
         (a)   Cross-reference. Requirements for when connection to municipal
sanitary sewer and water systems are in §
165.285 (Sewer and Water Standards).
         (b)   Sanitary sewer. The sanitary sewer collection system and
wastewater treatment facility shall have sufficient capacity to serve the
development. If the existing sanitary sewer collection system or wastewater
treatment facility does not have sufficient capacity to serve the development,
the Plan Commission may deny the development or approve the development with
mitigating conditions. The Plan Commission, Technical Review Committee or
appropriate utility representative may recommend off-site improvements that
will provide sufficient facilities for the increased demand in service from the
proposed development.
         (c)   Water. The public water supply and distribution system shall
have sufficient capacity to serve the development. If the public water supply
and distribution system does not have sufficient capacity to serve the
development, improvements that will provide sufficient facilities for the
increased demand in service from the proposed development shall be required
prior to approval of the development. The Plan Commission, Technical Review
Committee or appropriate utility representative may recommend improvements.
   (C)   Guarantees. When mitigating conditions are required, the developer may
be required to post performance and maintenance guarantees for such
improvements.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.68)
§ 165.284 SETBACK STANDARDS.
   The intent of the setback standards is to protect the health, safety and
welfare of residents of the zoning jurisdiction of the city by requiring
structures to meet certain setbacks.
   (A)   SB-01: general setback standards. This setback standards division (A)
applies to the following zoning districts: PR; AG; IA; R1; R2; R3; UR; M1; M2;
MP; UV; IS; NC; LC; GC; OC; CB; HC; EP; IC; I1; I2; and HI. The following
standards apply.
      (1)   Cross-reference. For setback standards related to outdoor display
areas, see §
165.280(A) (Outdoor Display Area Standards).
      (2)   Applicability. If a setback standard does not appear on the layout
for a zoning district, then the standard does not apply to that particular
zoning district.
         (a)   Minimum dwelling site front setback. The minimum dwelling site
front setback shall be per each layout in §§
165.085 through
165.108.
         (b)   Minimum dwelling site side setback. The minimum dwelling site
side setback shall be per each layout in §§
165.085 through
165.108.
         (c)   Minimum dwelling site rear setback. The minimum dwelling site
rear setback shall be per each layout in §§
165.085 through
165.108.
         (d)   Minimum front setback.
            1.   The minimum front setback shall be as per each layout in §§
165.085 through
165.108.
            2.   Where a subdivision has been platted and substantially built-
out utilizing a front setback less than that required by §§
165.085 through
165.108, an infill lot may utilize the average setback as defined in §
165.003.
         (e)   Minimum side setback.
            1.   The minimum side setback shall be as per each layout in §§
165.085 through
165.108.
            2.   Where a subdivision has been platted and substantially built-
out utilizing a side setback less than that required by §§
165.085 through
165.108, an infill lot may utilize the average setback as defined in §
165.003.
         (f)   Minimum rear setback.
            1.   The minimum rear setback shall be as per each layout in §§
165.085 through
165.108.
            2.   Where a subdivision has been platted and substantially built-
out utilizing a rear setback less than that required by §§
165.085 through
165.108, an infill lot may utilize the average setback as defined in §
165.003.
      (3)   Exceptions. The following types of structures, features or land
uses are exempt or partially exempt from the setback standard as stated.
         (a)   Signs. Signs are exempt from the setbacks in this section, but
shall abide by the applicable sign standards.
         (b)   Telecommunication towers. Telecommunication towers are exempt
from the setbacks in this section, but shall abide by the §
165.290 (Telecommunication Facility Standards).
         (c)   Architectural features. Cornices, eaves, sills, canopies, bay
windows, bow windows or similar features shall be permitted to encroach into a
required front yard, side yard and/or rear yard setback not more than three
feet. However, these items shall never be closer than three feet to the
property line.
         (d)   Awnings. Awnings shall be permitted to encroach into a required
front, side and/or rear setback not more than four feet, but shall not be
closer than three feet to the property line except in the CB District. (See §
165.350 (Parks, Neighborhood and Limited Commercial and Central Business Sign
Standards for standards relating to the projection of awnings in CB
Districts).)
         (e)   Chimneys. Chimneys shall be permitted to extend into a required
setback not more than two feet. However, chimneys shall never be closer than
three feet to the property line.
         (f)   Fences and walls. Fences and walls shall be exempt from the
setbacks in this section, but shall abide by the applicable fence and wall
standards.
         (g)   Driveways. Driveways are exempt from setbacks in this section,
but shall abide by the side yard setbacks established by the applicable
driveway standards.
         (h)   Parking lots.
            1.   In commercial, institutional and industrial zoning districts,
parking lots may encroach into the front, side and rear yard setbacks for a
primary structure by the amounts in division (A)(3)(h)2. below.
            2. Front yards: parking lots may project into a front yard by 25%
of the minimum front yard setback, unless a specific setback for parking lots
is designated in the zoning district.
         (i)   Utility poles, lines and junction boxes. Utility poles, lines
and junction boxes shall be exempt from the setbacks in this section.
         (j)   Trash receptacles. Trash receptacles shall meet the setback
standards in §
165.292 (Trash Receptacle Standards).
         (k)   Stairs or open platform. Stairs or an open platform or landing
which does not extend above the level of the floor elevation of the first floor
of the structure shall be permitted to extend into a required front, side and/
or rear setback not more than four feet. However, these items shall never be
closer than three feet to the side property line or ten feet to the front or
rear property line.
         (l)   Storage tanks. Storage tanks shall be exempt from the setbacks
in this section, but shall comply with the setbacks established by the
applicable storage tank standards.
         (m)   Porch. A porch shall be permitted to encroach into a required
front yard, side yard and/or rear yard setback, but not by more than six feet.
         (n)   Deck. A deck shall be permitted to encroach into a required side
yard and/or rear yard setback by not more than ten feet. Under no circumstances
shall a deck be closer than three feet from a property line.
      (4)   Environmental features. A twenty-five- foot setback shall be
maintained between a structure and environmental feature, including: wetland,
floodplain, recreation pond and retention pond.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.69)
   (B)   SB-02: intense agriculture setback standards. This setback standards
division (B) applies to the following zoning district: IA. The following
standards apply.
      (1)   Exceptions. The following types of structures or features in
division (B)(2) below are exempt or partially exempt from the setback standard
as stated.
      (2)   Single-family detached. A single-family detached dwelling, when on
the same lot as a confined feeding operation, shall be subject to the
following:
         (a)   Front yard setback. 100 feet;
         (b)   Side yard setback. 100 feet; and
         (c)   Rear yard setback. 100 feet.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.70)
§ 165.285 SEWER AND WATER STANDARDS.
   This sewer and water standards section applies to the following zoning
districts: PR; AG; IA; R1; R2; R3; UR; M1; M2; MP; UV; IS; NC; LC; GC; OC; CB;
HC; EP; IC; I1; I2; and HI. The intent of the sewer and water standards is to
protect the health, safety and welfare of the residents of the zoning
jurisdiction of the city by specifying the type of utility connections
required.
   (A)   Generally. The following standards apply.
   (B)   Applicability. If the below listed sewer and water standard does not
appear on the layout for a zoning district, then it does not apply to that
particular zoning district.
      (1)   Sewer.
         (a)   Connection to sanitary sewer utility. Connection to a sanitary
sewer utility shall be per each layout in §§
165.085 through
165.108. Details about the terminology on the layouts is as follows.
            1.   Required. Connection to the city’s municipal sanitary sewer
system shall be required.
            2.   Required where available. Connection to the city’s municipal
sanitary sewer system shall be required when access to the municipal sanitary
sewer system is available within 300 feet or less of the property line.
            3.   Municipal or privately-owned sewer utility required. A
connection to either the city’s municipal sanitary sewer system or a privately-
owned sanitary sewer system shall be required.
         (b)   Cross-reference. Service and connections to the city’s municipal
sanitary sewer systems shall comply with
Chapter 58 of the city’s code of ordinances.
      (2)   Water.
         (a)   Connection to the Indiana American Water Company’s water system
shall be per each layout in §§
165.085 through
165.108.
         (b)   Details about the terminology on the layouts is as follows.
            1.   Required. Required means a connection to the Indiana American
Water Company’s water system shall be required.
            2.   Required where available. Required where available means a
connection to the Indiana American Water Company’s water system shall be
required when access to the water system is available within 300 feet or less
of the property line.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.71)
§ 165.286 SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS STANDARDS.
   This sexually-oriented business standards section applies to the following
zoning district: LC. The intent of the sexually-oriented business standards is
to protect the health, safety and welfare of the residents of the zoning
jurisdiction of the city by regulating the proximity of sexually-oriented
businesses to certain other current and future land uses. The following
standards apply.
   (A)   Permits. Sexually-oriented businesses shall obtain an improvement
location permit prior to establishing the business.
   (B)   Measurement rules. Separation distances shall be measured in a
straight line from the closest points between property lines, without regard to
intervening structures or objects.
   (C)   Separation. Sexually-oriented businesses shall have the following
separation requirements.
      (1)   Similar businesses. Sexually-oriented businesses shall be separated
from other sexually- oriented businesses by at least 1,000 feet.
      (2)   Residential districts. Sexually-oriented businesses shall be
separated from residential zoning districts by at least 1,000 feet.
      (3)   Public gathering places. Sexually- oriented businesses shall be
separated from schools, parks, playgrounds, libraries, places of worship, day
care centers, government offices and similar public gathering places by at
least 1,000 feet.
   (D)   Design. Parking:
      (1)   Parking lots shall not accommodate parking for semi tractor
trailers; and
      (2)   Overnight parking shall not be permitted.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.72)
§ 165.287 SPECIAL EXCEPTION STANDARDS.
   This special exception standards section applies to the following zoning
districts: PR; AG; IA; R1; R2; R3; UR; M1; M2; MP; UV; IS; NC; LC; OC; CB; HC;
EP; IC; I1; I2; and HI. The intent of the special exception standards is to
protect the health, safety and welfare of the residents of the zoning
jurisdiction of the city by ensuring the most appropriate development standards
are applied to special exception requests. The following standards apply.
   (A)   Cross-reference. The approval process and criteria for special
exceptions is in §§
165.455 through
165.470 (Processes).
   (B)   Applicable development standards.
      (1)   Generally. The development standards assigned to each zoning
district are considered appropriate for the permitted uses within that zoning
district. However, the development standards may not be appropriate for all
special exception uses within a zoning district. For instance, some
institutional uses are allowed in residential zoning districts as special
exceptions. In this case, residential development standards would not
necessarily be applicable.
      (2)   Determining appropriate development standards.
         (a)   The Zoning Administrator shall determine which development
standards sections within §§
165.260 through
165.294,
165.305 through
165.312,
165.325 through
165.332 and
165.345 through
165.353 shall apply to each special exception application. The development
standards determined to apply shall be documented in the application and
approval.
         (b)   If the special exception use is a permitted use within another
zoning district, the development standards for that zoning district shall be
used as a guideline. In situations where the special exception use is not a
permitted use in any zoning district, the most stringent development standards
may be assigned by the Zoning Administrator as appropriate.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.82)
§ 165.288 STORAGE TANK STANDARDS.
   The intent of this storage tank standards section is to protect the health,
safety and welfare of the residents of the zoning jurisdiction of the city by
requiring outdoor storage tanks to meet certain criteria.
   (A)   SR-01: residential, neighborhood commercial and central business
storage tank standards.
      (1)   Generally. This storage tank standards division (A) applies to the
following zoning districts: R1; R2; R3; UR; M1; M2; MP; NC; and CB. The
following standards apply.
      (2)   Prohibited. Outdoor storage tanks or drums shall not be permitted,
except for fuel oil and LP gas tanks used for home energy (e.g., heating).
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.83)
   (B)   SR-02: parks and recreation storage tank standards. This storage tank
standards division (B) applies to the following zoning district: PR. The
following standards apply.
      (1)   Project applicability. Any new outdoor storage tanks or drums
installed after the effective date of this unified development chapter shall be
permitted if all of the following standards are met.
      (2)   Permits. An improvement location permit shall be required prior to
the installation of new outdoor storage tanks or drums.
      (3)   Prerequisite criteria. No liquid or gas fuel shall be stored in
bulk above ground, except tanks or drums connected directly to energy
generating devices or heating appliances located and operated on the same lot
as the tanks or drums.
      (4)   Setbacks.
         (a)   Front yard. Outdoor storage tanks and drums shall not be
permitted in front yards.
         (b)   Side and rear yard. Outdoor storage tanks and drums shall be
setback at least 30 feet from side and rear property lines.
         (c)   Structures. Outdoor storage tanks and drums shall be setback at
least 30 feet from primary structures and 15 feet from accessory structures.
      (5)   Quantity. No lot shall have more than two outdoor storage tanks or
drums.
      (6)   Cross-reference. Outdoor storage tanks and drums shall meet all
applicable state and federal regulations.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.84)
   (C)   SR-03: non-residential storage tank standards. This storage tanks
standards division (C) applies to the following zoning districts: AG; IA; UV;
IS; LC; GC; OC; HC; EP; IC; I1; I2; and HI. The following standards apply.
      (1)   Project applicability. Any new outdoor storage tanks or drums
installed after the effective date of this unified development chapter shall be
permitted if all of the following standards are met.
      (2)   Permits. An improvement location permit shall be required prior to
the installation of new outdoor storage tanks or drums.
      (3)   Setbacks.
         (a)   Front yard. Outdoor storage tanks and drums shall not be
permitted in front yards.
         (b)   Side and rear yard. Outdoor storage tanks and drums shall be
setback at least 30 feet from side and rear property lines.
         (c)   Structures. Outdoor storage tanks and drums shall be setback at
least 30 feet from primary structures and 15 feet from accessory structures.
      (4)   Cross-reference. Outdoor storage tanks and drums shall meet all
applicable state and federal regulations.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.85)
§ 165.289 STRUCTURE STANDARDS.
   (A)   This structure standards section applies to the following zoning
districts: PR; AG; IA; R1; R2; R3; UR; M1; M2; MP; UV; IS; NC; LC; GC; OC; CB;
HC; EP; IC; I1; I2; and HI. The intent of the structure standards section is to
protect the health, safety and welfare of the residents of the zoning
jurisdiction of the city and the character of each zoning district by
regulating the quantity of primary structures on a lot.
   (B)   (1)   Generally. The following standards apply.
      (2)   Applicability. The maximum allowable number of primary structures
shall be one unless indicated otherwise on the applicable layout in §§
165.085 through
165.108.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.86)
§ 165.290 TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITY STANDARDS.
   This telecommunication facilities standards section applies to the following
zoning districts: PR; AG; IS; CB; HC; EP; IC; I1; I2; and HI. The intent of the
telecommunication facility standards section is to protect the health, safety
and welfare of the residents of the zoning jurisdiction of the city by allowing
for the provision of adequate and reliable public and private telecommunication
service while minimizing the adverse, undesirable visual effects of such. The
following telecommunication facility standards shall apply.
   (A)   Permits. An improvement location permit shall be required prior to the
construction, erection, placement, modification or alteration of a
telecommunication facility. See §§
165.455 through
165.470 (Processes).
   (B)   Location.
      (1)   Accessory utility structures. The accessory utility structures of
telecommunication facilities shall meet the minimum front yard setback, minimum
side yard setback and minimum rear setback requirements in the appropriate
layouts in §§
165.085 through
165.108.
      (2)   Towers.
         (a)   Front yard setback. Telecommunication towers shall be set back
from any right-of-way a minimum distance equal to 50% of the tower height,
including all antennas and attachments.
         (b)   Side and rear yard setback. Telecommunication towers shall be
set back from the side and rear property lines a minimum distance equal to 50%
of the tower height, including all antennas and attachments.
         (c)   Primary structure. Telecommun- ication towers shall not be
located between the primary structure and a public street.
         (d)   Boundaries of residential zoning district. Telecommunication
towers shall not be located within the boundaries of any residential zoning
district, and shall be set back from the boundaries of any residential zoning
district a minimum distance equal to 110% of the tower height.
   (C)   Design.
      (1)   Project applicability. Proposed or modified telecommunication
towers and antennas shall meet the design requirements below.
      (2)   Height.
         (a)   Telecommunication towers shall not exceed 199 feet in height.
         (b)   All other utility structures and antennas shall meet the height
standards in the appropriate layouts in §§
165.085 through
165.108 and in §
165.271 (Height Standards).
      (3)   Appearance. Towers and antennas shall be designed to blend into the
surrounding environment through the use of color and camouflaging architectural
treatment, except in an instance where the color is dictated by state or
federal authorities such as the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA).
      (4)   Monopole design. Towers shall be of a monopole design, unless the
Board of Zoning Appeals determines an alternative design would better blend in
with the surrounding environment.
      (5)   Collocation. Any proposed telecommunication tower shall be designed
structurally, electrically and in all respects to accommodate both the
applicant’s antennas and comparable antennas for the following.
         (a)   A minimum of one additional user if the telecommunications tower
is between 60 and 100 feet in height.
         (b)   A minimum of two additional users if the telecommunications
tower is 100 feet or more in height.
      (6)   Accessory utility structures. All utility structures needed to
support a telecommunications tower shall be architecturally designed to blend
in with the surrounding environment.
      (7)   Fence enclosure. Telecommunication facilities and all accessory
utility structures shall be protected by a security fence that shall be at
least six feet tall.
      (8)   Screening. A live evergreen screen consisting of shrubs, planted
three feet on-center maximum or a row of evergreen trees planted a maximum of
ten feet on-center shall be planted around the entire telecommunication
facility and each of the guy wires and anchors, if used. The height of all
plants at the time of planting shall be no less than five feet.
      (9)   Lighting. Telecommunication facilities shall not be illuminated by
artificial means and shall not display strobe lights, except when it is
dictated by state or federal authorities such as the Federal Aviation
Administration (FAA).
      (10)   Signs. The use of any portion of a telecommunication facility for
the posting of any signs or advertisements of any kind, other than warning or
equipment information signs, shall not be permitted.
   (D)   Construction standards. All telecommunication facilities shall be
subject to inspection by the Building Commissioner and Zoning Administrator
during the construction process.
      (1)   Easements. If an easement is required for location of a
telecommunication facility on the property, the easement shall be staked by a
licensed and registered Indiana land surveyor so as to provide proof the
facility has been constructed within the easement.
      (2)   Footers. Footing inspections shall be required by the Building
Commissioner for all telecommunication facilities having footings.
      (3)   Electrical standards. All telecommunication facilities containing
electrical wiring shall be subject to the provisions of the State Electric
Code, as amended.
   (E)   Inspection of towers. The following shall apply to the inspection of
telecommunications facilities.
      (1)   Frequency. Towers may be inspected at least once every five years,
or more often as needed to respond to complaints received, by the Zoning
Administrator, Building Commissioner and/or a registered, professional engineer
to determine compliance with the original construction standards.
      (2)   Investigation. The Zoning Administrator and the Building
Commissioner may enter onto the property to investigate the matter and may
order the appropriate action to bring the facility into compliance.
      (3)   Violations. Notices of violation will be sent in accordance with §§
165.500 through
165.514 and
165.999 (Enforcement and Penalties) for any known violation on the
telecommunication facility.
   (F)   Abandoned towers. Any tower unused or left abandoned for six months
shall be removed by the property owner at its expense. Should the property
owner fail to remove the tower after 30 days from the date a notice of
violation is issued, the city may remove the tower and bill the property owner
for the costs of removal and cleanup of the site.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.87)
§ 165.291 TEMPORARY USE AND STRUCTURE STANDARDS.
   The intent of temporary use and structure standards is to protect the public
health, safety and welfare of the residents of the zoning jurisdiction of the
city by establishing standards for temporary uses and temporary structures.
   (A)   TU-01: general temporary use and structure standards. The temporary
use and structure standards in this division (A) applies to the following
zoning districts: PR; AG; IA; R1; R2; R3; UR; M1; M2; MP; UV; IS; NC; LC; GC;
OC; CB; HC; EP; IC; I1; I2; and HI. The following standards apply.
      (1)   Cross-reference. See sign standards (§§
165.345 through
165.353) for temporary sign standards.
      (2)   Permits. A temporary improvement location permit shall be obtained
prior to establishing the temporary use or structure except as indicated
otherwise in this section.
      (3)   Types.
         (a)   Fund-raising events. Fund-raising events (e.g., pancake
breakfast, fish fry and car wash) shall be permitted and shall be exempt from
obtaining a temporary improvement location permit if the duration of the event
is less than 24 hours over a two- day period.
         (b)   Garage and yard sales. Garage and yard sales shall be permitted
and shall be exempt from obtaining a temporary improvement location permit and
shall follow all guidelines established in §§
115.001 and
115.002 of this code of ordinances.
         (c)   Portable storage. Portable storage (e.g., PODS) units shall be
permitted as described below.
            1.   Permit. Portable storage units shall be exempt from obtaining
a temporary improvement location permit if the portable storage unit is not
located on the lot for more than:
               a.   Residential district. Fourteen cumulative days per calendar
year;
               b.   Parks or institutional district. Thirty cumulative days per
calendar year;
               c.   Commercial. Thirty cumulative days per calendar year; and
               d.   Agriculture and industrial. One hundred and twenty
cumulative days per calendar year.
            2.   Extension. An extension to the maximum duration shall only be
considered and approved by the Zoning Administrator. This extension is fully
discretionary. If an extension is granted, it shall require a new temporary
improvement location permit.
            3.   Location. Portable storage units shall be located as follows:
               a.   Parks or institutional district. Side yard or rear yard,
whichever is least visible from public view; and
               b.   Commercial. Rear yard only and shall meet the accessory
structure standards.
         (d)   Portable storage exemption. A lot where a building permit has
been issued may utilize portable storage units without permit and for the
duration of construction (i.e., until occupancy permit has been issued).
         (e)   Portable storage unit restrictions. A portable storage unit
shall not exceed eight feet six inches in height, ten feet in width and 20 feet
in length.
      (4)   Termination. Temporary uses shall be terminated and structures
removed at the end of the permitted event period.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.88)
   (B)   TU-02: roadside sales of produce standards. The temporary use and
structure standards in this division (B) applies to the following zoning
districts: PR; and AG.
      (1)   Generally. The following standards in division (B)(2) below apply.
      (2)   Roadside sales of produce. The roadside sales of farm produce shall
be permitted if the following conditions are met.
         (a)   Grown on-site. Eighty percent of the produce offered for sale
shall be grown on the same lot the where the roadside sales is located.
         (b)   Sales stand. The sales stand shall be portable or seasonal
construction, shall comply with the provisions of §
165.293 (Vision Clearance Triangle Standards), and shall be removed so as to
observe the setback line for accessory structures when not in use.
         (c)   Parking. The roadside sales of produce shall be arranged so that
parking does not block any right-of-way.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.89)
   (C)   TU-03: model home standards. The temporary use and structure standards
in this division (C) applies to the following zoning districts: R1; R2; R3; and
M1.
      (1)   Generally. The following standards in division (C)(2) below apply.
      (2)   Model homes. Model homes, apartments and condominiums that contain
a sales office shall be permitted with the following requirements.
         (a)   Duration. The duration of a temporary improvement location
permit for a model home, apartment or condominium shall be three years and may
be renewed annually after the initial three-year period.
         (b)   Location. Model homes, apartments and condominiums shall be on
the site of the development for which the sales are taking place.
         (c)   Parking. The model home, apartment or condominium shall provide
the required parking in parking standards for the applicable district.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.90)
   (D)   TU-04: farmer’s market standards. The temporary use and structure
standards in this division (D) applies to the following zoning districts: IS;
NC; LC; and CB.
      (1)   Generally. The following standards in division (D)(2) below apply.
      (2)   Farmer’s market. Farmer’s markets shall be permitted and exempt
from obtaining a temporary improvement location permit provided the following
standards are met.
         (a)   Duration. The farmer’s market shall occur on a regular basis, no
more than twice per week, for a period not to exceed seven months per calendar
year.
         (b)   Location. The farmer’s market shall consists of vendors
transporting produce and products to the site of the farmer’s market, setting
up tables or booths, and removing all produce, products, tables and booths at
the end of the day.
         (c)   Parking. One parking space shall be required for every vendor
space in a farmer’s market. The required parking spaces shall be within 600
feet of the farmer’s market and may include on street parking spaces and public
parking lots.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.91)
   (E)   TU-05: sale of seasonal items standards. The temporary use and
structure standards in this division (E) applies to the following zoning
districts: NC; LC; GC; OC; CB; HC; and IC.
      (1)   Generally. The following standards in division (E)(2) below apply.
      (2)   Sale of seasonal items. The sale of seasonal items such as
Independence Day fireworks, Christmas trees and Halloween pumpkins shall be
permitted if the following standards are met.
         (a)   Duration. The duration of a temporary improvement location
permit for the sale of seasonal items shall be no more than 45 days. All unsold
merchandise shall be removed within five days after the expiration of the
temporary improvement location permit.
         (b)   Location.
            1.   The sale of seasonal items shall be on a lot that fronts a
collector or arterial street.
            2.   The sale of seasonal items shall be at least 50 feet from
residential zoning districts.
         (c)   Additional requirements. The sale of seasonal items shall comply
with all requirements of applicable state laws.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.92)
   (F)   TU-06: food truck standards. The temporary use and structure standards
division (F) applies to the following zoning districts: LC; GC; OC; CB; HC; and
EP.
      (1)   Generally. The following standards in division (F)(2) below apply.
      (2)   Food trucks.
         (a)   Duration. Food trucks shall be permitted without an improvement
location permit for up to five hours on any single day, on any single lot
unless part of a festival or event approved by appropriate governing bodies.
         (b)   Location. Food trucks shall be located off-street on private or
public property with the permission of the property owner.
         (c)   Additional requirements. Food trucks shall not utilize signs
other than those painted or adhered to the truck.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.93)
§ 165.292 TRASH RECEPTACLE STANDARDS.
   This trash receptacle standards section applies to the following zoning
districts: PR; AG; IA; M1; M2; MP; UV; IS; NC; LC; GC; OC; CB; HC; EP; IC; I1;
I2; and HI. The intent of the trash receptacle standards section is to protect
the health, safety and welfare of the residents of the zoning jurisdiction of
the city by requiring outdoor trash receptacles to meet certain standards and
to enhance the aesthetic environment of the city. The following standards
apply.
   (A)   Project applicability.
      (1)   Generally. Any new outdoor trash receptacle, dumpster, compactor or
similar container placed after the effective date of this unified development
chapter shall be permitted if all of the standards in division (A)(2) below are
met.
      (2)   Exemptions. Outdoor trash receptacles, dumpsters, compactors or
similar containers temporarily placed (e.g., construction projects) shall be
exempt from the standards in this section.
   (B)   Design.
      (1)   Screening.
         (a)   Outdoor trash receptacles, dumpsters, compactors or similar
containers shall be screened on all sides by a fence or wall that is
constructed with wood, brick or stone.
         (b)   Outdoor trash receptacles, dumpsters, compactors or similar
containers shall be accessible by gates.
         (c)   The screening of outdoor trash receptacles, dumpsters,
compactors or similar containers shall meet the location and setback
requirements in fence and wall standards.
      (2)   Surface materials. Outdoor trash receptacles, dumpsters, compactors
or similar containers shall be placed on a paved surface.
   (C)   Setbacks.
      (1)   Front yard. Trash receptacles shall not be located in a front yard.
      (2)   Side yard. Trash receptacles may project into a side yard setback
for a primary structure by 50% of the minimum side yard setback.
      (3)   Rear yard. Trash receptacles may project into a rear yard setback
for a primary structure by 50% of the minimum rear yard setback.
   (D)   Maintenance. All trash receptacles and screening associated with trash
receptacles shall be properly maintained and kept in good condition.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.94)
§ 165.293 VISION CLEARANCE TRIANGLE STANDARDS.
   This vision clearance standards section applies to the following zoning
districts: PR; AG; IA; R1; R2; R3; UR; M1; M2; MP; UV; IS; NC; LC; GC; OC; CB;
HC; EP; IC; I1; I2; and HI. The intent of the vision clearance triangle
standards section is to protect the health, safety and welfare of the residents
of the zoning jurisdiction of the city by eliminating visual obstructions at
intersections.
   (A)   Generally. The following standards in division (B) below apply.
   (B)   Vision clearance triangle. A vision clearance triangle shall be
maintained at every intersection of two or more streets, intersection of a
street and alley, and intersection of a street and driveway.
      (1)   Horizontal area.
         (a)   Arterial streets. The vision clearance triangle leg lengths
shall be 25 feet as measured from the edge of pavement (see “A” in the
illustration below) when one or more of the intersecting streets is an arterial
street.
         (b)   Other streets. The vision clearance triangle leg lengths shall
be 15 feet as measured from the edge of pavement (see “A” in the illustration
below) when one or more of the intersecting streets is a collector or local
street.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3547.png]
 
      (2)   Vertical area. No primary or accessory structures, landscaping,
fences, walls or signs shall be permitted to be placed or to project into the
vision clearance triangle between the heights of two and one-half feet and nine
feet above the crown of the adjacent roadway.
      (3)   Exemptions. The following shall be exempt from the vision clearance
triangle standards:
         (a)   Public street signs;
         (b)   Utility poles;
         (c)   Utility warning marker (e.g., buried gas line);
         (d)   Any driveway intersections with an interior local street within
a subdivision; and
         (e)   A mailbox and post at the intersection of a single-family
dwelling’s or two-family dwelling’s driveway and a street; provided the post
does not exceed two feet in circumference.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.95)
§ 165.294 WIND TURBINE SYSTEM STANDARDS.
   (A)   WT-01 small wind turbine systems. This wind turbine system standards
division (A) applies to the following zoning districts: PR; AG; IA; R1; R2; R3;
M1; M2; MP; UV; IS; NC; LC; GC; OC; CB; HC; EP; IC; I1; I2; and HI. The
following standards apply to small wind turbine systems.
      (1)   Permitted systems.
         (a)   Horizontal axis wind turbine. A horizontal axis small wind
turbine system shall be permitted as per the standards in this division (A).
         (b)   Vertical axis wind turbine. A vertical axis small wind turbine
system shall be permitted as per the standards in this division (A).
         (c)   Rated power limits. A small wind turbine system is limited to a
rated power level as indicated in §§
165.085 through
165.108 in the permitted use or special exception use column.
      (2)   Prerequisites.
         (a)   Energy production purpose. Small wind turbine systems shall be
primarily sized and installed for the purpose of generating energy for an on-
site use (i.e., residence, small business or farmstead). The small wind turbine
system shall be sized to not produce more than 150% of the annual on-site
electricity needs.
         (b)   Lot size. A minimum three-quarter acre lot shall be required for
a small wind turbine system to be installed.
         (c)   Manufacturer installation specifications. Any permitted small
wind turbine system shall be installed according to the manufacturer’s
specifications unless in conflict with applicable standards in this unified
development chapter. When conflicts exist, the following standards apply.
            1.   Manufacturer specifications are more strict. When the
manufacturer’s specifications are more strict than this chapter, the
manufacturer’s specifications shall be followed.
            2.   Zoning standards are more strict. When this chapter is more
strict than the manufacturer’s specifications, this chapter shall prevail, and
that particular small wind turbine system shall be considered not permitted.
      (3)   Turbine system limitations.
         (a)   Minimum ratings. A small wind turbine system shall be
Underwriters Laboratories (UL) listed, have Conformite Europeenne marking (CE
Mark) for Europe-based manufacturers, be certified by the Canadian Standards
Association (CSA) for Canada-based manufacturers or otherwise approved by an
equivalent region-based or county-based standards association recognized as
equivalent to the Underwriters Laboratories (UL).
         (b)   Experimental turbines. Any small wind turbine system that does
not meet the minimum ratings shall be considered experimental and shall not be
permitted.
         (c)   Connection to the grid. Any small wind turbine system that is
intended to be connected to the power grid shall be IEEE 1547 compliant
(Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Standard for Interconnecting
Distributed Resources with Electric Power Systems).
      (4)   Supporting structure.
         (a)   Tower-mounted. A horizontal axis small wind turbine system
designed for tower mounting may be mounted on a monopole, pole with guy wires,
lattice tower or lattice tower with guy wires.
         (b)   Roof-mounted. A horizontal or vertical axis small wind turbine
system designed for roof mounting may be mounted to the roof of a primary or
accessory building.
         (c)   Ground-mounted. A vertical axis small wind turbine system
designed for ground mounting shall be mounted on the ground.
      (5)   Height limitations.
         (a)   Tower-mounted. The maximum tower height for a small wind turbine
system shall be 80 feet for lots under five acres, and 110 feet for lots five
acres or greater.
         (b)   Roof-mounted. The maximum height of all components of a roof-
mounted small wind turbine system shall be six feet above the highest point of
the roof for residential buildings and ten feet above the highest point on the
roof for agricultural, commercial, institutional and industrial uses.
         (c)   Ground-mounted. The maximum height of all components of a
ground-mounted small wind turbine system shall be 40 feet.
      (6)   Maximum number of turbine systems.
         (a)   Small lot. A lot with two acres or less shall be restricted to
one horizontal axis small wind turbine system and one vertical axis roof-
mounted small wind turbine system.
         (b)   Large lots. A lot with more than two acres may have:
            1.   Up to two tower-mounted horizontal axis or ground-mounted
vertical axis small wind turbine systems; and
            2.   Up to three roof-mounted vertical axis small wind turbine
systems.
      (7)   Wind load. A small wind turbine system shall be engineered to
survive a 100 mph wind load or greater.
      (8)   Rotor diameter. The maximum rotor diameter shall be 20 feet for a
small wind turbine system with a maximum rated power of less than 11 kilowatts
(kW); and 40 feet for a small wind turbine system with a maximum rated power of
11 kilowatt (kW) or greater.
      (9)   Location restrictions.
         (a)   Setback from property line. A small wind turbine system, not
including guy wires, shall be a minimum of 25 feet from the property line or
110% of the height of the tower, whichever is greater.
         (b)   Setback from buildings. A small wind turbine system, not
including guy wires, shall not be required to be setback from any on-site
building.
         (c)   Setback from utilities. A small wind turbine system, not
including guy wires, shall be a minimum of 50 feet from any above-ground
utility line or 120% of the height of the tower, whichever is greater.
         (d)   Setback for guy wires. Guy wire anchors shall be at least 15
feet from all property lines.
      (10)   Safety.
         (a)   Roof-mounted systems. The rotors (i.e., blades) of a horizontal
axis turbine mounted on a roof shall not extend horizontally beyond the roof
line of the building to which it is attached.
         (b)   Ground clearance. The rotors (i.e., blades) of a horizontal axis
wind turbine mounted on a tower shall not extend vertically to within 20 feet
of the ground.
         (c)   Overspeed protection. A small wind turbine system shall have a
fail-safe breaking system, auto-furling system or similar system to prevent
structural failure due to excessive revolutions per minute (rpm). Overspeed
protection shall be a proven industry standard.
      (11)   Nuisance prevention.
         (a)   Noise. A small wind turbine system shall not generate more than
40 decibels (db) at any point 100 feet from the small wind turbine system.
         (b)   Illumination. A small wind turbine system shall not be
illuminated in any way unless required by FAA regulations.
      (12)   Abandoned systems. A small wind turbine system shall be considered
abandoned if its use as a wind turbine system is discontinued for more than six
months. The small wind turbine system shall be removed within six months after
being abandoned.
      (13)   Appurtenances. A small wind turbine system shall not have any
appurtenances (e.g., lighting, flags, signs or decorations) attached to it
except for meteorological measuring equipment.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.96)
   (B)   WT-02: large wind turbine systems. This wind turbine system standards
division (B) applies to the following zoning districts: PR; AG; IA; M2; UV; IS;
LC; GC; OC; HC; EP; IC; I1; I2; and HI. The following standards apply to large
wind turbine systems.
      (1)   Permitted systems.
         (a)   Horizontal axis wind turbine. A horizontal axis large wind
turbine system shall be permitted as per the standards in this division (B).
         (b)   Vertical axis wind turbine. A vertical axis large wind turbine
system shall be permitted as per the standards in this division (B).
         (c)   Rated power limits. A large wind turbine system shall have a
minimum rated power of 50 kilowatts (kW) and shall have a maximum rated power
level as indicated in §§
165.085 through
165.108 in the permitted use or special exception use column.
      (2)   Prerequisites.
         (a)   Energy production purpose. Large wind turbine systems shall be
primarily sized and installed for the purpose of generating energy for an on-
site use (e.g., a school, industry or office building). The large wind turbine
system shall be sized to not produce more than 200% of the annual on-site
electricity needs.
         (b)   Lot size. A minimum two acre lot shall be required for a large
wind turbine system to be installed.
         (c)   Manufacturer installation specifications. Any permitted large
wind turbine system shall be installed according to the manufacturer’s
specifications unless in conflict with applicable standards in this unified
development chapter. When conflicts exist, the following standards apply.
            1.   Manufacturer specifications are more strict. When the
manufacturer’s specifications are more strict than this chapter, the
manufacturer’s specifications shall be followed.
            2.   Zoning standards are more strict. When this chapter is more
strict than the manufacturer’s specifications, this chapter shall prevail and
that particular large wind turbine system shall be considered not permitted.
      (3)   Turbine system limitations.
         (a)   Minimum ratings. A large wind turbine system shall be
manufactured to meet all applicable industry standards for manufacturing
practices and safety.
         (b)   Experimental turbines. A large wind turbine system that does not
meet the applicable minimum ratings shall be considered experimental and shall
not be permitted.
         (c)   Connection to the grid. A large wind turbine system that is
intended to be connected to the power grid shall be IEEE 1547 compliant
(Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Standard for Interconnecting
Distributed Resources with Electric Power Systems).
      (4)   Supporting structure.
         (a)   Tower-mounted systems. A horizontal axis large wind turbine
system designed for tower mounting shall be mounted on a monopole. Lattice
towers and towers with guy wires shall not be permitted.
         (b)   Roof-mounted. A large wind turbine system shall not be permitted
to be mounted on a roof.
         (c)   Ground-mounted systems. A vertical axis large wind turbine
system designed for ground mounting shall be mounted on the ground.
      (5)   Height limitations.
         (a)   Tower-mounted. The maximum tower height for a large wind turbine
system shall be 120 feet for lots under five acres, and 140 feet for lots five
acres or greater.
         (b)   Roof-mounted. Large wind turbine systems are not permitted to be
mounted on a roof.
         (c)   Ground-mounted. The maximum height of all components of a ground
mounted large wind turbine system shall be 60 feet.
      (6)   Maximum number of turbine systems.
         (a)   Small lot. A lot with 15 acres or less shall be restricted to
one horizontal axis or vertical axis large wind turbine system.
         (b)   Large lots. A lot with more than 15 acres may have up to two
horizontal axis or vertical axis large wind turbine systems.
      (7)   Wind load. A large wind turbine system shall be engineered to
survive a 110 mph wind load or greater.
      (8)   Rotor diameter. The maximum rotor diameter shall be 200 feet for a
large wind turbine system.
      (9)   Location restrictions.
         (a)   Setback from property line. A large wind turbine system shall be
a minimum of 100 feet or 200% of the hub height from the property line,
whichever is greater.
         (b)   Setback from on-site buildings. A large wind turbine system
shall be required to be setback 100 feet from any on-site primary building.
There is no required setback from accessory structures.
         (c)   Setback from off-site land uses. A large wind turbine system
shall be a minimum of 1,000 feet from a platted residential subdivision,
multiple-family residential development, institutional use (e.g., school or
church), land zoned single-family residential, land zoned multiple-residential
or land zoned institutional. These standards only apply to off-site properties
and should not be construed as restricting any of the above listed types of
development (e.g., school or multiple-family development) from choosing to have
an on-site large wind turbine system.
         (d)   Setback from utilities. A large wind turbine system shall be a
minimum of 200 feet or 200% of the hub height from above ground transmission
lines, utility lines or substations, whichever is greater.
      (10)   Safety.
         (a)   Ground clearance. The rotors (i.e., blades) of a horizontal axis
large wind turbine system mounted on a tower shall not extend vertically to
within 30 feet of the ground.
         (b)   Anti-icing technology. A large wind turbine system shall be
equipped with technology able to detect icing on rotors that causes the system
to shut down when experiencing a significant icing event; or shall utilize
another industry accepted standard for protecting against shedding of
significant pieces of ice capable of damaging nearby buildings and/or injuring
persons or animals on the ground.
         (c)   Controls and brakes. A large wind turbine system shall be
equipped with a redundant braking system that includes both aerodynamic
overspeed controls (i.e., variable pitch, tip and other similar systems) and
mechanical brakes.
      (11)   Nuisance prevention.
         (a)   Noise. A large wind turbine system shall not generate more than
40 decibels (db) at 1,000 feet from the large wind turbine system.
         (b)   Illumination. A large wind turbine system shall not be
illuminated in any way unless required by or Federal Aviation Administration
(FAA) regulations. Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) regulations shall be
demonstrated to the Zoning Administrator prior to installation. If signal
lighting is required on the top of a large wind turbine system, then it shall
be shielded to prevent light below the horizontal plain.
         (c)   Shadow flicker. The flickering effect caused by an Federal
Aviation Administration (FAA) required signal light and the turning of the
rotor shall be mitigated to the extent possible with the best known technology
or practice.
         (d)   Color. A large wind turbine system shall be a non-obtrusive
color such as white, off-white, gray, earth tones or similar non-reflective
colors.
         (e)   Signs. No large wind turbine system shall be used to display a
commercial message.
         (f)   Signal interference. The owner shall make reasonable efforts to
avoid any disruption or loss of radio, telephone, television or similar
signals, and shall mitigate any harm caused by the large wind turbine system.
      (12)   Abandoned systems. A large wind turbine system shall be considered
abandoned if its use as a wind turbine system is discontinued for more than six
months. The large wind turbine system shall be removed within nine months after
being abandoned.
      (13)   Appurtenances. A large wind turbine system shall not have any
appurtenances (e.g., exterior lighting, wireless communication antennas or
ornamentation). Weather monitoring devices and safety equipment shall not be
considered appurtenances.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.97)
LANDSCAPING
§ 165.305 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   This landscaping standards section applies to the following zoning
districts: PR; AG; IA; R1; R2; R3; UR; M1; M2; MP; UV; IS; NC; LC; GC; OC; CB;
HC; EP; IC; I1; I2; and HI. The intent of landscaping standards is to maintain
community character, enhance the visual quality of developments, screen land
uses, and better integrate the built and natural environment. The following
standards apply.
   (A)   Cross-reference.
      (1)   Vision clearance standards. All landscape materials shall be
located to avoid interference with visibility per §
165.293 (Vision Clearance Triangle Standards).
      (2)   Trees preservation. Removal of trees within the right-of-way shall
not occur without the permission of the Street Tree Commission.
   (B)   Applicability. Landscape materials consistent with the requirements of
this unified development chapter shall be required when one of the following
conditions is met:
      (1)   New primary structure. An Improvement location permit for a new
primary structure is obtained; or
      (2)   Addition to primary structure. An improvement location permit for
an addition to the primary structure that adds 50% or more square footage is
obtained.
   (C)   Placement.
      (1)   Easements. Landscape materials shall not be planted in rights-of-
way or easements without permission from the city and/or the easement holder
unless otherwise required by this unified development chapter. A tree canopy,
however, may project over a right-of-way or any type of easement.
      (2)   Infrastructure interference.
         (a)   Landscape materials shall be located to avoid interference with
overhead and underground utilities.
         (b)   Landscape materials shall maintain five feet of horizontal
clearance from sewer and water lines.
         (c)   Landscape materials shall not project into sidewalks, pedestrian
paths and the like below a height of seven feet.
         (d)   Landscape materials shall not project over street curbs or
pavement below a height of eight feet.
   (D)   Maintenance. Trees, vegetation, irrigation systems, fences, walls and
other landscape materials are essential elements of a project. Owners and their
successors in title are responsible for the regular maintenance of all
landscaping materials such that they are kept in good condition, including
street trees located in the adjacent right-of-way. All landscape materials
shall be maintained alive, healthy and free from disease and pests. Failure to
maintain minimum landscape materials is a violation of this unified development
chapter subject to the provisions of §§
165.500 through
165.514 and
165.999.
   (E)   Tree preservation credits. The preservation of an existing healthy
tree shall constitute an in-kind credit toward meeting the landscape standards
in this unified development chapter. A credit shall be granted per tree that
contributes to and satisfies similarly to the intent of a particular section of
the landscape standards (e.g., street trees, lot plantings, pond plantings or
bufferyards) within this unified development chapter.
      (1)   Preservation plan. If tree preservation credits are desired, a tree
preservation plan shall be submitted prior to any construction activity. The
tree preservation plan shall identify the trees intended to be saved and a
strategy for retaining and protecting the trees and their existing root
systems.
      (2)   Credits.
         (a)   For each preserved deciduous tree with the caliper measurement
of eight inches or greater, credit for two deciduous trees shall be granted.
         (b)   For each preserved evergreen tree eight feet tall or greater,
credit for two evergreen trees shall be granted.
      (3)   Drip line protection. Any tree intended to be protected shall have
a construction fence or similar conspicuous barrier installed around the tree
at the drip line. Soil disturbance or compaction shall be prohibited within the
drip line. Storage of materials inside the fence shall be prohibited.
      (4)   Unplanned damage. Any tree intended to be saved that is removed or
damaged shall be replaced in the same proportion as the credits that were
originally granted.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.42)
§ 165.306 INTERSTATE BUFFERING STANDARDS.
   This landscaping standards section applies to the following zoning
districts: PR; AG; IA; R1; R2; R3; UR; M1; M2; MP; UV; IS; NC; LC; OC; CB; HC;
EP; IC; I1; I2; and HI. The intent of the interstate buffering standards is to
maintain community character, enhance aesthetics along the interstate highway,
and mitigate noise to adjacent lots from an interstate highway. The following
standards apply.
   (A)   Applicability. Any lot that is contiguous to an interstate highway
right-of-way and that is constructing a new primary structure shall comply with
the standards in this section. All required landscape material shall be in
addition to landscape material that may be required by other landscaping
standards.
   (B)   Quantity. One canopy tree for every 40 feet of property line that is
contiguous with the interstate highway. Each tree shall have a caliper
measurement of at least two inches.
   (C)   Placement. Each required tree shall be planted between ten and 30 feet
from the property line along the contiguous boundary; and at least 30 feet from
one another. It is not required to plant them in a row or in equal increments
from one another.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.43)
§ 165.307 RESIDENTIAL LOT PLANTING STANDARDS.
   This landscaping standards section applies to the following zoning
districts: R1; R2; R3; UR; and M1. The intent of the residential lot planting
standards is to enhance the visual quality of developments, screen land uses,
and better integrate the built and natural environment. The following standards
apply.
   (A)   Quantity. The quantities listed below are in addition to landscape
materials that may be required by street tree planting, pond planting, parking
lot planting and bufferyard planting specified in other parts of this
landscaping standards section.
      (1)   Foundation plantings.
         (a)   Primary structures with facades that face a street and that are
80 lineal feet or less in width, shall plant at least three shrubs in front of
the facade that faces the street. This provision applies to all facades that
face a street.
         (b)   Facades of primary structure that face a street and are over 80
lineal feet, shall plant one shrub for every 20 lineal feet of facade frontage
on a street. This provision applies to all facades that face a street.
      (2)   Yard plantings.
         (a)   Lots 8,000 square feet or less shall plant one canopy tree. Each
tree shall have a caliper measurement of at least two inches.
         (b)   Lots over 8,000 square feet, but less than 18,000 square feet,
shall plant two canopy trees. Each tree shall have a caliper measurement of at
least two inches.
         (c)   Lots over 18,000 square feet, but less than 35,000 square feet,
shall plant three canopy trees. Each tree shall have a caliper measurement of
at least two inches.
         (d)   Lots 35,000 square feet or more shall plant four canopy trees,
plus one canopy tree for every additional 15,000 square feet of lot size above
35,000 square feet. Each tree shall have a caliper measurement of at least two
inches. Under no circumstances shall more than eight trees be required for this
provision.
   (B)   Placement.
      (1)   Foundation plantings. Foundation plantings shall be planted along
the foundation fronting the street and be located within ten feet of the
building foundation.
      (2)   Yard plantings. Yard plantings shall be planted in the front yard
and/or side yards.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.44)
§ 165.308 NON-RESIDENTIAL LOT PLANTING STANDARDS.
   This landscaping standards section applies to the following zoning
districts: M2; UV; IS; NC; LC; GC; OC; CB; HC; EP; IC; I1; I2; and HI. The
intent of the non-residential lot planting standards is to enhance the visual
quality of developments, screen land uses and better integrate the built and
natural environment. The following standards apply.
   (A)   Quantity. The quantities listed below are in addition to landscape
materials that may be required by street tree planting, pond planting, parking
lot planting and bufferyard planting specified in other parts of this
landscaping standards section.
      (1)   Foundation plantings.
         (a)   Primary structures with facades that face a street and that are
80 lineal feet or less in width, shall plant at least three shrubs in front of
the facade that faces the street. This provision applies to all facades that
face a street.
         (b)   Facades of primary structure that face a street and are over 80
lineal feet, shall plant one shrub or ornamental tree for every 20 lineal feet
of facade frontage on a street. This provision applies to all facades that face
a street.
      (2)   Yard plantings.
         (a)   Lots 20,000 square feet or less shall plant one canopy tree.
Each tree shall have a caliper measurement of at least two inches.
         (b)   Lots over 20,000 square feet shall plant two canopy trees, plus
one canopy tree for every additional 25,000 square feet of lot size above
40,000 square feet. Each tree shall have a caliper measurement of at least two
inches. Under no circumstances shall more than ten trees be required for this
provision.
   (B)   Placement.
      (1)   Foundation plantings. Foundation plantings shall be planted along
the foundation fronting the street and be located within ten feet of the
building foundation.
      (2)   Yard plantings. Yard plantings shall be planted in the front and/or
side yards.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.45)
§ 165.309 MANUFACTURED HOME PARK PLANTING STANDARDS.
   This landscaping standards section applies to the following zoning district:
MP. The intent of the manufactured home park planting standards is to enhance
the visual quality of developments, screen land uses and better integrate the
built and natural environment. The following standards apply.
   (A)   Quantity.
      (1)   Generally. The quantities listed below are in addition to landscape
materials that may be required by street tree planting, pond planting, parking
lot planting and bufferyard planting specified in other parts of this
landscaping standards section.
      (2)   Yard plantings.
         (a)   Dwelling sites shall plant one canopy tree.
         (b)   Each tree shall have a caliper measurement of at least two
inches.
   (B)   Placement. Yard plantings shall be planted in the rear yard or side
yard.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.46)
§ 165.310 PARKING LOT PLANTING STANDARDS.
   This landscaping standards section applies to the following zoning
districts: UV; IS; NC; LC; GC; OC; CB; and HC. The intent of the parking lot
planting standards is to require a reasonable amount of plant materials around
and within parking lots to reduce glare, reduce heat buildup, enhance visual
quality of developments, screen and mitigate potential conflicts between land
uses, reduce noise pollution, reduce wind, minimize storm runoff and improve
air quality. The following standards apply.
   (A)   Quantity. The quantities listed below are in addition to landscape
materials that may be required by lot planting, pond planting, street tree
planting and bufferyard planting specified in other parts of this landscaping
standards section.
      (1)   Parking lot perimeter plantings. Parking lots with ten or more
spaces shall have one deciduous tree per 50 feet of parking lot perimeter and
one shrub per 25 feet of parking lot perimeter. Each tree shall have a caliper
measurement of at least one and one-half inches and each shrub shall be at
least a one and one-half gallon container.
      (2)   Parking lot perimeter planting exemption. Portions of a parking
lots perimeter that are immediately adjacent to a building on the same lot
shall be exempt from the calculation for determining quantity.
      (3)   Parking lot interior plantings. Parking lots with 35 or more
parking spaces shall have one landscape island for every 35 spaces. Each
landscape island shall be at least 180 square feet in area or at least as large
as the drip line area of the tree(s), which ever is greater. Each landscape
island shall contain at least one tree per 180 square feet in area. Each tree
shall have a caliper measurement of at least one and one-half inches. Parking
lot landscape islands shall be maintained with plant materials, decorative
stone and/or mulch. Crushed limestone or similar gravel shall not be permitted.
If a parking lot only has one aisle then all required landscape islands shall
be installed as landscape bumpouts.
   (B)   Placement.
      (1)   Parking lot perimeter plantings. Parking lot perimeter plantings
shall be installed within ten feet of the parking lot edge. Clustering and
inconsistent spacing of perimeter plantings is encouraged to imitate natural
vegetation. Equal spacing of perimeter planting is discouraged. All sides of a
parking lot shall have parking lot perimeter plantings installed in proportion
to the lineal feet of parking lot perimeter per side.
      (2)   Parking lot interior plantings. Landscape islands shall be
distributed equally throughout the parking lot.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.47)
§ 165.311 POND PLANTING STANDARDS.
   This landscaping standards section applies to the following zoning
districts: PR; AG; IA; R1; R2; R3; UR; M1; M2; MP; UV; IS; NC; LC; GC; OC; CB;
HC; EP; IC; I1; I2; and HI. The intent of the pond planting standards is to
require a reasonable amount of plant materials around ponds to enhance the
visual quality of the development, add shadows to cool water temperature and
provide habitat and to prevent soil erosion. The following standards apply.
   (A)   Project applicability. Pond plantings shall be installed around
retention ponds, detention facilities and recreational ponds that exceed 20,000
square feet in area.
   (B)   Quantity.
      (1)   Generally. The quantities listed below are in addition to landscape
materials that may be required by lot planting, parking lot planting, street
tree planting and bufferyard planting specified in other parts of this
landscaping standards section.
      (2)   Perimeter planting. One tree and two shrubs per 8,000 square feet
of pond area shall be required.
   (C)   Placement. Landscape materials shall be installed within 20 feet of
the edge of the water, and grouping of landscape materials is encouraged to
imitate natural vegetation.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010,§
5.48)
§ 165.312 BUFFERYARD PLANTING STANDARDS.
   This landscaping standards section applies to the following zoning
districts: PR; AG; IA; R1; R2; R3; UR; M1; M2; MP; UV; IS; NC; LC; GC; OC; CB;
HC; EP; IC; I1; I2; and HI. The intent of the bufferyard planting standards is
to screen more intensive land uses from less intensive land uses through the
installation of a landscaped bufferyard. The following standards apply.
   (A)   Project applicability.
      (1)   Conflicting districts. Bufferyards shall be installed along side
and rear property lines where conflicting zoning districts meet, as indicated
on Table LA-A. An “R” on Table LA-A indicates a bufferyard shall be required.
      (2)   Responsibility. The owner of a property that is more intense shall
be responsible for installing the bufferyard at the time the property is
rezoned, developed and/or improved. In the event a property is rezoned,
resulting in a conflict with an existing and more intense use or zoning
district, then the bufferyard shall be the responsibility of the owner of the
property that has the less intense zoning (i.e., the newly rezoned property).
   (B)   Design.
      (1)   Depth. Bufferyards shall be 20 feet in width along the entire
segment of property line which is contiguous to the lesser intense zoning
district. A required buffer yard shall not count toward minimum setback
requirements.
      (2)   Placement. Landscape materials shall be installed within the
bufferyard such that visual breaks from differing intensity land uses are no
greater than ten feet as measured perpendicular to adjacent property lines.
      (3)   Plant quantities. The following shall be the minimum requirements
for landscape materials in the bufferyard.
         (a)   One evergreen tree per 12 feet of contiguous boundary with the
conflicting zoning district shall be planted.
         (b)   One shrub per eight feet of contiguous boundary with the
conflicting zoning district shall be planted.
Table LA-A: Buffer Yards Required
 PR AG IA R1 R2 R3 UR M1 M2 MP UV IS NC LC GC OC CB HC EP IC I1 I2 HI
Table LA-A: Buffer Yards Required
   PR AG IA R1 R2 R3 UR M1 M2 MP UV IS NC LC GC OC CB HC EP IC I1 I2 HI
PR                                              R           R  R  R  R
AG                                                                R  R
IA          R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R        R
R1       R                       R  R  R  R  R  R     R  R  R  R  R  R
R2       R                       R  R  R  R  R  R     R  R  R  R  R  R
R3       R                       R  R  R  R  R  R     R  R  R  R  R  R
UR       R                             R     R  R     R  R  R  R  R  R
M1       R                       R  R        R  R     R  R  R  R  R  R
M2       R                                R  R  R     R  R  R  R  R  R
MP       R                                R  R  R     R  R  R  R  R  R
UV       R  R  R  R     R                       R           R  R  R  R
IS       R  R  R  R     R                       R              R  R  R
NC       R  R  R  R  R                          R                 R  R
LC       R  R  R  R  R     R  R                 R                 R  R
GC       R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R                                      R
OC R     R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R                       R  R
CB       R                                                           R
HC       R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R                                      R
EP       R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R                                   R  R
IC R     R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R                                   R
I1 R        R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R                                R
I2 R  R     R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R     R        R           R
HI R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R
 
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.49, table)
PARKING STANDARDS
§ 165.325 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   This parking standards section applies to the following zoning districts:
PR; AG; IA; R1; R2; R3; UR; M1; M2; MP; UV; IS; NC; LC; GC; OC; CB; HC; EP; IC;
I1; I2; and HI. The intent of parking standards is to require minimal parking
standards in order to assure public health, safety and welfare; minimize risks
to the natural environment; and minimize conflict and promote vehicular and
pedestrian safety along streets by minimizing on-street parking. The following
standards apply.
   (A)   Project applicability. Parking consistent with the requirements of
this unified development chapter shall be required when any of the following
conditions are met:
      (1)   New primary structure. An improvement location permit for a new
primary structure is obtained;
      (2)   Large expansion. An improvement location permit for an existing
parking lot to be expanded 10% or more of its existing size is obtained; and
      (3)   Second expansion. A legally non-conforming parking area has already
been expanded one time, up to 10% of its existing size, with a valid
improvement location permit, and a second expansion is proposed for the same
legal non-conforming parking area.
   (B)   Cross-reference.
      (1)   Setback standards. Parking lots shall comply with the setbacks in
the setback standards.
      (2)   Driveway standards. For standards regarding driveways or access to
parking lots, see driveway standards.
      (3)   Temporary sales in parking lots. For standards regarding temporary
structures and temporary uses located in existing parking lots or parking
areas, see temporary use and structure standards.
      (4)   Accessory dwellings. For additional parking requirements for
accessory dwellings, see §
165.261 (Accessory Dwelling Standards).
   (C)   Permits. An improvement location permit shall be required for new
parking lots or the expansion of an existing parking lot.
   (D)   Design.
      (1)   Materials. All off-street parking shall utilize a paved surface of
concrete, asphalt, brick pavers, porous concrete or the like. Gravel, stone,
rock, dirt, sand or grass shall not be permitted as parking surfaces.
      (2)   Size of spaces. Each off-street parking space shall be a minimum of
nine feet wide and 18 feet in length.
      (3)   Right-of-way. Off-street parking spaces shall not be fully or
partially in a right-of-way or access easement.
   (E)   Prohibited. Parking of motor vehicles shall not be permitted on lawns,
or similar unimproved surface.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.60)
§ 165.326 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL PARKING STANDARDS.
   This parking standards section applies to the following zoning districts:
R1; R2; and R3. The following standards apply.
   (A)   Quantity. A minimum of three off-street parking spaces shall be
required per dwelling unit.
   (B)   Minimum garage. A one-car garage shall be required for all single-
family residences.
   (C)   Location.
      (1)   Same lot. The required parking spaces shall be located on the same
lot as the dwelling unit.
      (2)   Garages. The required parking spaces may include spaces within
garages and/or carports.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.61)
§ 165.327 TRADITIONAL RESIDENTIAL PARKING STANDARDS.
   This parking standards section applies to the following zoning district: UR.
The following standards apply.
   (A)   Quantity. A minimum of two off-street parking spaces shall be required
per dwelling unit.
   (B)   Location.
      (1)   Same lot. The required parking spaces shall be located on the same
lot as the dwelling unit.
      (2)   Garages. The required parking spaces may include spaces within
garages and/or carports.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.62)
§ 165.328 MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL PARKING STANDARDS.
   This parking standards section applies to the following zoning districts:
M1; and M2. The following standards apply.
   (A)   Exceptions. Assisted living facility and nursing homes shall be
regulated by Table PK-A: Minimum Number Of Parking Spaces Per Use.
   (B)   Quantity.
      (1)   Tenants. A minimum of two parking spaces shall be required per
dwelling unit.
      (2)   Visitors. One parking space per every four dwelling units shall be
required for visitors.
   (C)   Location.
      (1)   Tenants.
         (a)   Tenant parking spaces shall be located on the same site as the
dwelling unit.
         (b)   Tenant parking spaces may include spaces within garages and/or
carports.
      (2)   Visitors. Visitor parking spaces shall be located in a common
parking area or as angled parking along internal private streets, but shall be
proportionately assigned to an area within 200 feet of each multiple-family
structure.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.63)
§ 165.329 MANUFACTURED HOME RESIDENTIAL PARKING STANDARDS.
   This parking standards section applies to the following zoning district: MP.
The following standards apply.
   (A)   Quantity.
      (1)   Dwelling site. A minimum of two parking spaces shall be required
per dwelling site.
      (2)   Visitors. One parking space per every three dwelling sites shall be
required for visitors.
   (B)   Location.
      (1)   Dwelling site. The required dwelling site parking spaces shall be
located on the dwelling site. The required dwelling site parking spaces may
include spaces within garages and/or carports.
      (2)   Visitors. Visitor parking spaces shall be located in a common
parking area or as on-street parking along internal private streets, but shall
be proportionately dispersed throughout the development.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.64)
§ 165.330 NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL AND CENTRAL BUSINESS PARKING STANDARDS.
   (A)   This parking standards section applies to the following zoning
districts: NC; and CB.
   (B)   (1)   Generally. The following standard in division (B)(2) below
applies.
      (2)   Quantity. None. Off-street parking is not required.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.65)
§ 165.331 NON-RESIDENTIAL PARKING STANDARDS.
   This parking standards section applies to the following zoning districts:
PR; UV; IS; NC; LC; GC; OC; CB; HC; EP; IC; I1; I2; and HI. The following
standards apply.
   (A)   Quantity.
      (1)   Minimum number.
         (a)   Off-street parking shall be required for all uses as shown in
Table PK-A: Minimum Number Of Parking Spaces Per Use. The land use is listed in
the left column. The minimum number of parking spaces for employees or tenants
is the in middle column, and the minimum number of parking spaces for visitors,
clients and customers is in the right column. The minimum number of parking
spaces shall be the sum of all three columns. The numbers do not guarantee the
quantity needed per use, only minimums are expressed.
         (b)   A development that combines two or more uses or group of
adjacent developments may provide a shared parking area if the shared lot
provides a minimum of 75% of the required spaces for each use and the Zoning
Administrator approves the shared parking area.
         (c)   If a use is not clearly noted in Table PK-A: Minimum Number Of
Parking Spaces Per Use, the Zoning Administrator shall determine a use with
similar employment and customer characteristics, therefore determining the
minimum number of parking spaces required.
      (2)   Additional parking lot landscape requirements for electively larger
parking lots. Developments that elect to have more than 130% of the minimum
required number of spaces shall be required to increase the minimum required
perimeter parking lot landscape material by 25% and increase the minimum number
of required parking lot landscape islands by 25%. Developments that elect to
have more than 160% of the minimum required number of spaces shall be required
to increase the minimum required perimeter parking lot landscape material by
50% and increase the minimum number of required parking lot landscape islands
by 50%. See §
165.310 (Parking Lot Planting Standards) for the minimum requirements that
shall be increased per this division (A)(2).
      (3)   Bicycle parking. Developments are encouraged to provide bicycle
parking areas when appropriate. If provided, bicycle parking areas shall be
within 60 feet of the main entryway into the primary structure or be located
inside the primary structure. Additionally, a secured bike rack shall be
installed to provide the opportunity for secure parking of bicycles.
      (4)   Stacking lanes spaces. The following uses shall provide minimum
stacking lane spaces as indicated below:
ATM                   3 spaces per drive-up ATM
Bank                  3 spaces per drive-up window lane
Day care center       6 spaces if utilizing curb-side pick-up or drop-off
Dry cleaner           3 spaces if utilizing curb-side pick-up or drop-off
Pharmacy              4 spaces for a drive-through window
Place of worship      5 spaces if utilizing curb-side pick-up or drop-off
Restaurant            5 spaces for a drive-through window
School                10 spaces if utilizing curb-side pick-up or drop-off
Service-type business 3 spaces if utilizing curb-side pick-up or drop-off
 
   (B)   Design. Parking lots and parking areas shall meet the following
criteria.
      (1)   Aisle widths. Minimum parking aisle widths shall be as follows.
         (a)   Sixty-one degree to 90 degree angle spaces shall have a minimum
18 feet wide parking aisle for one-way traffic or minimum 24 feet wide parking
aisle for one-way or two-way traffic.
         (b)   Forty-six degree to 60 degree angle spaces shall have a minimum
of 18 feet wide parking aisle for one-way traffic.
         (c)   Up to 45 degree angle spaces shall have a minimum 12 feet wide
parking aisle for one-way traffic.
      (2)   Aisle exits. All parking aisles shall have an outlet or turn
around. Dead-end parking aisles shall not be permitted.
      (3)   Driving lanes. Driving lanes in parking lots that provide access to
parking aisles shall be defined by striping, curbs, pavement markings, arrows
or parking spaces.
      (4)   Maneuvering. Parking areas shall be designed to prevent vehicles
from maneuvering in the right-of-way.
      (5)   Drainage. Parking areas shall be constructed to prevent 95% of a
parking lots area from ponding. If areas of parking lots are designed and
approved for retention of water they are exempt from this provision.
      (6)   Lighting.
         (a)   If parking lots are illuminated, the light fixtures and poles
shall be consistent in color, size, height and design.
         (b)   Parking lot lights shall not exceed 25 feet in height, measured
from the bottom of the fixture to the ground.
         (c)   Parking lot lights shall meet all standards in §
165.275 (Lighting Standards).
      (7)   Connectivity.
         (a)   Generally.
            1.   Connectivity to adjacent parking lots shall be required in at
least one location.
            2.   This may be accomplished through an aisle connector, frontage
street, access street or stub to an adjacent lot zoned for commercial,
institutional or industrial use.
         (b)   Cross-access easements.
            1.   Where parking lots connect or are laid out to be connected, a
cross-access easement shall be established in accordance with the requirements
of §
165.389 (Easement Standards).
            2.   Cross-access easements shall not be less than ten feet in
width per lane nor exceed 12 feet in width per lane.
      (8)   Cart corrals.
         (a)   Cart corrals shall be required for all retail businesses with
more than 20,000 square feet of retail space that provide shopping carts or the
like to customers.
         (b)   Cart corrals shall be made of permanent materials and be
anchored to the parking lot surface to prevent them from moving in wind.
         (c)   Cart corrals shall not exceed ten feet in width and 36 feet in
length.
         (d)   Cart corrals shall be maintained in good condition and shall not
have commercial signs affixed to them.
   (C)   Land banking. A parking lot may be constructed with fewer parking
spaces than required in
Table PK-A: Minimum Number Of Parking Spaces Per Use if the following standards
are met.
      (1)   Space in reserve. Adequate and appropriate space shall be land
banked such that the full number of parking spaces required in
Table PK-A: Minimum Number Of Parking Spaces Per Use can be constructed on-site
at a later date, should the need arise.
      (2)   Full parking lot design.
         (a)   A full and partial parking lot design shall be provided at the
time of site plan review showing how the full number of parking spaces required
in
Table PK-A: Minimum Number Of Parking Spaces Per Use would be installed and how
drainage and access would be handled, should the need arise.
         (b)   This design shall be recorded.
      (3)   Recorded plat. The property owner shall also record a plat that
clearly denotes the land-banked area, and identifies the area as a “no-build
zone”.
      (4)   Limits of land banking. Under no circumstances shall less than 40%
of spaces required in
Table PK-A: Minimum Number Of Parking Spaces Per Use be permitted to be
installed.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.66)
§ 165.332 MINIMUM NUMBER OF PARKING STANDARDS.
Table PK-A: Minimum Number Of Parking Spaces Per Use
Land Use Parking Types
         Employee/Tenant Parking Visitor/Client/Customer Parking
Table PK-A: Minimum Number Of Parking Spaces Per Use
                                         Parking Types
Land Use                                 Employee/Tenant    Visitor/Client/
                                         Parking            Customer Parking
Accessory Uses
   Farmer’s market                  -                  No minimum
   Heliport, private                  -                  3 spaces per
                                                            helipad
   Large wind turbine system          1 space            -
Agricultural Uses
                                         1 space per
   Grain elevator                     employee on the    -
                                         largest shift
                                         1 space per
   Processing of agricultural productsemployee on the    -
                                         largest shift
                                         2 spaces or 1
                                         space per employee
   Sales of agricultural products     on the largest     -
                                         shift, whichever
                                         is greater
                                         1 space or 1 space
                                         per employee on
   Storage of agricultural products   the largest shift, -
                                         whichever is
                                         greater
Commercial Uses
                                         1 space per        0.3 space per
   Amusement center                   employee on the    maximum occupancy
                                         largest shift
                                         1 space per        0.3 space per
   Amusement park                     employee on the    maximum occupancy
                                         largest shift
                                         1 space per
   Automobile dealership              employee on the    -
                                         largest shift
                                         1 space per        1 space per 300 sq.
   Automobile oriented business       employee on the    ft. of floor area
                                         largest shift
   Bank machine/atm                   -                  2 spaces per ATM
                                                            1 space per 3
   Banquet hall                       -                  persons of maximum
                                                            occupancy
                                                            1 space per 3
   Bar/tavern                         -                  persons of maximum
                                                            occupancy
   Barber/beauty shop                 -                  3 spaces per chair
   Billiard/arcade room               -                  1 space per 300 sq.
                                                            ft. of floor area
   Bowling alley                      -                  4 spaces per lane
                                         1 space per        3 spaces per radio
   Broadcast studio                   employee on the    station broadcasted
                                         largest shift      from the location
   Campground                         -                  1.5 spaces per camp
                                                            site
                                                            1 space per 3
   Club or lodge                      -                  persons of maximum
                                                            occupancy
   Coffee shop                        -                  1 space per 3 seats
   Coin laundry                       -                  1 space per 300 sq.
                                                            ft. floor area
   Commercial training facility or                       1 space per student
school                                   -                  of maximum
                                                            occupancy
                                                            1 space per 3
   Country club                       -                  persons of maximum
                                                            occupancy
                                                            1 space per 3
   Dance/night club                   -                  persons of maximum
                                                            occupancy
                                                            1 space per 4
   Day care                           -                  persons of licensed
                                                            capacity
   Delicatessen                       -                  1 space per 3 seats
   Driving range                      -                  2 spaces per 3 tee
                                                            boxes
                                                            1 space per 10,000
                                         1 space per        sq. ft. of outdoor
   Equipment rental                   employee on the    display area and 1
                                         largest shift      space per 500 sq.
                                                            ft. of floor area
                                                            1 space per 10,000
                                         1 space per        sq. ft. of outdoor
   Equipment sales                    employee on the    sales area and 1
                                         largest shift      space per 500 sq.
                                                            ft. of floor area
   Farmer’s market                  -                  -
   Fitness center/health club         -                  1 space per 300 sq.
                                                            ft. of floor area
   Funeral home or mortuary           -                  1 space per 4 seats
   Gas station                        -                  1 space per 4 fuel
                                                            pumps
   Golf course                        -                  20 spaces per 9
                                                            holes
   Health spa/day spa                 -                  3 spaces per spa
                                                            suite
                                         1 space per
   Hotel/motel                        employee on the    1 space per unit
                                         largest shift
   Ice cream shop                     -                  1 space per 3 seats
                                                            1 space per 5 pet
   Kennel (commercial)                -                  accommodation
                                                            spaces
                                                            1 space per 10,000
                                         1 space per        sq. ft. of outdoor
   Machinery rental                   employee on the    display area and 1
                                         largest shift      space per 500 sq.
                                                            ft. of indoor
                                                            display area
                                                            1 space per 10,000
                                         1 space per        sq. ft. of outdoor
   Machinery sales                    employee on the    display area and 1
                                         largest shift      space per 500 sq.
                                                            ft. of indoor
                                                            display area
   Miniature golf                     -                  20 spaces per 18
                                                            hole course
   Movie theater                      -                  1 space per 4 seats
                                         1 space per
   Office, construction trade         employee on the    -
                                         largest shift
   Office, design services            -                  1 space per 300 sq.
                                                            ft. of floor area
   Office, general services           -                  1 space per 300 sq.
                                                            ft. of floor area
   Office, medical services           -                  4 spaces per
                                                            treatment room
   Paintball facility                 -                  10 spaces per court
                                                            or field
   Photography studio                 -                  3 spaces per studio
   Race track                         -                  1 space per 3 seats
   Recreation center/play center      -                  1 space per 300 sq.
                                                            ft. of floor area
                                                            1 space per 5,000
                                         1 space per        sq. ft. of outdoor
   Recreation vehicle rental          employee on the    display area and 1
                                         largest shift      space per 1,000 sq.
                                                            ft. of indoor
                                                            display area
                                                            1 space per 15,000
                                         1 space per        sq. ft. of outdoor
   Recreation vehicle sales           employee on the    display area and 1
                                         largest shift      space per 2,000 sq.
                                                            ft. of indoor
                                                            display area
                                         1 space per        1 space per 3 seats
   Restaurant                         employee on the    in dining room
                                         largest shift
                                         1 space per        1 space per 3 seats
   Restaurant with drive-up window    employee on the    in dining room
                                         largest shift
   Retail (Type 1), very low intensity-                  1 space per 300 sq.
                                                            ft. of floor area
   Retail (Type 2), low intensity     -                  1 space per 300 sq.
                                                            ft. of floor area
   Retail (Type 3), medium intensity  -                  1 space per 300 sq.
                                                            ft. of floor area
   Retail (Type 4), high intensity    -                  1 space per 300 sq.
                                                            ft. of floor area
   Retail (Type 5), very high intensit-                  1 space per 300 sq.
                                                            ft. of floor area
                                                            1 space per 500 sq.
   Retail (Type 6), outdoor sales     -                  ft. of floor area
                                                            and 1 space per 20
                                                            vehicles for sale
   Retail (Type 7), special handling  -                  1 space per 300 sq.
                                                            ft. of floor area
   Sexually-oriented retail business  -                  1 space per 300 sq.
                                                            ft. of floor area
   Shooting range (indoor)            -                  2 spaces per target
   Shooting range (outdoor)           -                  2 spaces per target
   Skating rink                       -                  1 space per 300 sq.
                                                            ft. of floor area
   Sports complex (indoor)            -                  20 spaces per field
                                                            of court
   Sports complex (outdoor)           -                  20 spaces per field
                                                            of court
   Studio arts                        -                  1 space per 300 sq.
                                                            ft. of floor area
                                                            1 space per 75 sq.
   Swimming pool                      -                  ft. of water
                                                            surface
   Tailor/pressing shop               -                  1 space per 300 sq.
                                                            ft. of floor area
   Tanning salon                      -                  1.5 spaces per bed
   Tattoo/piercing parlor             -                  1.5 spaces per
                                                            chair
                                         1 space per        1.5 spaces per
   Watercraft rental                  employee on the    every rentable
                                         largest shift      watercraft
                                                            1 space per 10,000
                                         1 space per        sq. ft. of outdoor
   Watercraft sales                   employee on the    display area and 1
                                         largest shift      space per 1,500 sq.
                                                            ft. of indoor
                                                            display area
                                         1 space per        0.3 space per
   Waterpark                          employee on the    maximum occupancy
                                         largest shift
                                         1 space per        1 space per 300 sq.
   Winery                             employee on the    ft. of floor area
                                         largest shift      accessible to the
                                                            public
Industrial Uses
                                         1 space per        1 visitor space per
   Assembly                           employee on the    10 employees
                                         largest shift
                                         1 space per        1 visitor space per
   Construction material landfill     employee on the    10 employees
                                         largest shift
                                         1.5 spaces per     1 visitor space per
   Distribution facility              employee on the    10 employees
                                         largest shift
                                         1 space per        1 visitor space per
   Electrical generation plant        employee on the    10 employees
                                         largest shift
   Flex-space                         -                  1 space per 400 sq.
                                                            ft. of floor area
                                         1.5 spaces per     1 visitor space per
   Food production/processing         employee on the    10 employees
                                         largest shift
                                         1 space per        1 space per 4 acres
   Gravel/sand mining                 employee on the    of quarry area
                                         largest shift
                                         1 space per
   Hazardous waste landfill           employee on the    10 spaces
                                         largest shift
                                         1 space per        1 space per 1,000
   Heavy equipment repair             employee on the    sq. ft.
                                         largest shift
                                         1.5 spaces per     1 visitor space per
   Heavy manufacturing                employee on the    10 employees
                                         largest shift
                                         1 space per        1 visitor space per
   Incinerator                        employee on the    10 employees
                                         largest shift
                                         1 space per
   Junk yard                          employee on the    1 space per acre
                                         largest shift
                                         1.5 spaces per     1 visitor space per
   Light manufacturing                employee on the    10 employees
                                         largest shift
   Liquid fertilizer storage/         1 space per        1 visitor space per
distribution                             employee on the    10 employees
                                         largest shift
                                         1 space per        1 visitor space per
   Outdoor storage                    employee on the    10 employees
                                         largest shift
                                         1 space per        1 visitor space per
   Recycling processing               employee on the    10 employees
                                         largest shift
                                         1 space per        1 visitor space per
   Rendering plant                    employee on the    10 employees
                                         largest shift
                                         1 space per        1 visitor space per
   Research center, chemical          employee on the    10 employees
                                         largest shift
                                         1 space per        1 space per 5
   Research center, medical           employee on the    employees
                                         largest shift
                                         1 space per        1 visitor space per
   Research center, technological     employee on the    5 employees
                                         largest shift
                                         1 space per        1 visitor space per
   Sanitary landfill/refuse dump      employee on the    10 employees
                                         largest shift
                                         1 space per        1 visitor space per
   Scrap metal yard                   employee on the    10 employees
                                         largest shift
                                         1 space per        1 visitor space per
   Sewage treatment plant             employee on the    10 employees
                                         largest shift
                                         1 space per        1 visitor space per
   Sign painting/fabrication          employee on the    5 employees
                                         largest shift
                                         1 space per        1 visitor space per
   Storage tanks (hazardous)          employee on the    10 employees
                                         largest shift
                                         1 space per        1 visitor space per
   Storage tanks (nonhazardous)       employee on the    10 employees
                                         largest shift
   Telecommunication facility         2 spaces per       -
                                         facility
                                         1 space per        1 visitor space per
   Testing lab                        employee on the    5 employees
                                         largest shift
                                         1 space per        1 visitor space per
   Tool and die shop                  employee on the    10 employees
                                         largest shift
                                         1 space per        1 visitor space per
   Transfer station                   employee on the    10 employees
                                         largest shift
                                         1 space per        1 visitor space per
   Transfer station (recycling/waste) employee on the    10 employees
                                         largest shift
   Utility facility, above ground     1 space per        -
                                         facility
                                         1.5 spaces per     1 visitor space per
   Warehouse                          employee on the    10 employees
                                         largest shift
                                         1 space per        1 visitor space per
   Warehouse storage facility         employee on the    10 employees
                                         largest shift
                                         1 space per        1 visitor space per
   Water treatment plant              employee on the    10 employees
                                         largest shift
                                         1 space per        1 visitor space per
   Welding                            employee on the    5 employees
                                         largest shift
Institutional Uses
                                         1 space per        0.3 space per based
   Airport, public                    employee on the    aircraft
                                         largest shift
   Bus station                        -                  8 spaces per bus
                                                            bay
                                         1 space per        0.1 space per
   Camp                               employee on the    maximum occupancy
                                         largest shift
   Cemetery/mausoleum                 -                  1 space per 50
                                                            grave sites
                                                            1 space per 8
   Child care institution             -                  children living in
                                                            the facility
   Church, temple or mosque           -                  3 space per 7 seats
                                                            1 space per 3
   Community center                   -                  persons at maximum
                                                            occupancy
                                         1 space per
   Composting facility, public        employee on the    5 visitor spaces
                                         largest shift
                                         1 space per
   Crematory                          employee on the    5 visitor spaces
                                         largest shift
                                         1 space per        1 space per 500 sq.
   Government office                  employee on the    ft. of floor area
                                         largest shift
                                         1 space per        1 visitor space per
   Government operations (non-office) employee on the    5 employees
                                         largest shift
   Heliport, public                   -                  3 spaces per
                                                            helipad
                                         1.5 spaces per
   Hospital                           employee on the    1 space per bed
                                         largest shift-
                                         1 space per
   Jail                               employee on the    1 space per 8 cells
                                         largest shift
                                         1 space per
   Juvenile detention facility        employee on the    1 space per 8 cells
                                         largest shift
                                                            1 space per 3
   Library                            -                  persons at maximum
                                                            occupancy
                                         1 space per        2 spaces per
   Medical center                     employee on the    examination room
                                         largest shift
                                                            1 space per 3
   Museum                             -                  persons at maximum
                                                            occupancy
                                                            1 space per 3
   Nature center                      -                  persons at maximum
                                                            occupancy
                                                            5 space per
   Park                               -                  playground and 20
                                                            spaces per sport
                                                            court or field;
   Parking lot, public                -                  -
                                         1 space per        1 visitor space per
   Police, fire or rescue station     employee on the    5 employees
                                         largest shift
                                                            1 space per 75 sq.
   Pool, public                       -                  ft. of water
                                                            surface
                                         1 space per        1 space per 150 sq.
   Post office                        employee on the    ft. accessible to
                                         largest shift      the public
                                         1 space per        1 visitor space per
   Prison                             employee on the    15 cells
                                         largest shift
                                         1 space per        1 space per
   Recycling collection point         employee on the    collection bin
                                         largest shift
                                         1 space per        1 space per 0.5 of
   Retreat center                     employee on the    the maximum
                                         largest shift      occupancy or
                                                            3 spaces per
                                                            elementary or
                                                            junior high
                                                            classroom; 1 space
                                                            per 10 high school
                                         1 space per        student enrollment
   School (P-12)                      teacher, staff,    capacity; and 1
                                         administrator      space per 4 seats
                                                            in the largest
                                                            assembly space in
                                                            the school (based
                                                            on maximum
                                                            occupancy)
                                                            1 space per 500 sq.
   Skate park                         -                  ft. of skating
                                                            surface
                                                            0.35 space per
   Stadium                            -                  maximum seating
                                                            capacity
                                                            0.7 space per
                                         1 space per        maximum enrollment
   Trade or business school           teacher, staff,    or 20 spaces per
                                         administrator      classroom;
                                                            whichever is less
   University or college              -                  1 space per 5
                                                            students
Residential Uses
                                         1 space per        1 space per 5
   Assisted living facility           employee on the    residents
                                         largest shift
   Dwelling, multiple-family (2 or 3  2 spaces per       -
units)                                   dwelling unit
   Dwelling, multiple-family (4 or 6  1.5 spaces per     1 space per 4
units)                                   dwelling unit      dwelling units
   Dwelling, multiple-family (7 or 15 1.5 spaces per     1 space per 4
units)                                   dwelling unit      dwelling units
   Dwelling unit (first floor)        1 space per        -
                                         dwelling unit
   Dwelling unit (upper floors)       1 space per        -
                                         dwelling unit
                                         1 space per        0.4 space per
   Fair housing facility (large)      employee on the    maximum occupancy
                                         largest shift
                                         1 space per        0.5 space per
   Fair housing facility (small)      employee on the    bedroom
                                         largest shift
                                         1 space per
   Nursing home                       employee on the    1 space per 4 beds
                                         largest shift
   Residence hall                     -                  -
 
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, table)
SIGN STANDARDS
§ 165.345 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   This sign standards section applies to the following zoning districts: PR;
AG; IA; R1; R2; R3; UR; M1; M2; MP; UV; IS; NC; LC; GC; OC; CB; HC; EP; IC; I1;
I2; and HI. The intent of the sign standards is to accomplish the goals of the
city’s Comprehensive Plan; to regulate time, place and manner characteristics
of signs; to avoid the unnecessary proliferation of signs; to provide
businesses with appropriate identification; to create a consistent streetscape;
to maintain and enhance the aesthetic environment of the city; to eliminate
potential hazards to motorists and pedestrians resulting from sign location and
clutter; and to promote the health, safety and welfare of the residents of
zoning jurisdiction of the city. The following standards apply.
   (A)   Freedom of speech. Any permanent sign or standard temporary sign
permitted by the sign standards may be used for freedom of speech purposes for
any length of time.
   (B)   Permits.
      (1)   Improvement location permit. An improvement location permit shall
be required for all signs located, erected, constructed, reconstructed, moved
or structurally altered unless otherwise specified in this section.
      (2)   State permit. All signs proposed to be located along a state-owned
interstate or highway shall obtain the proper state sign permit or written
authorization from the State Department of Transportation prior to seeking an
improvement location permit.
      (3)   Easement holder approval. All signs proposed to be located within
an easement shall obtain written approval from the easement holder for the
proposed sign prior to seeking an improvement location permit. For example, a
sign proposed within a legal drain (i.e., regulated drain) easement shall
obtain written approval from the County Drainage Board before applying for an
improvement location permit.
   (C)   Cross-reference.
      (1)   Home businesses. Signs associated with a home business shall be
exempt from the sign standards section, but shall comply with the standards in
home business standards.
      (2)   Lighting standards. When illumination of signs is permitted by this
sign standards section, all illumination and lighting associated with signs
shall meet the glare, light trespass and other standards in §
165.275 (Lighting Standards).
   (D)   Devices, insignias and text not considered signs. The following
devices, insignias and uses of text are not considered signs and therefore are
not regulated by the sign standards:
      (1)   Political flags. The flag of any nation, state, city or other
political unit is exempt;
      (2)   Outdoor scoreboard. An outdoor scoreboard used in conjunction with
a legally- established sport field is exempt. However, when the scoreboard is
visible from a public street and contains a commercial message, it shall comply
with the sign standards for the applicable zoning district;
      (3)   Addresses. Posting of a street address on a mailbox, building or
other prominent location to provide adequate property identification;
      (4)   Public safety message. Posting of a public safety or private
property message. Examples include “Beware of Dog”, “Private Property”, “No
Trespassing”, “Gas Line”, “Weight Limit”, “Video Surveillance” and “No
Turnaround”;
      (5)   Operational limitations or information. Posting of operational
limitations and information. Examples include hours of operation, admittance
requirements (e.g., “Minimum Age is 18 to Enter”), “Employees Only”, “Men’s
Restroom”, “Women’s Restroom”, “Visitor Parking” and “No Deliveries”;
      (6)   Required postings. Messages required by a state agency, state law,
federal agency or federal law;
      (7)   Religious symbols. Religious symbols incorporated into the
architecture on places of worship or other structures occupied by religious
organizations;
      (8)   Holiday decorations. Holiday decorations, provided they convey no
commercial message;
      (9)   Artistic expression. Artistic expression on the wall of a building,
provided they convey no commercial message. Artistic expressions with a
commercial message shall be regulated as a wall sign;
      (10)   Political campaign signs. Political campaign signs are a type of
freedom of speech and are not a regulatable device;
      (11)   Signs in right-of-way. A sign permitted by the controlling agency
of a right-of-way; and
      (12)   Entryway features. An entryway feature regulated by and approved
as a design feature of a subdivision.
   (E)   Exempt. The following items shall be exempt from the sign standards
and therefore, exempt from obtaining an improvement location permit:
      (1)   Face-out, face-in change. The face of a permanent sign, conforming
or legal non- conforming, may be removed and replaced provided:
         (a)   The sign area is not increased or decreased;
         (b)   The sign height does not increase or decrease;
         (c)   The sign mass does not increase or decrease;
         (d)   The interior or exterior lighting element does not increase or
decrease in intensity;
         (e)   The sign location is not shifted or relocated;
         (f)   The sign face method or type does not change (e.g., replacing a
painted wood sign face with a backlit plastic sign face); or
         (g)   The sign’s structure is not changed or modified in a way that
changes compliance with any applicable time, place or manner standards.
      (2)   Changeable copy. The changeable content on a permitted changeable
copy sign shall be exempt from any sign regulations as long as the changeable
content is installed such that it extends outside of the permitted sign area;
      (3)   Postings. Postings on a permanent and permitted display board sign;
      (4)   Indoor commercial messages. Commercial messages displayed inside a
building that cannot be viewed legibly by pedestrians or drivers outside the
building. Examples include a commercial message on a scoreboard inside a
gymnasium, a wall clock inside a restaurant with a branded logo, and a large
framed image of a product mounted on the wall of a retail store;
      (5)   Minuscule commercial messages. Minuscule commercial messages
displayed on or near a primary entrance provided that the area of each
minuscule commercial message does not exceed 30 square inches and the
cumulative area of all minuscule commercial messages does not exceed 240 square
inches per primary entrance. Examples include “Visa”, “Master Card”, “Diner’s
Club”, “ATM” and corporate logos;
      (6)   Menu sign. A menu board used for a motor vehicle drive-through
window or for walk-up window service shall be exempt; and
      (7)   Window signs. Signs displayed on the inside of windows shall be
exempt.
   (F)   Prohibited signs.
      (1)   Prohibited types.
         (a)   Flashing signs. Signs that gain attention through flashing
(i.e., flashing signs) shall not be permitted.
         (b)   Vehicle signs. Vehicles with a sign area greater than 50 square
feet in area shall not be permitted to be parked for the primary purpose of
displaying the sign. Prohibited vehicle signs shall not be construed to include
vehicles with signs on them that are:
            1.   Lawfully parked overnight or during non-business hours in a
discreet location;
            2.   Making deliveries, sales calls, transporting persons or
property or customary practices relating to operating the business; and
            3.   Used in conjunction with customary construction operations on
a construction site.
         (c)   Skyward lights. Strobe lights, search lights, beacons or any
light or lights that rapidly flash, project light in visible beams skyward or
project light horizontally in a circle shall not be permitted regardless if the
light is part of or independent of a sign, except as approved for special
events on a temporary basis.
         (d)   Signs with moving or movable parts. Signs or devices with
visibly moving parts, shall not be permitted.
         (e)   Animated signs. Signs that gain attention through animation
shall not be permitted.
      (2)   Content.
         (a)   Signs that convey obscene content, indecent content or profane
words not allowable on broadcast television or radio during daytime hours
according to the rules of the FCC shall not be permitted.
         (b)   Signs that emulate emergency service vehicles or common traffic
signs or signals shall not be permitted (e.g., signs that uses “Stop”, “Slow”,
“Caution”, “Danger”, “Warning” or similar words with similar materials, scale,
color and location resulting in driver confusion or otherwise unsafe
conditions).
   (G)   Prohibited location. Signs, regardless of type, shall not be permitted
by the unified development chapter in any of the following locations or by the
following means.
      (1)   Right-of-way. Signs shall not be permitted in any right-of-way
unless authorized by the Board of Public Works and Safety, except as specified
in §
165.350 (Parks, Neighborhood and Limited Commercial and Central Business Sign
Standards).
      (2)   Utility poles or street signs. Signs shall not be permitted on any
traffic-control device, street sign, construction sign or utility pole.
      (3)   Fences. Permanent signs shall not be permitted on any fence.
      (4)   Trees. Signs shall not be permitted to be attached to any tree,
shrub or other natural object.
      (5)   Benches. Signs shall not be permitted to be attached to or
integrated into any bench or outdoor seating.
      (6)   Towers. Signs shall not be permitted to be attached to or
integrated into any telecommunication antennas, telecommunication tower,
television antennas or similar towers.
      (7)   Roofs. Signs shall not be permitted to be attached to or be
perceived to be attached to the roof of a structure. This provision includes
signs integrated into the roofing material.
      (8)   Fire safety obstruction. Signs shall not be permitted on a fire
escape or in a manner that substantially blocks view from the right-of-way to a
fire door.
      (9)   Obstructs circulation. Signs that obstruct or interfere with
internal or external safe movement of vehicular or pedestrian traffic shall not
be permitted.
      (10)   Elevation. Artificially altering the elevation of the ground to
improve the visibility of a sign shall not be permitted. Likewise, increasing
the height of a wall or creating a parapet wall to improve the visibility of a
sign shall not be permitted.
      (11)   Vision clearance. Signs shall not be permitted in areas prohibited
by §
165.293 (Vision Clearance Triangle Standards).
   (H)   Sign illumination.
      (1)   General. Any sign that is permitted to be internally or externally
illuminated, or a sign which utilizes electronic changeable copy shall be
subject to the light trespass and glare regulations within §
165.275 (Lighting Standards).
      (2)   Electronic changeable copy. When electronic changeable copy is
permitted it shall have a means to monitor ambient light (i.e., a photocell)
and automatically increase the electronic message and sign face proportionately
starting at 1,500 NITs or less during evening hours and increase incrementally
up to a maximum of 4,500 NITs at the brightest time of day. Further, electronic
changeable copy signs shall self-dim during storms and maintain that dimmed
state until daylight returns.
      (3)   Illuminated sign separation. All illuminated signs shall be at
least 300 feet from any existing residential dwelling unit.
   (I)   Maintenance. All signs and sign components shall be kept in good
repair and in safe, clean and working condition. If landscaping is required
around the base of a sign, it shall be maintained in living condition,
consistent in character with the approval, and not overgrown.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.73)
§ 165.346 AGRICULTURAL SIGN STANDARDS.
   This sign standards section applies to the following zoning district: AG.
The following standards apply.
   (A)   Permanent signs. Wall signs shall be permitted provided the following
conditions are met.
      (1)   Quantity. One wall sign shall be permitted.
      (2)   Sign area. The wall sign area shall not exceed 25 square feet.
      (3)   Projection. The wall sign shall not project more than four inches
from the face of the building to which it is attached.
      (4)   Illumination. The wall sign shall not be illuminated.
   (B)   Temporary signs.
      (1)   Permits. Standard temporary signs shall be exempt from obtaining an
improvement location permit, but shall comply with applicable standards.
Special temporary signs shall be required to obtain an improvement location
permit.
      (2)   Location. Temporary signs shall be located a minimum of five feet
from any right-of-way, edge of pavement and curb associated with a street or
driveway.
      (3)   Illumination. Temporary signs shall not be illuminated.
      (4)   Standard temporary signs. Standard temporary signs shall be
permitted provided the following conditions are met.
         (a)   Type. A standard temporary sign shall be a yard sign (e.g., sale
of property, garage sale and supporting high school teams).
         (b)   Quantity. One standard temporary sign shall be permitted for
each street the lot fronts. However, no two standard temporary signs shall be
closer than 80 feet to one another.
         (c)   Sign area. The sign area for a standard temporary sign shall not
exceed 36 square feet per side.
         (d)   Height above ground. No part of a standard temporary sign shall
be more than four feet above the ground.
         (e)   Duration. A standard temporary sign may stay in place for the
duration of the temporary event. The standard temporary sign may be put in
place up to five days prior to the temporary event. All standard temporary
signs shall be taken down within seven days after the standard temporary sign’s
purpose no longer exists.
      (5)   Special temporary signs. Special temporary signs shall be permitted
provided the following conditions are met.
         (a)   Type. Special temporary signs shall include inflatables,
banners, streamers, posters, pennants and the like.
         (b)   Quantity. One special temporary sign shall be permitted per lot.
         (c)   Height above ground. No part of a special temporary sign shall
be more than 15 feet above the ground.
         (d)   Duration. A special temporary sign may stay in place for 35
total days in any calendar year.
      (6)   Temporary marker signs. Temporary marker signs shall only be
permitted on a lot having 300 feet or more of street frontage, provided the
following conditions are met.
         (a)   Type. Temporary marker signs (e.g., seed sign) shall be yard
signs.
         (b)   Quantity. Up to 30 temporary marker signs shall be permitted per
lot.
         (c)   Sign area. A single temporary marker sign shall not exceed three
square feet in sign area per side.
         (d)   Height above ground. No part of a temporary marker sign shall be
more than eight feet above the ground.
         (e)   Duration. A temporary marker sign may stay in place for the
duration of the temporary event (e.g., planting through harvest). All temporary
marker signs shall be taken down within seven days after the temporary marker
sign’s purpose no longer exists.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.74)
§ 165.347 RESIDENTIAL SIGN STANDARDS.
   This sign standards section applies to the following zoning districts: R1;
R2; R3; and UR. The following standards apply.
   (A)   Cross-reference. Subdivision entryway signs: see §
165.389 (Entryway Feature Standards).
   (B)   Permanent signs. Permanent signs shall not be permitted.
   (C)   Temporary signs. Temporary signs shall be permitted as follows.
      (1)   Permits. Standard temporary signs shall be exempt from obtaining an
improvement location permit, but shall comply with applicable standards.
      (2)   Location. Temporary signs shall be located a minimum of five feet
from any right-of-way, edge of pavement and curb associated with a street or
driveway.
      (3)   Illumination. Temporary signs shall not be illuminated.
      (4)   Standard temporary signs. Standard temporary signs shall be
permitted provided all of the following conditions are met.
         (a)   Type. A standard temporary sign shall be a yard sign (e.g., sale
of property, garage sale and supporting high school teams).
         (b)   Quantity. One standard temporary sign shall be permitted for
lots with frontage on one street. Two standard temporary signs shall be
permitted for lots with frontage on two or more streets if they have a minimum
of 300 feet of combined street frontage. However, no two standard temporary
signs shall be closer than 80 feet to one another.
         (c)   Sign area. The sign area for a standard temporary sign shall not
exceed ten square feet per side.
         (d)   Height above ground. No part of a standard temporary sign shall
be more than five feet above the ground.
         (e)   Duration. A standard temporary sign may stay in place for the
duration of the temporary event. The standard temporary sign may be put in
place up to five days prior to the temporary event. All standard temporary
signs shall be taken down within seven days after the standard temporary sign’s
purpose no longer exists.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.75)
§ 165.348 MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL AND MANUFACTURED HOME PARK SIGN
STANDARDS.
   This sign standards section applies to the following zoning districts: M1;
M2; and MP. The following standards apply.
   (A)   Permanent signs. Permanent signs shall be permitted as follows.
      (1)   Entry feature signs. Entry feature signs shall be permitted
provided the following conditions are met.
         (a)   An entry feature sign for a development with less than 24
dwelling units or dwelling sites shall meet the following conditions.
            1.   Type. The entry feature sign shall be a ground sign and may be
double-sided.
            2.   Quantity. One entry feature sign shall be permitted per
development.
            3.   Sign area. The sign area of the entry feature sign shall not
exceed 24 square feet.
            4.   Height above ground. No part of an entry feature sign shall be
more than four feet above the ground.
            5.   Location. The entry feature sign shall be located a minimum of
five feet from any right-of-way, edge of pavement and curb associated with a
street or driveway.
            6.   Illumination. The entry feature sign shall not be illuminated.
            7.   Materials. The sign shall be wood, metal, masonry or other
durable materials, and both sides of the entry feature sign shall be finished
using the same materials. Landscaping of the entry feature sign is encouraged.
            8.   Maintenance. The entry feature sign shall be maintained by the
property owner, an owners’ association or similar legal entity.
         (b)   An entry feature sign for a development with 24 to 60 dwelling
units or dwelling sites shall meet the following conditions.
            1.   Type. The entry feature sign shall be a ground sign and shall
be single-sided.
            2.   Quantity. One entry feature signs shall be permitted at the
main entrance of the development. An additional one entry feature sign shall be
permitted if the development has two or more vehicular entrances and has 1,000
feet of combined street frontage.
            3.   Sign area. The sign area for the main entry feature sign shall
not exceed 40 square feet and 30 square feet for all other entry feature signs.
            4.   Height above ground. No part of an entry feature sign shall be
more than six feet above the ground.
            5.   Location. The entry feature sign shall be located a minimum of
five feet from any right-of-way, edge of pavement and curb associated with a
street or driveway.
            6.   Illumination. The entry feature sign may be illuminated by
exterior ground lighting.
            7.   Materials. Supporting apparatuses of an entry feature sign
shall be at least 50% brick, stone or other masonry material. The back side of
entry feature signs shall also be finished using the same materials to match
the front of the sign. Landscaping of entry feature signs is encouraged.
            8.   Maintenance. Entry feature signs shall be maintained by the
property owner, an owners’ association or similar legal entity.
         (c)   An entry feature sign for a development with 61 or more dwelling
units or dwelling sites shall meet the following conditions.
            1.   Type. The entry feature sign shall be a ground sign and shall
be single-sided.
            2.   Quantity. One entry feature sign shall be permitted at the
main entrance of the development. An additional two entry feature signs shall
be permitted if the development has three or more vehicular entrances and has
1,000 feet of combined street frontage.
            3.   Sign area. The sign area for the main entry feature sign shall
not exceed 100 square feet and 60 square feet for all other entry feature
signs.
            4.   Height above ground. No part of an entry feature sign shall be
more than six feet above the ground.
            5.   Location. The entry feature sign shall be located a minimum of
five feet from any right-of-way, edge of pavement and curb associated with a
street or driveway.
            6.   Illumination. The entry feature sign may be illuminated by
exterior ground lighting.
            7.   Materials. Supporting apparatuses of an entry feature sign
shall be at least 50% brick, stone or other masonry material. The back side of
entry feature signs shall also be finished using the same materials to match
the front of the sign. Landscaping of entry feature signs is encouraged.
            8.   Maintenance. Entry feature signs shall be maintained by the
property owner, an owners’ association or similar legal entity.
      (2)   Wall signs. Wall signs shall be permitted on single-tenant
buildings and multiple-tenant buildings provided the following conditions are
met. All wall signs shall count toward the maximum cumulative square footage
for permanent signs.
         (a)   Maximum quantity. Two wall signs per primary structure.
         (b)   Maximum sign area. Twenty square feet per sign and 30 square
feet per primary structure.
         (c)   Changeable copy ratio. Changeable copy is not permitted.
         (d)   Maximum projection from building. Eight inches.
         (e)   Illumination. Wall signs may be illuminated internally or by
externally-mounted down-facing lights.
         (f)   Multiple-building consistency. The sign location and character
shall be consistent from primary structure to primary structure in a multiple-
building development.
   (B)   Temporary signs.
      (1)   Permits. Standard temporary signs shall be exempt from obtaining an
improvement location permit, but shall comply with applicable standards.
Special temporary signs shall be required to obtaining an improvement location
permit.
      (2)   Location. Temporary signs shall be located a minimum of five feet
from any right-of-way, edge of pavement and curb associated with a street or
driveway.
      (3)   Illumination. Temporary signs shall not be illuminated.
      (4)   Standard temporary signs. Standard temporary signs shall be
permitted provided the following conditions are met.
         (a)   Type. Standard temporary signs shall be yard signs. Examples of
standard temporary signs include sale of property and tract signs.
         (b)   Quantity.
            1.   Per development. Two standard temporary signs shall be
permitted for developments with frontage on one street. Three standard
temporary signs shall be permitted for developments with frontage on two or
more streets and 300 feet or more of combined street frontage. However, no two
standard temporary signs shall be closer than 80 feet to one another.
            2.   Per dwelling site. One standard temporary sign shall be
permitted for each dwelling site provided the regulations of the development
permit such a sign.
         (c)   Sign area. The sign area for a standard temporary sign shall not
exceed eight feet per side.
         (d)   Height above ground. No part of a standard temporary sign shall
be more than four feet above the ground.
         (e)   Duration. A standard temporary sign may stay in place for the
duration of the temporary event. The standard temporary sign may be put in
place up to five days prior to the temporary event. All standard temporary
signs shall be taken down within seven days after the standard temporary sign’s
purpose no longer exists.
      (5)   Special temporary signs. Special temporary signs shall be permitted
provided the following conditions are met.
         (a)   Type. Special temporary signs shall include inflatables,
banners, streamers, posters, pennants and the like.
         (b)   Quantity. One special temporary sign shall be permitted per
development.
         (c)   Height above ground. No part of a special temporary sign shall
be more than 15 feet above the ground.
         (d)   Duration. A special temporary sign may stay in place for 50
total days in any calendar year.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.76)
§ 165.349 INTENSE AGRICULTURE, UNIVERSITY AND INSTITUTIONAL SIGN STANDARDS.
   This sign standards section applies to the following zoning districts: IA;
UV; and IS. The following standards apply.
   (A)   Project applicability.
      (1)   Single-tenant building.
         (a)   Permanent signs. Wall, ground, awning, display board,
directional device signs and wayfinding shall be permitted for single-tenant
buildings provided the conditions specified for single-tenant buildings are
met, and the cumulative square footage of all permanent signs does not exceed
one square foot of sign area per lineal foot of front facade, or 150 square
feet, whichever is less.
         (b)   Temporary signs. Standard temporary and special temporary signs
shall be permitted for single-tenant buildings provided the conditions
specified for single-tenant buildings are met.
      (2)   Multiple-tenant building.
         (a)   Permanent signs. Wall, gateway, awning, display board,
directional device and
wayfinding signs shall be permitted for multiple-tenant buildings provided the
conditions specified for multiple-tenant buildings are met, and the cumulative
square footage of all permanent signs does not exceed one square foot of sign
area per lineal foot of front facade.
         (b)   Temporary signs. Standard temporary and special temporary signs
shall be permitted for multiple-tenant buildings provided the conditions
specified for multiple-tenant buildings are met.
   (B)   Permanent signs. Permanent signs shall be permitted as follows.
      (1)   Wall signs. Wall signs shall be permitted on single-tenant
buildings and multiple-tenant buildings provided the following conditions are
met. All wall signs shall count toward the maximum cumulative square footage
for permanent signs.
 
Wall Signs              Single-Tenant Building      Multiple-Tenant Building
                        50% or 24 sq. ft. of the
Changeable copy ratio   sign area may be changeable 50% of the sign area may be
                        copy, whichever is more     changeable copy
                        restrictive
Maximum projection from 8 inches                    8 inches
building
Maximum quantity        1 per side of building, not 1 per tenant space
                        to exceed 3
                        1 sq. ft. per lineal ft. of 1 sq. ft. per lineal ft. of
Maximum sign area       front facade; maximum of 65 front facade; maximum of 40
                        sq. ft.                     sq. ft.
 
         (a)   Changeable copy. If changeable copy is used, it shall be
integrated into the permanent wall sign and shall only include cyclical or
static messages, regardless if the sign is capable of flashing messages.
         (b)   Illumination. Wall signs on single-tenant buildings and
multiple-tenant buildings may be illuminated internally or by externally-
mounted lights.
         (c)   Multiple-tenant building consistency. The sign envelope that
tenants may use and the regulations to maintain consistent sign appearance
shall be identified during the permitting process. The sign envelope shall not
exceed 150% of the allowable wall sign area for each tenant space.
         (d)   Exception. Single-tenant buildings with a facade greater than
100 feet in length may have two wall signs on those facades. However, the
cumulative square footage of all permanent signs shall still apply.
      (2)   Ground signs. Ground signs shall be permitted on single-tenant
buildings provided the following conditions are met. (See division (B)(3)
(Gateway Signs) below for multiple-tenant buildings.) All ground signs shall be
counted toward the maximum cumulative square footage for permanent signs.
 
Ground Sign           Single-Tenant Building          Multiple-Tenant Building
                      80% or 24 sq. ft. of the sign
Changeable copy ratio area may be changeable copy,    Not permitted
                      whichever is more restrictive
Height above ground   8 ft. maximum                   Not permitted
Maximum quantity      1                               Not permitted
                      1 sq. ft. per lineal ft. of
Maximum sign area     front facade; maximum of 40 sq. Not permitted
                      ft.
 
         (a)   Double-sided. If a ground sign has two identical sides, back-to-
back, only one side’s area counts toward the maximum cumulative square footage.
         (b)   Location. A ground sign shall be located a minimum of five feet
from any existing or proposed right-of-way, edge of pavement and curb
associated with a street or driveway; and a ground sign shall be setback ten
feet from all property lines.
         (c)   Landscaping. Landscaping shall be installed around the base of a
ground sign as follows.
            1.   Quantity. At least one shrub per two lineal feet of ground
sign base shall be installed.
            2.   Location. All required plants shall be located within five
feet of the ground sign base.
            3.   Double-sided ground signs. Any double-sided ground sign shall
have landscaping on both sides.
         (d)   Changeable copy. If changeable copy is used, it shall be
integrated into the permanent ground sign and shall only include cyclical or
static messages, regardless if the sign is capable of flashing messages.
         (e)   Illumination. A ground sign may be illuminated internally or by
externally-mounted ground lighting.
      (3)   Gateway signs.
         (a)   Gateway signs shall be permitted for multiple-tenant buildings
that have a minimum of six tenants, a minimum of 12,000 square feet of main
floor area, and provided the following conditions are met. (See division (B)(2)
(Ground Signs) above for single-tenant buildings.)
         (b)   All gateway signs shall be counted toward the maximum cumulative
square footage for permanent signs.
 
Gateway    Single-
Sign       Tenant    Multiple-Tenant Building
           Building
Changeable Not       50% of sign area may be changeable copy
copy ratio permitted
Height     Not
above      permitted 8 ft. maximum
ground
Maximum    Not       1/2 sq. ft. per lineal ft. of each tenant’s front facade; maximum of 54 sq.
overall    permitted ft.
sign area
Maximum    Not       1
quantity   permitted
Maximum    Not
tenant     permitted 18 sq. ft.
sign area
 
            1.   Double-sided. If a gateway sign has two identical sides, back-
to-back, only one side’s area counts toward the maximum cumulative square
footage.
            2.   Location. A gateway sign shall be located a minimum of five
feet from any existing or proposed right-of-way, edge of pavement and curb
associated with a street or driveway; and a gateway sign shall be setback ten
feet from all property lines.
            3.   Landscaping. Landscaping shall be installed around the base of
a gateway sign as follows.
               a.   Quantity. At least one shrub per two lineal feet of gateway
sign base shall be installed.
               b.   Location. All required plants shall be located within five
feet of the gateway sign base.
               c.   Double-sided gateway signs. Any double-sided gateway sign
shall have landscaping on both sides.
            4.   Changeable copy. If changeable copy is used, it shall be
integrated into the permanent gateway sign and shall only include cyclical or
static messages, regardless if the sign is capable of flashing messages.
            5.   Illumination. A gateway sign may be illuminated internally or
by exterior-mounted ground lighting.
      (4)   Awning signs.
         (a)   Generally. Awning signs shall be permitted on single-tenant
buildings and multiple-tenant buildings provided the following conditions are
met. All awning signs shall be counted toward the maximum cumulative square
footage for permanent signs.
 
Awning Sign             Single-Tenant Building Multiple-Tenant Building
Maximum projection from 6 ft.                  6 ft.
building
Maximum quantity        2                      1 per tenant
Maximum sign area       20 sq. ft. total       20 sq. ft. per tenant
 
         (b)   Illumination. Awning signs on single-tenant buildings and
multiple-tenant buildings may be illuminated.
      (5)   Display board signs. Display board signs shall be permitted on
single-tenant and multiple-tenant buildings provided the following conditions
are met. (Examples of display board signs include permanently affixed bulletin
boards or encased display boards for posting of menus, specials, events,
performances and other temporary postings.) Display board signs shall be
counted toward the maximum cumulative square footage for permanent signs.
 
Display Board Signs Single-Tenant Building Multiple-Tenant Building
Height above ground 7 ft. maximum          7 ft. maximum
Maximum quantity    1                      1 per tenant
Maximum sign area   40 sq. ft.             20 sq. ft. per tenant
 
         (a)   Design. The display board sign shall be framed with wood, metal
or other durable material and be permanently attached to the building; or be a
designated window on the building.
         (b)   Postings. Postings on the display board sign shall not exceed
the size of the display board sign. Postings shall not be required to obtain
any type of permit.
      (6)   Directional device signs. Directional device signs shall be
permitted for single-tenant buildings and multiple-tenant buildings provided
the following conditions are met. Directional device signs shall not count
toward the maximum cumulative square footage for permanent signs.
         (a)   Directional device signs may only be used to indicate vehicular
points of entry or exit.
         (b)   Directional device signs shall not exceed three square feet in
area per side per entrance. Up to 40% of the sign area may be a corporate logo.
Directional device signs shall not exceed 36 inches in height.
         (c)   Directional device signs may be illuminated.
         (d)   Directional device signs shall not interfere with safe vehicular
or pedestrian traffic circulation, obstruct the view of drivers entering or
exiting, or be placed within a right-of-way.
         (e)   No more than two directional device signs shall be used per
street frontage, and no more than four directional device signs shall be used
per lot.
      (7)   Wayfinding system signs. Wayfinding systems may be permitted, in
place of directional device signs, for large institutions that encompass
multiple lots or many buildings, provided the following conditions are met.
Wayfinding systems shall not count toward the maximum cumulative square footage
for permanent signs.
         (a)   Wayfinding systems shall be used to direct vehicular and
pedestrian traffic to specific destinations.
         (b)   Wayfinding systems shall be required to have signs of consistent
size, scale and appearance.
         (c)   Proposals for wayfinding systems shall be reviewed and approved
at the discretion of the Zoning Administrator. The Zoning Administrator may
take into account the need for the wayfinding system, the size and complexity
of the development, quantity and location of signs, number of entrances and
exits and the appearance of signs.
   (C)   Temporary signs. Any combination of standard temporary and special
temporary signs shall be permitted for single-tenant buildings and multiple-
tenant buildings provided the following conditions are met.
      (1)   Permits. Standard temporary signs shall be exempt from obtaining an
improvement location permit, but shall comply with applicable standards.
Special temporary signs shall be required to obtaining an improvement location
permit.
      (2)   Location. Temporary signs shall be located a minimum of five feet
from any right-of-way, edge of pavement and curb associated with a street or
driveway.
      (3)   Illumination. Temporary signs shall not be illuminated.
      (4)   Standard temporary signs. Standard temporary signs shall be
permitted provided the following conditions are met. The following conditions
apply to single-tenant buildings and multiple-tenant buildings unless otherwise
specified.
         (a)   Type. A standard temporary sign shall be a yard sign or a window
panel. Examples of standard temporary signs include sale of property, special
sale and special offer signs.
         (b)   Quantity.
            1.   Single-tenant buildings. One standard temporary sign shall be
permitted for each lot, except for corner lots. Two standard temporary signs
shall be permitted for corner lots that have 150 feet or more of combined
street frontage. However, standard temporary signs shall be located at least 80
feet from one another.
            2.   Multiple-tenant buildings. One standard temporary sign shall
be permitted for each tenant.
         (c)   Sign area. The sign area for a standard temporary sign shall not
exceed ten square feet per side.
         (d)   Height above ground. No part of a standard temporary sign shall
be more than five feet above the ground unless the standard temporary sign is
in a first floor window.
         (e)   Duration. A standard temporary sign may stay in place for the
duration of the temporary event. The standard temporary sign may be put in
place up to five days prior to the temporary event. All standard temporary
signs shall be taken down within seven days after the standard temporary sign’s
purpose no longer exists.
      (5)   Special temporary signs. Special temporary signs shall be permitted
provided the following conditions are met. The following conditions apply to
single-tenant buildings and multiple-tenant buildings unless otherwise
specified.
         (a)   Disqualification. Any lot with a permanent electronic message
sign or other permanent sign with electronic changeable copy shall not qualify
for a special temporary sign.
         (b)   Type. Special temporary signs shall include inflatables,
banners, streamers, posters, pennants, yard signs, window panels, sandwich
boards, self-standing signs and the like. Examples of special temporary signs
include “now hiring” banners and “welcome home” signs.
         (c)   Quantity.
            1.   Single-tenant buildings. One special temporary sign shall be
permitted at any one time for a lot.
            2.   Multiple-tenant buildings. One special temporary sign shall be
permitted for each tenant.
         (d)   Height above ground. A special temporary sign shall not exceed
15 feet above the ground.
         (e)   Duration. A special temporary sign may stay in place for 50
total days in any calendar year.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.77)
§ 165.350 PARKS, NEIGHBORHOOD, LIMITED COMMERCIAL AND CENTRAL BUSINESS SIGN
STANDARDS.
   This sign standards section applies to the following zoning districts: PR;
NC; LC; AND CB. The following standards apply.
   (A)   Project applicability.
      (1)   Single-tenant building.
         (a)   Permanent signs. Wall, ground, projecting, awning, display board
and directional device signs shall be permitted for single-tenant buildings
provided the conditions specified for single-tenant buildings are met, and the
cumulative square footage of all permanent signs does not exceed two square
feet of sign area per lineal foot of front facade, or 150 square feet,
whichever is less.
         (b)   Temporary signs. Standard temporary and special temporary signs
shall be permitted for single-tenant buildings provided the conditions
specified for single-tenant buildings are met.
      (2)   Multiple-tenant building.
         (a)   Permanent signs. Wall, ground, projecting, awning, display
board, tenant listing and directional device signs shall be permitted for
multiple-tenant buildings provided the conditions specified for multiple-tenant
buildings are met, and the cumulative square footage of all permanent signs
does not exceed two square feet of sign area per lineal foot of front facade.
         (b)   Temporary signs. Standard temporary and special temporary signs
shall be permitted for multiple-tenant buildings provided the conditions
specified for multiple-tenant buildings are met.
   (B)   Permanent signs. Permanent signs shall be permitted as follows.
      (1)   Wall signs. Wall signs shall be permitted on single-tenant
buildings and multiple-tenant buildings provided the following conditions are
met. All wall signs shall count toward the maximum cumulative square footage
for permanent signs.
 
Wall Signs              Single-Tenant Building      Multiple-Tenant Building
Changeable copy ratio   Not permitted               Not permitted
Maximum projection from 8 inches                    8 inches
building
Maximum quantity        1 per side of building, not 1 per tenant space
                        to exceed 3
                        2 sq. ft. of sign area per  2 sq. ft. of sign area per
                        lineal ft. of front facade; lineal ft. of front tenant
                        maximum of 85 sq. ft. on    facade; maximum of 60 sq.
Maximum sign area       front facade and 25 sq. ft. ft. per tenant front facade
                        each on side or rear        and 25 sq. ft. per tenant
                        facades                     each on side or rear
                                                    facades
 
         (a)   Changeable copy. Changeable copy shall not be permitted.
         (b)   Illumination. Wall signs on single-tenant buildings and
multiple-tenant buildings may be illuminated internally or by externally-
mounted lights.
         (c)   Multiple-tenant building consistency. The sign envelope that
tenants may use and the regulations to maintain consistent sign appearance
shall be identified during the permitting process. The sign envelope shall not
exceed 150% of the allowable wall sign area for each tenant space.
         (d)   Exception. Single-tenant buildings with a facade greater than
120 feet in length may have two wall signs on those facades. However, the
cumulative square footage of all permanent signs shall still apply.
      (2)   Ground signs. Ground signs shall be permitted for single-tenant and
multiple-tenant buildings provided the following conditions are met. All ground
signs shall be counted toward the maximum cumulative square footage for
permanent signs.
 
Ground Sign           Single-Tenant Building        Multiple-Tenant Building
                      80% or 24 sq. ft. of the sign
Changeable copy ratio area may be changeable copy,  Not permitted
                      whichever is more restrictive
Height above ground   6 ft. maximum                 6 ft. maximum
Maximum quantity      1                             1
                      1 sq. ft. per lineal ft. of   1 sq. ft. per lineal ft. of
Maximum sign area     front facade; maximum of 40   front facade; maximum of 40
                      sq. ft.                       sq. ft.
 
         (a)   Double-sided. If a ground sign has two identical sides, back-to-
back, only one side’s area counts toward the maximum cumulative square footage.
         (b)   Location. A ground sign shall be located a minimum of five feet
from any existing or proposed right-of-way, edge of pavement and curb
associated with a street or driveway; and a ground sign shall be setback ten
feet from all property lines.
         (c)   Landscaping. Landscaping shall be installed around the base of a
ground sign as follows.
            1.   Quantity. At least one shrub per two lineal feet of ground
sign base shall be installed.
            2.   Location. All required plants shall be located within five
feet of the ground sign base.
            3.   Double-sided ground signs. Any double-sided ground sign shall
have landscaping on both sides.
         (d)   Changeable copy. If changeable copy is used, it shall be
integrated into the permanent ground sign and shall only include cyclical or
static messages, regardless if the sign is capable of flashing messages.
         (e)   Illumination. A ground sign may be illuminated internally or by
externally-mounted ground lighting.
      (3)   Projecting signs. Projecting signs shall be permitted on single-
tenant and multiple-tenant buildings provided the following conditions are met.
All projecting signs shall be counted toward the maximum cumulative square
footage for permanent signs.
 
Projecting Sign       Single-Tenant Building       Multiple-Tenant Building
Changeable copy ratio Not permitted                Not permitted
Height above ground   8 ft. minimum; 14 ft.        8 ft. minimum; 14 ft.
                      maximum                      maximum
                                                   1 per each tenant space with
Maximum quantity      1; or 2 for corner buildings 20 lineal ft. of front
                                                   facade
Maximum sign area     20 sq. ft. total             14 sq. ft. per tenant sign
 
         (a)   Double-sided. If a projecting sign has two identical sides,
back-to-back, only one side’s area counts toward the maximum cumulative square
footage.
         (b)   Location. A projecting sign shall be located within ten feet of
the center of the primary entrance.
         (c)   Projection. Projecting signs and all supporting apparatuses of
projecting signs shall not project more than eight feet from the building
facade. However, a projecting sign shall be at least two feet from a curb or
driving surface. In some cases, a projecting sign may encroach in the right-of-
way which is owned by the Board of Public Works and Safety. The Board of Public
Works and Safety generally approves these encroachments, but reserves the right
to deny any encroachment into the right-of-way.
         (d)   Sign separation. No two projecting signs shall be within 20 feet
of one another.
         (e)   Changeable copy. Changeable copy shall not be permitted.
         (f)   Illumination. A projecting sign may be illuminated internally or
by externally-mounted lighting.
      (4)   Awning signs. Awning signs shall be permitted on single-tenant
buildings and multiple-tenant buildings provided the following conditions are
met. All awning signs shall be counted toward the maximum cumulative square
footage for permanent signs.
 
Awning Sign       Single-Tenant Building Multiple-Tenant Building
Maximum quantity  2                      1 per tenant
Maximum sign area 20 sq. ft. total       20 sq. ft. per tenant
 
         (a)   Illumination. Awning signs on single-tenant buildings and
multiple-tenant buildings may be illuminated.
         (b)   Projection. Awning signs and all parts of an awning shall not
project more than six feet from the building facade. However, an awning shall
be at least two feet from a curb or driving surface. In some cases, an awning
may encroach into the right-of-way which is controlled by the Board of Public
Works and Safety. The Board of Public Works and Safety generally approves these
encroachments, but reserves the right to deny any encroachment into the right-
of-way.
      (5)   Display board signs. Display board signs shall be permitted on
single-tenant and multiple-tenant buildings provided the following conditions
are met. Examples of display board signs include permanently affixed bulletin
boards or encased display boards for posting of menus, specials, events,
performances and other temporary postings. Display board signs shall be counted
toward the maximum cumulative square footage for permanent signs.
 
Display Board Sign  Single-Tenant Building Multiple-Tenant Building
Height above ground 7 ft. maximum          7 ft. maximum
Maximum quantity    1                      1 per tenant
Maximum sign area   40 sq. ft.             20 sq. ft. per tenant
 
         (a)   Design. The display board sign shall be framed with wood, metal
or other durable material and be permanently attached to the building; or be a
designated window on the building.
         (b)   Postings. Postings on the display board sign shall not exceed
the size of the display board sign. Postings shall not be required to obtain
any type of permit.
      (6)   Tenant listing sign.
         (a)   Generally. A tenant listing sign shall be permitted for a
multiple-tenant building that has tenant spaces on upper floors and a common
lobby or stairway. Tenant listing signs shall be counted toward the maximum
cumulative square footage for permanent signs.
 
Tenant Listing Sign Single-Tenant Building Multiple-Tenant Building
Height above ground Not permitted          7 ft. maximum
Maximum quantity    Not permitted          1 per common lobby or stairway
                                           leading to upper floor tenant spaces
Maximum sign area   Not permitted          6 sq. ft. per sign
 
         (b)   Location. The tenant listing sign shall be fully located with
ten feet of the primary entrance to the common lobby or stairway leading to
upper floor tenant spaces.
      (7)   Directional device signs. Directional device signs shall be
permitted for single-tenant buildings and multiple-tenant buildings provided
the following conditions are met. Directional device signs shall not count
toward the maximum cumulative square footage for permanent signs.
         (a)   Directional device signs may only be used to indicate vehicular
points of entry or exit.
         (b)   Directional device signs shall not exceed three square feet in
area per side per entrance. Up to 40% of the sign area may be a corporate logo.
         (c)   Directional device signs shall not exceed 36 inches in height.
         (d)   Directional device signs may be illuminated.
         (e)   Directional device signs shall not interfere with safe vehicular
or pedestrian traffic circulation, obstruct the view of drivers entering or
exiting, or be placed within a right-of-way.
         (f)   No more than two directional device signs shall be used per lot.
   (C)   Temporary signs. Any combination of standard temporary and special
temporary signs shall be permitted for single-tenant buildings and multiple-
tenant buildings provided the following conditions are met.
      (1)   Permits. Standard temporary signs shall be exempt from obtaining an
improvement location permit, but shall comply with applicable standards.
Special temporary signs shall be required to obtaining an improvement location
permit.
      (2)   Location. Temporary signs may be located on a public or private
sidewalk or in a first floor window. However, the placement of a temporary sign
on a sidewalk shall be directly in front of the business and shall not
constrain the sidewalk to less than five feet of clear way for pedestrians and
temporary signs located on a public sidewalk shall be taken inside each day at
the close of business.
      (3)   Illumination. Temporary signs shall not be illuminated.
      (4)   Standard temporary signs. Standard temporary signs shall be
permitted provided the following conditions are met. The following conditions
apply to single-tenant buildings and multiple-tenant buildings unless otherwise
specified.
         (a)   Type. A standard temporary sign shall be a sandwich board, self-
standing sign or window panel. (Examples of standard temporary signs include
sale of property, special sale and special offer signs.)
         (b)   Quantity.
            1.   Single-tenant buildings. One standard temporary sign shall be
permitted for each lot, except for corner lots. Two standard temporary signs
shall be permitted for corner lots that have a customer entrance on each front
facade.
            2.   Multiple-tenant buildings. One standard temporary sign shall
be permitted for each tenant.
         (c)   Sign area. The sign area for a standard temporary sign shall not
exceed 12 square feet per side.
         (d)   Height above ground. No part of a standard temporary sign shall
be more than five feet above the ground unless the standard temporary sign is
in a first floor window.
         (e)   Duration. Standard temporary signs shall only be placed on the
sidewalk during the hours of operation (i.e., times when open to the public).
         (f)   Quality. A standard temporary sign shall be constructed of
durable, weather resistance and ridged in construction. Sign faces shall not be
paper, cardboard or unprotected wood. Sign frames or structures shall not be
wire, plastic or thin gauge metal; materials that are easily damaged or bent.
Sign faces shall be securely attached to a frame or structure.
      (5)   Special temporary signs. Special temporary signs shall be permitted
provided the following conditions are met. The following conditions apply to
single-tenant buildings and multiple-tenant buildings unless otherwise
specified.
         (a)   Type. Special temporary signs shall include inflatables,
banners, streamers, posters, pennants, window panels, sandwich boards, self-
standing signs and the like.
         (b)   Quantity.
            1.   Single-tenant buildings. One special temporary sign shall be
permitted per lot at any one time.
            2.   Multiple-tenant buildings. One special temporary sign shall be
permitted for each tenant.
         (c)   Height above ground. A special temporary sign shall not exceed
15 feet above the ground.
         (d)   Duration. A special temporary sign may stay in place for 50
total days in any calendar year. Special temporary signs shall only be placed
on the sidewalk during the hours of operation (i.e., times when open to the
public).
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.78)
§ 165.351 GENERAL COMMERCIAL AND OUTDOOR COMMERCIAL SIGN STANDARDS.
   This sign standards section applies to the following zoning districts: GC;
OC; and IC. The following standards apply.
   (A)   Project applicability.
      (1)   Single-tenant building.
         (a)   Permanent signs. Wall, ground, pole, awning, display board,
directional device and wayfinding signs shall be permitted for single-tenant
buildings provided the conditions specified for single-tenant buildings are met
and the cumulative square footage of all permanent signs does not exceed two
and one-half square feet of sign area per lineal foot of front facade.
         (b)   Temporary signs. Standard temporary and special temporary signs
shall be permitted for single-tenant buildings provided the conditions
specified for single-tenant buildings are met.
      (2)   Multiple-tenant building.
         (a)   Permanent signs. Wall, gateway, pole, awning, display board,
directional device and wayfinding signs shall be permitted for multiple-tenant
buildings provided the conditions specified for multiple-tenant buildings are
met and the cumulative square footage of all permanent signs does not exceed
two and one-half square feet of sign area per lineal foot of front facade.
         (b)   Temporary signs. Standard temporary and special temporary signs
shall be permitted for multiple-tenant buildings provided the conditions
specified for multiple-tenant buildings are met.
   (B)   Permanent signs. Permanent signs shall be permitted as follows.
      (1)   Wall signs. Wall signs shall be permitted on single-tenant
buildings and multiple-tenant buildings provided the following conditions are
met. All wall signs shall count toward the maximum cumulative square footage
for permanent signs.
 
Wall Signs              Single-Tenant Building      Multiple-Tenant Building
                        50% or 24 sq. ft. of the
Changeable copy ratio   sign area may be changeable 50% of the sign area may be
                        copy, whichever is more     changeable copy
                        restrictive
Maximum projection from 12 inches                   12 inches
building
Maximum quantity        2 per facade, not to exceed 1 per tenant space
                        4
                        2 sq. ft. per lineal ft. of 2 sq. ft. per lineal ft. of
                        front facade; maximum of    tenant front facade;
Maximum sign area       200 sq. ft. on front facade maximum of 150 sq. ft. on
                        and 70 sq. ft. on each      front facade and 50 sq. ft.
                        other facade                on each other facade
 
         (a)   Changeable copy. If changeable copy is used, it shall be
integrated into the permanent wall sign and shall only include cyclical or
static messages, regardless if the sign is capable of flashing messages.
         (b)   Illumination. Wall signs on single-tenant buildings and
multiple-tenant buildings may be illuminated internally or by externally-
mounted lights.
         (c)   Multiple-tenant building consistency. The sign envelope that
tenants may use and the regulations to maintain consistent sign appearance
shall be identified during the permitting process. The sign envelope shall not
exceed 150% of the allowable wall sign area for each tenant space.
         (d)   Exception. Single-tenant buildings with a facade greater than
100 feet in length may have two wall signs on those facades. Plus, one
additional wall sign shall be permitted for every 25 feet over 100 lineal feet,
with an absolute maximum of six wall signs (i.e., a 155-foot long front facade
may have up to four permanent wall signs). However, the cumulative square
footage of all permanent wall signs shall still apply.
      (2)   Ground signs. Ground signs shall be permitted on single-tenant
buildings provided the following conditions are met. (See division (B)(3)
(Gateway Signs) below for multiple-tenant buildings.) All ground signs shall be
counted toward the maximum cumulative square footage for permanent signs.
 
Ground Sign           Single-Tenant Building        Multiple-Tenant Building
                      80% or 24 sq. ft. of the sign
Changeable copy ratio area may be changeable copy,  Not permitted
                      whichever is more restrictive
Height above ground   8 ft. maximum                 Not permitted
Maximum quantity      1                             Not permitted
                      1.5 sq. ft. per lineal ft. of
Maximum sign area     front facade; maximum 120 sq. Not permitted
                      ft.
 
         (a)   Double-sided. If a ground sign has two identical sides, back-to-
back, only one side’s area counts toward the maximum cumulative square footage.
         (b)   Location. A ground sign shall be located a minimum of five feet
from any existing or proposed right-of-way, edge of pavement and curb
associated with a street or driveway; and a ground sign shall be setback ten
feet from all property lines.
         (c)   Landscaping. Landscaping shall be installed around the base of a
ground sign as follows.
            1.   Quantity. At least one shrub per two lineal feet of ground
sign base shall be installed.
            2.   Location. All required plants shall be located within five
feet of the ground sign base.
            3.   Double-sided ground signs. Any double-sided ground sign shall
have landscaping on both sides.
         (d)   Changeable copy. If changeable copy is used, it shall be
integrated into the permanent ground sign and shall only include cyclical or
static messages, regardless if the sign is capable of flashing messages.
         (e)   Illumination. A ground sign may be illuminated internally or by
externally-mounted ground lighting.
      (3)   Gateway signs. Gateway signs shall be permitted for multiple-tenant
buildings that have a minimum of six tenants, a minimum of 12,000 square feet
of main floor area, and provided the following conditions are met. (See
division (B)(2) (Ground Signs) above for single-tenant buildings.) All gateway
signs shall be counted toward the maximum cumulative square footage for
permanent signs.
 
Gateway Sign              Single-Tenant Building Multiple-Tenant Building
Changeable copy ratio     Not permitted          50% of sign area may be
                                                 changeable copy
Height above ground       Not permitted          15 ft. maximum
Maximum overall sign area Not permitted          1 sq. ft. per lineal ft. front
                                                 facade; maximum of 160 sq. ft.
Maximum quantity          Not permitted          1
Maximum tenant sign area  Not permitted          50 sq. ft.
 
         (a)   Double-sided. If a gateway sign has two identical sides, back-
to-back, only one side’s area counts toward the maximum cumulative square
footage.
         (b)   Location. A gateway sign shall be located a minimum of five feet
from any existing or proposed right-of-way, edge of pavement and curb
associated with a street or driveway; and a gateway sign shall be setback ten
feet from all property lines.
         (c)   Landscaping. Landscaping shall be installed around the base of a
gateway sign as follows.
            1.   Quantity. At least one shrub per two lineal feet of gateway
sign base shall be installed.
            2.   Location. All required plants shall be located within five
feet of the gateway sign base.
            3.   Double-sided gateway signs. Any double-sided gateway sign
shall have landscaping on both sides.
         (d)   Changeable copy. If changeable copy is used, it shall be
integrated into the permanent gateway sign and shall only include cyclical or
static messages, regardless if the sign is capable of flashing messages.
         (e)   Illumination. A gateway sign may be illuminated internally or by
externally-mounted ground lighting.
      (4)   Pole signs. Pole signs shall be permitted for single-tenant
buildings and multiple-tenant buildings provided a primary structure exists on
the lot and the following regulations are met. Pole signs shall not be counted
toward the maximum cumulative square footage for permanent signs.
         (a)   Quantity.
            1.   Single-tenant building. One pole sign shall be permitted for
each single-tenant building.
            2.   Multiple-tenant building. One pole sign shall be permitted for
each multiple-tenant building.
         (b)   Sign area and sign height.
            1.   Pole signs for single-tenant buildings and multiple-tenant
buildings shall meet the following sign area and height above the ground
proportions. If a pole sign has identical sides, back-to-back, only one side’s
area counts toward the sign area:
            2.   Pole signs shall not exceed 20 feet above the ground. A pole
sign shall not have a sign area greater than 100 square feet.
         (c)   Location. A pole sign shall be located a minimum of ten feet
from any existing or proposed right-of-way, edge of pavement and curb
associated with a street or driveway; and a pole sign shall be setback 20 feet
from all property lines.
         (d)   Changeable copy. Up to 50% of the sign area of a pole sign on a
single-tenant building or a multiple-tenant building may be changeable copy. If
changeable copy is used, it shall be integrated into the permanent wall sign
and shall only include cyclical or static messages, regardless if the sign is
capable of flashing messages.
         (e)   Illumination. A pole sign may be illuminated internally, but
shall not be illuminated by externally-mounted lights.
      (5)   Awning signs.
         (a)   Generally. Awning signs shall be permitted on single-tenant
buildings and multiple-tenant buildings provided the following conditions are
met. All awning signs shall be counted toward the maximum cumulative square
footage for permanent signs.
 
Awning Sign             Single-Tenant Building Multiple-Tenant Building
Maximum projection from 6 ft.                  6 ft.
building
Maximum quantity        2                      1 per tenant
Maximum sign area       40 sq. ft. total       30 sq. ft. per tenant
 
         (b)   Illumination. Awning signs on single-tenant buildings and
multiple-tenant buildings may be illuminated.
      (6)   Display board signs. Display board signs shall be permitted on
single-tenant and multiple-tenant buildings provided the following conditions
are met. Examples of display board signs include permanently affixed bulletin
boards or encased display boards for menus, specials, events, performances and
other temporary postings. Display board signs shall be counted toward the
maximum cumulative square footage for permanent signs.
 
Display Board Signs Single-Tenant Building Multiple-Tenant Building
Height above ground 6 ft. maximum          6 ft. maximum
Maximum quantity    1                      1 per tenant
Maximum sign area   50 sq. ft.             20 sq. ft. per tenant
 
         (a)   Design. The display board sign shall be framed with wood, metal
or other durable material and be permanently attached to the single-tenant or
multiple-tenant building; be a designated window on the single-tenant building;
or consist of hardware permanently affixed to the single-tenant or multiple-
tenant building for display of a consistent size posting.
         (b)   Postings. Postings on the display board sign shall not exceed
the size of the display board sign. Postings shall not be required to obtain
any type of permit.
      (7)   Directional device signs. Directional device signs shall be
permitted for single-tenant buildings and multiple-tenant buildings provided
the following conditions are met. Directional device signs shall not count
toward the maximum cumulative square footage for permanent signs.
         (a)   Directional device signs may only be used to indicate vehicular
points of entry or exit.
         (b)   Directional device signs shall not exceed three square feet in
area per side per entrance. Up to 40% of the sign area may be a corporate logo.
         (c)   Directional device signs shall not exceed 36 inches in height.
         (d)   Directional device signs may be illuminated.
         (e)   Directional device signs shall not interfere with safe vehicular
or pedestrian traffic circulation, obstruct the view of drivers entering or
exiting, or be placed within a right-of-way.
         (f)   No more than two directional device signs shall be used per
street frontage, and no more than four directional device signs shall be used
per lot.
      (8)   Wayfinding system signs. Wayfinding systems may be permitted, in
place of directional device signs, for large developments that encompass
multiple lots or many buildings, provided the following conditions are met.
Wayfinding systems shall not count toward the maximum cumulative square footage
for permanent signs.
         (a)   Wayfinding systems shall be used to direct vehicular and
pedestrian traffic to specific destinations.
         (b)   Wayfinding systems shall be required to have signs of consistent
size, scale and appearance.
         (c)   Proposals for wayfinding systems shall be reviewed and approved
at the discretion of the Zoning Administrator. The Zoning Administrator may
take into account the need for the wayfinding system, the size and complexity
of the development, quantity and location of signs, number of entrances and
exits and the appearance of signs.
   (C)   Temporary signs. Any combination of standard temporary and special
temporary signs shall be permitted for single-tenant buildings and multiple-
tenant buildings provided the following conditions are met.
      (1)   Permits. Standard temporary signs shall be exempt from obtaining an
improvement location permit, but shall comply with applicable standards.
Special temporary signs shall be required to obtaining an improvement location
permit.
      (2)   Location. Temporary signs shall be located a minimum of five feet
from any right-of-way, edge of pavement and curb associated with a street or
driveway.
      (3)   Illumination. Temporary signs shall not be illuminated.
      (4)   Standard temporary signs. Standard temporary signs shall be
permitted provided the following conditions are met. The following conditions
apply to single-tenant buildings and multiple-tenant buildings unless otherwise
specified.
         (a)   Type. A standard temporary sign shall be a sandwich board, self-
standing sign, yard sign or a window panel. Examples of standard temporary
signs include sale of property, special sale and special offer signs.
         (b)   Quantity.
            1.   Single-tenant buildings. One standard temporary sign shall be
permitted for each lot, except for corner lots. Two standard temporary signs
shall be permitted for corner lots that have 200 feet or more of combined
street frontage. However, standard temporary signs shall be located at least 80
feet from one another.
            2.   Multiple-tenant buildings. One standard temporary sign shall
be permitted for each tenant.
         (c)   Sign area. The sign area for a standard temporary sign shall not
exceed 30 square feet per side.
         (d)   Height above ground. No part of a standard temporary sign shall
be more than five feet above the ground unless the standard temporary sign is
in a first floor window.
         (e)   Duration. A standard temporary sign may stay in place for the
duration of the temporary event. The standard temporary sign may be put in
place up to five days prior to the temporary event. All standard temporary
signs shall be taken down within seven days after the standard temporary sign’s
purpose no longer exists.
         (f)   Quality. A standard temporary sign shall be constructed of
durable, weather resistance and ridged in construction. Sign faces shall not be
paper, cardboard or unprotected wood. Sign frames or structures shall not be
wire, plastic or thin gauge metal; materials that are easily damaged or bent.
Sign faces shall be securely attached to a frame or structure.
      (5)   Special temporary signs. Special temporary signs shall be permitted
provided the following conditions are met. The following conditions apply to
single-tenant buildings and multiple-tenant buildings unless otherwise
specified.
         (a)   Disqualification. Any lot with a permanent electronic message
sign or other permanent sign with electronic changeable copy shall not qualify
for a special temporary sign.
         (b)   Type. Special temporary signs shall include inflatables, gas-
inflatables, banners, streamers, posters, pennants, yard signs, window panels,
sandwich boards, self-standing signs and the like. Examples of special
temporary signs include “now hiring” banners and “welcome home” signs.
         (c)   Quantity.
            1.   Single-tenant buildings. Two special temporary signs shall be
permitted at any one time for a lot.
            2.   Multiple-tenant buildings. One special temporary sign shall be
permitted for each tenant.
         (d)   Height above ground. A special temporary sign shall not exceed
15 feet above the ground; except for inflatable signs and gas-inflatable signs
may extend up to 50 feet.
         (e)   Duration. A special temporary sign may stay in place for 50
total days in any calendar year.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.79)
§ 165.352 HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL SIGN STANDARDS.
   This sign standards section applies to the following zoning district: HC.
The following standards apply.
   (A)   Project applicability.
      (1)   Single-tenant building.
         (a)   Permanent signs. Wall, ground, pole, awning, display board and
directional device signs shall be permitted for single-tenant buildings
provided the conditions specified for single-tenant buildings are met, and the
cumulative square footage of all permanent signs does not exceed two and one-
half square feet of sign area per lineal foot of front facade, or 350 square
feet, whichever is less. A pole sign may also be permitted for single-tenant
buildings provided the conditions specified are met.
         (b)   Temporary signs. Standard temporary and special temporary signs
shall be permitted for single-tenant buildings provided the conditions
specified for single-tenant buildings are met.
      (2)   Multiple-tenant building.
         (a)   Permanent signs. Wall, gateway, pole, awning, display board and
directional device signs shall be permitted for multiple-tenant buildings
provided the conditions specified for multiple-tenant buildings are met and the
cumulative square footage of all permanent signs does not exceed two and one-
half square feet of sign area per lineal foot of front facade, but no single
tenant shall have more than 350 square
feet of sign area. A pole sign may also be permitted for multiple-tenant
buildings provided the conditions specified are met.
         (b)   Temporary signs. Standard temporary and special temporary signs
shall be permitted for multiple-tenant buildings provided the conditions
specified for multiple-tenant buildings are met.
   (B)   Permanent signs. Permanent signs shall be permitted as follows.
      (1)   Wall signs. Wall signs shall be permitted on single-tenant
buildings and multiple-tenant buildings provided the following conditions are
met. All wall signs shall count toward the maximum cumulative square footage
for permanent signs.
 
Wall Signs              Single-Tenant Building      Multiple-Tenant Building
                        50% or 24 sq. ft. of the
Changeable copy ratio   sign area may be changeable 50% of the sign area may be
                        copy, whichever is more     changeable copy
                        restrictive
Maximum projection from 12 inches                   12 inches
building
Maximum quantity        2 per facade, not to exceed 1 per tenant space
                        4
                        2 sq. ft. per lineal ft. of 2 sq. ft. per lineal ft. of
                        front facade; maximum of    front facade; maximum of
Maximum sign area       200 sq. ft. on front facade 150 sq. ft. on front facade
                        and 70 sq. ft. on other     and 50 sq. ft. on other
                        facades                     facades
 
         (a)   Changeable copy. If changeable copy is used, it shall be
integrated into the permanent wall sign and shall only include cyclical or
static messages, regardless if the sign is capable of flashing messages.
         (b)   Illumination. Wall signs on single-tenant buildings and
multiple-tenant buildings may be illuminated internally or by externally-
mounted lights.
         (c)   Multiple-tenant building consistency. The sign envelope that
tenants may use and the regulations to maintain consistent sign appearance
shall be identified during the permitting process. The sign envelope shall not
exceed 150% of the allowable wall sign area for each tenant space.
         (d)   Exception. Single-tenant buildings with a facade greater than
100 feet in length may have two wall signs on those facades; plus, one
additional wall sign shall be permitted for every 25 feet over 100 lineal feet,
with an absolute maximum of six wall signs (i.e., a 155-foot long front facade
may have up to four permanent wall signs). However, the cumulative square
footage of all permanent wall signs shall still apply.
      (2)   Ground signs. Ground signs shall be permitted on single-tenant
buildings provided the following conditions are met. (See division (B)(3)
(Gateway Signs) below for multiple-tenant buildings.) All ground signs shall be
counted toward the maximum cumulative square footage for permanent signs.
 
Ground Sign           Single-Tenant Building        Multiple-Tenant Building
                      80% or 24 sq. ft. of the sign
Changeable copy ratio area may be changeable copy,  Not permitted
                      whichever is more restrictive
Height above ground   8 ft. maximum                 Not permitted
Maximum quantity      1                             Not permitted
                      1.5 sq. ft. per lineal ft. of
Maximum sign area     front facade; maximum 120 sq. Not permitted
                      ft.
 
         (a)   Double-sided. If a ground sign has two identical sides, back-to-
back, only one side’s area counts toward the maximum cumulative square footage.
         (b)   Location. A ground sign shall be located a minimum of five feet
from any existing or proposed right-of-way, edge of pavement and curb
associated with a street or driveway; and a ground sign shall be setback ten
feet from all property lines.
         (c)   Landscaping. Landscaping shall be installed around the base of a
ground sign as follows.
            1.   Quantity. At least one shrub per two lineal feet of ground
sign base shall be installed.
            2.   Location. All required plants shall be located within five
feet of the ground sign base.
            3.   Double-sided ground signs. Any double-sided ground sign shall
have landscaping on both sides.
         (d)   Changeable copy. If changeable copy is used, it shall be
integrated into the permanent ground sign and shall only include cyclical or
static messages, regardless if the sign is capable of flashing messages.
         (e)   Illumination. A ground sign may be illuminated internally or by
externally-mounted ground lighting.
      (3)   Gateway signs. Gateway signs shall be permitted for multiple-tenant
buildings that have a minimum of six tenants, a minimum of 12,000 square feet
of main floor area, and provided the following conditions are met. (See
division (B)(2) (Ground Signs) above for single-tenant buildings.) All gateway
signs shall be counted toward the maximum cumulative square footage for
permanent signs.
 
Gateway Sign              Single-Tenant Building Multiple-Tenant Building
Changeable copy ratio     Not permitted          50% of sign area may be
                                                 changeable copy
Height above ground       Not permitted          8 ft. maximum
Maximum overall sign area Not permitted          1 sq. ft. per lineal ft. front
                                                 facade; maximum of 160 sq. ft.
Maximum quantity          Not permitted          1
Maximum tenant sign area  Not permitted          50 sq. ft.
 
         (a)   Double-sided. If a gateway sign has two identical sides, back-
to-back, only one side’s area counts toward the maximum cumulative square
footage.
         (b)   Location. A gateway sign shall be located a minimum of five feet
from any existing or proposed right-of-way, edge of pavement and curb
associated with a street or driveway; and a gateway sign shall be setback ten
feet from all property lines.
         (c)   Landscaping. Landscaping shall be installed around the base of a
gateway sign as follows.
            1.   Quantity. At least one shrub per two lineal feet of gateway
sign base shall be installed.
            2.   Location. All required plants shall be located within five
feet of the gateway sign base.
            3.   Double-sided gateway signs. Any double-sided gateway sign
shall have landscaping on both sides.
         (d)   Changeable copy. If changeable copy is used, it shall be
integrated into the permanent gateway sign and shall only include cyclical or
static messages, regardless if the sign is capable of flashing messages.
         (e)   Illumination. A gateway sign may be illuminated internally or by
exterior-mounted ground lighting.
      (4)   Pole signs. Pole signs shall be permitted for single-tenant
buildings and multiple-tenant buildings provided the majority of the lot is
within 500 feet of an interstate right-of-way, a primary structure exists on
the lot, and the following conditions are met. Pole signs shall not be counted
toward the maximum cumulative square footage for permanent signs.
         (a)   Quantity.
            1.   Single-tenant building. One pole sign shall be permitted for
each single-tenant building.
            2.   Multiple-tenant building. One pole sign shall be permitted for
each multiple-tenant building.
         (b)   Sign area and sign height. Pole signs for single-tenant
buildings and multiple-tenant buildings shall meet the following sign area and
height above the ground proportions. If a pole sign has identical sides, back-
to-back, only one side’s area counts toward the sign area:
            1.   Pole signs with a sign area of 150 square feet or less shall
be at least 25 feet above the ground, but no part of the sign shall exceed 35
feet above the ground.
            2.   Pole signs with a sign area greater than 150 square feet, but
less than 200 square feet shall be at least 30 feet above the ground, but no
part of the sign shall exceed 50 feet above the ground.
            3.   Pole signs with a sign area of 200 square feet or more shall
be at least 40 feet above the ground, but no part of the sign shall exceed 75
feet above the ground.
            4.   A pole sign shall not have a sign area greater than 225 square
feet.
         (c)   Location. A pole sign shall be located a minimum of ten feet
from any existing or proposed right-of-way, edge of pavement and curb
associated with a street or driveway; and a pole sign shall be setback 20 feet
from all property lines.
         (d)   Landscaping. Landscaping shall be installed around the base of a
pole sign as follows.
            1.   Quantity. At least eight shrubs shall be installed. For pole
signs greater than 50 feet, the required shrubs shall be replaced with
ornamental trees.
            2.   Location. All required plants shall be located within ten feet
of the pole sign, and at a minimum shall be distributed in all directions
facing a public street or parking lot. If ornamental trees are required, they
shall be installed within 20 feet of the pole sign.
         (e)   Changeable copy. Up to 50% of the sign area of a pole sign on a
single-tenant building or a multiple-tenant building may be changeable copy. If
changeable copy is used, it shall be integrated into the permanent pole sign
and shall only include cyclical or static messages, regardless if the sign is
capable of flashing messages.
         (f)   Illumination. A pole sign may be illuminated internally, but
shall not be illuminated by externally-mounted lights.
      (5)   Awning signs.
         (a)   Generally. Awning signs shall be permitted on single-tenant
buildings and multiple-tenant buildings provided the following conditions are
met. All awning signs shall be counted toward the maximum cumulative square
footage for permanent signs.
 
Awning Sign             Single-Tenant Building Multiple-Tenant Building
Maximum projection from 6 ft.                  6 ft.
building
Maximum quantity        2                      1 per tenant
Maximum sign area       40 sq. ft. total       30 sq. ft. per tenant
 
         (b)   Illumination. Awning signs on single-tenant buildings and
multiple-tenant buildings may be illuminated.
      (6)   Display board signs. Display board signs shall be permitted on
single-tenant and multiple-tenant buildings provided the following conditions
are met. (Examples of display board signs include permanently affixed bulletin
boards or encased display boards for posting of menus, specials, events,
performances and other temporary postings.) Display board signs shall be
counted toward the maximum cumulative square footage for permanent signs.
 
Display Board Signs Single-Tenant Building Multiple-Tenant Building
Height above ground 6 ft. maximum          6 ft. maximum
Maximum quantity    1                      1 per tenant
Maximum sign area   50 sq. ft.             20 sq. ft. per tenant
 
         (a)   Design. The display board sign shall be framed with wood, metal
or other durable material and be permanently attached to the single-tenant or
multiple-tenant building; be a designated window on the single-tenant building;
or consist of hardware permanently affixed to the single-tenant or multiple-
tenant building for display of a consistent size posting.
         (b)   Postings. Postings on the display board sign shall not exceed
the size of the display board sign. Postings shall not be required to obtain
any type of permit.
      (7)   Directional device signs. Directional device signs shall be
permitted for single-tenant buildings and multiple-tenant buildings provided
the following conditions are met. Directional device signs shall not count
toward the maximum cumulative square footage for permanent signs.
         (a)   Directional device signs may only be used to indicate vehicular
points of entry or exit.
         (b)   Directional device signs shall not exceed three square feet in
area per side per entrance. Up to 40% of the sign area may be a corporate logo.
         (c)   Directional device signs shall not exceed 36 inches in height.
         (d)   Directional device signs may be illuminated.
         (e)   Directional device signs shall not interfere with safe vehicular
or pedestrian traffic circulation, obstruct the view of drivers entering or
exiting, or be placed within a right-of-way.
         (f)   No more than two directional device signs shall be used per
street frontage, and no more than four directional device signs shall be used
per lot.
   (C)   Temporary signs. Any combination of standard temporary and special
temporary signs shall be permitted for single-tenant buildings and multiple-
tenant buildings provided the following conditions are met.
      (1)   Permits. Standard temporary signs shall be exempt from obtaining an
improvement location permit, but shall comply with applicable standards.
Special temporary signs shall be required to obtaining an improvement location
permit.
      (2)   Location. Temporary signs shall be located a minimum of five feet
from any right-of-way, edge of pavement and curb associated with a street or
driveway.
      (3)   Illumination. Temporary signs shall not be illuminated.
      (4)   Standard temporary signs. Standard temporary signs shall be
permitted provided the following conditions are met. The following conditions
apply to single-tenant buildings and multiple-tenant buildings unless otherwise
specified.
         (a)   Type. A standard temporary sign shall be a sandwich board, self-
standing sign, yard sign or a window panel. (Examples of standard temporary
signs include sale of property, special sale and special offer signs.)
         (b)   Quantity.
            1.   Single-tenant buildings. One standard temporary sign shall be
permitted for each lot, except for corner lots. Two standard temporary signs
shall be permitted for corner lots that have 200 feet or more of combined
street frontage. However, standard temporary signs shall be located at least 80
feet from one another.
            2.   Multiple-tenant buildings. One standard temporary sign shall
be permitted for each tenant.
         (c)   Sign area. The sign area for a standard temporary sign shall not
exceed 30 square feet per side.
         (d)   Height above ground. No part of a standard temporary sign shall
be more than five feet above the ground unless the standard temporary sign is
in a first floor window.
         (e)   Duration. A standard temporary sign may stay in place for the
duration of the temporary event. The standard temporary sign may be put in
place up to five days prior to the temporary event. All standard temporary
signs shall be taken down within seven days after the standard temporary sign’s
purpose no longer exists.
         (f)   Quality. A standard temporary sign shall be constructed of
durable, weather resistance and ridged in construction. Sign faces shall not be
paper, cardboard or unprotected wood. Sign frames or structures shall not be
wire, plastic or thin gauge metal; materials that are easily damaged or bent.
Sign faces shall be securely attached to a frame or structure.
      (5)   Special temporary signs. Special temporary signs shall be permitted
provided the following conditions are met. The following conditions apply to
single-tenant buildings and multiple-tenant buildings unless otherwise
specified.
         (a)   Disqualification. Any lot with a permanent electronic message
sign or other permanent sign with electronic changeable copy shall not qualify
for a special temporary sign.
         (b)   Type. Special temporary signs shall include inflatables,
banners, streamers, posters, pennants, yard signs, window panels, sandwich
boards, self-standing signs and the like. (Examples of special temporary signs
include “now hiring” banner and “welcome home” sign.)
         (c)   Quantity.
            1.   Single-tenant buildings. Two special temporary signs shall be
permitted at any one time for a lot.
            2.   Multiple-tenant buildings. One special temporary sign shall be
permitted for each tenant.
         (d)   Height above ground. A special temporary sign shall not exceed
15 feet above the ground.
         (e)   Duration. A special temporary sign may stay in place for 50
total days in any calendar year.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.80)
§ 165.353 INDUSTRIAL SIGN STANDARDS.
   This sign standards section applies to the following zoning districts: EP;
I1; I2; and HI. The following standards apply.
   (A)   Project applicability.
      (1)   Single-tenant building.
         (a)   Permanent signs. Wall, ground, awning and directional device
signs shall be permitted for single-tenant buildings provided the conditions
specified for single-tenant buildings are met, and the cumulative square
footage of all permanent signs does not exceed four square feet of sign area
per lineal foot of facade facing an interstate, highway, arterial or public
street to which the facility gains access.
         (b)   Temporary signs. Standard temporary and special temporary signs
shall be permitted for single-tenant buildings provided the conditions
specified for single-tenant buildings are met.
      (2)   Multiple-tenant building.
         (a)   Permanent signs. Wall, gateway, awning and directional signs
shall be permitted for multiple-tenant buildings provided the conditions
specified for multiple-tenant buildings are met, and the cumulative square
footage of all permanent signs does not exceed two square feet of sign area per
lineal foot of front facade, but no single tenant shall have more than 250
square feet of sign area.
         (b)   Temporary signs. Standard temporary and special temporary signs
shall be permitted for multiple-tenant buildings provided the conditions
specified for multiple-tenant buildings are met.
   (B)   Permanent signs. Permanent signs shall be permitted as follows.
      (1)   Wall signs. Wall signs shall be permitted on single-tenant
buildings and multiple-tenant buildings provided the following conditions are
met. All wall signs shall count toward the maximum cumulative square footage
for permanent signs.
 
Wall Signs              Single-Tenant Building      Multiple-Tenant Building
Changeable copy ratio   Not permitted               Not permitted
Maximum projection from 12 inches                   12 inches
building
Maximum quantity        1 per side of building; not 1 per tenant space
                        to exceed 3
                        3 sq. ft. per lineal ft. of 2.5 sq. ft. per lineal ft.
Maximum sign area       front facade; maximum of    of front facade; maximum of
                        400 sq. ft.                 300 sq. ft.
 
         (a)   Illumination. Wall signs on single-tenant buildings and
multiple-tenant buildings may be illuminated internally or by externally-
mounted lights.
         (b)   Multiple-tenant building consistency. The sign envelope that
tenants may use and the regulations to maintain consistent sign appearance
shall be identified during the permitting process. The sign envelope shall not
exceed 150% of the allowable wall sign area for each tenant space.
         (c)   Exception. Single-tenant buildings with a facade greater than
140 feet in length may have two wall signs on those facades. However, the
cumulative square footage of all permanent signs shall still apply.
      (2)   Ground signs. Ground signs shall be permitted on single-tenant
buildings provided the following conditions are met. (See division (B)(3)
(Gateway Signs) below for multiple-tenant buildings.) All ground signs shall be
counted toward the maximum cumulative square footage for permanent signs.
 
Ground Sign           Single-Tenant Building        Multiple-Tenant Building
                      80% or 24 sq. ft. of the sign
Changeable copy ratio area may be changeable copy,  Not permitted
                      whichever is more restrictive
Height above ground   8 ft. maximum                 Not permitted
Maximum quantity      1                             Not permitted
                      2 sq. ft. per lineal ft. of
Maximum sign area     front facade; maximum 180 sq. Not permitted
                      ft.
 
         (a)   Double-sided. If a ground sign has two identical sides, back-to-
back, only one side’s area counts toward the maximum cumulative square footage.
         (b)   Location. A ground sign shall be located a minimum of five feet
from any existing or proposed right-of-way, edge of pavement and curb
associated with a street or driveway; and a ground sign shall be setback ten
feet from all property lines.
         (c)   Landscaping. Landscaping shall be installed around the base of a
ground sign as follows.
            1.   Quantity. At least one shrub per two lineal feet of ground
sign base shall be installed.
            2.   Location. All required plants shall be located within five
feet of the ground sign base.
            3.   Double-sided ground signs. Any double-sided ground sign shall
have landscaping on both sides.
         (d)   Changeable copy. If changeable copy is used, it shall be
integrated into the permanent ground sign and shall only include cyclical or
static messages, regardless if the sign is capable of flashing messages.
         (e)   Illumination. A ground sign may be illuminated internally or by
externally-mounted ground lighting.
      (3)   Gateway signs. Gateway signs shall be permitted for multiple-tenant
buildings that have a minimum of six tenants, a minimum of 12,000 square feet
of main floor area, and provided the following conditions are met. (See
division (B)(2) (Ground Signs) above for single-tenant buildings.) All gateway
signs shall be counted toward the maximum cumulative square footage for
permanent signs.
 
Gateway Sign              Single-Tenant Building Multiple-Tenant Building
Changeable copy ratio     Not permitted          50% of sign area may be
                                                 changeable copy
Height above ground       Not permitted          8 ft. maximum
Maximum overall sign area Not permitted          1 sq. ft. per lineal ft. front
                                                 facade; maximum of 160 sq. ft.
Maximum quantity          Not permitted          1
Maximum tenant sign area  Not permitted          50 sq. ft.
 
         (a)   Double-sided. If a gateway sign has two identical sides, back-
to-back, only one side’s area counts toward the maximum cumulative square
footage.
         (b)   Location. A gateway sign shall be located a minimum of five feet
from any existing or proposed right-of-way, edge of pavement and curb
associated with a street or driveway; and a gateway sign shall be setback ten
feet from all property lines.
         (c)   Landscaping. Landscaping shall be installed around the base of a
gateway sign as follows.
            1.   Quantity. At least one shrub per two lineal feet of gateway
sign base shall be installed.
            2.   Location. All required plants shall be located within five
feet of the gateway sign base.
            3.   Double-sided gateway signs. Any double-sided gateway sign
shall have landscaping on both sides.
         (d)   Changeable copy. If changeable copy is used, it shall be
integrated into the permanent gateway sign and shall only include cyclical or
static messages, regardless if the sign is capable of flashing messages.
         (e)   Illumination. A gateway sign may be illuminated internally or by
externally-mounted ground lighting.
      (4)   Awning signs.
         (a)   Awning signs. Awning signs shall be permitted on single-tenant
buildings and multiple-tenant buildings provided the following conditions are
met. All awning signs shall be counted toward the maximum cumulative square
footage for permanent signs.
 
Awning Sign             Single-Tenant Building Multiple-Tenant Building
Maximum projection from 6 ft.                  6 ft.
building
Maximum quantity        2                      1 per tenant
Maximum sign area       40 sq. ft. total       30 sq. ft. per tenant
 
         (b)   Illumination. Awning signs on single-tenant buildings and
multiple-tenant buildings may be illuminated.
      (5)   Directional device signs. Directional device signs shall be
permitted for single-tenant buildings and multiple-tenant buildings provided
the following conditions are met. Directional device signs shall not count
toward the maximum cumulative square footage for permanent signs.
         (a)   Directional device signs may only be used to indicate vehicular
points of entry or exit.
         (b)   Directional device signs shall not exceed three square feet in
area per side per entrance. Up to 40% of the sign area may be a corporate logo.
         (c)   Directional device signs shall not exceed 36 inches in height.
         (d)   Directional device signs may be illuminated.
         (e)   Directional device signs shall not interfere with safe vehicular
or pedestrian traffic circulation, obstruct the view of drivers entering or
exiting, or be placed within a right-of-way.
         (f)   No more than two directional device signs shall be used per
street frontage, and no more than four directional device signs shall be used
per lot.
   (C)   Temporary signs. Any combination of standard temporary and special
temporary signs shall be permitted for single-tenant buildings and multiple-
tenant buildings provided the following conditions are met.
      (1)   Permits. Temporary signs shall be exempt from obtaining an
improvement location permit, but shall comply with applicable standards.
      (2)   Location. Temporary signs shall be located a minimum of five feet
from any right-of-way, edge of pavement and curb associated with a street or
driveway.
      (3)   Illumination. Temporary signs shall not be illuminated.
      (4)   Standard temporary signs. Standard temporary signs shall be
permitted provided the following conditions are met. The following conditions
apply to single-tenant buildings and multiple-tenant buildings unless otherwise
specified.
         (a)   Type. A standard temporary sign shall be a sandwich board, self-
standing sign, yard sign or a window panel. (Examples of standard temporary
signs include sale of property, special sale and special offer signs.)
         (b)   Quantity.
            1.   Single-tenant buildings. One standard temporary sign shall be
permitted for each lot, except for corner lots. Two standard temporary signs
shall be permitted for corner lots that have 200 feet or more of combined
street frontage. However, standard temporary signs shall be located at least 80
feet from one another.
            2.   Multiple-tenant buildings. One standard temporary sign shall
be permitted for each tenant.
         (c)   Sign area. The sign area for a standard temporary sign shall not
exceed 30 square feet per side.
         (d)   Height above ground. No part of a standard temporary sign shall
be more than five feet above the ground unless the standard temporary sign is
in a first floor window.
         (e)   Duration. A standard temporary sign may stay in place for the
duration of the temporary event. The standard temporary sign may be put in
place up to five days prior to the temporary event. All standard temporary
signs shall be taken down within seven days after the standard temporary sign’s
purpose no longer exists.
         (f)   Quality. A standard temporary sign shall be constructed of
durable, weather resistance and ridged in construction. Sign faces shall not be
paper, cardboard or unprotected wood. Sign frames or structures shall not be
wire, plastic or thin gauge metal; materials that are easily damaged or bent.
Sign faces shall be securely attached to a frame or structure.
      (5)   Special temporary signs. Special temporary signs shall be permitted
provided the following conditions are met. The following conditions apply to
single-tenant buildings and multiple-tenant buildings unless otherwise
specified.
         (a)   Disqualification. Any lot with a permanent electronic message
sign or other permanent sign with electronic changeable copy shall not qualify
for a special temporary sign.
         (b)   Type. Special temporary signs shall include inflatables,
banners, streamers, posters, pennants, yard signs, window panels, sandwich
boards, self-standing signs and the like. (Examples of special temporary signs
include “now hiring” banners and “welcome home” signs.)
         (c)   Quantity.
            1.   Single-tenant buildings. Two special temporary signs shall be
permitted at any one time for a lot.
            2.   Multiple-tenant buildings. One special temporary sign shall be
permitted for each tenant.
         (d)   Height above ground. A special temporary sign shall not exceed
15 feet above the ground.
         (e)   Duration. A special temporary sign may stay in place for 50
total days in any calendar year.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 5.81)
SUBDIVISIONS
§ 165.365 INTENT AND PREREQUISITES (ST).
   (A)   Intent. The standard subdivision type is intended to provide a
development option with the following features.
      (1)   Land use. One hundred percent residential.
      (2)   Applicability. Residential subdivisions of all sizes that require
new streets.
      (3)   Pedestrian network.
         (a)   Safe and efficient pedestrian circulation within the
subdivision; and
         (b)   Safe and efficient pedestrian accessibility to perimeter
streets.
      (4)   Vehicular network.
         (a)   Connectivity to adjacent development, adjacent undeveloped
parcels and the existing street network; and
         (b)   Large radius corners and curves.
      (5)   Site feature preservation. Strive to save existing quality tree
stands.
      (6)   Incentives. Limited intensity and density bonus for anti-monotony
compliance.
   (B)   Prerequisites.
      (1)   Base zoning. AG, R1, R2, R3, UR, M1 or MH.
      (2)   Minimum parent tract. No minimum.
      (3)   Maximum parent tract. No maximum.
Standard Subdivision Intensity and Density Bonus for Anti-monotony
Compliance (Residential Incentive Standards)
  Zoning District
  AG R1 R2 R3 UR M1 MH
Standard Subdivision Intensity and Density Bonus for Anti-monotony Compliance
(Residential Incentive Standards)
                   Zoning District
                   AG     R1      R2      R3      UR        M1        MH
          Min.     No     20,000  11,000  5,000             6,000 sq.
          average  change sq. ft. sq. ft. sq. ft. No change ft.       No change
         lot area
Lot       Min. lot No     18,000  10,000  4,800   No change 5,600 sq. No change
Standards area     change sq. ft. sq. ft. sq. ft.           ft.
          Min. lot No     90 ft   75 ft.  46 ft.  No change 46 ft.    No change
          width    change
          Min.     No
          front    change 30 ft   30 ft.  20 ft.  No change 25 ft.    No change
          setback
Setback   Min.     No
Standards rear     change 28 ft   25 ft.  25 ft.  No change 26 ft.    No change
          setback
          Min.     No
          side     change 9 ft    8 ft.   5 ft.   No change 10 ft.    No change
          setback
          Maximum  No     1.7 du/ 3.5 du/ 6 du/   No change 6 du/acre No change
          density  change acre    acre    acre
          Max. lot No     38%     42%     65%     No change 55%       No change
Other     coverage change
Standards Min.
          dwelling No     1,200   1,000   1,000   No change 1,000 sq. No change
          unit     change sq. ft. sq. ft. sq. ft.           ft.
          size
 
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 6.01)
§ 165.366 STANDARDS GENERALLY (ST).
   (A)   Open space/landscaping.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3535.png]
 
      (1)   Minimum required open space. Fifteen percent.
      (2)   Minimum perimeter landscaping.
         (a)   Twenty-five feet along perimeter streets that shall be common
area;
         (b)   Ten feet along all other perimeters; and
         (c)   Zero feet if abutting another ST, CS or ZL subdivision.
   (B)    Blocks.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3537.png]
 
      (1)   Minimum block length. One hundred and forty feet.
      (2)   Maximum block length. One thousand feet.
      (3)   Minimum cul-de-sac length. One hundred and forty feet.
      (4)   Maximum cul-de-sac length. Six hundred feet.
   (C)   Streets.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3539.png]
 
      (1)   Minimum ROW on local streets. Fifty feet.
      (2)   Minimum street width. Thirty feet.
      (3)   Curb. Rolled or vertical curb required.
      (4)   On-street parking. Required on at least one side.
      (5)   Minimum tree plot width. Five feet.
      (6)   Minimum sidewalk/sidepath width.
         (a)   Five feet sidewalks along both sides of internal collector
streets and internal local streets;
         (b)   Six feet sidepaths or sidewalks along both sides of internal
arterial streets; and
         (c)   Six feet sidepaths or sidewalks along perimeter streets.
   (D)   Additional design standards that apply.
      (1)   Dedication of public improvement. See §
165.386.
      (2)   Development name. See §
165.387.
      (3)   Easement. See §
165.388.
      (4)   Entryway feature. See §
165.389.
      (5)   Flood hazard. See §
165.391.
      (6)   Incentive. See §
165.392.
      (7)   Lot establishment. See §
165.393(A).
      (8)   Monuments and markers. See §
165.395.
      (9)   Open space. See §
165.396.
      (10)   Owners’ association. See §
165.397.
      (11)   Prerequisites. See §
165.400.
      (12)   Storm water. See §
165.401.
      (13)   Streets and access. See §§
165.415,
165.416,
165.418,
165.419 and
165.421.
      (14)   Street lighting. See §
165.422(A) and (D).
      (15)   Surety. See §
165.423.
      (16)   Utility. See §
165.424.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 6.02)
§ 165.367 COVED SUBDIVISIONS (CV).
   (A)   Intent and prerequisites.
      (1)   Intent. The Coved Subdivision type is intended to provide a
development option with the following features.
         (a)   Land use. One hundred percent residential.
         (b)   Applicability. Residential subdivisions containing at least 50
lots and requiring new streets.
         (c)   Pedestrian network.
            1.   Safe and efficient pedestrian circulation within the
subdivision; and
            2.   Safe and efficient pedestrian accessibility to perimeter
streets.
         (d)   Vehicular network.
            1.   Connectivity to adjacent development, adjacent undeveloped
parcels and the existing street network;
            2.   Internal streets characterized by sweeping curves; and
            3.   Minimal use of cul-de-sacs.
         (e)   Site feature preservation. Strive to save quality existing tree
stands.
      (2)   Prerequisites.
         (a)   Base zoning. R2 and R3.
         (b)   Minimum parent tract. Five acres (217,800 square feet).
         (c)   Maximum parent tract. No maximum.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 6.03)
   (B)   Coved subdivision standards.
      (1)   Open space/landscaping.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3549.png]
 
         (a)   Minimum required open space. Twenty-five percent.
         (b)   Minimum perimeter landscaping.
            1.   Twenty-five feet along perimeter streets that shall be common
area; and
            2.   Ten feet along all other perimeters.
      (2)   Blocks.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3551.png]
 
         (a)   Minimum block length. One hundred and forty feet.
         (b)   Maximum block length. One thousand feet.
         (c)   Minimum cul-de-sac length. One hundred and forty feet.
         (d)   Maximum cul-de-sac length. Six hundred feet.
      (3)   Streets.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3553.png]
 
         (a)   Minimum ROW on local streets. Sixty feet.
         (b)   Minimum street width. Thirty-two feet.
         (c)   Curb. Rolled or vertical curb required.
         (d)   On-street parking. Required on at least one side.
         (e)   Minimum tree plot width. Five feet.
         (f)   Minimum sidewalk/sidepath width.
            1.   Five feet sidewalk required along both sides of all internal
local streets and internal collector streets;
            2.   Five feet sidepaths or sidewalks along both sides of internal
arterial streets; and
            3.   Six feet sidewalks required along perimeter streets.
   (C)   Additional design standards that apply.
      (1)   Dedication of public improvement. See §
165.386.
      (2)   Development name. See §
165.387.
      (3)   Easement. See §
165.388.
      (4)   Erosion control. See §
165.390.
      (5)   Flood hazard. See §
165.391.
      (6)   Incentive. See §
165.392.
      (7)   Lot establishment. See §
165.393(A).
      (8)   Monuments and markers. See §
165.395.
      (9)   Open space. See §
165.396.
      (10)   Owners’ association. See §
165.397.
      (11)   Pedestrian network. See §
165.398.
      (12)   Perimeter landscaping. See §
165.399.
      (13)   Prerequisites. See §
165.400.
      (14)   Storm water. See §
165.401.
      (15)   Streets and access. See §§
165.415,
165.416,
165.419 and
165.421.
      (16)   Street lighting. See §
165.422(A) and (D).
      (17)   Surety. See §
165.423.
      (18)   Utility. See §
165.424.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 6.04)
§ 165.368 CONSERVATION SUBDIVISIONS (CS).
   (A)   Conservation Subdivision intent and prerequisites.
      (1)   Intent. The Conservation Subdivision type is intended to provide a
development option with the following features.
         (a)   Land use. One hundred percent residential.
         (b)   Applicability. Residential subdivisions at least 40 lots and
requiring new streets.
         (c)   Pedestrian network.
            1.   Pedestrian circulation within the subdivision that is
sensitive to the subdivision’s natural amenities; and
            2.   Safe pedestrian accessibility to perimeter streets.
         (d)   Vehicular network.
            1.   Connectivity to adjacent development, adjacent undeveloped
parcels and the existing street network;
            2.   Moderate use of cul-de-sacs;
            3.   Narrow streets without curb; and
            4.   On-street parking is discouraged.
         (e)   Site feature preservation.
            1.   Preserve existing quality tree stands; and
            2.   Preserve other existing natural amenities.
         (f)   Incentives.
            1.   Narrow local streets without curb;
            2.   Street lighting not required;
            3.   Sidewalks only required on one side of internal streets; and
            4.   Intensity bonus for conserving land as open space.
      (2)   Prerequisites.
         (a)   Base zoning. AG.
         (b)   Minimum parent tract. Five acres (217,800 square feet).
         (c)   Maximum parent tract. No maximum.
         (d)   Special qualifications.
            1.   The parent tract shall have a quality natural amenity covering
at least 20% of the parent tract; and
            2.   Subdivision shall facilitate clustered development that
ensures the preservation of on-site natural amenities and significant common
open space.
Conservation Subdivision Intensity Bonus for Conserving at least 40% of
Parent Track as Open Space
  Zoning District
Conservation Subdivision Intensity Bonus for Conserving at least 40% of
Parent Track as Open Space
                                          Zoning District
                                          AG
                 Min. average lot area   30,000 sq. ft.
Lot Standards     Min. lot area           26,000 sq. ft.
                  Min. lot width          150 ft.
                  Min. front setback      70 ft.
Setback Standards Min. rear setback       35 ft.
                  Min. side setback       25 ft.
                 Maximum density         No change
Other Standards   Max. lot coverage       35%
                  Min. dwelling unit size 1,200
 
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 6.05)
   (B)   Conservation Subdivision standards.
      (1)   Open space/landscaping.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3555.png]
 
         (a)   Minimum required open space. Forty percent.
         (b)   Minimum perimeter landscaping.
            1.   Twenty-five feet along perimeter streets that shall be common
area; and
            2.   Ten feet along all other perimeters.
      (2)   Blocks.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3557.png]
 
         (a)   Minimum block length. One hundred feet.
         (b)   Maximum block length. One thousand seven hundred and sixty feet
(one-third mile).
         (c)   Minimum cul-de-sac length. One hundred feet.
         (d)   Maximum cul-de-sac length. One thousand feet.
      (3)   Streets.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3559.png]
 
         (a)   Minimum ROW on local streets. Sixty feet.
         (b)   Minimum street width. Twenty-two feet.
         (c)   Curb. Not required.
         (d)   On-street parking. Not required.
         (e)   Minimum tree plot width. Five feet, if sidewalk is installed
along street.
         (f)   Minimum sidewalk/sidepath width.
            1.   Unimproved path in conservation areas;
            2.   Four feet sidewalk along one side of internal local streets
and internal collector streets;
            3.   Four feet sidewalk along both sides of internal arterial
streets; and
            4.   Six feet sidepath or sidewalk along perimeter streets
   (C)   Additional design standards that apply.
      (1)   Dedication of public improvement. See §
165.386.
      (2)   Development name. See §
165.387.
      (3)   Easement. See §
165.388.
      (4)   Entryway feature. See §
165.389.
      (5)   Erosion control. See §
165.390.
      (6)   Flood hazard. See §
165.391.
      (7)   Lot establishment. See §
165.393(A).
      (8)   Monuments and markers. See §
165.395.
      (9)   Open space. See §
165.396.
      (10)   Owners’ association. See §
165.397.
      (11)   Pedestrian network. See §
165.398.
      (12)   Perimeter landscaping. See §
165.399.
      (13)   Prerequisites. See §
165.400.
      (14)   Storm water. See §
165.401.
      (15)   Streets and access. See §§
165.415,
165.416,
165.419 and
165.421.
      (16)   Street lighting. See §
165.422(D).
      (17)   Surety. See §
165.423.
      (18)   Utility. See §
165.424.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 6.06)
§ 165.369 TRADITIONAL SUBDIVISIONS (TD).
   (A)   Traditional subdivision intent and prerequisites.
      (1)   Intent. The Traditional Subdivision type is intended to provide a
development option with the following features.
         (a)   Land use. Mixed-use, with majority being residential.
         (b)   Applicability. Subdivisions containing 50 or more lots and new
streets and alleys.
         (c)   Pedestrian network.
            1.   Safe, efficient and highly accessible pedestrian circulation
within the subdivision; and
            1.   Safe, efficient and easy access to perimeter streets.
         (d)   Vehicular network.
            1.   Creation of grid-like street and alley system that allows for
maximum connectivity to adjacent neighborhoods and non-residential activity
centers;
            2.   Frequent use of alleys and garage access via alleys;
            3.   Short blocks; and
            4.   Small radius corners.
         (e)   Site feature preservation. Strive to save existing quality tree
stands.
         (f)   Incentives. Increased intensity and density for traditional
subdivision design.
      (2)   Prerequisites.
         (a)   Base zoning. Minimum of 80% R3, UR or M1.
         (b)   Minimum parent tract. Forty acres.
         (c)   Maximum parent tract. Two hundred acres.
         (d)   Special qualifications. Subdivision shall be designed around
pedestrian-scale streetscape featuring narrow street profiles, alleys, on-
street parking, building forward orientation, short blocks and decorative
street lighting.
Traditional Subdivision Intensity and Density Bonus for Traditional Design
Compliance
  Zoning District
  R3 UR M1
Traditional Subdivision Intensity and Density Bonus for Traditional Design
Compliance
                                     Zoning District
                                     R3            UR            M1
                  Min. average lot   No change     No change     No change
                 area
Lot Standards     Min. lot area      4,600 sq. ft. 4,600 sq. ft. 5,500 sq. ft.
                  Min. lot width     44 ft.        No change     45 ft.
                  Min. front setback 20 ft.        15 ft.        22 ft.
Setback Standards Min. rear setback  28 ft.        22 ft.        28 ft.
                  Min. side setback  6 ft.         No change     10 ft.
                  Maximum density    6.2 du/acre   6.2 du/acre   5.5 du/acre
                  Max. lot coverage  No change     67%           55%
                 Min. average       No change     No change     No change
Other Standards   dwelling unit size
                  Min. dwelling unit No change     No change     No change
                  size
 
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 6.07)
   (B)   Traditional Subdivision standards.
      (1)   Open space/landscaping.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3561.png]
 
         (a)   Minimum required open space. Fifteen percent.
         (b)   Minimum perimeter landscaping.
            1.   Twenty-five feet along perimeter streets that shall be common
area;
            2.   Ten feet along all other perimeters; and
            3.   Zero feet if abutting another TD or a TN subdivision.
      (2)   Blocks.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3563.png]
 
         (a)   Minimum block length. Two hundred feet.
         (b)   Maximum block length. Six hundred and sixty feet.
         (c)   Average block length. Between 300 and 500 feet.
         (d)   Cul-de-sac length. Cul-de-sacs not permitted.
      (3)   Streets.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3565.png]
 
         (a)   Minimum ROW on local streets.
            1.   Fifty-six feet if on-street is on one side; and
            2.   Sixty-two feet if on-street parking is on both sides.
         (b)   Minimum street width. Thirty feet.
         (c)   Curb. Vertical curb required.
         (d)   On-street parking. Required on at least one side.
         (e)   Minimum tree plot width.
            1.   Five feet in residential areas; and
            2.   Zero feet in non-residential areas.
         (f)   Minimum sidewalk/sidepath width.
            1.   Five feet sidewalk along both sides of internal residential
streets (local, collector and arterial);
            2.   Five feet sidewalk along internal non-residential streets
(local, collector and arterial); and
            3.   Five sidepath or sidewalk along perimeter streets.
   (C)   Additional design standards that apply.
      (1)   Dedication of public improvement. See §
165.386.
      (2)   Development name. See §
165.387.
      (3)   Easement. See §
165.388.
      (4)   Entryway feature. See §
165.389.
      (5)   Erosion control. See §
165.390.
      (6)   Flood hazard. See §
165.391.
      (7)   Incentive. See §
165.392.
      (8)   Lot establishment. See §
165.393(A).
      (9)   Mixed use. See §
165.394.
      (10)   Monuments and markers. See §
165.395.
      (11)   Open space. See §
165.396.
      (12)   Pedestrian network. See §
165.398.
      (13)   Perimeter landscaping. See §
165.399.
      (14)   Prerequisites. See §
165.400.
      (15)   Storm water. See §
165.401.
      (16)   Streets and access. See §§
165.415 through
165.417,
165.419 and
165.421.
      (17)   Street lighting. See §
165.422(B), (C) and (D).
      (18)   Surety. See §
165.423.
      (19)   Utility. See §
165.424.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 6.08)
§ 165.370 TOWNHOUSE SUBDIVISIONS (TN).
   (A)   Townhouse subdivision intent and prerequisites.
      (1)   Intent. The Townhouse Subdivision type is intended to provide a
development option with the following features.
         (a)   Land use. One hundred percent residential, in the form of
townhouses.
         (b)   Applicability. Residential subdivisions involving townhouses
including all sizes that may or may not require new streets.
         (c)   Pedestrian network.
            1.   Safe, efficient and highly accessible pedestrian circulation
within the subdivision; and
            2.   Safe, efficient and easy access to perimeter streets.
         (d)   Vehicular network.
            1.   Creation of grid-like street and alley system that allows for
maximum connectivity to adjacent neighborhoods and non-residential activity
centers;
            2.   Frequent use of alleys and garage access via alleys;
            3.   Short blocks; and
            4.   Small radius corners.
         (e)   Site feature preservation. Strive to save existing quality tree
stands.
         (f)   Incentives. Increased intensity and density for townhouse
subdivision design.
      (2)   Prerequisites.
         (a)   Base zoning. M1 or M2.
         (b)   Minimum parent tract. No minimum.
         (c)   Maximum parent tract. No maximum.
         (d)   Special qualifications. Subdivision shall be designed around
pedestrian-scale streetscape featuring narrow street profiles, on-street
parking, building forward orientation, short blocks and decorative street
lighting.
Townhouse Subdivision Intensity and Density Bonus for Townhome Design
Compliance
  Zoning District
  M1 M2
Townhouse Subdivision Intensity and Density Bonus for Townhome Design
Compliance
                                                  Zoning District
                                                  M1            M2
                  Min. average lot area           2,700 sq. ft. 2,600 sq. ft.
                 Min. average lot width          26 ft.        26 ft.
Lot Standards     Min. lot area                   2,300 sq. ft. 2,200 sq. ft.
                  Min. lot width                  20 ft.        20 ft.
                  Max. lot coverage               50%           70%
                 Min. building separation*       30 ft.        35 ft.
Setback Standards Min. front setback              20 ft.        20 ft.
                  Min. rear setback               30 ft.        40 ft.
                  Min. side setback               0 ft.         0 ft.
                  Maximum density                 6 du/acre     12 du/acre
Other Structures  Min. average dwelling unit size 1,200 sq. ft. 1,200 sq. ft.
                  Min. dwelling unit size         1,000 sq. ft. 900 sq. ft.
* Separation from another block of townhouses, not each individual unit.
 
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 6.09)
   (B)   Townhouse subdivision standards.
      (1)   Open space/landscaping.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3567.png]
 
         (a)   Minimum required open space. Twenty percent.
         (b)   Minimum perimeter landscaping.
            1.   Twenty-five feet along perimeter streets;
            2.   Ten feet along all other perimeters; and
            3.   Zero feet if abutting another TN or a TD subdivision.
      (2)   Blocks.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3569.png]
 
         (a)   Minimum block length. Two hundred feet.
         (b)   Maximum block length. Six hundred and sixty feet.
         (c)   Average block length. Between 300 and 500 feet.
         (d)   Cul-de-sac length. Cul-de-sacs not permitted.
      (3)   Streets.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3571.png]
 
         (a)   Minimum ROW on local streets.
            1.   Fifty-six feet if on-street is on one side; and
            2.   Sixty-two feet if on-street parking is on both sides.
         (b)   Minimum street width. Thirty feet.
         (c)   Curb. Vertical curb required.
         (d)   On-street parking. Required on at least one side.
         (e)   Minimum tree plot width. Five feet.
         (f)   Minimum sidewalk/sidepath width.
            1.   Four feet sidewalk along both sides of internal local streets
and internal collector streets;
            2.   Six feet sidepath or sidewalk along both sides of internal
arterial streets; and
            3.   Six feet sidepath or sidewalk along perimeter streets.
   (C)   Additional design standards that apply.
      (1)   Dedication of public improvement. See §
165.386.
      (2)   Development name. See §
165.387.
      (3)   Easement. See §
165.388.
      (4)   Entryway feature. See §
165.389.
      (5)   Erosion control. See §
165.390.
      (6)   Flood hazard. See §
165.391.
      (7)   Incentive. See §
165.392.
      (8)   Lot establishment. See §
165.393(A).
      (9)   Monuments and markers. See §
165.395.
      (10)   Open space. See §
165.396.
      (11)   Owners’ association. See §
165.397.
      (12)   Pedestrian network. See §
165.398.
      (13)   Perimeter landscaping. See §
165.399.
      (14)   Prerequisites. See §
165.400.
      (15)   Storm water. See §
165.401.
      (16)   Streets and access. See §§
165.415 through
165.417,
165.419 and
165.421.
      (17)   Street lighting. See §
165.422(C) and (D).
      (18)   Surety. See §
165.423.
      (19)   Utility. See §
165.424.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 6.10)
§ 165.371 ZERO LOT LINE SUBDIVISIONS (ZL).
   (A)   Zero lot line subdivision intent and prerequisites.
      (1)   Intent. The Zero Lot Line Subdivision type is intended to provide a
development option with the following features.
         (a)   Land use. One hundred percent residential.
         (b)   Applicability. Residential subdivisions involving zero lot line
development including all sizes that may or may not require new streets.
         (c)   Pedestrian network.
            1.   Safe and efficient pedestrian circulation within the
subdivision; and
            2.   Safe and efficient pedestrian accessibility to perimeter
streets.
         (d)   Vehicular network.
            1.   Connectivity to adjacent development, adjacent undeveloped
parcels and the existing street network; and
            2.   Large radius corners and curves.
         (e)   Site feature preservation. Strive to save existing quality tree
stands.
         (f)   Incentives. Limited intensity and density bonus for anti-
monotony compliance.
      (2)   Prerequisites.
         (a)   Base zoning. R1, R2, R3, UR or M1.
         (b)   Minimum parent tract. No minimum.
         (c)   Maximum parent tract. No maximum.
Zero Lot Line Subdivision Intensity and Density Bonus for Anti-monotony
Compliance (Residential Incentive Standards)
  Zoning Districts
  R1 R2 R3 UR M1
Zero Lot Line Subdivision Intensity and Density Bonus for Anti-monotony
Compliance (Residential Incentive Standards)
                       Zoning Districts
                       R1          R2          R3        UR        M1
          Min. average 20,000 sq.  11,000 sq.  5,000 sq. 5,000 sq. 6,000 sq.
         lot area     ft.         ft.         ft.       ft.       ft.
Lot       Min. lot     18,000 sq.  10,000 sq.  4,800 sq. 5,000 sq. 5,600 sq.
Standards area         ft.         ft.         ft.       ft.       ft.
          Min. lot     90 ft.      75 ft.      46 ft.    40 ft.    46 ft.
          width
          Min.
          aggregate    9 ft.       8 ft.       5 ft.     5 ft.     10 ft.
          side setback
          Min.
         building     10 ft.      10 ft.      10 ft.    10 ft.    10 ft.
Setback   separation
Standards Min. front   30 ft.      30 ft.      25 ft.    15 ft.    25 ft.
          setback
          Min. rear    28 ft.      25 ft.      25 ft.    25 ft.    26 ft.
          setback
          Min. side    0 ft.       0 ft.       0 ft.     0 ft.     0 ft.
          setback
          Maximum      1.7 du/acre 3.5 du/acre 6 du/acre 6 du/acre 6 du/acre
          density
Other     Max. lot     38%         42%         65%       65%       55%
Standards coverage
          Min.         1,200 sq.   1,000 sq.   1,000 sq.           1,000 sq.
          dwelling     ft.         ft.         ft.       1,000     ft.
          unit size
 
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 6.11)
   (B)   Zero Lot Line Subdivision standards.
      (1)   Open space/landscaping.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3573.png]
 
         (a)   Minimum required open space. Fifteen percent.
         (b)   Minimum perimeter landscaping.
            1.   Twenty-five feet along perimeter streets that shall be common
area;
            2.   Ten feet along all other perimeters; and
            3.   Zero feet if abutting another ZL, CS or ST subdivision.
      (2)   Blocks.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3575.png]
 
         (a)   Minimum block length. One hundred and forty feet.
         (b)   Maximum block length. One thousand feet.
         (c)   Minimum cul-de-sac length. One hundred and forty feet.
         (d)   Maximum cul-de-sac length. Six hundred feet.
      (3)   Streets.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3577.png]
 
         (a)   Minimum ROW on local streets. Fifty-six feet.
         (b)   Minimum street width. Thirty-two feet.
         (c)   Curb. Rolled or vertical curb required.
         (d)   On-street parking. Required on at least one side.
         (e)   Minimum tree plot width. Five feet.
         (f)   Minimum sidewalk/sidepath width.
            1.   Five feet sidewalks along both sides of internal collector
streets and internal local streets;
            2.   Six feet sidepaths or sidewalks along both sides of internal
arterial streets; and
            3.   Six feet sidepaths or sidewalks along perimeter streets.
   (C)   Additional design standards that apply.
      (1)   Dedication of public improvement. See §
165.386.
      (2)   Development name. See §
165.387.
      (3)   Easement. See §
165.388.
      (4)   Entryway feature. See §
165.389.
      (5)   Erosion control. See §
165.390.
      (6)   Flood hazard. See §
165.391.
      (7)   Incentive. See §
165.392.
      (8)   Lot establishment. See §
165.393(A).
      (9)   Monuments and markers. See §
165.395.
      (10)   Open space. See §
165.396.
      (11)   Owners’ association. See §
165.397.
      (12)   Pedestrian network. See §
165.398.
      (13)   Perimeter landscaping. See §
165.399.
      (14)   Prerequisites. See §
165.400.
      (15)   Storm water. See §
165.401.
      (16)   Streets and access. See §§
165.415,
165.416,
165.418,
165.419 and
165.421.
      (17)   Street lighting. See §
165.422(A) and (D).
      (18)   Surety. See §
165.423.
      (19)   Utility. See §
165.424.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 6.12)
§ 165.372 STRIP COMMERCIAL SUBDIVISIONS (SC).
   (A)   Strip Commercial Subdivision intent and prerequisites.
      (1)   Intent. The Strip Commercial Subdivision type is intended to
provide a development option with the following features.
         (a)   Land use. At least 90% non- residential.
         (b)   Applicability. Commercial strip subdivisions of all sizes that
may or may not require new streets.
         (c)   Pedestrian network.
            1.   Safe movement to primary structures from streets;
            2.   Safe movement between primary structures; and
            3.   Safe accessibility to perimeter streets.
         (d)   Vehicular network.
            1.   Connectivity to adjacent development, adjacent undeveloped
parcels and the existing street network;
            2.   Adequate accessibility for deliveries;
            3.   Use of frontage streets when necessary; and
            4.   Minimal curb cuts.
         (e)   Site feature preservation. Strive to save quality existing tree
stands.
      (2)   Prerequisites.
         (a)   Base zoning. NC, LC, GC or HC.
         (b)   Minimum parent tract. Two acres (87,120 square feet).
         (c)   Maximum parent tract. No maximum.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 6.13)
   (B)   Strip Commercial standards.
      (1)   Open space/landscaping.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3579.png]
 
         (a)   Minimum required open space. Ten percent.
         (b)   Minimum perimeter landscaping.
            1.   Fifteen feet along perimeter streets;
            2.   Ten feet along all other perimeters;
            3.   Zero feet if abutting a LC, GC or HC District.
      (2)   Blocks.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3581.png]
 
         (a)   Minimum block length. One hundred and forty feet.
         (b)   Maximum block length. One thousand feet.
         (c)   Minimum cul-de-sac length. No minimum.
         (d)   Maximum cul-de-sac length. Six hundred feet.
      (3)   Streets.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3583.png]
 
         (a)   Minimum ROW on local streets. Sixty feet.
         (b)   Minimum street width. Twenty-four feet.
         (c)   Curb. Rolled or vertical curb required.
         (d)   On-street parking. Not permitted.
         (e)   Minimum tree plot width. Five feet.
         (f)   Minimum sidewalk/sidepath width.
            1.   Four feet sidewalk along at least one side of internal local
streets and internal collector streets;
            2.   Six feet sidepath or sidewalk along both sides of internal
arterial streets; and
            3.   Six feet sidepath or sidewalk along perimeter streets
   (C)   Additional design standards that apply.
      (1)   Dedication of public improvement. See §
165.386.
      (2)   Development name. See §
165.387.
      (3)   Easement. See §
165.388.
      (4)   Entryway feature. See §
165.389.
      (5)   Erosion control. See §
165.390.
      (6)   Flood hazard. See §
165.391.
      (7)   Lot establishment. See §
165.393(A).
      (8)   Monuments and markers. See §
165.395.
      (9)   Open space. See §
165.396.
      (10)   Owners’ association. See §
165.397.
      (11)   Pedestrian network. See §
165.398.
      (12)   Perimeter landscaping. See §
165.399.
      (13)   Prerequisites. See §
165.400.
      (14)   Storm water. See §
165.401.
      (15)   Streets and access. See §§
165.415,
165.416,
165.420 and
165.421.
      (16)   Street lighting. See §
165.422(C) and (D).
      (17)   Surety. See §
165.423.
      (18)   Utility. See §
165.424.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 6.14)
§ 165.373 COMMERCIAL DISTRICT SUBDIVISIONS (CD).
   (A)   Commercial District Subdivision intent and prerequisites.
      (1)   Intent. The Commercial District Subdivision type is intended to
provide a development option with the following features.
         (a)   Land use. At least 90% non- residential.
         (b)   Applicability. Commercial subdivisions regardless of the number
of lots and regardless if new infrastructure improvements are required.
         (c)   Pedestrian network.
            1.   Safe movement to primary structures from streets;
            2.   Safe movement between primary structures; and
            3.   Safe accessibility to perimeter streets.
         (d)   Vehicular network.
            1.   Connectivity to adjacent development, adjacent undeveloped
parcels and the existing street network;
            2.   Adequate accessibility for deliveries;
            3.   Use of frontage roads when necessary; and
            4.   Minimal curb cuts.
         (e)   Site feature preservation. Strive to save quality existing tree
stands.
      (2)   Prerequisites.
         (a)   Base zoning. LC or GC.
         (b)   Minimum parent tract. Two acres (87,120 square feet).
         (c)   Maximum parent tract. No maximum.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 6.15)
   (B)   Commercial District Subdivision standards.
      (1)   Open space/landscaping.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3826.png]
 
         (a)   Minimum required open space. Ten percent.
         (b)   Minimum perimeter landscaping.
            1.   Fifteen feet along all perimeter streets;
            2.   Ten feet along all other perimeters; and
            3.   Zero feet if abutting a LC, GC or HC District.
      (2)   Blocks.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3828.png]
 
         (a)   Minimum block length. One hundred and forty feet.
         (b)   Maximum block length. One thousand feet.
         (c)   Minimum cul-de-sac length. One hundred and forty feet.
         (d)   Maximum cul-de-sac length. Six hundred feet.
      (3)   Streets.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3830.png]
 
         (a)   Minimum ROW on local streets. Sixty feet.
         (b)   Minimum street width. Twenty-four feet.
         (c)   Curb. Rolled or vertical curb required.
         (d)   On-street parking. Not permitted.
         (e)   Minimum tree plot width. Five feet.
         (f)   Minimum sidewalk/sidepath width.
            1.   Four feet sidewalk along at least one side of internal local
streets and internal collector streets;
            1.   Six feet sidepath or sidewalk along both sides of internal
arterial streets; and
            1.   Six feet sidepath or sidewalk along perimeter streets.
   (C)   Additional design standards that apply.
      (1)   Dedication of public improvement. See §
165.386.
      (2)   Development name. See §
165.387.
      (3)   Easement. See §
165.388.
      (4)   Entryway feature. See §
165.389.
      (5)   Erosion control. See §
165.390.
      (6)   Flood hazard. See §
165.391.
      (7)   Lot establishment. See §
165.393(B).
      (8)   Monuments and markers. See §
165.395.
      (9)   Open space. See §
165.396.
      (10)   Owners’ association. See §
165.397.
      (11)   Pedestrian network. See §
165.398.
      (12)   Perimeter landscaping. See §
165.399.
      (13)   Prerequisites. See §
165.400.
      (14)   Storm water. See §
165.401.
      (15)   Streets and access. See §§
165.415,
165.416,
165.420 and
165.421.
      (16)   Street lighting. See §
165.422(C) and (D).
      (17)   Surety. See §
165.423.
      (18)   Utility. See §
165.424.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 6.16)
§ 165.374 INDUSTRIAL PARK SUBDIVISIONS (IP).
   (A)   Industrial Park Subdivision intent and prerequisites.
      (1)   Intent. The Industrial Park Subdivision type is intended to provide
a development option with the following features.
         (a)   Land use.
            1.   One hundred percent non- residential; and
            2.   At least 60% industrial uses.
         (b)   Applicability. Industrial subdivisions of all sizes that may or
may not require new streets.
         (c)   Pedestrian network.
            1.   Safe movement to primary structures from streets;
            2.   Safe movement between primary structures; and
            3.   Safe accessibility to perimeter streets.
         (d)   Vehicular network.
            1.   Connectivity to adjacent lots;
            2.   Use of frontage streets when necessary;
            3.   Safe and efficient integration of vehicular and truck traffic;
and
            4.   Minimal curb cuts.
         (e)   Site feature preservation. Strive to save quality existing tree
stands.
      (2)   Prerequisites.
         (a)   Base zoning. I1 or I2.
         (b)   Minimum parent tract. No minimum.
         (c)   Maximum parent tract. No maximum.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 6.17)
   (B)   Industrial Park Subdivision standards.
      (1)   Open space/landscaping.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3832.png]
 
         (a)   Minimum required open space. Ten percent.
         (b)   Minimum perimeter landscaping.
            1.   Forty feet along perimeter streets that shall be common area;
            2.   Twenty feet along all other perimeters; and
            3.   Zero feet if abutting a I1, I2 or HI District.
      (2)   Blocks.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3834.png]
 
         (a)   Minimum block length. No minimum.
         (b)   Maximum block length. No maximum.
         (c)   Cul-de-sac length. Cul-de-sacs not permitted.
      (3)   Streets.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04fc1fcb682564160f6ebcdbd2f1b9f8852369d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3836.png]
 
         (a)   Minimum ROW on local streets. Sixty feet.
         (b)   Minimum street width. Twenty-four feet.
         (c)   Curb. Not applicable.
         (d)   On-street parking. Not applicable.
         (e)   Minimum tree plot width. Not applicable.
         (f)   Minimum sidewalk/sidepath width. Not applicable.
   (C)   Additional design standards that apply.
      (1)   Dedication of public improvement. See §
165.386.
      (2)   Development name. See §
165.387.
      (3)   Easement. See §
165.388.
      (4)   Entryway feature. See §
165.389.
      (5)   Erosion control. See §
165.390.
      (6)   Flood hazard. See §
165.391.
      (7)   Lot establishment. See §
165.393(B).
      (8)   Monuments and markers. See §
165.395.
      (9)   Open space. See §
165.396.
      (10)   Owners’ association. See §
165.397.
      (11)   Pedestrian network. See §
165.398.
      (12)   Perimeter landscaping. See §
165.399.
      (13)   Prerequisites. See §
165.400.
      (14)   Storm water. See §
165.401.
      (15)   Streets and access. See §§
165.415,
165.416,
165.420 and
165.421.
      (16)   Street lighting. See §
165.422(C) and (D).
      (17)   Surety. See §
165.423.
      (18)   Utility. See §
165.424.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 6.18)
DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 165.385 GENERAL; PURPOSE.
   (A)   Using this section. The following pages contain the design standards
for site and infrastructure improvements associated with subdivisions, planned
developments and development plan approval. These requirements shall also apply
to planned developments associated with subdivision approval. Each section
represents the regulations for a specific category. There are two ways to
determine which design standards apply to a specific type of petition. They
are:
      (1)   Using layouts. Refer to the layouts in §§
165.365 through
165.374 for a specific subdivision type. Applicable design standards for that
specific subdivision type are identified in the division “Additional Design
Standards that Apply”. Only the sections and divisions noted in the “Additional
Design Standards that Apply” section apply to that subdivision type; and
      (2)   Using icons. Refer to the project icons used at the top of each
design standards section in §§
165.385 through
165.401 and
165.415 through
165.424. Each design standard section begins with an introductory sentence
followed by icons that stand for subdivision or project type. These project
icons note that the design standards written in that section applies to that
type of application.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 7.01)
   (B)   Purpose of design standards; intent. It is the purpose of §§
165.385 through
165.401 and
165.415 through
165.424 to establish and define design standards that shall be required by the
city for any subdivision of land, development plan approval and planned
development.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 7.02)
   (C)   Icon key.
CD Commercial District Subdivision
CS Conservation Subdivision
CV Coved Subdivision
DP Development Plan
IP Industrial Park Subdivision
PD Planned Development
SC Strip Commercial Subdivision
ST Standard Subdivision
TD Traditional Subdivision
TN Townhouse Subdivision
ZK Zero Lot Line Subdivision
 
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 7.03)
§ 165.386 DEDICATION OF PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS.
   This dedication of public improvement standards section applies to the
following types of development: ST; CV; CS; TD; TN; ZL; SC; CD; IP; DP; and PD.
   (A)   Project applicability. All rights-of-way on an approved secondary plat
(subdivisions), approved final plan (planned developments) or on an approved
development plan shall be considered dedicated upon approval by the Plan
Commission.
      (1)   Streets and sidewalks. The intent of the city is to take ownership
of streets and sidewalks located within the rights-of-way that have been
constructed to meet or exceed the city’s construction standards. The city,
however, may choose not to take ownership of specialty access improvements,
including, but not limited to, alleys, driveways, driving aisles, unusual on-
street parking or eyebrows.
      (2)   Other facilities. Other infrastructure or facilities may, at the
election of the Board of Public Works, be dedicated to the city. These
facilities may include parks, open space, drainage facilities, utilities,
street lighting or other facilities in which the city may have interest.
   (B)   Maintenance surety. A maintenance bond may be required by the city at
the time of dedication. See §
165.423 (Surety Standards).
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 7.04)
§ 165.387 DEVELOPMENT NAME STANDARDS.
   This development name standards section applies to the following types of
development: ST; CV; CS; TD; TN; ZL; SC; CD; IP; DP; and PD.
   (A)   Proposed development name. The applicant shall propose a unique name
for the development.
      (1)   Root name. The proposed root name of the development shall not
duplicate, or closely approximate phonetically, the name of any other
development within the zoning jurisdiction of the city.
      (2)   Suffix name. Deviations in suffix names (e.g., Place, Woods or
Glen) shall not constitute a unique name (for example, if Preston Place exists,
the name Preston Woods shall not be permitted).
      (3)   Large developments. Unique subareas within a large development or
separate developments within close proximity may be authorized to use the same
root name by the Plan Commission.
   (B)   Approval authority. While the development name proposed by the
applicant shall be considered, the Plan Commission has authority to approve or
deny the proposed name.
   (C)   Renaming authority.
      (1)   Existing development names. Existing development names and
development names that have been approved by the Plan Commission shall not be
changed without Plan Commission approval.
      (2)   Proposed development names. The Plan Commission shall have
authority to require a new unique name for a development if the name proposed
by the applicant is unacceptable. If an acceptable and unique development name
is not proposed by the applicant, the Plan Commission shall rename the
development prior to final approval.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 7.05)
§ 165.388 EASEMENT STANDARDS.
   This easement standards section applies to the following types of
development: ST; CV; CS; TD; TN; ZL; SC; CD; IP; DP; and PD.
   (A)   Cross-reference.
      (1)   Private street easements. For details concerning private street
easements, see §
165.416 (Private Street and Access Standards).
      (2)   Temporary turnaround easements. For details concerning temporary
turnaround easements, see §
165.415(C)(5) (Temporary Turnarounds).
      (3)   Utility easements. For details concerning utility easements, see §
165.424 (Utility Standards).
      (4)   Drainage easements. For details concerning drainage easements, see
§
165.401 (Storm Water Standards).
   (B)   Cross-access easements.
      (1)   Description. A cross-access easement applies to shared driveways,
shared access and parking lots.
      (2)   Instrument specifications. When required by this chapter, each
property owner of record shall execute a cross-access easement instrument in
favor of the adjoining property owner. The cross-access easement instrument
shall be signed by the owner or an authorized representative of the owner of
all associated properties. The cross-access easement instrument shall include
the following language:
         (a)   Identify the development with which the cross-access easement
(CAE) is associated;
         (b)   The cross-access easement (CAE) shall grant the general public
the right to utilize the easement for purpose of accessing adjoining parking
lots;
         (c)   The cross-access easement (CAE) shall prohibit any person from
parking vehicles within the easement, unless the cross-access easement (CAE) is
for a parking lot;
         (d)   The cross-access easement (CAE) shall prohibit any person,
including the property owner, from placing any obstruction within the easement;
         (e)   The cross-access easement (CAE) shall be binding on all heirs,
successors and assigns to the property on which the cross-access easement is
located;
         (f)   The cross-access easement (CAE) shall be enforceable by the
owners of each associated property, the city and any other specially affected
persons identified in the cross-access easement;
         (g)   The cross-access easement (CAE) shall provide for modification
or termination in a manner specified in this chapter;
         (h)   The cross-access easement (CAE) shall be cross-referenced to the
most recently recorded deeds of the associated properties; and
         (i)   The cross-access easement (CAE) shall include a metes and bounds
description of the easement.
      (3)   Cross-access easement certificate.
         (a)   When a secondary plat, development plan or final plan of a
planned development is being recorded, the applicant may forego a separate
cross-access easement instrument in favor of printing the following cross-
access easement certificate on the recordable instrument:
“Areas on these plans designated as a cross-access easement or abbreviated as
“CAE” are established in favor of the adjoining property owner and grant the
public the right to enter the easement for purposes of accessing adjoining
parking lots. These easements prohibit any person from parking vehicles within
the easement, and prohibit the property owners or any other person from placing
any obstruction within the easement. These easements are binding on all heirs,
successors and assigns to the property on which they are located. The grantee
or the city may enforce the provisions of the easement. The easement shall only
be modified or vacated in the manner stipulated in the unified development
ordinance, or its successor ordinance.”
         (b)   The dedication and acceptance of any cross-access easements
shown on a recordable instrument shall be accomplished via a certificate of
dedication and acceptance signed by the appropriate property owners, or their
agents.
         (c)   If the declaration of covenants is included on the recordable
instrument, the cross-access easement certificate clearly be shall separate
from the declaration of covenants.
   (C)   General easements.
      (1)   Instrument specifications. When an easement is required by this
chapter or an easement is required per a commitment or condition of approval,
but the standards for the easement type are not specified, the property owner
of record shall execute the easement instrument in favor of the appropriate
parties (e.g., the general public, city, specific abutting property owner). The
easement instrument shall be signed by the property owner of record granting
the easement and an authorized representative of the appropriate party
accepting the easement. The easement instrument shall include the following
language:
         (a)   Identify the project or development with which the easement is
associated;
         (b)   Specify those activities the appropriate parties are authorized
to perform in the easement;
         (c)   Specify those activities the property owner of record is
prohibited from performing in the easement;
         (d)   Be binding on all heirs, successors and assigns to the property
on which the easement is located;
         (e)   Be enforceable by the property owner of record, any appropriate
parties and the city;
         (f)   Provide for modification in the manner stipulated in this
chapter;
         (g)   Be cross-referenced to the most recently recorded deed to the
property on which the easement is to be established;
         (h)   Include a metes and bounds description of the easement; and
         (i)   Be signed by an authorized representative of the property owner
of record granting the easement and by an authorized representative of the
grantee accepting the easement.
      (2)   Easement certificate.
         (a)   When a secondary plat, development plan or final plan of a
planned development is being recorded, the applicant may forego a separate
easement instrument in favor of printing an easement certificate, the content
of which has been approved by the Plan Commission Attorney, on the recordable
instrument.
         (b)   The dedication and acceptance of any easements shown on a
recordable instrument shall be accomplished via a certificate of dedication and
acceptance signed by the appropriate property owners, or their agents.
         (c)   If the declaration of covenants is included on the recordable
instrument, the easement certificate clearly be shall separate from the
declaration of covenants.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 7.06)
§ 165.389 ENTRYWAY FEATURE STANDARDS.
   This entryway feature standards section applies to the following types of
development: ST; CV; CS; TD; TN; ZL; SC; CD; IP; DP; and PD.
   (A)   Applicability.
      (1)   Residential. Residential developments with at least five lots or
units may establish an entryway feature.
      (2)   Non-residential. Non-residential developments may establish an
entryway feature.
   (B)   Location. Entryway features shall be located at vehicular entrances to
a development, but shall not be located within the right-of-way.
   (C)   Quantity and size. The quantity and size of entryway features shall
depend on the number of entrances and classification of the street where the
entrance is located.
      (1)   Residential.
         (a)   Residential developments with at least five lots or units, but
less than 20 lots or units shall be permitted one entryway feature. The
identification portion (e.g., the subdivision name) of the entryway feature
shall not exceed 20 square feet in area.
         (b)   Residential developments with 20 or more lots or units shall be
permitted one entryway feature. The identification portion (e.g., the
subdivision name) of the entryway feature shall not exceed 40 square feet in
area.
         (c)   Residential developments with 100 or more lots or units shall be
permitted one entryway feature for the primary entrance, and one entryway
feature for one secondary entrance. The identification portion (e.g., the
subdivision name) of the primary entrance’s entryway feature shall not exceed
40 square feet; the identification portion (e.g., the subdivision name) of the
secondary entrance’s entryway feature shall not exceed 20 square feet.
      (2)   Non-residential.
         (a)   Non-residential developments with four or less lots or that do
not have private streets shall be permitted one entryway feature. The
identification portion (e.g., the development name) of the entryway feature
shall not exceed 20 square feet in area.
         (b)   Non-residential developments with more than four lots and
private streets shall be permitted one entryway feature. The identification
portion (e.g., the development name) of the entryway feature shall not exceed
40 square feet in area.
   (D)   Landscaping. The identification portion (e.g., the development name)
of the entryway feature shall be significantly subordinate to the landscaping.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 7.07)
§ 165.390 EROSION CONTROL STANDARDS.
   (A)   Generally. This erosion control standards section applies to the
following types of development: ST; CV; CS; TD; TN; ZL SC; CD; IP; DP; and PD.
   (B)   Cross-reference. All proposed subdivisions, planned developments and
development plans shall be in compliance with Chapter 57, Erosion Control
Ordinance of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 7.08)
§ 165.391 FLOOD HAZARD STANDARDS.
   This flood hazard standards section applies to the following types of
development: ST; CV; CS; TD; TN; ZL; SC; CD; IP; DP; and PD.
   (A)   Base flood elevation.
      (1)   Within special flood hazard areas. The base flood elevation (BFE)
shall be identified on all secondary plats containing lands within a special
flood hazard area (SFHA) and submitting for approval.
      (2)   Larger developments. Base flood elevation data shall be provided
for proposed subdivisions, planned developments and development plans
encompassing either five or more acres or 50 or more lots.
   (B)   Design.
      (1)   Minimize flood damage. All proposed subdivisions, planned
developments and development plans shall be designed to minimize flood damage,
including having public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical
and water systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
      (2)   Drainage. All proposed subdivisions, planned developments and
development plans shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to
flood hazards.
   (C)   Evacuation plan. All owners of manufactured home parks or subdivisions
located within a special flood hazard area (SFHA) identified as an “A Zone” on
the Flood Insurance Rate Maps shall develop an evacuation plan for those lots
located in the Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA) and have the evacuation plan
filed with and approved by the appropriate community emergency management
authorities.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 7.09)
§ 165.392 INCENTIVE STANDARDS.
   This incentive standards section applies to the following types of
development: ST; ZL; DP; and PD.
   (A)   Applicability. Residential developments that elect to follow the anti-
monotony standards or extra open space standards shall be eligible for density
incentives as described below.
   (B)   Anti-monotony standards.
      (1)   Architectural features. At least 80% of all dwelling units in the
development shall:
         (a)   Utilize brick masonry or stone on 75% of the front facade and
50% on each side and rear facade; and
         (b)   Utilize side-loading or rear-loading garages on at least 60% of
all dwelling units. When front-loading garages are used, the garage shall not
project in front of the main living area of the dwelling unit by more than
feet.
      (2)   Rear facades. All perimeter lots shall have the same exterior
window treatments (such as shutters) that are used on the front facade applied
to any facade facing the perimeter street right-of-way; and at least one of the
following features:
         (a)   An offset or bump-out, at least four feet from the plane of the
rear facade, across at least 40% of the rear facade;
         (b)   An all-brick chimney that is offset from the plane of the rear
facade by at least two feet; or
         (c)   A sunroom that is at least 11 feet by 11 feet.
      (3)   Windows. All dwelling units shall have at least one window per
floor on each side elevation and two windows per floor on the front and rear
elevation.
      (4)   Proposed standards. An applicant may seek to not follow the
requirements above, and instead submit detailed architectural design standards
that are mandatory for all dwelling units within the development. These
architectural design standards shall achieve the same or a greater degree of
anti-monotony as those listed above. The submitted architectural design
standards shall be approved by the Plan Commission as part of a primary plat
for a subdivision, detailed development plan for a planned development or
development plan approval. The developer shall include at least three sample
dwelling unit designs to be built within the development showing color drawings
of each elevation. These designs shall highlight how the proposed architectural
design standards will result in quality architecture and anti-monotony for the
development.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 7.10)
§ 165.393 LOT ESTABLISHMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Residential lot establishment standards. This lot establishment
standards section applies to the following types of development: ST; CV; CS;
TD; TN; ZL; DP; and PD.
      (1)   Project applicability. The shape, location and orientation of lots
within a subdivision, planned development or other development shall be
appropriate for the uses proposed and be consistent with the intent of the
subdivision as indicated in §§
165.365 through
165.374 or as indicated in §§
165.240 through
165.246 for planned developments. Lot sizes shall also be consistent with those
indicated for the appropriate zoning district in §§
165.085 through
165.108.
      (2)   Lot design. Lots shall meet the following conditions.
         (a)   Interior street frontage. Residential lots shall be laid out to
front interior streets, which may include frontage streets. Residential lots
shall not front perimeter streets.
         (b)   Side lot lines. Residential lots shall have side lot lines that
are within 15 degrees of a right angle to the street the lot fronts.
         (c)   Corner lots. Residential corner lots smaller than 20,000 square
feet shall be 25% larger than the minimum lot area indicated for the zoning
district. This shall include lots at the corner of a development entrance and a
perimeter street.
         (d)   Through lots. Through lots are discouraged, and shall only be
permitted if the lot does not establish access to the both frontages.
         (e)   Special lots. Residential lots abutting a watercourse, drainage
way, channel or stream shall be 25% larger than the minimum lot area indicated
for the zoning district. This space shall be allocated on the side of the lot
that abuts the water feature as a “no-disturb” zone.
         (f)   Property line corners. At intersections of streets, property
line corners shall be rounded by arcs of at least 15 feet in radius or by
chords of such arcs.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 7.11)
   (B)   Non-residential lot establishment standards. This lot establishment
standards section applies to the following types of development: SC; CD; IP;
DP; and PD.
      (1)   Project applicability. The shape, location and orientation of lots
within a subdivision, planned development or other development shall be
appropriate for the uses proposed and be consistent with the intent of the
subdivision as indicated in §§
165.365 through
165.374 or as indicated in §§
165.240 through
165.246 for planned developments. Lot sizes shall also be consistent with those
indicated for the appropriate zoning district in §§
165.085 through
165.108.
      (2)   Lot design. Lots shall meet the following conditions.
         (a)   Interior street frontage. Non-residential lots shall be laid out
to front interior streets, which may include frontage streets. Individual lots
shall only be laid out to have access onto perimeter streets if expressly
permitted by the City Engineer.
         (b)   Side lot lines. Non-residential lots shall have side lot lines
that are within 15 degrees of a right angle to the street the lot fronts, and
side lot lines shall extend in a straight line from the street for at least 20%
of the property’s depth.
         (c)   Corner lots. Non-residential corner lots shall be 25% larger
than the minimum lot area indicated for the zoning district. If there is a
maximum lot area, that maximum may also be increased by 25%.
         (d)   Special lots. Non-residential lots abutting a watercourse,
drainage way, channel or stream shall be 25% larger than the minimum lot area
indicated for the zoning district. This space shall be allocated on the side of
the property that abuts the water feature as a “no-disturb” zone.
         (e)   Cohesive design. Non-residential developments (i.e., shopping
centers, commercial areas and office parks) shall be designed holistically as a
single project no matter how many lots are generated. Cross-access easements to
allow access between parking lots shall be included where appropriate. See §
165.388 (Easement Standards) for details on cross-access easements.
         (f)   Sensitivity to context. Non-residential developments shall be
laid out to be sensitive to neighboring developments (if built) or neighboring
zoning districts if undeveloped.
         (g)   Property line corners. At intersections of streets, property
line corners shall be rounded by arcs of at least 15 feet in radius or by
chords of such arcs.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 7.12)
§ 165.394 MIXED-USE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   This mixed-used development standards section applies to the following types
of development: TD; DP; and PD.
   (A)   Project applicability. Any development that incorporates a mix of
uses, either as a traditional subdivision (TD), a development plan or a planned
development shall meet the standards in this section. A mix of uses may be
proposed within the same building and/or on the same parent tract.
   (B)   Traditional subdivision: rezoning to most appropriate zoning district.
Upon approval of the primary plat approval, the Plan Commission shall initiate
the rezoning of each unique district within the development (e.g., single-
family, townhouses, apartments, commercial center or park) to the most
appropriate zoning district for each subarea of the development to fulfill the
applicants intention and forward a recommendation for zoning map amendment to
the Common Council. The applicant may make a recommendation for those zoning
districts, but the Plan Commission shall make the final determination. The
applicant shall bear the cost of a single zoning map amendment even if the
development will be rezoned into more than one new classification.
   (C)   Development plan minimizing on-site conflicts. Mixed-uses shall be
arranged on the site to minimize conflicts between other uses on-site or off-
site.
   (D)   Planned development.
      (1)   Minimizing on-site conflicts. Mixed-uses shall be arranged on the
site to minimize conflicts between other uses on-site or off-site.
      (2)   Buffering adjacent properties. Any land use within the development
that borders a differing land use outside the development shall be reviewed to
determine if a bufferyard is necessary. If a bufferyard is required, the
planned development shall install the bufferyard to specifications in §
165.312 (Bufferyard Planting Standards).
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 7.13)
§ 165.395 MONUMENT AND MARKER STANDARDS.
   This monument and marker standards section applies to the following types of
development: ST; CV; CS; TD; TN; ZL; SC; CD; IP; DP; and PD.
   (A)   Installation of monuments and markers. All monument and marker
improvements shall be installed per 865 I.A.C. 1-12-18.
   (B)   Monument location. Survey monuments shall include subdivision
boundary, interior property corners and street monuments and shall conform to
division (A) above.
   (C)   External boundaries of subdivisions. The external boundaries of a
subdivision shall be monumented in the field by monuments of stone or concrete,
not less than 30 inches in length, not less than four inches square or five
inches in diameter, and marked on top with a cross, brass plug, iron rod or
other durable material securely embedded; or by iron rods or iron pipes at
least 30 inches long and one inch in diameter. These monuments shall be placed
not more than 400 feet apart in any straight line and at all corners, at each
end of all curves, at the point where a curve changes its radius, at all angle
points along the meander line, said points to be not less than 20 feet back
from the bank of any river or stream, except that when such corners or points
fall within a street, or proposed future street, the monuments shall be placed
in the side line of the street.
   (D)   Internal boundaries of subdivisions. All internal boundaries and those
corners and points not referred to in division (C) above shall be monumented in
the field by iron rods at least five-eighths-inch in diameter and at least 30
inches long or iron pipes at least one inch in diameter and at least 30 inches
long. These monuments shall be placed at all block corners, at each end of all
curves, at a point where a curve changes its radius, and at all angle points in
any line.
   (E)   Street monuments. Street monuments shall be located on the centerline
at each angle point, at each point of beginning and ending of a curve, or at
the intersection with all streets and alleys.
   (F)   Lots adjacent to waterways. The lines of lots that extend to rivers or
streams shall be monumented in the field by iron rods at least 30 inches long
and five-eighths-inch in diameter, or iron pipes at least one inch in diameter
and at least 30 inches long. These monuments shall be placed at the point of
intersection of the river or stream lot line, with a meander line established
not less than 20 feet back from the bank of the river or stream.
   (G)   Placement. All such monuments shall be set flush with the ground and
planted in such a manner that they will not be removed by frost.
   (H)   Approval by surveyor. All monuments shall be properly set in the
ground and approved by a registered land surveyor. Monuments that are not set
prior to secondary approval being granted shall be included in the performance
bond for the subdivision.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 7.14)
§ 165.396 OPEN SPACE STANDARDS.
   This open space standards section applies to the following types of
development: ST; CV; CS; TD; TN; ZL; SC; CD; IP; DP; and PD.
   (A)   Applicability. The minimum open space required for each type of
subdivision shall be as indicated in the layouts in §§
165.365 through
165.374 or as indicated in §§
165.240 through
165.246 for planned developments.
   (B)   Ownership. Open space areas shall retain private ownership whether
that be a single land owner or an owners’ association.
   (C)   Qualifying areas. The following features count toward the minimum open
space requirements:
      (1)   Conservation areas. Any required preservation/conservation area;
      (2)   Human-made water features. Any human-made water feature, including
a retention facility, if it supports aquatic life and provides native habitat
that meets the following conditions:
         (a)   A surface area at normal pool elevation of at least 32,670
square feet (three-fourths acre); and
         (b)   A buffer area around the perimeter of the water feature that is
at least 50 feet in width that is open space. The buffer area shall be planted
and maintained as wildlife habitat.
      (3)   Human-made dry detention facilities. Any human-made storm water dry
detention facility that meets the following conditions:
         (a)   At least 10,890 square feet (one- fourth acre) of flat bottom
area;
         (b)   Depth of the detention facility shall not exceed four feet from
top of bank;
         (c)   Slopes within the detention facility shall not exceed a four to
one (4:1) ratio; and
         (d)   A buffer area around the perimeter of the facility that is at
least 25 feet from the top of bank that is open space. The buffer area (and
facility) shall be planted and maintained as usable area. This includes use of
prairie grasses, native species, native ground cover or lawn grass. Tree
planting shall not be within the basin area or on the slopes of the bank.
      (4)   Regulated floodplain. The regulated floodplain of any stream,
regulated drain or river;
      (5)   Required perimeter landscaping. Fifty percent of the perimeter
landscaping areas required in the applicable §
165.399 (Perimeter Landscaping Standards); and
      (6)   Other. Other common areas set aside to meet open space
requirements.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 7.15)
§ 165.397 OWNERS’ ASSOCIATION STANDARDS.
   This owners’ association standards section applies to the following types of
development: ST; CV; CS; TD; TN; ZL; SC; CD; IP; DP; and PD.
   (A)   Project applicability. Any subdivision or development with common
area, private streets, shared parking, amenity centers, shared or private
utilities, community retention pond and the like shall meet the owners’
association standards.
   (B)   Establishment of owners’ association.
      (1)   Perpetuity. An owners’ association shall be created in perpetuity
to make decisions about and to maintain all common property and/or common
facilities.
      (2)   Organization. An owners’ association shall be a legally
incorporated entity or shall be created by other legal mechanism which provides
shared ownership or shared responsibility of common property and/or common
facilities. A board of directors or other means for representation in decision-
making shall be established.
      (3)   Recording of legal mechanism. The legal mechanism binding all
property owners or vested parties shall be recorded in the office of the County
Recorder, and shall be cross-referenced to each applicable lot or property.
      (4)   Declaration of covenants. The owners’ association shall be
responsible for the administration of any covenants utilized to further
restrict improvements and uses in the development. The declaration of covenants
shall be recorded in the office of the County Recorder following secondary plat
approval (subdivisions) or final development plan approval (planned
developments or development plans) and prior to selling a lot or unit.
      (5)   Commitments or conditions of approval. Any covenant language that
resulted as a commitment or condition of approval shall be included in the
covenants or other legal document, and shall be clearly denoted as non-
amendable by the owners’ association.
      (6)   Association fee. An association fee or other financial mechanism
shall be included in the legal mechanism and be equal to the financial needs of
the owners’ association to maintain common property and/or common facilities,
and to accumulate a reserve account for long-term large expenditures,
emergencies and contingencies.
   (C)   Contractual obligations. Prior to the transition from the developer
being responsible for common property and/or common facilities to the owners’
association being responsible for common property and/or common facilities, the
developer shall not enter into any contractual obligation on behalf of the
owners’ association that exceeds one year. Once the owners’ association is
responsible, the renewal of such a contract shall be at the discretion of the
owners’ association.
   (D)   Required language. The following content shall be reflected in the
legal mechanism establishing the owners’ association.
      (1)   Retention pond and drainage systems. When a retention pond and/or
other drainage systems are required or installed, the city shall not, now or in
the future, be obligated to accept them as public infrastructure or to maintain
those facilities. The owners’ association, or lot owner of the lot in which the
retention pond or other drainage system is located, shall bear the cost of such
maintenance. In the event the owners’ association fails to maintain the
retention pond and/or other drainage facilities, the city may make the
improvements and assess each property for the project cost plus administration
costs.
      (2)   Private streets. When private streets are installed, the city shall
not, now or in the future, be obligated to accept private streets as public
property. The city shall bear no financial responsibility for maintenance or
replacement costs associated with private streets. The owners’ association
shall bear the cost of maintenance and replacement. In the event the owners’
association fails to maintain private streets, the city may make the
improvements and assess each property for the project cost plus administration
costs.
      (3)   Sidewalks. When sidewalks are installed outside of a right-of-way,
the city shall not, now or in the future, be obligated to accept the sidewalks
as public property. The city shall bear no financial responsibility for
maintenance or replacement costs. The owners’ association shall bear the cost
of maintenance and replacement. In the event the owners’ association fails to
maintain the sidewalks, the city may make the improvements and assess each
property for the project cost plus administration costs.
      (4)   Landscaping. When landscaping is installed in common areas or
easements, the owners’ association shall be responsible for maintaining the
plant material in healthy condition, removal of dead or diseased vegetation
and/or replacement of landscaping, as necessary.
      (5)   Right-of-way. Once rights-of-way are platted, the city obtains
ownership of the area within the right-of-way and retains the right to
reasonably remove any tree or shrub impeding necessary work to be performed by
the city and/or all public utilities, or other properly authorized users,
regardless if the owners’ association is assigned financial, maintenance or
replacement responsibility. However, city action shall not result in an
unnecessary or unfair financial burden to the owners’ association.
   (E)   Enforcement. Failure of the owners’ association to maintain an
effective legal mechanism or failure of the owners’ association to fulfill its
responsibilities within that legal mechanism shall be deemed a violation of
this chapter and may be subject to §§
165.500 through
165.514 and
165.999.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 7.16)
§ 165.398 PEDESTRIAN NETWORK STANDARDS.
   This pedestrian network standards section applies to the following types of
development: ST; CV; CS; TD; TN; ZL; SC; CD; IP; DP; and PD.
   (A)   Applicability. Developments shall integrate an interior and exterior
pedestrian network comprised of concrete sidewalks and/or asphalt sidepaths for
pedestrian transportation and recreation. This network shall consist of
sidewalks along street frontages and sidepaths between developments and public
destinations (e.g., schools, parks, hospitals), nearby trails, other
developments and undeveloped properties.
      (1)   Required. Details about when and where sidewalks are required shall
be as indicated on the layout for each subdivision type in §§
65.365 through
165.374, as indicated in §§
165.240 through
165.246 for planned developments, or as indicated in §
165.283 (Public Improvement Standards) for development plans. If not indicated,
the Zoning Administrator shall determine the appropriate sidewalk/sidepath
requirements.
         (a)   Location. To the extent possible, sidewalks/sidepaths shall be
located one foot inside the right-of-way to be dedicated to the city. If
utility poles, trees or other features complicate installation, then the
sidewalk/sidepath may extend into common areas or private property if a
pedestrian easement is created and executed.
         (b)   Sidewalks shall be spaced away from the curb to create a tree
plot and to provide pedestrian separation from vehicles. The minimum tree plot
width shall be as indicated on the layout for each subdivision type in §§
65.365 through
165.374 or as indicated in §§
165.240 through
165.246 for planned developments.
      (2)   Width. The minimum sidewalk/sidepath width shall be as indicated on
the layout for each subdivision type in §§
65.365 through
165.374 or as indicated in §§
165.240 through
165.246 for planned developments. If not indicated, the Zoning Administrator
shall determine the appropriate sidewalk/sidepath width.
   (B)   Non-petition clause. When sidewalks and/or sidepaths are not required,
or the development gets relief from installing sidewalks and/or sidepaths, the
city shall not, now or in the future, be obligated to install them. Every lot
within the subject subdivision shall have a non-petition clause recorded as a
deed restriction, applicable in perpetuity, stating that the property owner
waives the right to petition the city for a sidewalk and/or sidepath to be
installed at the city’s expense. This waiver does not restrict private funding
to be used for such improvements to be made.
   (C)   Cross-reference. Sidewalks and sidepath improvements shall be
constructed to meet or exceed the city’s construction standards.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 7.17)
§ 165.399 PERIMETER LANDSCAPING STANDARDS.
   This perimeter landscaping standards section applies to the following types
of development: ST; CV; CS; TD; TN; ZL; SC; CD; IP; DP; and PD.
   (A)   Applicability. Perimeter landscaping shall be installed as indicated
in the minimum perimeter landscaping standards on the layout for each
subdivision type in §§
165.365 through
165.374 or as indicated in §§
165.240 through
165.246 for planned developments. If not indicated, the Zoning Administrator
shall determine the appropriate perimeter landscaping requirements for the
development.
   (B)   Ownership. Perimeter landscaping areas shall retain private ownership
whether that be a single land owner or an owners’ association.
   (C)   Landscaping design.
      (1)   Size. Perimeter landscape areas shall extend the entire length of
the frontage.
      (2)   Plantings. Trees and shrubs shall be provided at a combined rate of
ten per 100 lineal feet of perimeter planting. Plantings should be 50%
evergreen, and grouping of the plantings is encouraged to imitate natural
vegetation.
      (3)   Fencing or mounding. Fencing and/or mounding may be integrated with
the required plantings if the following conditions are met.
         (a)   Perimeter fences shall be high quality; constructed of masonry,
stone, wood or metal; and be at least 36 inches in height, but not over 72
inches in height.
         (b)   Mounds may be combined with plantings and fencing. If used,
mounds shall be a minimum of three feet in height with a side slope not to
exceed a three to one (3:1) ratio. Continuous mounds shall not be permitted
(i.e., levee-like mounds).
   (D)   Qualifying ad required open space. Fifty percent of the perimeter
landscaping areas may count towards open space required in §
165.396 (Open Space Standards).
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 7.18)
§ 165.400 PREREQUISITE STANDARDS.
   This prerequisite standards section applies to the following types of
development: ST; CV; CS; TD; TN; ZL; SC; CD; IP; DP; and PD.
   (A)   Applicability. If any the of the prerequisite do not appear for a
particular type of subdivision (in §§
165.365 through
165.374) or for a planned development (in §§
165.240 through
165.246), then that prerequisite does not exist for that particular subdivision
type or planned development.
      (1)   Base zoning. The base zoning of the parent tract for a subdivision
shall be as indicated in the layout for each type of subdivision in §§
165.365 through
165.374 prior to consideration of the subdivision by the Plan Commission. If a
parent tract is in multiple zoning districts, each of those zoning districts
must be listed. Likewise, the base zoning of a property proposed for a planned
development shall be as indicated in §§
165.240 through
165.246 for planned developments prior to consideration of the planned
development by the Plan Commission.
      (2)   Minimum parent tract. The minimum parent tract area shall be as
indicated in the layout for each type of subdivision in §§
165.365 through
165.374 or as indicated in §§
165.240 through
165.246 for planned developments.
      (3)   Maximum parent tract. The maximum parent tract area shall be as
indicated in the layout for each type of subdivision in §§
165.365 through
165.374 or as indicated in §§
165.240 through
165.246 for planned developments.
      (4)   Special qualifications. All special qualifications indicated on the
layout for each type of subdivision in §§
165.365 through
165.374 or as indicated in §§
165.240 through
165.246 for planned developments shall be met prior to consideration of the
subdivision or planned development by the Plan Commission.
   (B)   Adverse land disqualification. Land which the Plan Commission or Plat
Committee finds to be unsuitable for subdivision or development due to
flooding, improper drainage, steep slopes, rock formations, adverse earth
formations or topography, utility easements or other features which will
reasonably be harmful to the safety, health and general welfare of the present
or future inhabitants of the subdivision and/or its surrounding areas, shall
not be subdivided or developed unless clearly adequate methods are formulated
by the developer and approved by the Plan Commission or Plat Committee, to
solve the problems created by the unsuitable land conditions. Such land shall
be set aside for uses as shall not involve such a danger.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 7.19)
§ 165.401 STORM WATER STANDARDS.
   This storm water standards section applies to the following types of
development: ST; CV; CS; TD; TN; ZL; SC; CD; IP; DP; and PD.
   (A)   Applicability. Subdivisions, planned developments and development
plans shall provide for the collection and management of all storm and surface
water drainage.
   (B)   Cross-reference.
      (1)   City’s zoning jurisdiction. Developments within the zoning
jurisdiction of the city shall meet or exceed the city’s storm water management
regulations. (See
Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances.)
      (2)   County. Developments outside of the city’s corporate limits and
developments accessing a legal drain (regulated drain) shall meet or exceed the
standards of the county per the County Surveyor’s office.
      (3)   Construction. Drainage facilities shall be constructed to meet or
exceed the city’s construction standards.
   (C)   Existing drainage facilities.
      (1)   Protection. If any stream or surface drainage course is located in
the area to be developed, an easement shall be established along the stream or
surface drainage course that extends 20 feet per side or as required by the
County Surveyor. The applicant may propose re-routing the surface drainage
course, but shall obtain approval from the MS4 Coordinator, City Engineer,
County Drainage Board, State Department of Natural Resources, State Department
of Environmental Management and/or Army Corps of Engineers, whichever entities
have jurisdiction.
      (2)   Obstruction. The applicant shall not block, impede the flow of,
alter, construct any structure, deposit any material or object or commit any
act which will affect normal or flood flow in any ditch, stream or watercourse
without having obtained prior approval from the MS4 Coordinator, City Engineer,
County Drainage Board, State Department of Natural Resources, State Department
of Environmental Management and/or Army Corps of Engineers, whichever entity
has jurisdiction.
      (3)   Restoration. The applicant shall restore any stream, watercourse,
swale, tile, floodplain or floodway that is disturbed during development and
return these areas/facilities to their original or equal condition.
   (D)   Proposed drainage facilities. Drainage facilities shall meet the
following conditions.
      (1)   Location. Drainage facilities shall be located in common areas or
on private property if the necessary drainage easements (or utility and
drainage easements) are created and executed.
      (2)   Design.
         (a)   Drainage facilities shall be durable, easily maintained, retard
sedimentation and retard erosion.
         (b)   Drainage facilities shall not endanger the public health and
safety, or cause significant damage to property.
         (c)   Drainage facilities shall have sufficient capacity to accept the
current water runoff from areas upstream and accept the water runoff from the
site after it is developed.
         (d)   Design of drainage facilities shall give consideration to water
runoff from future developments in undeveloped areas upstream if that water
runoff cannot reasonably be accommodated in the upstream area. The types of
consideration should include, but need not be limited to retention-detention
systems; over-sizing with 15-year law cost recovery; and granting easements for
future construction. The type of future development shall be consistent with
the uses indicated in the city’s Comprehensive Plan or the use permitted by
current zoning, whichever use is most intense.
         (e)   Drainage facilities shall be designed such that there will be no
increase in the peak discharge runoff rate as a result of the proposed
development unless the existing or improved downstream drainage facilities are
adequate to accept the present water runoff from developed and undeveloped
areas upstream; the present water runoff of downstream areas, and the water
runoff from the site after it is developed.
         (f)   Drainage facilities shall be designed such that the low point of
entry for structures is two feet above the base flood elevation (BFE) and free
from a 100-year flood.
      (3)   Inspection. Drainage facilities shall be inspected during
construction by a professional engineer or registered land surveyor at the
expense of the applicant and certified that the standards within this chapter
are met. Inspection reports and a signed certification shall be submitted to
the Department of Public Works and Engineering.
   (E)   As-built drawings. As-built drawings of each phase of all drainage
facilities associated with a development shall be submitted to the Department
of Public Works and Engineering within six months of the completion of
construction.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 7.20)
STREET AND ACCESS STANDARDS
§ 165.415 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   This street and access standards section applies to the following types of
development: ST; CV; CS; TD; TN; ZL; SC; CD; IP; DP; and PD.
   (A)   General. All developments shall provide adequate access to the
existing street network and allocate adequate areas for new streets that is
consistent with the city’s Comprehensive Plan.
   (B)   Cross-reference. All street improvements, private or public, shall be
designed, constructed and installed to meet or exceed the city’s construction
standards. This includes cul-de-sacs, passing blisters, acceleration lanes and
deceleration lanes.
   (C)   Design principles. Streets shall create conditions favorable to
health, safety, convenience and the harmonious development of the community;
shall give consideration to connectivity to adjacent parcels; shall provide
access to the city’s existing street network. All public streets and associated
rights-of-way and all private streets and associated easements shall meet the
following design criteria.
      (1)   Street design standards.
         (a)   Minimum right-of-way. The minimum right-of-way width for streets
shall be as follows.
 
Street Type        Minimum Right-of-Way Width
Arterial street    90 ft.
Collector street   60 ft.
Cul-de-sac bulb    100 ft.
                   The minimum right-of-way width shall be as indicated in the
Local/minor street for each type of subdivision in §§
                   165.365 through
                   165.374
 
      (b)   Minimum street width. The minimum street width for streets shall be
as follows.
 
Street Type        Minimum Street Width
Arterial street    48 ft.
Collector street   40 ft.
Cul-de-sac bulb    80 ft.
                   The minimum street width shall be as indicated on the layout
                   for each type of subdivision in §§
Local/minor street 165.365 through
                   165.374; street width shall be determined by measuring from
                   edge of pavement to edge of pavement
 
         (c)   Minimum block length. The minimum block length for streets shall
be as follows.
 
Street Type        Minimum Block Length
Arterial street    Not applicable
Collector street   Not applicable
                   The minimum block length shall be as indicated on the layout
                   for each type of subdivision in §§
Local/minor street 165.365 through
                   165.374; if not indicated, a minimum block length does not
                   apply
 
         (d)   Maximum block length. The maximum block length for streets shall
be as follows.
 
Street Type        Maximum Block Length
Arterial street    Not applicable
Collector street   Not applicable
                   The maximum block length shall be as indicated on the layout
                   for each type of subdivision in §§
Local/minor street 165.365 through
                   165.374; if not indicated, a maximum block length does not
                   apply
 
         (e)   Average block length. The average block length for streets shall
be as follows.
 
Street Type        Average Block Length
Arterial street    Not applicable
Collector street   Not applicable
                   The average block length shall be as indicated in the layout
                   for each type of subdivision in §§
Local/minor street 165.365 through
                   165.374; if not indicated, an average block length does not
                   apply
 
         (f)   Minimum cul-de-sac length. The minimum cul-de-sac length shall
be as follows.
 
Street Type        Minimum Cul-de-sac Length
Arterial street    Not applicable
Collector street   Not applicable
                   The minimum cul-de-sac length shall be as indicated in the
                   layout for each type of subdivision in §§
Local/minor street 165.365 through
                   165.374; if not indicated, cul-de-sacs shall not be
                   permitted in that type of development
 
         (g)   Maximum cul-de-sac length. The maximum cul-de-sac length shall
be as follows.
 
Street Type        Maximum Cul-de-Sac Length
Arterial street    Not applicable
Collector street   Not applicable
                   The maximum cul-de-sac length shall be as indicated in the
                   layout for each type of subdivision in §§
Local/minor street 165.365 through
                   165.374; if not indicated, cul-de-sacs shall not be
                   permitted in that type of development
 
         (h)   Curb requirement. The curb requirement for streets shall be as
follows.
 
Street Type        Curb Requirement
Arterial street    Not applicable
Collector street   Not applicable
                   Curb requirements shall be as indicated in the layout for
                   each type of subdivision in §§
Local/minor street 165.365 through
                   165.374; if curb requirements are not indicated, the
                   Department of Public Works and Engineering may determine
                   which type of curb is required, if any
 
         (i)   On-street parking. The on-street parking requirements and
limitations shall be as follows.
 
Street Type      On-Street Parking
Arterial street  Not applicable
Collector street Not applicable
                 On-street parking requirements and limitations shall be as
Local/minor      indicated on the layouts for each type of subdivision in §§
street           165.365 through
                 165.374; if not indicated on-street parking requirements and
                 limitations do not apply
 
         (j)   Tree plot width. The tree plot widths for streets shall be as
follows.
 
Street    Tree Plot Widths
Type
Arterial  Not applicable
street
Collector Not applicable
street
          Tree plots shall be provided to meet or exceed the minimum tree plot
Local/    width as indicated on the layouts for each type of subdivision in §§
minor     165.365 through
street    165.374; if tree plots width are not indicated, tree plots are not
          required
 
         (k)   Grade. The minimum and maximum grade for streets shall be as
follows.
 
Street Type        Grade
Arterial street    0.5% minimum grade and 4% maximum grade
Collector street   0.5% minimum grade and 6% maximum grade
Local/minor street 0.5% minimum grade and 8% maximum grade
 
         (l)   Cross slope. The minimum and maximum cross slope for streets
shall be as follows.
 
Street Type        Cross Slope
Arterial street    0.5% minimum grade and 2% maximum grade
Collector street   0.5% minimum grade and 2% maximum grade
Local/minor street 0.5% minimum grade and 2% maximum grade
 
         (m)   Minimum curve radius. The minimum curve radius for streets shall
be as follows.
 
Street Type        Minimum Curve Radius
Arterial street    500 ft.
Collector street   200 ft.
Local/minor street 150 ft.
 
         (n)   Minimum length of vertical curve. The minimum length of vertical
curve for streets shall be as follows.
 
Street Type        Minimum Length of Vertical Curve
Arterial street    300 ft., but not less than 50 ft. for each algebraic
                   difference in grade percent
Collector street   300 ft., but not less than 50 ft. for each algebraic
                   difference in grade percent
Local/minor street 100 ft., but not less than 40 ft. for each algebraic
                   difference in grade percent
 
         (o)   Minimum length of tangents between reverse curves. The minimum
length of tangents between reverse curves for streets shall be as follows.
 
Street Type        Minimum Length of Tangents Between Reverse Curves
Arterial street    300 ft.
Collector street   100 ft.
Local/minor street 100 ft.
 
         (p)   Minimum turn radius at pavement edge. The minimum turn radius at
the pavement edge for streets shall be as follows.
 
Street Type        Turn Radius at Pavement Edge
Arterial street    50 ft.
Collector street   30 ft.
Cul-de-sac bulb    40 ft.
Local/minor street 25 ft.
 
      (2)   Prohibited street designs.
         (a)   Permanent dead end streets shall not be permitted. Cul-de-sacs
and stub streets are not considered dead end streets.
         (b)   Eyebrow streets shall not be permitted.
      (3)   Connectivity. All developments shall provide stub streets to
connect to adjacent properties that meet the following criteria
         (a)   Where the development abuts land that has established stub
streets, built or platted, or planned by an approved primary plan, the
applicant shall design the street system to connect to those stub streets.
         (b)   Where the development abuts undeveloped land, stub streets may
be proposed by the applicant. Generally, each side of the development that does
not border a public street shall have at least one stub street. In large
developments, additional stub streets may be necessary to provide adequate
connectivity adjacent properties, but in conservation developments, stub
streets may not be necessary. Ultimately, the final number and location of stub
streets shall be determined by the Zoning Administrator and the City Engineer.
         (c)   Regard shall be given to the city’s Comprehensive Plan.
      (4)   Stub streets. Stub streets shall be constructed when other streets
are built within the development.
      (5)   Temporary turnarounds. A temporary turnaround shall be established
for each stub street, and a temporary turnaround easement shall provide for the
turnaround.
         (a)   Temporary turnaround easements. When a temporary turnaround is
required, the applicant shall execute a temporary turnaround easement
instrument in favor of the general public through the Common Council or print
the following information, a temporary turnaround easement (TTE) certificate,
on the plan or plat that is to be recorded:
            1.   Identify the development with which the temporary turnaround
easement (TTE) is associated;
            2.   The temporary turnaround easement (TTE) shall grant the
general public the right to access the easement for purpose of maneuvering
vehicles;
            3.   The temporary turnaround easement (TTE) shall grant the city
the right to alter, repair, maintain or remove the improvements;
            4.   The temporary turnaround easement (TTE) shall prohibit any
person from parking vehicles within the easement;
            5.   The temporary turnaround easement (TTE) shall prohibit any
person, including the property owner, from placing any obstruction within the
easement;
            6.   The temporary turnaround easement (TTE) shall be binding on
all heirs, successors and assigns to the property on which the temporary
turnaround easement is located;
            7.   The temporary turnaround easement (TTE) shall be enforceable
by the Common Council, the City Engineer, the Plan Commission, the Zoning
Administrator, the City Attorney; and
            8.   The temporary turnaround easement (TTE) shall automatically
terminate upon the city’s acceptance of a connecting street. Otherwise, the
temporary turnaround easement (TTE) shall only be modified or terminated in a
manner specified in this chapter.
         (b)   Cross-reference. When a temporary turnaround easement instrument
is used, it shall cross-reference the most recently recorded deed to the
property on which the temporary turnaround easement is to be established;
include a metes and bounds description of the temporary turnaround easement;
and be signed by the property owner of record granting the temporary turnaround
easement and by authorized representatives of the Common Council accepting the
easement.
         (c)   Certificate of dedication. When the temporary turnaround
easement certificate on the plan or plat to be recorded is used, the dedication
and acceptance of the easement shall be accomplished by a certificate of
dedication being signed by the property owner of record granting the easement,
and a certificate of acceptance signed by the appropriate representative of the
Common Council. These documents shall be recorded with the plan or plat, and
shall not be part of any declaration of covenants for the development.
      (6)   Gated entrances. Developments may have gated entrances, but shall
have apparatus installed such that emergency vehicles (i.e., fire, police and
ambulance) can quickly and easily gain access to the development. Further, the
gates shall be sized to allow the largest fire truck in service in the city to
easily turn into the development.
      (7)   Boulevard entrances. Developments may have a boulevard entrance,
but the boulevard entrance shall extend at least 50 feet from the perimeter
street’s right-of-way. The width of the center planting strip shall be at least
ten feet.
      (8)   Bridges. Bridges of primary benefit to the applicant as determined
by the Plan Commission or Plat Committee, shall be constructed at the full
expense of the applicant without reimbursement from the city or county.
      (9)   Intersections.
         (a)   All intersections of two streets shall be as close to right
angles to each other as possible as measured at the street centerlines for a
distance of 100 feet. Under no circumstance shall deviations from right angles
be greater than 15 degrees.
         (b)   Intersections of more than two streets at one point shall not be
permitted.
         (c)   Where ever possible, new local streets shall be aligned with
existing local streets. Local street intersections with centerline offsets of
less than 125 feet shall not be permitted.
         (d)   Proposed new intersections along one side of an existing street
shall, wherever practicable, coincide with any existing intersection on the
opposite side of such street. Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than
125 shall not be permitted, except where the intersected street has separated
dual drives without median breaks at either intersection. Where streets
intersect collector streets and arterial streets, their alignment shall be
contiguous. Intersection of arterial streets shall be at least 800 feet apart.
         (e)   Alley intersections and abrupt changes in alignment within a
block shall have the corners cut off in accordance with standard engineering
practice to permit safe vehicular movement.
         (f)   Intersections shall be designed with a flat grade wherever
practical. In hilly or rolling areas, at the approach to an intersection, a
leveling area shall be provided having not greater than a 2% rate at a distance
of 60 feet, measured from the nearest right-of-way line of the intersecting
street.
         (g)   Where any street intersection will involve earth banks or
existing vegetation inside any lot corner that would create a traffic hazard by
limiting visibility, the developer shall cut such ground and/or vegetation
(including trees) in connection with the grading of the public right-of-way to
the extent deemed necessary to provide an adequate sight distance.
         (h)   The cross-slopes on all intersections shall be 2%.
      (10)   Railroads and limited access highways. Railroad right-of-way and
limited access highways where so located as to affect the subdivision of
adjoining lands shall be treated as follows.
         (a)   In residential districts, a buffer strip at least 25 feet in
depth addition to the normal depth of the lot required in the district shall be
provided adjacent to the railroad right-of-way or limited access highway. This
strip shall be part of the platted lots and shall be designated on the plat:
“This strip is reserved for screening. The placement of structures hereon is
prohibited.”
         (b)   In districts zoned for business, commercial or industrial uses,
the nearest street extending parallel or approximately parallel to the railroad
shall, whenever practicable be at a sufficient distance therefrom to ensure
suitable depth for commercial or industrial sites.
         (c)   Streets parallel to the railroad when intersecting a street
which crosses the railroad at grade shall, to the extent practicable, be at a
distance of at least 150 feet from the railroad right-of-way. Such distance
shall be determined with due consideration of the minimum distance required for
future separation of grades by means of appropriate approach gradients.
   (D)   Inspections. The applicant shall permit and cooperate in the
inspection of any part of the construction at any time by the City Engineer or
the County Engineer. The city’s Sanitary District, City Engineer or the County
Engineer, as appropriate, shall be notified by the applicant 48 hours in
advance of the starting date of work on any public improvement within or
related to a subdivision. All material delivered to the job shall be subject to
inspection at the source and/or site, and may be rejected at either location.
Final approval of the work rests with the city’s Sanitary District, City
Engineer or the County Engineer, as appropriate. Inspections of materials and
work when performed by the applicant’s representatives or employees shall be at
the expense of the applicant.
   (E)   Naming and addressing principles. All streets, public and private,
shall meet the following street name criteria.
      (1)   Proposed street name. The applicant shall propose a unique name for
each street within the development at the time of initial application. The
proposed street names shall meet the following criteria.
         (a)   Extensions. Streets which are extensions, continuations or in
alignment with any existing street, platted right-of-way or recorded access
easement, shall bear the name of the existing street.
         (b)   Root name. The root street name (e.g., Maple) shall not
duplicate or be phonetically similar to any existing street name.
         (c)   Suffix name. Deviations in suffix names (e.g., Street, Court or
Avenue) shall not constitute a unique name (for example, if Maple Street
existed, the name Maple Court would not be permissible).
         (d)   Large developments. Streets within a large development or
separate developments within close proximity may be authorized to use the same
root name by the Plan Commission.
      (2)   Proposed address numbers. Street address numbers for all lots that
are consistent with the city’s existing address scheme shall be proposed by the
applicant.
      (3)   Approval authority. While street names and address numbers proposed
by the applicant shall be considered, the Plan Commission has authority to
approve or deny any proposed street name or address number.
      (4)   Renaming authority.
         (a)   Existing street names and address numbers. Existing street names
and address numbers that have been approved by the Plan Commission shall not be
changed without Plan Commission approval.
         (b)   Proposed street names and address numbers. The Plan Commission
shall have authority to require a new unique name for any street if the name
proposed by the applicant is unacceptable. If an acceptable and unique street
name is not proposed by the applicant, the Plan Commission shall rename the
street prior to final approval. Likewise, if an unacceptable address number is
proposed for a lot, the Plan Commission shall have the authority to assign a
new address number to any lot prior to final approval.
   (F)   Additional rights-of-way required. When developments abut or include
existing streets that do not meet the minimum right-of-way widths established
in the city’s Comprehensive Plan, the applicant shall dedicate additional width
along either one or both sides of such streets sufficient to meet the
requirements of the city’s Comprehensive Plan. If the applicant only controls
property on one side of the street, sufficient right-of-way shall be dedicated
to bring the half right-of-way up to the width required in the city’s
Comprehensive Plan.
      (1)   Off-site street improvements. When a development requires off-site
street improvements, such as a passing blister, acceleration lane or
deceleration lane, and inadequate right-of-way exists to install the off-site
street improvement, the applicant shall make a good faith effort to acquire
property sufficient for the installation of the off-site improvement. If the
owner of the property on which the off-site improvement is to be installed
refuses to sell the property to the applicant, the applicant shall provide the
Zoning Administrator with copies of all surveys; appraisals; written offers
made by the applicant; and correspondence from the property owner.
      (2)   Eminent domain. When the installation of off-site street
improvements is required, it is because those off-site street improvements are
vital to the health, safety and welfare of the motoring public. As a result,
the city may begin eminent domain proceedings in accordance with I.C. 32-24 for
the acquisition of public right-of-way sufficient for the installation of the
off-site street improvement upon receipt of the aforementioned documentation
illustrating the applicants failure to acquire the needed property. Upon
completion of the eminent domain proceedings, the applicant shall reimburse the
city in an amount equal to the cost of the land, cost for any condemnation on
that land, and the cost to relocated any features.
      (3)   Installation of improvements. The applicant shall then install the
off-site street improvement to meet or exceed the city’s construction
standards.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 7.21)
§ 165.416 PRIVATE STREET AND ACCESS STANDARDS.
   This street and access standards section applies to the following types of
development: ST; CV; CS; TD; TN; ZL; SC; CD; IP; DP; and PD.
   (A)   Project applicability. Private streets shall be permitted, but shall
meet or exceed the standards for public streets established within this chapter
and the construction standards for public streets within the city’s
construction standards.
   (B)   Required language. When a private street easement appears on a plat,
the following language shall be printed on the plat, “The developer of this
real estate covenants and warrants on behalf of itself and all future owners of
lots within this subdivision/development that because the streets are private,
all maintenance, repairs and replacement, now and forever, shall be undertaken
at the expense of the lot owners (or unit owners) in accordance with the terms
and conditions set forth in the owners’ association by-law and articles. No
governmental entity has any duty or responsibility to maintain, repair or
replace any private street.”
   (C)   Location. Private streets shall be located within private street
easements, rather than rights- of-way. All private street easements shall meet
or exceed all the standards for rights-of-way established within this chapter,
the city’s Comprehensive Plan and the city’s construction standards.
      (1)   Private street easement instrument specifications. The applicant
shall execute a private street easement instrument in favor of the future lot
owners or unit owners to which the private street provides access. The
following language shall be included on the private street easement instrument:
         (a)   Identify the development with which the private street easement
is associated;
         (b)   Grant future lot or unit owners the right to access the easement
for purposes of accessing their lot or unit;
         (c)   Specify the financial responsibilities of the future lot or unit
owners with respect to the alteration, repair, maintenance and removal of the
improvements;
         (d)   Prohibit future lot or unit owners or any other person from
placing any obstruction within the easement;
         (e)   Require that the private street be built to the city’s
construction standards;
         (f)   Be binding on all heirs, successors and assigns to the property
on which the easement is located;
         (g)   Be enforceable by the future lot or unit owners, the city and
any other specially affected persons entitled to enforce the easement;
         (h)   Provide for modification or termination in the manner stipulated
in this chapter;
         (i)   Be cross-referenced to the most recently recorded deeds to the
properties on which the easement is to be established;
         (j)   Include a metes and bounds description of the easement; and
         (k)   Be signed by a each property owner granting the easement and by
an authorized representative of future lot or unit owners accepting the
easement.
      (2)   Private street easement certificate.
         (a)   When a plan (e.g., secondary plat or development plan) is being
recorded, the applicant may forego a separate easement instrument in favor of
printing the following private street easement certificate on the recordable
instrument: “Areas show on this plan that are designated as a “Private Street
Easement” (PSE) shall be established in favor of the adjoining property owners
that are hereby granted the right to enter the easement for purposes of
accessing their lot. The easement prohibits the property owners or any other
person from placing any obstruction within the easement. The easements are
binding on all heirs, successors and assigns to the property on which they are
located. The adjoining property owners or the city may enforce the provisions
of the easement. The easement shall only be modified or vacated in the manner
stipulated in
Chapter 165 of the city’s code of ordinances.”
         (b)   The dedication and acceptance of private street easements (PSE)
shown on a recordable instrument shall be accomplished via a certificate of
dedication and acceptance signed by the property owner of record granting the
easement, and a certificate of acceptance signed by an authorized
representative of the future lot owners or unit owners.
         (c)   If a declaration of covenants is included on the recordable
instrument, the private street easement certificate shall be clearly separate
from the declaration of covenants.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 7.22)
§ 165.417 TRADITIONAL AND TOWNHOUSE SUBDIVISION STREET AND ACCESS (ALLEY)
STANDARDS.
   This street and access standards section applies to the following types of
development: TD; and TN.
   (A)   General. Alleys shall be integrated into the overall design or
traditional residential and townhouse neighborhoods because they provide
essential access to the compact form of development.
      (1)   Single-family residential. Alleys shall be required to provide
access to at least 75% of all lots intended for single-family dwelling units to
accommodate rear-loading garages.
      (2)   Multiple-family residential and commercial. Alleys shall be
required to provide access to at least 50% of multiple-family and commercial
lots within a development.
   (B)   Design principles.
      (1)   Associated right-of-way or easement. Alleys shall be located in a
right-of-way or easement that is at least 16 feet in width.
      (2)   Pavement width. Alleys shall have pavement that is at least 12 feet
in width.
      (3)   Curb. Alleys shall not be required to have curb except when the
alley is within a right-of-way or private street easement where the associated
street is required to have curb. In cases where an alley and curbed street
intersect, the minimum curb radius shall be eight feet.
      (4)   Intersections. Alley intersections with streets shall not exceed 20
degrees from perpendicular to said streets.
   (C)   Construction standards. Alleys, public or private, shall be
constructed to meet or exceed the city’s construction standards.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 7.23)
§ 165.418 OTHER RESIDENTIAL STREET AND ACCESS (ALLEY) STANDARDS.
   This street and access standards section applies to the following types of
development: ST; ZL; DP; and PD.
   (A)   General. In order to better allow diversity in standard and zero lot
line subdivision developments, alleys may be used to provide access to up to
15% of all lots intended for single-family dwelling units to accommodates side-
loading garages, rear-loading garages or detached garages.
   (B)   Design principles.
      (1)   Associated right-of-way or easement. Alleys shall be located in a
right-of-way or easement that is at least 16 feet in width.
      (2)   Pavement width. Alleys shall have pavement that is at least 12 feet
in width.
      (3)   Curb. Alleys shall not be required to have curb except when the
alley is within a right-of-way or private street easement where the associated
street is required to have curb. In cases where an alley and curbed street
intersect, the minimum curb radius shall be eight feet.
      (4)   Intersections. Alley intersections with streets shall not exceed 20
degrees from perpendicular to said streets.
   (C)   Construction standards. Alleys, public or private, shall be
constructed to meet or exceed the city’s construction standards.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 7.24)
§ 165.419 RESIDENTIAL STREET AND ACCESS STANDARDS.
   This street and access standards section applies to the following types of
development: ST; CV; CS; TD; TN; ZL; DP; and PD.
   (A)   Quantity. Vehicular access into/out of the development shall be
provided as follows.
      (1)   Small developments. Subdivisions, developments and planned
developments with less than 50 lots or with that will result in less than 100
units, shall have one street into and out of the development. Every effort
should be made for that access to be to/from an arterial street or a collector
street.
      (2)   Mid-size developments. Subdivisions, developments and planned
developments with 50 lots ore more, or with 100 or more units, but less than
200 lots/units shall provide at least one street into and out of the
development. That access shall be to/from an arterial street or a collector
street. Mid-sized developments may also have a secondary access street into/out
of the development if it is off of a different street than the first primary
access, or at least 1,200 feet from the primary access street, if located off
the same street.
   (B)   Specialty access; frontage streets. Any development that includes a
single-family detached dwelling unit fronting an arterial street, shall provide
a frontage street unless the single-family detached dwelling unit is the only
property within 400 feet that obtains access from the same arterial street. The
Zoning Administrator and City Engineer shall have discretion in requiring
frontage streets in other circumstance to ensure a safe and efficient future
transportation network. Frontage streets shall meet the following conditions.
      (1)   Design.
         (a)   Frontage streets shall generally run parallel to the arterial
street to which it accesses and shall be separated a minimum of 30 feet (edge
of pavement to edge of pavement) from the arterial street to which they are
parallel.
         (b)   Frontage streets shall accommodate two-way traffic.
         (c)   Right-of-way or private street easement for a frontage street
shall be at least 40 feet in width.
         (d)   Pavement width for a frontage street shall be 24 feet when
parking is not permitted, or 28 when parking is permitted on one side.
         (e)   Sidewalks shall be required on each side of a frontage street
that has residential lots which derive their access from the frontage street.
      (2)   Points of ingress/egress. A frontage street that is less than 300
feet in length or serves five or less properties shall have one ingress/egress.
All other frontage streets shall be permitted up to two ingress/egress points
onto street.
      (3)   Separation. Each ingress/egress shall be at least 150 feet from any
intersection and any other ingress/egress on the same or opposite side of the
street. Ingress/egress points that align across the street do not require
separation.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 7.25)
§ 165.420 NON-RESIDENTIAL ACCESS STANDARDS.
   This access streets standards section applies to the following types of
development: SC; CD; IP; DP; and PD.
   (A)   Quantity. An applicant shall propose the minimal quantity of ingress/
egress points to provide safe, efficient and adequate access for the various
types of vehicular traffic that will access the development. The Zoning
Administrator shall make the final determination
   (B)   Specialty access; access streets and rear access streets.
      (1)   Any non-residential development that fronts an arterial street and
has two or more lots or a multiple tenant building shall provide an access
street/rear access street as the primary access. Commonly, an access street is
perpendicular to the arterial street and accesses lots that front the arterial
street. An access street may also lead or turn into a rear access street, which
is generally parallel to the arterial street. A rear access street is generally
located behind the first tier of commercial lots, but in front of the second
tier of commercial lots (often the anchor lots), but provides access to both.
The Zoning Administrator and City Engineer shall have discretion in requiring
rear access streets in other circumstances to ensure a safe and efficient
future transportation network.
      (2)   Access streets and rear access streets shall meet the following
conditions.
         (a)   Design.
            1.   Access streets shall generally run perpendicular to the
arterial street.
            2.   Rear access streets shall generally run parallel to the
arterial street and be at least one 150 feet from the arterial street (measured
from the edge of pavement to the edge of pavement). Frontage streets shall not
be permitted.
            3.   Access streets and rear access streets shall accommodate two-
way traffic.
            4.   Right-of-way or private street easement for an access street
or a rear access street shall be at least 40 feet in width.
            5.   Pavement width for an access street or rear access street
shall be a minimum of 24 feet.
            6.   Parking shall not be permitted on rear access streets.
            7.   Sidewalks shall be on one side of access streets and rear
access streets and be integrated into the overall pedestrian network of the
development.
         (b)   Points of ingress/egress. An access street or rear access
streets serving developments less than 15 acres shall be permitted two ingress/
egress points onto a street. Developments with 15 acres or more shall have a
maximum of three ingress/egress points onto a street.
         (c)   Separation. Each ingress/egress point shall be at least 150 feet
from any intersection and any other ingress/egress on the same or opposite side
of the street. Ingress/egress points that align across the street do not
require separation.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 7.26)
§ 165.421 STREET AND ACCESS (SIGNS) STANDARDS.
   This street and access (signs) standards section applies to the following
types of development: ST; CV; CS; TD; TN; ZL; SC; CD; IP; DP; and PD.
   (A)   General. All streets, public or private, shall have signs necessary to
provide a safe environment for drivers and pedestrians and provide information
for located streets, addresses or development amenities and shall be paid for
and installed by the developer.
   (B)   Cross-reference. The city’s policies and the Indiana Manual on Uniform
Traffic-Control Devices for Streets and Highways (current version adopted by
the State Department of Transportation) shall be used to determine the type,
size, height and location of each of these signs. Each sign’s location and
height shall be communicated to the petitioner at the time they are received by
the petitioner.
   (C)   Public safety signs. The applicant shall coordinate with the City
Engineer before purchasing and installing any public safety related street
sign. The City Engineer shall make the final determination regarding the final
location and height of each sign. All public safety related street signs shall
be installed prior to any street being open to the public.
   (D)   Street name signs. The applicant shall coordinate with the City
Engineer before purchasing and installing any street name sign. One street name
sign shall be required for each intersection within the development and on all
perimeter intersections. The City Engineer shall make the final determination
regarding the final location and height of each sign. All street name signs
shall be installed prior to any street being open to the public.
   (E)   Wayfinding system signs. The applicant may propose a wayfinding system
of signs.
      (1)   Purpose. Wayfinding system signs shall be used to direct vehicular
and pedestrian traffic to specific destinations.
      (2)   Appearance. Wayfinding systems shall be required to have signs of
consistent size, scale and appearance.
      (3)   Location.
         (a)   Wayfinding system signs shall not be located within the vision
clearance triangle as regulated by §
165.293 (Vision Clearance Triangle).
         (b)   Wayfinding system signs may be located within rights-of-way with
written authorization from the City Street Superintendent. However, the City
Street Department shall not be responsible for the maintenance or replacement
of any wayfinding system signs.
      (4)   Review and approval. Proposals for wayfinding systems shall be
reviewed and approved at the discretion of the Zoning Administrator. The Zoning
Administrator may take into account the need for the wayfinding system, the
size and complexity of the development, quantity and location of signs, number
of entrances and exists and the appearance of signs.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 7.27)
§ 165.422 STREET LIGHTING STANDARDS.
   (A)   Residential street lighting standards. This street lighting standards
division (A) applies to the following types of development: ST; CV; ZL; DP; and
PD.
      (1)   Project applicability. Street lights shall be installed in
subdivisions, developments and planned developments at all intersections,
development entrances and along internal streets.
      (2)   Ownership. The developer shall work with RP&L to choose a light
standard provided by RP&L. The developer shall pay for any upgraded street
lights over the cost of the base model.
      (3)   Street light system design. The proposed street light system shall
meet the following conditions.
         (a)   Glare. Street lights shall be shielded to prevent glare on
residential properties.
         (b)   Continuity.
            1.   Street lights shall be consistent in size, type and scale
throughout the entire development.
            2.   If a street light exists along the street on which the
entrance to the development is located, the applicant shall install the same or
similar street light at the entrance.
         (c)   At intersections. The applicant shall propose a lighting design
that provides the minimum amount of light necessary for vehicular and
pedestrian safety at all intersections within the development.
         (d)   Between intersections. Unless street lights have been provided
at mid-block or every 15 lots, a dusk-to-dawn light that operates on a photo
cell shall be installed on each residential lot. This lighting shall be
provided by the builder and maintained by the owner in perpetuity.
         (e)   Height. Street lights located at the entrance, intersections or
mid-block shall not exceed 20 feet in height.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 7.28)
   (B)   Traditional and townhouse residential street lighting standards. This
street lighting standards division (B) applies to the following type of
development: TD; TN; DP; and DP.
      (1)   Project applicability. Street lights shall be installed in
subdivisions, developments and planned developments at all intersections,
development entrances and along internal streets.
      (2)   Ownership. The developer shall work with RP&L to choose a light
standard provided by RP&L. The developer shall pay for any upgraded street
lights over the cost of the base model in addition to any costs required by
RP&L for parts inventory.
      (3)   Street light system design. The proposed street light system shall
meet the following conditions.
         (a)   Continuity.
            1.   Street lights shall be consistent style throughout the entire
development.
            2.   If a street light exists along the street on which the
entrance to the development is located, the applicant shall install the same or
similar street light at the entrance.
         (b)   At intersections. The applicant shall propose a lighting design
that provides the minimum amount of light necessary for vehicular and
pedestrian safety at all intersections within the development.
            1.   A pedestrian scale, vintage-style street light that does not
exceed 12 feet in height shall be used in residential areas.
            2.   A vintage-style street light that does not exceed 18 feet in
height shall be used in non- residential areas.
         (c)   Between intersections. A pedestrian scale, vintage-style street
light that does not exceed 12 feet in height shall be required between
intersections at intervals that provide uniform lighting of the street.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 7.29)
   (C)   Non-residential street lighting standards. This street lighting
standards division (C) applies to the following type of development: TD; SC;
CD; IP; DP; and PD.
      (1)   Project applicability. Street lights shall be installed in
subdivisions, developments and planned developments at all intersections,
development entrances and along internal streets.
      (2)   Ownership. The developer shall work with RP&L to choose a light
standard provided by RP&L. The developer shall pay for any upgraded street
lights over the cost of the base model.
      (3)   Street light system design. The proposed street light system shall
meet the following conditions.
         (a)   Glare. Street lights shall be shielded to prevent glare on
residential properties and.
         (b)   Continuity.
            1.   Street lights shall be consistent in size, type and scale
throughout the entire development.
            2.   If a street light exists along the street on which the
entrance to the development is located, the applicant shall install the same or
similar street light at the entrance.
         (3)   At intersections. The applicant shall propose a lighting design
that provides the minimum amount of light necessary for vehicular and
pedestrian safety at all intersections within the development.
         (4)   Height. Street lights located at the entrance or intersections
shall not exceed 25 feet in height.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 7.30)
   (D)   General street lighting standards.
      (1)   This street lighting standards division (D) applies to the
following type of development: ST; CV; CS; TD; TN; ZL; SC; CD; IP; DP; and PD.
      (2)   When street lights are not required, or the development gets relief
from installing streetlights, the city or RP&L shall not, now or in the future,
be obligated to install them. Every lot within the subject subdivision shall
have a non-petition clause recorded as a deed restriction, applicable in
perpetuity, stating that the property owner waives the right to petition the
city or RP&L for street lighting to be installed at the city’s or RP&L’s
expense. This waiver does not restrict private funding to be used for such
improvements.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 7.31)
§ 165.423 SURETY STANDARDS.
   This surety standards section applies to the following types of development:
ST; CV; CS; TD; TN; ZL; SC; CD; IP; DP; and PD.
   (A)   Cross-reference. The procedure for each type of approval that may
require a surety can be found in §§
165.455 through
165.470 and
165.485 through
165.488.
   (B)   Performance surety. All applicants shall provide a performance surety
for any public improvement that has not been completed, but is intended to or
will be dedicated to the city, or a municipal utility. All such facilities, any
off-site improvements committed to by the applicant and any off-site
improvements required as a condition of approval shall be covered by the
performance surety.
      (1)   Acceptable surety. A bond or irrevocable letter of credit may be
used as a performance surety. However, the city reserves the right to refuse
any alternative from a bond offered by the applicant.
      (2)   Timing. The performance surety shall be offered and accepted prior
to final approval of the development by the Plan Commission (e.g., final plat
for subdivision).
      (3)   Requirements. The surety shall:
         (a)   Amount. Be in an amount equal to 110% of the cost to complete
the yet to be completed portions of the public improvements. A cost estimate
shall be provided by the applicant’s engineer and/or general contractor.
However, the cost estimate shall not be binding. All estimates shall be based
on the requirements of this chapter, city’s construction standards and subject
to the City Engineer’s review;
         (b)   Appropriate agency. Run to and be in favor of the city’s Board
of Public Works and Safety, County Commissioners (i.e., when improvements are
in the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city) or other agency to which the
improvements are intended to be dedicated;
         (c)   Timeframe. Specify the timeframe for completion of the
improvements. Under no circumstances shall the initial timeframe exceed two
years; and
         (d)   Form. Be on a form approved by the Plan Commission.
      (4)   Determining completion of improvement. A performance surety shall
not be released until all of the following have been accomplished.
         (a)   The applicant shall submit in writing a request for release of
the performance surety, provide a description of the public improvement
completed and provide an engineer’s certification that the improvements were
completed to all applicable requirements.
         (b)   Final construction has been determined to be completed,
inspected and approved by the City Engineer, Zoning Administrator and any other
applicable city or county agency. Any applicable inspecting agency shall
certify that it has been inspected and meets all applicable standards.
         (c)   At the election of the City Engineer or Zoning Administrator or
any other applicable city or county agency, core borings, video inspection of
drainage pipes or other technical inspections may be conducted at the
applicant’s expense.
         (d)   A plat properly recorded and all as-built drawings for the
project are received.
      (5)   Release of performance surety. When a public improvement has been
determined to be complete and a maintenance surety has been presented by the
applicant and accepted by the appropriate agency, then the public agency to
which the surety ran to and was in favor of shall release the performance
surety. A release of surety is often completed concurrently to the dedication
of the public improvement, but shall not be construed a dedication of the
public improvement. See §
165.386 (Dedication of Public Improvement Standards) for the standards
applicable to dedication.
      (6)   Expiration of timeframe or default. When a public improvement has
been determined to not be constructed to the applicable standards by the Plan
Commission, or if the two year timeframe expires, the Plan Commission shall
either:
         (a)   Require correction. Require the applicant to install, construct,
reconstruct or resolve the issue within a prescribed timeframe;
         (b)   Extension. Give the applicant additional time to complete the
improvement; or
         (c)   Default. Declare the performance surety in default and utilize
the funds from the surety to complete the public improvement.
   (C)   Maintenance surety. When a public improvement is completed and prior
to dedication, a maintenance surety shall be provided to assure that premature
dilapidation, repair or maintenance costs due to improper design, engineering,
materials or other defects are not the responsibility of a public agency.
      (1)   Acceptable surety. A bond or irrevocable letter of credit may be
used as a maintenance surety. However, the city reserves the right to refuse
any alternative from a bond offered by the applicant.
      (2)   Timing. The maintenance surety shall be offered and accepted prior
to dedication of the public improvement.
      (3)   Requirements. The surety shall:
         (a)   Amount. Be in an amount equal to 25% of the total cost of the
public improvement. The actual cost of construction shall be provided by the
applicant’s engineer and/or general contractor and reviewed by the City
Engineer. However, the actual cost report shall not be binding when the Plan
Commission or Department of Public Works and Engineering establishes the
official construction cost to be used to determine the surety amount;
         (b)   Appropriate agency. Run to and be in favor of the city’s Board
of Public Works and Safety, County Commissioners (i.e., when improvements are
in the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city) or other agency to which the
public improvement was dedicated;
         (c)   Timeframe. Be provided for a period of three years from the date
of dedication before qualifying for release. In the event the maintenance
surety is not requested by the applicant to be released prior to the end of
three years, it shall be automatically renewed for an additional six months. In
the event the public improvement was determined to be prematurely dilapidated,
in need of repair or is not properly functioning; upon completion of the
repair, a new maintenance surety for that portion of the public improvement
shall be provided for a period of two years; and
         (d)   Form. Be on a form approved by the Plan Commission.
      (4)   Determining completion of improvement. A maintenance surety shall
not be released until all of the following have been accomplished.
         (a)   The applicant shall submit in writing a request for release of
the maintenance surety, provide a description of the condition of the public
improvement and provide an engineer’s certification that the public improvement
have not prematurely dilapidated, are not in need of repair and are properly
functioning.
         (b)   The City Engineer, Zoning Administrator and any other applicable
city or county agency has inspected the public improvement and has certified
that it meets all applicable standards.
         (c)   At the election of the City Engineer or Zoning Administrator or
any other applicable city or county agency, core borings, video inspection of
drainage pipes, or other technical inspections may be conducted at the
applicant’s expense.
      (5)   Release of maintenance surety. When a public improvement has been
determined to be in proper condition at the expiration of the maintenance
surety timeframe, the public agency to which the surety ran to and was in favor
of shall release the maintenance surety. The appropriate agency shall issue a
certificate or write a letter to the applicant indicating full release of
obligation and surety.
      (6)   Expiration of timeframe or default. When a public improvement has
been determined to have prematurely dilapidated, be in need of repair or to not
be properly functioning by the Plan Commission, the Plan Commission or
Department of Public Works and Engineering shall either:
         (a)   Require correction. Require the applicant to install, construct,
reconstruct or resolve the issue within a prescribed timeframe; or
         (b)   Default. Declare the maintenance surety in default and utilize
the funds from the surety to fix the public improvement.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 7.32)
§ 165.424 UTILITY STANDARDS.
   This utility standards section applies to the following types of
development: ST; CV; CS; TD; TN; ZL; SC; CD; IP; DP; and PD.
   (A)   Project applicability.
      (1)   Sanitary sewer. Sanitary sewer utility infrastructure shall be
provided in subdivisions, sites subject to development plan approval and
planned developments, and a connection from the new sanitary sewer
infrastructure to an existing sanitary sewer system shall be required. Service
and connections to the city’s municipal sanitary sewer systems shall comply
with
Chapter 50.
      (2)   Water. Water utility infrastructure, including potable water and
fire protection, shall be provided in subdivisions, sites subject to
development plan approval and planned developments and a connection from the
new water utility infrastructure to an existing public water system shall be
required, with the following exception:
         (a)   A private well may be permitted within the city’s extra-
territorial jurisdiction if:
            1.   The nearest accessible water line is 300 feet or more from the
edge of the new development;
            2.   The cost of connecting to the water system is three times the
cost to install all components of a private well; and
            3.   The private well’s design and location is approved by the City
Engineer and the County Health Department.
         (b)   A private well for potable water shall not be permitted inside
the city limits.
   (B)   Location. Sanitary sewer utility infrastructure and water utility
infrastructure shall be located in a right-of-way or within an area designated
as a utility easement (or a utility and drainage easement). The location of
proposed utilities and any utility easements shall be approved by the City
Engineer and the appropriate utility department prior to the final approval of
any plan and prior to any installation.
   (C)   Construction.
      (1)   Utility company standards. All water utility improvements and water
utility infrastructure intended to be dedicated to and accepted by the Indiana
American Water Company shall be designed and installed to meet or exceed the
Indiana American Water Company’s construction standards and each component
(e.g., hydrants or valves) shall approved by the City Engineer.
      (2)   City standards. All sewer utility improvements and sewer utility
infrastructure intended to be dedicated to and accepted by the city shall be
designed and installed to meet or exceed the city’s construction standards and
each component (e.g., lift station) shall approved by the City Engineer and the
city’s sanitary district.
      (3)   State approval. The State Department of Environmental Management
shall approve plans for the water utility infrastructure after primary plat
approval, but prior to any installation or secondary plat approval.
      (4)   Coordination. The applicant shall be responsible for coordinating
the installation of the utilities. Conflicts with prior constructed utilities
and damage to them shall be repaired before allowing any work to continue.
   (D)   Up-sizing. Up-sizing sanitary sewer utility infrastructure and/or
water utility infrastructure shall be considered by the city and the applicant
depending on future development of adjacent parcels. Agreements concerning up-
sizing utility infrastructure shall be in accordance with appropriate state
statutes and executed prior to the start of installation of the utility
infrastructure.
   (E)   Electric service. Electric utility infrastructure shall be installed
underground in subdivisions, sites subject to development plan approval and
planned developments. No overhead wires or utility poles shall be permitted.
Meters, transformers and junction boxes are permitted above grade, but shall be
discretely located. The installation of the electric utility shall be per
Richmond Power and Light’s construction standards.
   (F)   Cable television and telephone utilities. Cable television and
telephone utilities shall be installed underground in subdivisions, sites
subject to development plan approval and planned developments. No overhead
wires or utility poles shall be permitted. Junction boxes are permitted above
grade, but shall be discretely located. The installation of the cable
television and telephone utilities shall be per each vendor’s construction
standards.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 7.33)
NON-CONFORMITIES
§ 165.435 INTENT.
   (A)   As new zoning regulations are adopted or zoning map changes are made,
lots, structures and uses that were previously compliant with zoning regulation
are sometimes made non-compliant.
   (B)   This subchapter specifies the provisions that apply to these legal
non-conforming (informally referred to as “grandfathered”) lots, structures and
uses.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 8.01)
§ 165.436 DISTINCTION BETWEEN CONFORMING, ILLEGAL NON- CONFORMING AND LEGAL
NON- CONFORMING.
   Each structure, use and lot is either “conforming” or “non-conforming”.
Conforming is used to describe a structure, use or lot as being in full
compliance with the current unified development ordinance as codified in this
Chapter 165. Non- conforming is used to describe a structure, use or lot that
is in violation of one or more standards in the current unified development
ordinance. Non- conforming structures, uses or lots are either “illegal non-
conforming” or “legal non-conforming”. The following sections (§§
165.437 through
165.440) are used to determine the non-conforming status of a structure, use or
lot.
   (A)   Illegal non-conforming.
      (1)   Structure. A structure constructed in violation of the zoning
ordinance that was in effect when the structure was constructed and which
remains in violation of the current unified development ordinance is an illegal
non-conforming structure.
      (2)   Use. A use that was in violation of the zoning ordinance that was
in effect when the use was initiated and which remains in violation of the
current unified development ordinance is an illegal non- conforming use. In
addition, a use that was legally established and is not permitted under the
current unified development ordinance, but has been abandoned or discontinued
for a period of at least one year, is an illegal non-conforming use.
      (3)   Lot. A lot established in violation of the zoning or subdivision
control ordinance that was in effect at the time of establishment and which
remains in violation of the current unified development ordinance is an illegal
non-conforming lot.
   (B)   Legal non-conforming.
      (1)   Structure. A structure that does not meet one or more development
standards of the unified development ordinance, but was legally established
prior to the effective date of the unified development ordinance shall be
deemed a legal non- conforming structure. Generally, a structure is rendered
legal non-conforming by an amendment to the zoning regulations or a zoning map
change. However, a legal non-conformity may be a result of government use of
eminent domain or right-of-way acquisition.
      (2)   Use. The use of a structure or land (or a structure and land in
combination) that was legally established and has since been continuously
operated, that is no longer permitted by this chapter in the zoning district in
which it is located, shall be deemed a legal non-conforming use. Generally, a
use is rendered legal non-conforming by an amendment to the zoning regulations
or a zoning map change.
      (3)   Lot. A lot that does not meet one or more lot standards of this
chapter, but was legally established and recorded prior to the effective date
of this chapter shall be deemed a legal non-conforming lot of record.
Generally, a lot is rendered legal non- conforming by an amendment to the
zoning regulations or a zoning map change. However, a legal non-conformity may
be a result of government use of eminent domain or right-of-way acquisition.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 8.02)
§ 165.437 ILLEGAL NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURES, USES AND LOTS.
   An illegal structure, use or lot is subject to the enforcement procedures
and penalties of this chapter as amended. The enforcement and penalties of the
zoning ordinance in place at the time the violation occurred shall no longer be
in effect.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 8.03)
§ 165.438 LEGAL NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   The following provisions apply to legal non- conforming structures,
structures associated with legal non-conforming uses and structures associated
with legal non-conforming lots.
   (A)   Legal non-conforming building provisions. The provisions for legal
non-conforming buildings, a subcategory of structures, are as follows.
      (1)   Building expansion. A legal non- conforming building shall be
permitted to expand in area and height as long as the non-conformity is not
increased and the expansion otherwise meets the current unified development
ordinance. For example, if a building is in violation of the maximum height
standard, it can be expanded in area as long as the new addition does not
exceed the maximum height standard and is otherwise in compliance with current
unified development ordinance.
      (2)   Building exterior alteration. The exterior walls of a building
shall not be moved except as provided in division (A)(1) above. Otherwise, the
roof and exterior walls may be maintained, repaired, re-faced and modified,
resulting in the original aesthetic character or an altered exterior character,
as long as the building’s non-conformity is not increased and the alteration
otherwise meets the current unified development ordinance.
      (3)   Building interior alteration. Ordinary repair and replacement of
interior finishes, heating systems, fixtures, electrical systems or plumbing
systems; and interior wall modifications are not regulated by this chapter.
      (4)   Building relocating. A legal non- conforming building may be
relocated if, by moving the building, it decreases the legal non-conformity and
the relocation otherwise meets the current unified development ordinance.
   (B)   Legal non-conforming structure provisions. The provisions for legal
non-conforming structures, excluding the subcategory of buildings, are as
follows.
      (1)   Structure alteration. A legal non- conforming structure shall be
permitted to be altered in height, area, mass and time as long as the non-
conformity is not increased and the alteration otherwise meets the current
unified development ordinance. For example, if a permanent sign is in violation
of the maximum height standard, it can be altered as long as the alteration
does not exceed the maximum height standard currently permitted and is
otherwise in compliance with this chapter.
      (2)   Structure relocating. A legal non- conforming structure may be
relocated if, by moving the structure, it decreases the legal non-conformity
and the relocation otherwise meets the current unified development ordinance.
      (3)   Conversion for longevity. Converting a structural component of a
legal non-conforming structure to a more permanent material in order to prolong
legal non-conformity shall not be permitted. For example, a legal non-
conforming permanent pole sign would not be permitted to replace its existing
wood posts with metal posts even if dimensionally the same size.
   (C)   Loss of legal non-conforming structure status. The following
provisions apply to all types of structures.
      (1)   Condemned structures. If a structure, through lack of maintenance,
is declared by an authorized official to be condemned due to its physical or
unsafe condition, it shall lose its legal non- conforming status and become
illegal non-conforming; unless the structure is restored or repaired within
three months of the declaration. The Zoning Administrator may grant an
appropriate extension of time if work was started within the initial three-
month period and reasonable attempts are being made by the owner to remedy the
condemnation.
      (2)   Removal of permanent structures. If a permanent structure is fully
or significantly removed or razed (i.e., 80% or more of the structure), the
remaining permanent structure shall lose its legal non- conforming status and
become illegal non-conforming; unless by significantly removing or razing the
permanent structure the remaining permanent structure is in compliance or more
in compliance with the current unified development ordinance.
      (3)   Removal of temporary structures. If a temporary structure is
removed (e.g., moved inside, taken off-site, or replaced by a new temporary
structure), the temporary structure shall lose its legal non-conforming status
and become illegal non- conforming.
      (4)   Flood. If a structure is severely damaged from a flood, resulting
in a loss of either 50% of its market value or 50% of its structure, all
reconstruction shall be required to meet the current unified development
ordinance. All other flood damaged structures shall be allowed to rebuild the
structure that previously existed.
      (5)   Acts of nature. A structure severely damaged from an act of nature,
excluding flooding, shall be allowed to rebuild where it stood and as it
previously existed. If the property owner desires to build something other than
what previously existed shall be required to meet the current unified
development ordinance.
      (6)   Fire. A structure severely damaged by accident shall be allowed to
rebuild where it stood and as it previously existed. If the property owner
desires to build something other than what previously existed shall be required
to meet the current unified development ordinance.
   (D)   Maintenance and repair. Nothing in this section shall be deemed to
prevent the maintenance or repair of a structure to keep it in a safe,
aesthetic and functional condition.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 8.04)
§ 165.439 LEGAL NON-CONFORMING LOTS.
   The following provisions apply to legal non- conforming lots.
   (A)   Legal non-conforming lot provisions. A legal non-conforming lot shall
be permitted to be developed as long as the desired structure(s) and use(s)
meets the current unified development ordinance. If the application of the
current unified development ordinance renders the lot undevelopable (e.g., the
current setbacks do not permit a developable building envelope), the owner
shall request the city apply for reasonable variances from the Board of Zoning
Appeals.
   (B)   Loss of legal non-conforming lot status.
      (1)   Combining lots results in conformity. If a legal non-conforming lot
is combined with an adjacent lot resulting in conformity with the current
unified development ordinance, it shall lose its legal non-conforming status.
Therefore, future division of the combined lot shall conform to the current
unified development ordinance.
      (2)   Lots in combination. If a legal non- conforming lot is owned by the
same person as the adjacent lot, and the owner uses both lots in combination
for a duration of more than five years, the legal non-conforming lot shall lose
its legal non- conforming status; provided the two or more lots in combination
would constitute a single conforming lot.
      (3)   Permanent structure across property lines. If a legal non-
conforming lot is owned by the same person as the adjacent lot, and the owner
constructs a permanent structure across the property line, thus permanently
using two lots in combination, the legal non-conforming lot shall lose its
legal non- conforming status; provided the two lots in combination would
constitute a single conforming lot.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 8.05)
§ 165.440 LEGAL NON-CONFORMING USES.
   The following provisions apply to legal non- conforming uses:
   (A)   Cross-reference. With respect to agricultural legal non-conforming
uses, nothing in this section shall be interpreted in a manner that is
inconsistent with I.C. 36-7-4-616.
   (B)   Legal non-conforming use provisions. The provisions for legal non-
conforming uses are as follows.
      (1)   Utilizing existing, enlarged, new or relocated buildings. A legal
non-conforming use shall be permitted to occupy or use an existing building,
enlarged existing building, newly constructed building or relocated building,
provided the building meets the current unified development ordinance.
      (2)   Utilizing existing, altered, new or relocated structures. A legal
non-conforming use shall be permitted to utilize an existing structure, altered
existing structure, newly constructed structure or relocated structure,
provided the building meets the current unified development ordinance.
      (3)   Utilizing land. Any legal non- conforming use shall be permitted to
utilize its lot, or lots owned in combination upon the effective date of this
chapter, provided the utilization of land meets the current unified development
ordinance.
      (4)   Increase in non-conformity. No legal non-conforming use shall be
permitted to increase its non-conformity. The size of operation, number of
employees, increase to vehicular traffic and similar increases in size does not
increase non-conformity of a use. For example, a five acre legal non-conforming
junk yard that expands its operations onto five more acres of land it
previously owned, does not qualify as an increase in non-conformity, its still
a junk yard. However, if the same junk yard adds a compactor facility which
previously did not exist, that would qualify as an increase in non-conformity.
   (C)   Loss of legal non-conforming use status.
      (1)   Abandonment of use. If a legal non- conforming use is abandoned or
is discontinued for 12 or more months, except when a government action impedes
access to the premises, it shall lose its legal non-conforming status. Any
subsequent use shall conform to the provisions of the current unified
development ordinance.
      (2)   Change of use. When a legal non- conforming use is changed, altered
or evolves to be in compliance or more in compliance with the current unified
development ordinance, the legal non- conforming use status is lost or
partially lost. The current use cannot revert back to the original legal non-
conforming use or increments thereof.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 8.06)
PROCESSES
§ 165.455 IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMIT PROCESSES APPLICABLE TO A PARCEL.
   This process section applies to the following zoning districts: PR; AG; IA;
R1; R2; R3; UR; M1; UV; IS; NC; LC; GC; OC; CB; HC; EP; IC; I1; I2; and HI.
   (A)   Permanent construction, installation, addition, alteration or
relocation of a structure. A project that involves constructing, installing,
adding onto, altering or relocating a building or structure for a permanent
duration shall have the project reviewed for compliance with this chapter.
Projects determined to be in full compliance with the applicable regulations
shall be issued an improvement location permit authorizing the project to
begin. See §
165.459 (Improvement Location Permit) for details about this process.
   (B)   Permanent alteration to the land. A project that involves permanently
altering the topography, drainage, floodplain or significant environmental
features shall have the project reviewed for compliance with this chapter.
Projects determined to be in full compliance with the applicable regulations
will be issued an improvement location permit authorizing the project to begin.
See §
165.459 (Improvement Location Permit) for details about this process.
   (C)   Temporary use of land or structure. A project that involves
establishing a temporary use or installing a temporary structure shall have the
project reviewed for compliance with this chapter. Projects determined to be in
full compliance with the applicable regulations shall be issued an improvement
location permit authorizing the project to begin. See §
165.460 (Temporary Improvement Location Permit) for details about this process.
   (D)   Establish a new land use or change an existing land use. A project
that involves establishing a new land use on a parcel or in a structure, or
changing an existing land use, shall have the project reviewed for compliance
with this chapter. Projects determined to be in full compliance with the
applicable regulations shall be issued an improvement location permit
authorizing the project to begin. See §
165.459 (Improvement Location Permit) for details about this process.
   (E)   Special exception. An application for a special exception may be filed
for a land use classified as a special exception in §§
165.085 through
165.108 for the subject zoning district. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall
utilize a specific public hearing and procedural findings to determine whether
the land use is appropriate for the specific parcel named in the petition. See
§
165.463 (Special Exceptions) for details about this process.
   (F)   Change to a different zoning district. An application for a rezoning
may be filed for a parcel to be changed from its existing zoning district to a
different zoning district. The Plan Commission shall utilize a specific public
hearing to review the proposed change in zoning. The Plan Commission shall then
forward a recommendation to the Common Council for final action. Approval or
denial is the full discretion of the Common Council. See §
165.470 (Zoning Map Amendment; Rezonings) for details about this process.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 9.01)
§ 165.456 DEVELOPMENT PLAN APPROVAL PROCESSES APPLICABLE TO A PARCEL.
   This process section applies to the following zoning districts: M2; and MP.
   (A)   Permanent construction, installation, addition, alteration or
relocation of a new structure. A project that involves constructing,
installing, adding onto, altering or relocating a structure (e.g., building)
for a permanent duration shall be reviewed as a development plan by the Plan
Commission. Projects determined to meet the Plan Commission’s expectations and
that are in full compliance with the applicable regulations shall be issued an
improvement location permit authorizing the project to begin. See §
165.462 (Development Plan) for details about this process.
   (B)   Permanent alteration to the land. A project that involves permanently
altering the topography, drainage, floodplain or significant environmental
features shall be reviewed as a development plan by the Plan Commission.
Projects determined to meet the Plan Commission’s expectations and that are in
full compliance with the applicable regulations shall be issued an improvement
location permit authorizing the project to begin. See §
165.462 (Development Plan) for details about this process.
   (C)   Temporary use of land or structure. A project that involves
establishing a temporary use or installing a temporary structure shall be
reviewed as a development plan by the Plan Commission. Projects determined to
meet the Plan Commission’s expectations and that are in full compliance with
the applicable regulations will be issued a temporary improvement location
permit authorizing the project to begin. See §
165.460 (Temporary Improvement Location Permits) for details about this
process.
   (D)   Establish a new land use or change an existing land use. A project
that involves establishing a new land use on a parcel or in a structure, or
changing an existing land use, shall be reviewed as a development plan by the
Plan Commission. Projects determined to meet the Plan Commission’s expectations
and that are in full compliance with the applicable regulations will be issued
an improvement location permit authorizing the project to begin. See §
165.459 (Improvement Location Permit) for details about this process.
   (E)   Special exception. An application for a special exception may be filed
for a land use classified as a special exception in §§
165.085 through
165.108 for the subject zoning district. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall
utilize a specific public hearing and procedural findings to determine whether
the land use is appropriate for the specific parcel named in the petition. See
§
165.463 (Special Exceptions) for details about this process.
   (F)   Change to a different zoning district. An application for a rezoning
may be filed for a parcel to be changed from its existing zoning district to a
different zoning district. The Plan Commission shall utilize a specific public
hearing to review the proposed change in zoning. The Plan Commission shall then
forward a recommendation to the Common Council for final action. Approval or
denial is the full discretion of the Common Council. See §
165.470 (Zoning Map Amendment; Rezoning) for details about this process.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 9.02)
§ 165.457 PROCESSES APPLICABLE TO DEVELOPMENTS.
   This process section applies to the following zoning districts: PR; AG; IA;
R1; R2; R3; UR; M1; M2; MP; UV; IS; NC; LC; GC; OC; CB; HC; EP; IC; I1; I2; and
HI.
   (A)   Planned development. An elective approval process for developments
that involve mixed-use, for significantly unique development designs, and for
land that has significantly unique geologic features. This process allows the
developer to write a unique ordinance that partially replaces this chapter to
allow greater design flexibility. Applications for planned development are
reviewed and approved by a combination of the Plan Commission and Common
Council, and approval or denial is the full discretion of the Plan Commission
and Common Council. See §
165.485 (Planned Development; General) for details about this process.
   (B)   Subdivision of land. An application for primary plat resulting in a
parcel of land to be divided to create buildable lots shall be required to be
reviewed and approved by the Plan Commission. This process also applies to any
two or more buildable lots being combined into a single buildable lot.
Divisions of land recorded at the office of the County Recorder without being
approved by the Plan Commission shall not result in buildable lots. See §
165.464 (Subdivision of Land) for details.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 9.03)
§ 165.458 PROCESSES FOR RELIEF FROM REGULATIONS.
   This process section applies to the following zoning districts: PR; AG; IA;
R1; R2; R3; UR; M1; M2; MP; UV; IS; NC; LC; GC; OC; CB; HC; EP; IC; I1; I2; and
HI.
   (A)   Administrative appeal. An application for appeal for a decision,
interpretation, order determination or action of the Zoning Administrator to be
overturned or corrected shall be reviewed by the Board of Zoning Appeals. The
Board of Zoning Appeals may allow the Zoning Administrator’s interpretation to
stand or may overturn or correct any Zoning Administrator’s decision,
interpretation, order determination or action. See §
165.461 (Administrative Appeal) for details about this process.
   (B)   Variance from development standards. An application for a variance may
be filed so that an petition for an applicable development standard may be
partially or fully waived by the Board of Zoning Appeals, or a use that is not
permitted may be permitted. The Board of Zoning Appeals may grant a variance of
development standard or a variance of use upon making specific findings of
fact, with or with conditions or commitments. See §
165.468 (Variance) for details about this process.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 9.04)
§ 165.459 IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMITS.
   (A)   Applicability. An improvement location permit shall be required prior
to permanent construction, installation, addition, alteration or relocation of
a structure; prior to permanent alteration to the land; and prior to
establishment of a new land or change an existing land use. The following are
examples of projects necessitating an improvement location permit process:
      (1)   Constructing a dwelling unit;
      (2)   Constructing a detached garage;
      (3)   Constructing or modifying off-street parking;
      (4)   Room addition on a house;
      (5)   Installing a new driveway;
      (6)   Installation of a dwelling unit, manufactured;
      (7)   Installing a swimming pool;
      (8)   Construction a pool house;
      (9)   Constructing a carport;
      (10)   Constructing a deck or patio over 400 square feet;
      (11)   Installing a permanent freestanding or wall-mounted sign;
      (12)   Modifying a structure’s height;
      (13)   Constructing a recreation pond;
      (14)   Adding impervious surface; and
      (15)   Installation of a accessory structure over 200 square feet in
area.
   (B)   Exemption from improvement location permit. This exemption is only
from having to obtain an improvement location permit. It is not an exemption
from having to meet all applicable regulations in this chapter. Any project
exempt from having to acquire an improvement location permit that is in
violation of this chapter is subject to §§
165.500 through
165.514 and
165.999. The following projects are exempt from having to obtain an improvement
location permit.
      (1)   Agriculture. An agriculture related accessory structure is exempt
from obtaining an improvement location permit.
      (2)   Small structures. An accessory structure that is not on a permanent
foundation and is less than 200 square feet in area is exempt from obtaining an
improvement location permit.
      (3)   Softscaping and hardscaping. Installing trees, shrubs, plants and
flowers; applying mulch or soil enhancers; raising of planting beds around
foundations; and installing accent hardscaping (e.g., stone steps, stone edging
and small retaining walls) is exempt from obtaining an improvement location
permit as long as there is no adverse affect to drainage.
      (4)   Deck or patio. A deck or patio installed individually or
cumulatively that is less than 400 square feet in area over the entire lot is
exempt from obtaining an improvement location permit.
      (5)   Sign content change. Sign content may be changed without having to
receive an improvement location permit.
      (6)   Flag pole. Flag poles may be installed without obtaining an
improvement location permit.
      (7)   Play set. Play sets may be installed without obtaining an
improvement location permit.
      (8)   Type 1 home based business. Type 1 home businesses may commence
without obtaining an improvement location permit.
      (9)   Property maintenance. Maintenance and repairs to the existing
structure or site features may commence without obtaining an improvement
location permit, but shall follow all building regulations found in
Chapter 150 in the city’s code of ordinances.
      (10)   Adding or changing light fixtures. Light fixtures may be added or
changed without obtaining an improvement location permit.
      (11)   Fences. Fences may be installed or changed without obtaining an
improvement location permit.
   (C)   Cross-reference.
      (1)   Building permit. An improvement location permit does not authorize
compliance with building codes. Concurrent to having a project reviewed for
compliance with this chapter most projects with any type of building will also
have to be reviewed for compliance with the Building Code. The review for
compliance with the Building Code is conducted by the Building Official. See
Chapter 150: Building Code of city’s code of ordinances for information
regarding building permits and certificates of occupancy.
      (2)   Site improvement permit. An improvement location permit does not
authorize compliance with the city’s storm water management ordinances.
Concurrent to having a project reviewed for compliance with this chapter most
projects will also have to be reviewed for compliance with the storm water
management ordinance. The review for compliance with the storm water management
ordinance is conducted by the MS4 Coordinator. See
Chapter 55 Storm Water Management of the city’s code of ordinances for
information regarding the site improvement permit.
      (3)   Other permits. An improvement location permit does not authorize
compliance with any county, state or federal permits. It is the responsibility
of the property owner to acquire any other required permits prior to making any
improvement.
   (D)   Filing requirements.
      (1)   Application. Application for an improvement location permit shall
be made on a form provided by the Zoning Administrator. The following
information shall be provided on the application form:
         (a)   Property owner’s name, mailing address, phone number and/or
email address;
         (b)   Applicant’s name, mailing address, phone number and/or email
address, if different than owner;
         (c)   Written detailed description of the proposed project;
         (d)   Date submitted and signed;
         (e)   Signature of the applicant, testifying that they are authorized
to represent the property; and
         (f)   Any other information requested on the application form.
      (2)   For permanent construction, installation, addition, alteration or
relocation of a structure. The following supporting information, as applicable,
shall be provided on a site plan, application form or as an attachment.
         (a)   Projects involving non-inhabitable structures not mounted on a
permanent foundation.
            1.   A scaled drawing of the parcel with dimensions;
            2.   The building envelope (i.e., the resulting developable area
after applying setbacks);
            3.   The location of existing structures (e.g., home, garage,
sidewalk or driveway);
            4.   The location of the proposed structure;
            5.   A calculation of the existing lot coverage, expressed in a
percentage;
            6.   A calculation of the lot coverage as it would be upon
completing the project, expressed in a percentage; and
            7.   An affidavit stating the proposed project is not located
within a floodplain or easement.
         (b)   Projects involving non-inhabitable structures mounted on a
permanent foundation.
            1.   All requirements of division (D)(2)(a) above;
            2.   A scale drawing of the parcel with dimensions;
            3.   Existing adjacent rights-of- way, street easements or alley
easements, and the name of the street or alley if applicable;
            4.   Easements on the parcel or adjacent to the parcel, including
the name of the easement holder and a description of the terms of the easement;
and
            5.   Denotation of any existing structure on adjacent parcels if
within 20 feet of the subject parcel’s property line.
         (c)   Projects involving inhabitable buildings.
            1.   All requirements of division (D)(2)(b) above;
            2.   Denotation of the location of mature trees, greater than nine
inches in caliper;
            3.   Elevation above sea level at the location of the project prior
to alteration of land;
            4.   When reasonable evidence exists that the proposed structure is
within 30 feet of a floodplain or wetland, the Planning Director may require a
certification by a licensed engineer or surveyor that the proposed project is
not on or within 30 feet of a floodplain or wetland;
            5.   Denotation of adjacent zoning districts if different than the
subject parcel;
            6.   Location of existing or proposed drainage tile;
            7.   Denotation of where utilities lines will be run to the
building and whether they are above or below grade;
            8.   Location of a septic system, reserve area for a replacement
septic system, well, geothermal loop or other on-site utility system; and
            9.   Denotation of any existing structure on adjacent parcels if
within 50 feet of the subject parcel’s property line.
         (d)   Complex or unique projects. The Zoning Administrator may require
any additional information if reasonably necessary to determine if a complex or
unique project complies with the provisions of this chapter. This may include
the supporting information listed in §
165.487(D)(2)(i) for projects within the APO District.
      (3)   For permanent alteration to the land.
         (a)   Generally. The following supporting information, as applicable,
shall be provided on a site plan, application form or as an attachment.
         (a)   Signed approval. A signed approval indicating the improvement
meets all standards in Chapter 57, Erosion and Sediment Control of the city’s
code of ordinances.
   (E)   Permit procedure.
      (1)   Substantially complete application. An application for an
improvement location permit shall not be reviewed for approval until it is
determined to be substantially complete by the Zoning Administrator. The Zoning
Administrator must first verify that the application form and required
supplemental information has been submitted correctly, and the applicable
application fee is paid.
      (2)   Review the project’s compliance. After the application is verified
as being substantially complete, the Zoning Administrator shall review the
project to determine whether it complies with the chapter. The Zoning
Administrator may consult with the City Engineer, Building Commissioner, Park
Superintendent or any other person, department or group to determine if the
project complies with all of the provisions of this chapter. During the review
process, the Zoning Administrator may:
         (a)   Request additional information. During the process of rendering
a decision, the Zoning Administrator may request additional information to be
added to the site plan, application form or attachments;
         (b)   Exercise discretion. Some provisions within this chapter allow
the Zoning Administrator to apply discretion to a decision. If such discretion
is exercised, the Zoning Administrator shall describe the decision and cite the
authority for that discretion; and
         (c)   Interpret this chapter. Because this chapter cannot address
every possible unique situation, project features or land use, the Zoning
Administrator shall interpret the intent of this chapter when not specifically
addressed.
      (3)   Render a decision. The Zoning Administrator shall render a
“decision to deny” or “decision to approve” based on the information submitted,
project review, discretion exercised and interpretations made.
      (4)   Issuing an improvement location permit. If the proposed project
complies with this chapter, the Zoning Administrator shall render a decision to
approve, document the terms of the approval on the permit, and then issue an
improvement location permit.
      (5)   Decision to deny. If the proposed project does not comply with this
chapter, the Zoning Administrator shall not issue an improvement location
permit. The Zoning Administrator shall internally document the reasons for not
issuing an improvement location permit and send that information to the
applicant by email or U.S. mail or by telephone. If an email is used to
communicate denial, documentation that the email was received shall be included
in the file. Similarly, if a phone call is used to communicate denial,
documentation of the phone call shall be included in the file. If a proposed
project does not comply with this chapter, the applicant may promptly revised
the application, or may promptly pursue relief from this chapter.
      (6)   Allowance for revision prior to a decision. At the discretion of
the Zoning Administrator, the applicant may be permitted to modify the site
plan, application form or attachments prior to a decision by the Zoning
Administrator.
      (7)   Allowance for revision after a decision. After a decision to deny,
the applicant may promptly revise the site plan, application form or attachment
in order to comply with this chapter without terminating the process.
      (8)   Pursuit of relief. After a decision to deny, the applicant may
promptly pursue an administrative appeal, variance from development standards
or variance of use. During an appeal for relief, the application for
improvement location permit shall be suspended until the Board of Zoning
Appeals rules on the matter.
   (F)   Duration.
      (1)   Procedural expiration. An application shall expire and be void
after the applicant is notified of a decision to deny unless the applicant
makes revisions to the application or pursues relief from the Board of Zoning
Appeals within 30 days from notification.
      (2)   Commencement. After an improvement location permit is issued, the
project shall commence within six months of the issuance date or shall become
null and void.
      (3)   Expiration. After an improvement location permit is issued, the
project shall be completed within 36 months of the issuance date or shall
become null and void.
      (4)   Extensions. Upon request by the applicant, an improvement location
permit may be extended one time for up to 12 months. The Zoning Administrator
may grant the requested extension. Both the request for the extension and the
Zoning Administrator’s decision concerning the extension shall be made part of
the improvement location permit file.
   (G)   Modification after issuance of an improvement location permit. At the
discretion of the Zoning Administrator, an improvement location permit may be
modified if:
      (1)   Warranted. Warranted due to discoveries during construction or
other significant finding; and
      (2)   Requested prior to initiation. Requested prior to permanent
construction, installation, addition, alteration or relocation of a structure;
prior to permanent alteration to the land; and prior to establishment of a new
land or change an existing land use; or if:
      (3)   Warranted. Warranted due to discoveries during construction or
other significant finding;
      (4)   Component is not completed. Requested prior to the applicable
component of the project has been completed; and
      (5)   Not correcting a violation. The modification is not an attempt to
correct a violation.
   (H)   If a modification is allowed. If a modification is allowed, the Zoning
Administrator shall request any necessary information, shall review the
modification for its compliance to this chapter, and then render a decision. If
the proposed modification meets the provisions of this chapter, the improvement
location permit may be amended and filed. If denied to be considered or denied
for non-compliance, the modification shall be disallowed.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 9.05)
§ 165.460 TEMPORARY IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMITS.
   (A)   Applicability.
      (1)   A temporary improvement location permit shall be required prior to
establishment of a temporary use of land or structure.
      (2)   The following are examples of projects necessitating a temporary
improvement location permit process:
         (a)   Temporary sign;
         (b)   Tent sale;
         (c)   Construction trailer; and
         (d)   Model home.
   (B)   Filing requirements.
      (1)   Application. Application for a temporary improvement location
permit shall be made on a form provided by the Zoning Administrator. Supporting
information shall be submitted as per all applicable requirements described
below.
      (2)   Establishment of a temporary use of land or structure. The
following application and supporting information, when applicable, shall be
provided on a site plan, application form or as an attachment:
         (a)   Property owner’s name, mailing address, phone number and/or
email address;
         (b)   Applicant’s name, mailing address, phone number and/or email
address, if different than owner;
         (c)   Written detailed description of the proposed project;
         (d)   Date submitted and signed;
         (e)   Signature of the applicant, testifying that they are authorized
to represent the property;
         (f)   Any other information requested on the application form;
         (g)   A drawing of the parcel with dimensions;
         (h)   The location of existing structures (e.g., building, parking
lot, sidewalk or driveway);
         (i)   The location of the proposed temporary structure;
         (j)   The applicable setbacks shown on the parcel drawing;
         (k)   Description of the proposed temporary land use;
         (l)   Description of the desired duration of the temporary structure
and/or land use; and
         (m)   An affidavit stating the proposed temporary structure does not
impede drainage, sight visibility, vehicular circulation, pedestrian
circulation or emergency exit.
      (3)   Deadline. Applications for a temporary improvement location permit
may be filed any time.
      (4)   Fees. The applicable fee shall be paid at the time the application
for a temporary improvement location permit is filed.
   (C)   Permit procedure.
      (1)   Substantially complete application. An application for a temporary
improvement location permit shall not be reviewed for approval until it is
determined to be substantially complete by the Zoning Administrator. The Zoning
Administrator shall first verify that the application form and required
supplemental information has been submitted correctly, and the applicable
application fee is paid.
      (2)   Review the project’s compliance. After the application is verified
as being substantially complete, the Zoning Administrator shall review the
project to determine whether it complies with this chapter. The Zoning
Administrator may consult with the City Engineer, Building Commissioner, Park
Superintendent or any other person, department or group to determine if the
project complies with all of the provisions of this chapter. During the review
process, the Zoning Administrator may:
         (a)   Request additional information. During the process of rendering
a decision, the Zoning Administrator may request additional information to be
added to the site plan, application form or attachments;
         (b)   Exercise discretion. Some provisions within this chapter allow
the Zoning Administrator to apply discretion to a decision. If such discretion
is exercised, the Zoning Administrator shall describe the decision and cite the
authority for that discretion; or
         (c)   Interpret this chapter. Because this chapter cannot address
every possible unique situation, project features or land use, the Zoning
Administrator shall interpret the intent of this chapter when not specifically
addressed.
      (3)   Render a decision. The Zoning Administrator shall render a
“decision to deny” or “decision to approve” based on the information submitted,
project review, discretion exercised and interpretations made.
      (4)   Issuing a temporary improvement location permit. If the proposed
project complies with this chapter and, the Zoning Administrator shall render a
decision to approve, document the terms of the approval on the permit, and then
issue a temporary improvement location permit.
      (5)   Decision to deny. If the proposed project does not comply with this
chapter, the Zoning Administrator shall not issue a temporary improvement
location permit. The Zoning Administrator shall internally document the reasons
for not issuing a temporary improvement location permit and send that
information to the applicant by email or U.S. mail, or by telephone. If an
email is used to communicate denial, documentation that the email was received
shall be included in the file. Similarly, if a phone call is used to
communicate denial, documentation of the phone call shall be included in the
file. If a proposed project does not comply with this chapter, the applicant
may promptly revised the application, or may promptly pursue relief from this
chapter.
      (6)   Allowance for revision prior to a decision. Not applicable.
      (7)   Allowance for revision after a decision to deny. After a decision
to deny, the applicant may promptly revise the site plan, application form or
attachment in order to comply with this chapter without terminating the
process.
      (8)   Pursuit of relief. After a decision to deny, the applicant may
promptly pursue an administrative appeal or variance from development
standards. During an appeal for relief, the application for improvement
location permit shall be suspended until the Board of Zoning Appeals rules on
the matter.
   (D)   Duration.
      (1)   Procedural expiration. An application shall expire and be void
after the applicant is notified of a decision to deny unless the applicant
makes revisions to the application or pursues relief from the Board of Zoning
Appeals within 30 days from notification.
      (2)   Commencement. After a temporary improvement location permit is
issued, the permit shall expire after the last approved date for the temporary
use and/or structure.
      (3)   Permit expiration. A temporary improvement location permit shall be
issued for the dates requested by the applicant and within the ordinance limits
as described in temporary use and structure standards in §§
165.260 through
165.294,
165.305 through
165.312,
165.325 through
165.332 and
165.345 through
165.353. The permitted dates shall be displayed on the temporary improvement
location permit.
      (4)   Extensions. Not applicable.
   (E)   Modification after issuance of a temporary improvement location
permit. Not applicable.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 9.06)
§ 165.461 ADMINISTRATIVE APPEAL.
   (A)   Applicability. An administrative appeal applies to an applicant or
interested party that wants a decision, interpretation, order determination or
action of the Zoning Administrator and/or enforcement officer to be overturned
or corrected by the Board of Zoning Appeals. Any decision, interpretation,
order determination or action of the Plan Commission shall not be the subject
of an administrative appeal.
   (B)   Filing requirements.
      (1)   Petition. Petition for administrative appeal shall be made on a
form provided by the Zoning Administrator. Supporting information shall be
submitted as per the requirements described below.
      (2)   Information to be submitted. The following information shall be
provided on the petition form:
         (a)   Petitioner’s name, mailing address, phone number and/or email
address;
         (b)   Petitioner’s standing (i.e., legal right to initiate a
petition);
         (c)   The Zoning Administrator or Enforcement Official that rendered
the decision, interpretation, order determination or action;
         (d)   Written statement describing the administrative decision,
interpretation, order determination or action; and the reason and facts
supporting action by the Board of Zoning Appeals;
         (e)   Date submitted and signed;
         (f)   Signature of the applicant; and
         (g)   Any other information requested on the application form.
      (3)   Deadline. A petition for an Administrative Appeal shall be filed
with the Board of Zoning Appeals within 30 days of the decision,
interpretation, order determination or action that is the subject of the
appeal.
      (4)   Suspension of work. Work related to the decision, interpretation,
order determination or action being appealed shall be suspended until the
administrative appeal is complete, or until the Board of Zoning Appeals
authorizes full or partial work to resume prior to a Board of Zoning Appeals
decision.
      (5)   Fees. The applicable fee shall be paid at the time the petition for
administrative appeal is filed.
   (C)   Appeal procedure.
      (1)   Substantially complete petition. A petition for an administrative
appeal shall not be issued a docket number or be scheduled for hearing by the
Board of Zoning Appeals until it is determined to be substantially complete by
the Zoning Administrator. The Zoning Administrator shall verify that the
petition form and required supplemental information has been submitted
correctly, and the applicable petition fee is paid.
      (2)   Assignment. Once a petition for an administrative appeal has been
determined substantially complete, the Zoning Administrator shall assign a case
number and place the appeal on the agenda of the Board of Zoning Appeals. The
Zoning Administrator shall inform the petitioner, in writing, of the date and
time of the Board of Zoning Appeals meeting at which the appeal is to be heard.
      (3)   Public and interested party notice. The petitioner shall be
responsible for providing public notice in accordance with the Board of Zoning
Appeals rules of procedure. The applicant shall also be responsible for
returning proof of public notice to the Zoning Administrator at least three
business days before the meeting at which the appeal is to be heard. Failure to
submit proof of notice may result in the administrative appeal being continued
to the following month’s Board of Zoning Appeals meeting.
      (4)   Transfer of information.
         (a)   The Zoning Administrator shall provide the petitioner for an
administrative appeal any additional information which is being conveyed to the
Board of Zoning Appeals in preparation for the meeting.
         (b)   The Zoning Administrator or Enforcement Official that is the
subject of the appeal shall transmit the documents, plans and papers
constituting the record regarding the case to the Board of Zoning Appeals.
         (c)   The Zoning Administrator or the Enforcement Official that is the
subject of the appeal may provide a written report explaining the final
decision or action on the case.
      (5)   Review. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall hear the administrative
appeal at a regularly scheduled public meeting according to their rules of
procedure. The Board of Zoning Appeals may consider information conveyed to
them in writing and testimony during the hearing in making a decision.
      (6)   Decision. Following the hearing and review, the Board of Zoning
Appeals may reverse, affirm or modify the decision, interpretation, order
determination or action from which the appeal stems. The Board of Zoning
Appeals may also add conditions to its decision when warranted.
      (7)   Appeal. Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Board of Zoning
Appeals may appeal such decision to the circuit or superior court of the
county.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 9.07)
§ 165.462 DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   This process applies to the following zoning districts: M2; and MP.
   (A)   Prerequisite.
      (1)   Development plan approval shall be required prior to an improvement
location permit being issued for:
         (a)   Permanent construction, installation, addition, alteration or
relocation of a new structure; and
         (b)   Permanent alteration to the land.
      (2)   Subdivisions. For residential subdivisions, development plan
approval shall be reviewed concurrently with the secondary plat.
   (B)   Exemptions from development plan.
      (1)   Single-family detached residential. Any lot being developed for a
single-family detached residence or its accessory structures shall be exempt
from development plan approval. Only the improvement location permit process
shall apply.
      (2)   Agriculture sites and buildings. Any lot being solely used for
agricultural purposes shall be exempt from development plan approval. Only the
temporary improvement location permit process shall apply.
      (3)   Temporary use of land or structure. Any temporary use of land or
structure shall be exempt from development plan approval. Only the improvement
location permit process shall apply.
      (4)   Establish a new land use or change an existing land use.
Establishing a new land use or changing an existing land use shall be exempt
from development plan approval. Only the improvement location permit process
shall apply.
   (C)   Filing requirements.
      (1)   Application. Application for development plan approval shall be
made on a form provided by the Zoning Administrator. The following information
shall be provided on the application form:
         (a)   Property owner’s name, mailing address, phone number and/or
email address;
         (b)   Applicant’s name, mailing address, phone number and/or email
address, if different than owner;
         (c)   Written detailed description of the proposed project;
         (d)   Date submitted and signed;
         (e)   Signature of the applicant, testifying that he or she is
authorized to represent the property; and
         (f)   Any other information requested on the application form.
      (2)   Interested parties. A list of names and mailing addresses of all
known adjacent property owners. The measurement shall include any adjacent
property regardless if a road, river, railroad or other physical barrier
exists. This information may be obtained from the County Auditor’s office.
      (3)   For permanent construction, installation, addition, alteration or
relocation of a structure. The following supporting information, as applicable,
shall be provided on a site plan, application form and/or as an attachment:
         (a)   Projects involving non-inhabitable structures not mounted on a
permanent foundation.
            1.   A drawing of the parcel with dimensions;
            2.   The building envelope (i.e., the resulting developable area
after applying setbacks);
            3.   The location of existing structures (e.g., home, garage,
sidewalk or driveway);
            4.   The location of the proposed structure;
            5.   A calculation of the existing lot coverage, expressed in a
percentage;
            6.   A calculation of the lot coverage as it would be upon
completing the project, expressed in a percentage; and
            7.   An affidavit stating the proposed project is not located
within a floodplain or easement.
         (b)   Projects involving non-inhabitable structures mounted on a
permanent foundation.
            1.   All requirements of division (C)(3)(a) above;
            2.   A scale drawing of the parcel with dimensions;
            3.   Existing adjacent rights-of-way, street easements or alley
easements, and the name of the street or alley if applicable;
            4.   Easements on the parcel or adjacent to the parcel, including
the name of the easement holder and a description of the terms of the easement;
            5.   Denotation of any existing structure on adjacent parcels if
within 20 feet of the subject parcel’s property line.
         (c)   Projects involving inhabitable buildings.
            1.   All requirements of division (C)(3)(b) above;
            2.   Denotation of the location of mature trees, greater than nine
inches in caliper;
            3.   Elevation above sea level at the location of the project prior
to alteration of land;
            4.   Certification by a licensed engineer or surveyor that the
proposed project is not on or within 30 feet of a floodplain or wetland;
            5.   Denotation of adjacent zoning districts if different than the
subject parcel;
            6.   Location of existing or proposed drainage tile;
            7.   Denotation of where utilities lines will be run to the
building and whether they are above or below grade;
            8.   Location of a septic system, reserve area for a replacement
septic system, well, geothermal loop or other on-site utility system; and
            9.   Denotation of any existing structure on adjacent parcels if
within 50 feet of the subject parcel’s property line.
         (d)   Complex or unique projects. The Zoning Administrator may require
any additional information if reasonably necessary to determine if a complex or
unique project complies with the provisions of this chapter. This may include
the supporting information listed in §
165.487(D)(2)(i) for projects within the APO District.
      (4)   For permanent alteration to the land.
         (a)   The following supporting information, as applicable, shall be
provided on a site plan, application form and/or as an attachment.
         (b)   Projects that involve disturbing more than 5% of a parcel’s area
on a parcel less than five acres in area, or disturbing any portion of a site
greater than five acres, or that results in more than 9,000 cubic feet of soil
being disturbed (cumulative amount of soil added from one area and soil removed
from another, not the net of soil added and removed):
            1.   A scale drawing of the parcel with dimensions;
            2.   The location of existing structures (e.g., building, sidewalk
or driveway);
            3.   Denotation of existing mature trees, greater than nine inches
in caliper;
            4.   Denotation of floodplains, wetlands, rock formations, karst,
natural lakes, streams, regulated drains, retention ponds, detention ponds,
known drainage tile, inlets, outlets, monuments or markers and drainage swales
on the parcel and within 75 feet of the parcel’s property lines;
            5.   Two-foot contour lines of the existing parcel;
            6.   Two-foot contours showing the parcel’s contours as it would be
upon completing the proposed project;
            7.   Erosion control methodology, devices, locations and
maintenance strategy;
            8.   Drainage evaluation of the existing parcel and as it would be
upon completion of the proposed project with a characterization of the change
to drainage onto adjacent properties, into drainage tile or into surface water
ways; and
            9.   Design cross-section of recreational ponds.
      (5)   Deadline. Thirteen hard copies of the application for development
plan approval; 13 hard copies of all supporting information; one digital copy
of the application for development plan approval and supporting information in
.pdf (portable document format); and one digital copy of any drawings or plans
in .dwg format shall be submitted to the Plan Commission at least 28 days prior
to the public meeting at which it is first to be considered by the Plan
Commission.
      (6)   Fees. Applicable fees shall be paid at the time the application for
development plan approval is filed.
   (D)   Review procedure.
      (1)   Assignment. Development plans which are determined to be
substantially complete and in proper form by the Zoning Administrator, shall be
assigned a case number and placed on the first available Plan Commission agenda
that occurs at least 28 days after the substantially complete application for
the development plan was submitted. The Zoning Administrator shall notify the
applicant in writing of the date of the meeting and provide the applicant with
a legal notice.
      (2)   Internal review. Upon assignment of a case number and hearing date,
the Technical Review Committee and/or the Building Department, Engineering
Department, Fire Department, Police Department, Department of Public Works,
County Surveyor’s office, Utility Departments and other applicable agencies
will be notified of the proposed development plan and asked to review and
comment. The Zoning Administrator may submit a written report to the Plan
Commission stating any facts concerning the physical characteristics of the
area involved in the development plan, the surrounding land use, public
facilities available to service the area or other pertinent facts. The written
report may also contain opinions of the Zoning Administrator concerning the
development plan and information from the Technical Review Committee and/or
other agencies that have reviewed the development plan. A copy of such report
shall be made available to the applicant and all remonstrators.
      (3)   Public notice. The following public notice standards apply to an
application for development plan approval. All costs associated with providing
public notice shall be borne by the applicant.
         (a)   The Zoning Administrator shall notify all interested parties of
the public hearing by regular U.S. mail a minimum of ten days before the public
hearing.
         (b)   The Zoning Administrator shall publish legal notice in a
newspaper of general circulation a minimum of ten days before the public
hearing.
         (c)   The Zoning Administrator shall be responsible for providing
proof of published notice to the Plan Commission and including proof in the
case file.
      (4)   Attendance. The applicant shall be present at the Plan Commission
meeting to explain the proposed development plan and address and discuss
comments and concerns posed by the Plan Commission. Failure to appear may
result in the dismissal of the application for a development plan.
      (5)   Public hearing. A public hearing shall be held in accordance with
the Plan Commission rules of procedure.
      (6)   Review. At their regularly scheduled public meeting, the Plan
Commission shall review:
         (a)   The application for development plan approval;
         (b)   All supporting information including the site plan, site access
and circulation plan, elevations and the like;
         (c)   The testimony of the applicant;
         (d)   Information presented in writing or verbally by the Zoning
Administrator, the Technical Review Committee or other applicable department or
agency;
         (e)   Input from the public during the public hearing;
         (f)   Any applicable provisions of this chapter;
         (g)   Any applicable requirements of the city’s construction
standards; and
         (h)   Any other information as may be required by the Plan Commission
to evaluate the application.
      (7)   Decision. The Plan Commission shall make findings of fact and take
final action or continue the application for development plan approval to a
defined future meeting date.
         (a)   Findings of fact. The Plan Commission shall make the following
findings of fact. Approval of findings may be in the form of a general
statement. Disapproval of findings shall specify the portion of this chapter or
city’s construction standards with which there is not compliance:
            1.   The development plan is consistent with the city’s
Comprehensive Plan;
            2.   The development plan satisfies the development requirements of
§§
165.085 through
165.108;
            3.   The development plan satisfies the standards of §§
165.260 through
165.294,
165.305 through
165.312,
165.325 through
165.332 and
165.345 through
165.353;
            4.   The development plan satisfies any other applicable provisions
of this chapter; and
            5.   The development plan satisfies the construction requirements
of the city’s construction standards.
         (b)   Final action. Based on the findings of fact, the Plan Commission
shall approve, approve with conditions or deny the application for development
plan approval.
         (c)   Signed. The findings of fact and final action shall be signed by
the President of the Plan Commission.
         (d)   Copies. The Zoning Administrator shall provide the applicant a
copy of the decision.
   (E)   Duration. An approved development plan shall be valid for two years
from the date the Plan Commission granted approval. The Zoning Administrator
may grant one six-month extension for cause. The applicant shall submit the
request for extension in writing, and the Zoning Administrator shall make a
written determination regarding the decision. Both the request and the
determination shall be made part of the development plan record. If development
of the project has not begun by the end of the two-year period (or by the end
of the six-month extension), the approval expires and a new application for
development plan approval shall be submitted.
   (F)   Modification.
      (1)   Minor amendments. Minor amendments to approved development plans
which do not involve an increase in height, area, bulk or intensity of land
uses; the designation of additional land uses; a reduction in yards; the
addition of driveways or access points; or a reduction in the amount of parking
may be authorized by the Zoning Administrator without a public hearing, if the
requested minor amendments do not adversely impact the purpose or intent of the
overall development. Minor amendments authorized by the Zoning Administrator
shall be reported, in writing, to the Plan Commission at the next regular
meeting of the Plan Commission.
      (2)   Major amendments. If the Zoning Administrator determines that the
proposed modification may adversely impact the purpose or intent of the overall
development; or if the proposed modification includes an increase in intensity
of any land use; or if the proposed modification includes the designation of an
additional land use, the applicant shall be required to file a new application
for development plan approval.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 9.08)
§ 165.463 SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. A special exception use is a use for which certain
conditions must be met before it can be established at a specific location. The
use shall be permitted by the Board of Zoning Appeals if certain conditions are
met.
   (B)   Project applicability. Only uses listed as “special exceptions” in the
layouts in §§
165.085 through
165.108 shall be considered for approval by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   (C)   Prerequisites. An application for a special exception shall be filed
by the owner, the owner’s agent or any person having a legal or equitable
interest in the subject property, but the written authorization of any owner
who is not an applicant shall be required.
   (D)   Filing requirements.
      (1)   Application. An application for a special exception shall be made
on forms provided by the Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   Supporting information. The following items shall accompany a
completed application for a special exception:
         (a)   A list of names and mailing addresses of all known adjacent
property owners. The measurement shall include any adjacent property regardless
if a road, river, railroad or other physical barrier exists. This information
may be obtained from the County Auditor’s office;
         (b)   A site plan, drawn to scale, that includes the following
information.
            1.   North arrow;
            2.   Graphic scale;
            3.   Address of the site;
            4.   Legal description of the site;
            5.   Boundary lines of the site including all dimensions;
            6.   Names, centerlines and right-of-way widths of all streets,
alleys and easements;
            7.   Location and dimensions of all existing and proposed
structures, including paved areas and signs;
            8.   Location of all floodway, floodway fringe areas and wetlands
within the boundaries of the site;
            9.   Distance of all structures from front, rear and side lot
lines;
            10.   Areas reserved for park, recreation, conservation, wetland,
common area, lake, trails or other similar uses;
            11.   Proposed landscaping buffers or landscaped areas; and
            12.   Any other information necessary to support a thorough review
of the project and as requested in writing by the Board of Zoning Appeals or
the Zoning Administrator. This may include the supporting information listed in
§
165.487(D)(2)(i) for projects within the APO District.
      (3)   Deadline. An application for a special exception shall be filed at
least 28 days prior to the public meeting at which it is first to be considered
by the Board of Zoning Appeals; and
      (4)   Fees. Applicable fees shall be paid at the time the application for
a special exception is filed.
   (E)   Formal procedure.
      (1)   Assignment. An application for a special exception, which is
determined to be complete and in proper form by the Zoning Administrator, shall
be assigned a case number and placed on the first Board of Zoning Appeals
agenda that occurs 28 days after the application for a special exception was
submitted in its entirety. The Zoning Administrator shall notify the applicant
in writing of the meeting date.
      (2)   Internal review. Upon assignment of a number and hearing date, the
Zoning Administrator may ask applicable departments to review and comment. The
Zoning Administrator may submit a written report to the Board of Zoning Appeals
stating any facts concerning the physical characteristics of the area involved,
the surrounding land use, public facilities available to service the area or
other pertinent facts. The written report may also contain opinions of the
Zoning Administrator concerning the application for a special exception and/or
information from other departments that have reviewed the application for a
special exception. A copy of such report shall be made available to the
applicant and all remonstrators.
      (3)   Public notice. The following public notice standards apply to an
application for a special exception. All costs associated with providing public
notice shall be borne by the applicant.
         (a)   The Zoning Administrator shall notify all interested parties of
the public hearing by regular U.S. mail a minimum of ten days before the public
hearing.
         (b)   The Zoning Administrator shall publish legal notice in a
newspaper of general circulation a minimum of ten days before the public
hearing.
         (c)   The Zoning Administrator shall be responsible for providing
proof of published notice to the Plan Commission and including proof in the
case file.
      (4)   Attendance. The applicant shall be present at the Board of Zoning
Appeals meeting to explain the proposed special exception and address and
discuss comments and concerns posed by the Board of Zoning Appeals. Failure to
appear may result in the dismissal of the application for a special exception.
      (5)   Public hearing. A public hearing shall be held in accordance with
the Board of Zoning Appeals rules of procedure.
      (6)   Review. At their regularly scheduled public meeting, the Board of
Zoning Appeals shall review:
         (a)   The application for a special exception;
         (b)   Supporting information;
         (c)   Presentation by the applicant;
         (d)   Information presented in writing or verbally by the Zoning
Administrator or other applicable department or agency;
         (e)   Input from the public during the public hearing;
         (f)   Applicable provisions of this chapter; and
         (g)   The Board of Zoning Appeals may take into consideration the
following items as they relate to the proposed use:
            1.   Topography and other natural site features;
            2.   Zoning of the site and surrounding properties;
            3.   Driveway locations, street access and vehicular and pedestrian
traffic;
            4.   Parking amount, location, design;
            5.   Landscaping, screening, buffering;
            6.   Open space and other site amenities;
            7.   Noise production and hours of operation;
            8.   Design, placement, architecture and material of the structure;
            9.   Placement, design, intensity, height and shielding of lights;
            10.   Traffic generation; and
            11.   General site layout as it relates to its surroundings.
      (7)   Decision. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall make findings of fact
and take final action or continue the application for a special exception to a
defined future meeting date.
         (a)   Findings of fact. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall make the
following findings of fact. Approval of findings may be in the form of a
general statement. Disapproval of findings shall specify the reason for non-
compliance.
            1.   The proposed special exception is consistent with the purpose
of the zoning district and the city’s Comprehensive Plan;
            2.   The proposed special exception will not be injurious to the
public health, safety, morals and general welfare of the community;
            3.   The proposed special exception is in harmony with all adjacent
land uses.
            4.   The proposed special exception will not alter the character of
the district; and
            5.   The proposed special exception will not substantially impact
property value in an adverse manner.
         (b)   Final action.
            1.   If the Board of Zoning Appeals finds all of the findings of
fact in the affirmative, it shall approve or approve with conditions and/or
commitments the application for a special exception.
            2.   If the Board of Zoning Appeals does not find all of the
findings of fact in the affirmative, it shall deny the application for a
special exception.
         (c)   Commitments and conditions.
            1.   Commitments. The Board of Zoning Appeals may require the owner
to make a written commitment. Commitments shall be recorded in the office of
the County Recorder. A recorded commitment is binding on the owner of the land,
any subsequent owner of the land, and any person who acquires interested in the
land.
            2.   Conditions. The Board of Zoning Appeals may require certain
conditions for approval.
   (F)   Duration. The granting of a special exception authorizes the use to
run with the land unless conditions to the contrary are placed on the approval.
If construction of structures or occupancy of existing structures has not
commenced within two years of the date the special exception was granted by the
Board of Zoning Appeals, the approval shall be null and void.
   (G)   Modification. If the Zoning Administrator determines a proposed
modification or intensification represents an alteration in the essential
character of the original special exception use as approved by the Board of
Zoning Appeals, a new approval of the special exception use shall be required.
The operator of the special exception use shall provide the Zoning
Administrator with all the necessary information to render this determination.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 9.13)
§ 165.464 SUBDIVISION OF LAND; PRIMARY PLAT.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. A primary plat shall provide the Plan Commission
with the opportunity to review the details of a subdivision of land to
determine compliance with the provisions of this chapter. A primary plat shall
also ensure the statutory requirements established in the Indiana Code for the
subdivision of land are met.
   (B)   Project applicability. A primary plat shall be prepared in conjunction
with any proposal to subdivide or plat property within the jurisdictional area
of the Plan Commission.
      (1)   Applicable districts. The subdivision of land shall be permitted in
all zoning districts.
      (2)   Replats. A replat shall consist of two processes. First, the plat
or the portion of the plat shall be vacated in accordance with I.C. 36-7-3-10
and I.C. 36-7-3-11. Then, the property shall be platted using the primary plat
process in this section and the secondary plat process in §
165.465 (Subdivision of Land; Secondary Plat).
      (3)   Exemptions. Condominiums regulated by I.C. 32-25 are exempt from
this subdivision process outlined in this chapter.
   (C)   Prerequisites.
      (1)   Eligible applicants. An application for primary plat shall be
initiated by the owner of the land involved in the development or the owner’s
authorized agent. If an authorized agent files an application, a signed and
notarized consent form from the owner shall accompany the application.
      (2)   Pre-application meeting. Prior to submitting an application for
primary plat, the applicant shall meet with the Zoning Administrator to review
the zoning classification of the site, review regulatory ordinances and
materials, review the procedures and examine the proposed use and development
of the site.
   (D)   Elective concept plan. The petitioner may elect to seek tentative
review by the Plan Commission. The petitioner shall prepare a conceptual plan
of the proposed development including:
      (1)   Minimum submittal requirements.
         (a)   Lot layout. Generally layout of lots;
         (b)   Drainage. Generally how drainage will be handled;
         (c)   Product. General description of the product intended to be built
on the lots; and
         (d)   Design features. General description of the development’s
features.
      (2)   Plan Commission meeting.
         (a)   Submittal deadline. The required quantities of the application
and supporting information shall be submitted at least 28 days prior to a Plan
Commission or Plat Committee to be considered for that meeting. Depending on
the review time necessary, a primary plat application may be placed on a later
Plan Commission or Plat Committee agenda.
         (b)   Notice. A concept plan shall not require notice or a public
hearing.
         (c)   Plan Commission review. The Plan Commission shall hear a
presentation of the material from the petitioner, answer questions and hear
comments in regard to the concept plan.
         (d)   Plan Commission action. The Plan Commission shall give final
feedback to the petitioner which shall not constitute a legal action.
   (E)   Filing requirements.
      (1)   Application. An application for primary plat shall be made on forms
provided by the Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   Supporting information. The following supporting information shall
accompany a completed application for primary plat:
         (a)   List. A list of names and mailing addresses of all known
adjacent property owners. The measurement shall include any adjacent property
regardless if a road, river, railroad or other physical barrier exists. This
information may be obtained from the County Auditor’s office;
         (b)   Site plan, drawn to scale. A site plan, drawn to a scale, that
includes the following items:
            1.   North arrow;
            2.   Graphic scale;
            3.   Proposed address for each lot;
            4.   Proposed name of the subdivision;
            5.   Area map insert showing the general location of the site
referenced to major streets;
            6.   Legal description of the site;
            7.   Boundary lines of the site including all dimensions of the
site;
            8.   Names, centerlines and right-of-way widths of all streets,
alleys and easements;
            9.   Layout, number, dimension, area, building setback lines on all
lots;
            10.   Location and dimensions of any existing structures;
            11.   Location of all floodway, floodway fringe areas and wetlands
within the boundaries of the site;
            12.   Areas reserved for park, recreation, conservation, wetland,
common area, lake, trails or other similar uses;
            13.   Proposed perimeter landscaping areas;
            14.   Proposed entryway feature signs;
            15.   Stamp of registered professional engineer or registered land
surveyor; and
            16.   Any other information necessary to support a thorough review
of the project and as requested in writing by the Plan Commission or the Zoning
Administrator. This may include the supporting information listed in §
165.487(D)(2)(i) for projects within the APO District.
         (c)   Representative building elevations. Representative building
elevations for each facade of primary structures including the following
information may be requested by the Zoning Administrator.
            1.   Permitted building materials to be used for wall, window, roof
and other architectural features;
            2.   Placement, size, color and illumination details for any
proposed wall sign; and
            3.   Any other information necessary to support a thorough review
of the project and as requested in writing by the Plan Commission or the Zoning
Administrator.
         (d)   Site access and circulation plan. A site access and circulation
plan shall be required, but may be incorporated into the required site plan or
may be submitted as a separate plan. It shall be drawn to scale and shall
include the following items:
            1.   North arrow;
            2.   Graphic scale;
            3.   Proposed name of the subdivision;
            4.   Names, centerlines and right- of-way widths of all existing
and proposed streets, alleys and easements within 100 feet of the site;
            5.   All improvements to the street system on-site and off-site;
            6.   Measurement of curb radius and/or flares;
            7.   Location of proposed and existing sidewalk and sidepaths;
            8.   Location and details of all proposed wayfinding signs and
traffic signs; and
            9.   Any other information necessary to support a thorough review
of the project and as requested in writing by the Plan Commission or the Zoning
Administrator.
         (e)   Utility plan, drawn to scale. A utility plan, drawn to scale,
including the following items:
            1.   Location of all existing and proposed utility easements;
            2.   Location and size of all existing and proposed utility
components including, but not limited to, sanitary sewer components, water
components, storm water components, electric, gas, telephone and cable;
            3.   Location and illumination capacity of all street lights;
            4.   Names of legal ditches and streams in or adjacent to the site;
            5.   Contours sufficient to illustrate storm water runoff;
            6.   Storm water drainage plan including estimated runoff; and
            7.   Any other information necessary to support a thorough review
of the project and as requested in writing by the Plan Commission or the Zoning
Administrator.
         (f)   Traffic impact study.
            1.   A traffic impact study shall be required when a proposed
development meets or exceeds the warrants of the State Department of
Transportation Traffic Impact Study Guidelines (150 or more dwelling units;
15,000 square feet or more of retail space; 35,000 or more square feet of
office space; 70,000 square feet or more square feet of industrial space
outside of the Midwest or any future city-owned industrial park; 30,000 square
feet or more of educational space; 120 or more occupied rooms; 46,000 or more
square feet of medical space; or any mixed-use development which generates 100
or more peak hour trips in the peak direction).
            2.   A registered professional engineer shall prepare and certify
the traffic impact study. The traffic impact study shall evaluate the impact of
present and future traffic generated by the proposed development on the
adjacent roadway system. Prior to commencement, the applicant shall meet with
the Zoning Administrator and City Engineer to determine an appropriate scope
for the traffic impact study.
         (g)   Statement of development build-out. The applicant shall
indicate, either on the required site plan or in writing, a statement of:
            1.   The order of development of the major infrastructure elements
of the project;
            2.   Future section boundaries, if any;
            3.   The order and content of each section; and
            4.   An estimate of the timeframe for build-out of each section.
         (h)   Landscape plan. The applicant shall indicate, either on the
required site plan or on a separate landscape plan, existing and proposed
perimeter landscaping and other landscaping that meet or exceeds the standards
detailed in §
165.399 (Perimeter Landscaping Standards).
         (i)   Restrictive covenants. The applicant shall provide a copy of the
restrictive covenants that will apply to each lot within the subdivision.
Required deed restrictions, non-petition clauses, non-remonstration clauses,
conditions of approval and/or developer commitments shall be included in the
restrictive covenant or in a separate legal document which will apply to each
lot and be recorded. Any required restriction, clause, condition or commitment
shall be clearly written to not be amendable by the owner or owners’
association and that the only means for removing or modifying the required
restriction, clause, condition or commitment is through a plat vacation or
replat process.
         (j)   Requested waivers.
            1.   Lot establishment. Requirements within lot establishment
standards may be waived to allow for more creative design, but accessibility
shall not be compromised;
            2.   Open space. Requirements within §
165.396 (Open Space Standards) may be reduced by as much as 50%.
            3.   Perimeter landscaping. Requirements within §
165.399 (Perimeter Landscaping Standards) may be reduced as much as 50%.
            4.   Street lighting. Requirements within the applicable street
lighting standards in §§
165.385 through
165.401 and
165.415 through
165.424 may be waived if outside the corporate limits and within the two mile
fringe.
      (3)   Deadline. The required quantities of the application and supporting
information shall be submitted at least 28 days prior to a Plan Commission or
Plat Committee to be considered for that meeting. Depending on the review time
necessary, a primary plat application may be placed on a later Plan Commission
or Plat Committee agenda.
      (4)   Fees. Applicable fees shall be paid at the time the application for
primary plat is filed.
   (F)   Formal procedure.
      (1)   Assignment. An application for primary plat, which is determined to
be complete and in proper form by the Zoning Administrator, may be on the first
Plan Commission or Plat Committee agenda that occurs 28 days after the
application for primary plat is submitted in its entirety. The application for
primary plat may be placed on a later Plan Commission or Plat Committee agenda
if the review time necessitates more time. The Zoning Administrator shall
notify the applicant by telephone or in writing of the meeting date. The Zoning
Administrator shall then decide to:
         (a)   Assign the primary plat to the Plat Committee for review; or
         (b)   Assign the primary plat to the Plan Commission for review.
      (2)   Internal review. Upon assignment of a case number and hearing date,
the Technical Review Committee and/or the Building Department, Engineering
Department, Fire Department, Police Department, Department of Public Works,
County Surveyor’s office, Utility Departments and other applicable agencies
will be notified of the proposed subdivision of land and asked to review and
comment. The Zoning Administrator may submit a written report to the Plan
Commission stating any facts concerning the physical characteristics of the
area involved in the subdivision of land, the surrounding land use, public
facilities available to service the area, or other pertinent facts. The written
report may also contain opinions of the Zoning Administrator concerning the
subdivision of land and information from the Technical Review Committee and/or
other agencies that have reviewed the subdivision of land. A copy of such
report shall be made available to the applicant and all remonstrators.
   (G)   Plan Commission review.
      (1)   Required quantities of application and supporting information.
Thirteen hard copies of the application for primary plat; 13 hard copies of all
supporting information; one digital copy of the application for primary plat
and all supporting information in .pdf (portable document format); and one
digital copy of any drawings in .dwg file format shall be submitted.
      (2)   Public notice. The following public notice standards apply to an
application for primary plat. All costs associated with providing public notice
shall be borne by the applicant.
         (a)   The Zoning Administrator shall notify all interested parties of
the public hearing by regular U.S. mail a minimum of ten days before the public
hearing.
         (b)   The Zoning Administrator shall publish legal notice in a
newspaper of general circulation a minimum of ten days before the public
hearing.
         (c)   The Zoning Administrator shall be responsible for providing
proof of published notice to the Plan Commission and including proof in the
case file.
      (3)   Attendance. The applicant shall be present at the Plan Commission
meeting to explain the proposed primary plat and address and discuss comments
and concerns posed by the Plan Commission. Failure to appear may result in the
dismissal of the application for a primary plat.
      (4)   Public hearing. A public hearing shall be held in accordance with
the Plan Commission rules of procedure.
      (5)   Review. At their regularly scheduled public meeting, the Plan
Commission shall review:
         (a)   The application for primary plat;
         (b)   All supporting information including the site plan, site access
and circulation plan, elevations and the like;
         (c)   The testimony of the applicant;
         (d)   Information presented in writing or verbally by the Zoning
Administrator, the Technical Review Committee or other applicable department;
         (e)   Input from the public during the public hearing;
         (f)   Any applicable provisions of this chapter;
         (g)   Any applicable requirements of the city’s construction
standards; and
         (h)   Any other information as may be required by the Plan Commission
to evaluate the application.
      (6)   Decision.
         (a)   Action. The Plan Commission shall make findings of fact and take
final action or continue the application for primary plat to a defined future
meeting date.
         (b)   Findings of fact. The Plan Commission shall make the following
findings of fact. Approval of findings may be in the form of a general
statement. Disapproval of findings shall specify the provision of this chapter
or city’s construction standards with which there is not compliance or the
manner in which the project is not consistent with the city’s Comprehensive
Plan:
            1.   The subdivision of land is consistent with the city’s
Comprehensive Plan;
            2.   The subdivision of land satisfies the development requirements
of §§
165.365 through
165.374;
            3.   The subdivision of land satisfies the standards of §§
165.385 through
165.401 and
165.415 through
165.424;
            3.   The subdivision of land satisfies any other applicable
provisions of this chapter; and
            5.   The subdivision of land satisfies the construction
requirements of the city’s construction standards.
         (c)   Final action.
            1.   If the Plan Commission finds all of the findings of fact in
the affirmative, it shall approve or approve with commitments the application
for primary plat.
            2.   If the Plan Commission does not find all of the findings of
fact in the affirmative, it shall deny the application for primary plat.
         (d)   Commitments. The Plan Commission may require the applicant to
make a written commitment concerning the primary plat. Any written commitments
shall be recorded in the office of the County Recorder within 90 days of the
Plan Commission’s final action.
         (e)   Findings. The findings, final action and any conditions shall be
signed by the President of the Plan Commission.
         (f)   Copy of decision. The Zoning Administrator shall provide the
applicant a copy of the decision.
   (H)   Plat Committee review.
      (1)   Required quantities of application and supporting information.
Thirteen hard copies of the application for primary plat; 13 hard copies of all
supporting information; one digital copy of the application for primary plat
and all supporting information in .pdf (portable document format); and one
digital copy of any drawings in .dwg file format shall be submitted.
      (2)   Jurisdiction. The Plat Committee may grant primary plat or primary
plat amendment approval to a subdivision of land that:
         (a)   Does not involve opening more than 1,000 feet of a new public
way;
         (b)   Does not include a waivers application;
         (c)   Complies in all other respects with the subdivision regulations;
         (d)   Complies in all other respects with the remainder of this
chapter; and
         (e)   Does not result in more than three lots.
      (3)   Attendance. The applicant shall be present at the Plat Committee
meeting to explain the proposed primary plat and address and discuss comments
and concerns posed by the Plat Committee. Failure to appear may result in the
dismissal of the application for a primary plat.
      (4)   Public hearing. A public hearing before the Plat Committee is not
required.
      (5)   Review. At a regularly scheduled meeting, the Plat Committee shall
review:
         (a)   The written statement and supporting material submitted by the
petitioner;
         (b)   The primary plat;
         (c)   Any commitments or conditions of approval attendant to prior
approvals;
         (d)   The testimony of the petitioner;
         (e)   Relevant evidence presented by other persons;
         (f)   The city’s Comprehensive Plan;
         (g)   The applicable standards of this chapter;
         (h)   The applicable engineering standards;
         (i)   All information presented by the members of the Technical Review
Committee or by city departments;
         (j)   The Zoning Administrator report; and
         (k)   Such other additional information as may be required by the Plat
Committee to evaluate the petition.
      (6)   Decision. The Plat Committee shall:
         (a)   Approve the petition;
         (b)   Approve the petition with conditions of approval and/or
commitments;
         (c)   Deny the petition;
         (d)   Forward the petition to the Plan Commission for consideration;
or
         (e)   Continue the petition to a determined future meeting date.
      (7)   Findings of fact. The Plat Committee shall make the following
findings of fact. Approval of findings may be in the form of a general
statement. Disapproval of findings shall specify the provision of this chapter
or city’s construction standards with which there is not compliance or the
manner in which the project is not consistent with the city’s Comprehensive
Plan:
            1.   The subdivision of land is consistent with the city’s
Comprehensive Plan;
            2.   The subdivision of land satisfies the development requirements
of §§
165.365 through
165.374;
            3.   The subdivision of land satisfies the standards of §§
165.385 through
165.401 and
165.415 through
165.424;
            4.   The subdivision of land satisfies any other applicable
provisions of this chapter; and
            5.   The subdivision of land satisfies the construction
requirements of the city’s construction standards.
      (8)   Commitments.
         (a)   Acceptance. In conjunction with the approval of a primary plat,
the Plat Committee may permit or require the petitioner to make written
commitments concerning the use or development of the lot. The details of these
commitments shall be clearly denoted, with the intent that the petitioner will
prepare them in written form for signature.
         (b)   Form. The petitioner shall prepare the commitment instrument in
a form approved by the County Attorney. Once in the proper form, the petitioner
and the Chair of the Plat Committee shall sign the commitment instrument.
         (c)   Recording. The petitioner shall record the commitment instrument
in the County Recorder’s office within 30 days of the approval of the primary
plat. The petitioner shall deliver a copy of the recorded commitment instrument
to the Zoning Administrator before secondary plat approval is granted.
         (d)   Modification or termination. The Plat Committee shall not modify
or terminate any commitment. A commitment under this section shall be modified
or terminated only by a decision of the Plan Commission made at a public
hearing and after proper notice.
         (e)   Enforcement. Any commitment shall be enforced as if it were a
development standard of this chapter.
      (9)   Conditions of approval. In conjunction with the approval of a
primary plat, the Plat Committee may impose reasonable conditions of approval
concerning the use or development of the lot that will, in its judgment,
substantially secure the objectives of the design standards.
         (a)   Form. The Zoning Administrator shall prepare the conditions of
approval instrument in a form approved by the City Attorney. The Chair of the
Plat Committee shall sign the conditions of approval instrument.
         (b)   Recording. The petitioner shall record the conditions of
approval instrument in the County Recorder’s office within 30 days of the
approval of the primary plat. The petitioner shall deliver a copy of the
recorded conditions of approval instrument to the Zoning Administrator within
30 days of recording.
         (c)   Modification or termination. The Plat Committee shall not modify
or terminate any condition of approval. A condition of approval imposed under
this section shall be modified or terminated only by a decision of the Plan
Commission made at a public hearing and after proper notice.
         (d)   Enforcement. Any condition of approval shall be enforced as if
it were a development standard of this chapter.
      (10)   Revisions. Following Plat Committee approval, the petitioner shall
submit revised copies of the plans that address the comments and concerns of
the Plat Committee. The petitioner shall refer to the application packet to
determine the format and number of copies of the revised plans to deliver to
the Zoning Administrator.
      (11)   Public notice and right to appeal. Within ten days after primary
plat approval by the Plat Committee, the Zoning Administrator shall provide for
due notice to interested parties of the Plat Committee’s approval and of their
right to appeal to the Plan Commission. The notice shall be given in the
following manner.
         (a)   Published. The Zoning Administrator shall be responsible for
publishing a legal notice.
         (b)   Mailed. The Zoning Administrator shall be responsible for
mailing notice via first class mail.
      (12)   Notice of appeal. An interested party may appeal the Plat
Committee approval to the Plan Commission by filing a notice of appeal with the
Zoning Administrator not more than ten days after the Zoning Administrator has
mailed a copy of the Plat Committee’s action to the interested party.
   (I)   Duration. An approved primary plat shall be valid for two years from
the date the Plan Commission or Plat Committee granted approval. The Zoning
Administrator may grant one six-month extension.
   (J)   Modification.
      (1)   Minor amendments. Minor amendment to an approved primary plat which
does not involve an increase in the number of lots or intensity of land uses;
the designation of additional land uses; the reduction in perimeter yards;
changes to circulation; the addition of driveways or access points; or
reduction in the amount of parking may be authorized by the Zoning
Administrator without a public hearing, if the requested minor amendments do
not adversely impact the purpose or intent of the overall development. An
example of a minor amendment could be the relocation of an easement. A minor
amendment authorized by the Zoning Administrator shall be reported, in writing,
to the Plan Commission at the next regular meeting of the Plan Commission.
      (2)   Major amendments. If the Zoning Administrator or City Engineer
determines that the proposed modification may adversely impact the purpose or
intent of the overall development; or if the proposed modification includes an
increase in the number of lots, or intensity of any land use; or if the
proposed modification includes the designation of an additional land use, the
applicant shall be required to file a new application for primary plat.
   (K)   Pre-construction meeting. The petitioner shall provide construction
plans at least two weeks prior to the pre-construction meeting. The petitioner
shall meet with the Zoning Administrator, Sanitary Department, utility
providers and city engineering representatives in a meeting to address
construction coordination and anything not addressed by the Plan Commission.
   (L)   Construction plan standards. Construction plans shall be prepared for
all required improvements. Plans shall be drawn at a scale of no less than inch
equals 50 feet, and map sheets shall be of the same size as the subdivision
plat. The following shall be shown:
      (1)   Street elevations. Profiles showing existing and proposed
elevations along centerlines of all streets. Where a proposed street intersects
an existing street or streets, the elevation along the centerline of the
existing street or streets within 100 feet of the intersection, shall be shown.
Radii of all curves, lengths of tangents and central angles on all streets
shall also be shown;
      (2)   Steep slopes. The Plan Commission or Plat Committee may require,
where steep slopes exist, that cross-sections of all proposed streets shall be
shown at not more than 100-foot sections at seven points as follows: on a line
at right angles to the centerline of the street, and said elevation points
shall be at the centerline of the street, at each gutter line of the street,
each property line and points 25 feet inside each property line;
      (3)   Plans and profiles. Plans and profiles showing the locations and
typical cross-section of street pavements including curbs and gutters,
sidewalks, drainage easements, servitudes, rights-of- way, manholes and catch
basins; the locations of street trees and street signs; the location, size and
invert elevations of existing and proposed sanitary sewers and storm-water
drains, showing connection to any existing or proposed utility systems; and
exact location and size of all water, gas or other underground utilities or
structures;
      (4)   Facilities or utilities. Location, size, elevation and other
appropriate description of any existing facilities or utilities, including, but
not limited to, existing streets, sewers, drains, water mains, easements, water
bodies, streams and other pertinent features such as swamps, railroads,
buildings, features noted on the public development plan, at the point of
connection to proposed facilities and utilities within the subdivision. The
water elevation of adjoining lakes or streams at the date of the survey, and
the approximate high- and low-water elevations of such lakes or streams. All
elevations shall be referred to the U.S.G.S. datum plane. If the subdivision
borders a lake, river or stream, the distances and bearings of a meander line
established not less than 20 feet back from the ordinary high-water mark of
such waterways;
      (5)   Topography. Topography at the same scale as the subdivision plat
with a contour interval of one foot for areas up to a 5% grade and two feet for
areas over 5% grade, referred to sea level datum. All datum provided shall be
the latest applicable U.S.G.S. datum and should be so noted on the plat;
      (6)   Specifications and references. All specifications and references
required by the city’s construction standards and specifications, including a
site-grading plan for the entire subdivision;
      (7)   Surveyor/engineer contact information. Title, name, address and
signature of professional engineer and/or surveyor, and date, including
revision dates;
      (8)   Certification. Certification by the land surveyor and/or
professional engineer who prepared the construction plans that all requirements
of this chapter have been duly considered and said requirements have been
fulfilled or so noted by a written notice of deviation as to the nature of the
deviation along with a clear and rational explanation as to why said deviation
should be granted and certification by a land surveyor and/or engineer that he
or she will make periodic inspections of the construction of all improvements
which will become a part of the public right-of-way and all improvements on
easements that may be required by this chapter to make the subdivision
functionally complete;
      (9)   Health Department approval. Written evidence of approval by the
city’s Sanitary District or County Health Department or the State Board of
Health of the proposed means of sewage disposal; and
      (10)   Flood hazard areas. All subdivision plats containing lands
identified, in this chapter, as flood hazard areas shall have the elevation of
the 100-year flood listed and shown thereon.
   (M)   Drainage sign-off. Prior to building streets, the drainage approval
letter shall be obtained from the City Engineer.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 9.14)
§ 165.465 SUBDIVISION OF LAND; SECONDARY PLAT.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The secondary plat shall clearly define all
construction matters and special conditions such as construction techniques,
materials and the like, as well as prepare the plans and documents for
recording.
   (B)   Project applicability. Proposals for new subdivisions of land shall
meet the standards of this section.
   (C)   Prerequisites.
      (1)   Primary plat. The application for primary plat shall be approved by
the Plan Commission prior to submitting a secondary plat. If the primary plat
approval included commitments, those commitments shall be recorded in the
office of the County Recorder.
      (2)   Infrastructure. A subdivision that is the subject of a secondary
plat shall have all of the infrastructure improvements proposed in the primary
plat installed to meet the city’s construction standards, or the applicant
shall have posted a performance bond for the cost of the infrastructure
improvements that complies with §
165.423 (Surety Standards).
   (D)   General. The secondary plat shall be presented in India ink on tracing
cloth or reproducible Mylar at a scale of either one inch equals 50 feet or one
inch equals 100 feet and contain the same information, except for any changes
or additions required by the Plan Commission or Plat Committee shown on the
plat submitted for primary approval. The plat submitted for primary approval
may be used as the secondary plat if it meets these requirements and is revised
in accordance with Plan Commission or Plat Committee’s requirements. All
revision dates shall be shown as well as the following.
      (1)   Registered land surveyor certificate. Each secondary plat submitted
to the Commission or Committee for approval shall carry a certificate signed by
a registered land surveyor in substantially the following form:
 
I (Name), hereby certify that I am a professional land surveyor, licensed in
compliance with the laws of the State of Indiana; that this plat correctly
represents a survey completed by me on (Date); that all the monuments shown
thereon shall be set as shown/or actually exist; and that their location, size,
type and material are accurately shown.
(SEAL)
________________
(Signature Line)
 
      (2)   Deed of dedication certificate. Each secondary plat submitted to
the Commission or Committee for approval shall carry a deed of dedication in
substantially the following form:
 
   We, the undersigned, being all the owners and lienholders of the real estate
shown and described herein, do hereby certify that we hereby lay off, plat and
subdivide, said real estate in accordance with the within plat.
   This subdivision shall be known and designated as (Name), (Name), an addition
to (Name). All streets and alleys shown and not heretofore dedicated, are hereby
dedicated to the public free and clear of all liens and encumbrances.
   Front yard building setback lines are hereby established as shown on this plat,
between which lines and the property lines of the street, there shall be erected
or maintained no building or structure.
   Easements for installation and maintenance of utilities and drainage facilities
are reserved as shown on the recorded plat. Within these easements, no structure,
planting or other material shall be placed or permitted to remain which may damage
or interfere with the installation and maintenance of utilities or which may
change the direction of flow of drainage channels in the easements or which may
obstruct or retard the flow of water through drainage channels in the easements.
The easement area of each lot and all improvements in it shall be maintained
continuously by the owner of the lot, except for those improvements for which a
public authority or utility is responsible.
Witness our Hands and Seals this [day] of [month], 20XX.
____________________
(Signature Line)
State of Indiana
County of Wayne
Before me, the undersigned Notary Public, in and for the County and State
personally appeared and separately and severally acknowledge the execution of the
foregoing instruments as his or her voluntary act and deed for the purpose therein
expressed.
 
Witness my hand and Notarial Seal this [day] of [month], 20XX.
 
      (3)   Covenant or deed restriction binder. The following shall be
attached for covenants or deed restrictions:
   The following covenants (or restrictions) are to run with the land and shall be
binding on all parties and all persons claiming under them until January 1,
   Invalidation of any one of the foregoing covenants (or restrictions) by
judgment or court order shall in no wise affect any of the other covenants (or
restrictions) which shall remain in full force and effect.
   The right to enforce these provisions by injunction, together with the right to
cause the removal by due process of law of any structure or part thereof erected
or maintained in violation hereof, is hereby dedicated to the public, and reserved
to the several owners of the several lots in this subdivision and to their heirs
and assigns.
   (Additional dedications and protective covenants or private restrictions would
be inserted here upon the subdivider’s initiative or the recommendation of the
Commission; important provisions are those specifying the use to be made of the
property and, in the case of residential use, the minimum habitable floor area.)
Witness our Hands and Seals this [day] of [month], 20XX.
__________________
(Signature Line)
State of Indiana
County of Wayne
Before me, the undersigned Notary Public, in and for the County and State
personally appeared and separately and severally acknowledge the execution of the
foregoing instruments as his or her voluntary act and deed for the purpose therein
expressed.
Witness my hand and Notarial Seal this [day] of [month], 20XX.
 
      (4)   Plan Commission (or Plat Committee) certificate. The following
shall be attached for certification by the Plan Commission or Plat Committee:
UNDER AUTHORITY PROVIDED BY I.C. 36-7-4-700 THROUGH 36-7-4-715 ENACTED BY THE
GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF THE STATE OF INDIANA, AND ALL ACTS AMENDATORY THEREOF, AND
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTED BY THE COMMON COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF RICHMOND, INDIANA,
THIS PLAT WAS GIVEN APPROVAL BY THE RICHMOND CITY PLAN COMMISSION/OR RICHMOND
PLAT COMMITTEE AS FOLLOWS:
Approved by the Richmond City Plan Commission/or Richmond City Plat Committee
at a meeting held [fill in location].
President
___________________
(Signature Line)
Executive Secretary
___________________
(Signature Line)
The following shall be attached for Transfer and Recording:
TRANSFER AND RECORDING
Duly entered for taxation this [day] of [month], 20XX.
Wayne County Auditor
___________________
(Signature Line)
Recorded this [day] of [month], 20XX.
Wayne County Recorder
___________________
(Signature Line)
 
      (5)   County Commissioner certificate. The following shall be attached
when the proposed subdivision is located in the unincorporated territorial
jurisdictional area of the city.
 
The Commissioners of Wayne County, Indiana, hereby certify that adequate surety
has been presented to guarantee the construction of the roadway and that the
roadway meets Wayne County standards and will be accepted into the Wayne County
roadway system when completed. Certified at a meeting of the Wayne County
Commissioners this [day] of [month], 20XX.
_______________________
(Commissioner Signature)
_______________________
(Commissioner Signature)
_______________________
(Commissioner Signature)
 
   (E)   Filing requirements.
      (1)   Application. The applicant shall submit a letter stating the status
of infrastructure improvements and requesting secondary plat. The original
application for primary plat should be on file with the Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   Supporting information. The following information shall accompany
the applicant’s letter requesting secondary plat:
         (a)   Plans showing the precise location of all installed
monumentation;
         (b)   Plans showing final dimensions for lots, rights-of-way and
easements;
         (c)   If infrastructure improvements are complete, the supporting
information shall include as-built drawings of each infrastructure system and
any required inspections or certifications by engineers or surveyors;
         (d)   If infrastructure improvements are not complete, the supporting
information shall included detailed descriptions and locations of
infrastructure to be installed, estimates from contractors for all
infrastructure improvements and a performance bond for the total amount of the
infrastructure improvements; and
         (e)   Any other information necessary to support a thorough review of
the project that is requested, in writing, by the Zoning Administrator or Plan
Commission.
      (3)   Deadline. Thirteen hard copies of the letter requesting secondary
plat; 13 hard copies of all supporting information; one digital copy of the
letter requesting secondary plat and all supporting information in .pdf
(portable document format); and one digital copy of any drawings in .dwg file
format shall be filed within two years of the approval of primary plat by the
Plan Commission.
      (4)   Fees. Applicable fees shall be paid at the time the request for
secondary plat is filed.
   (F)   Formal procedure.
      (1)   Assignment. The Zoning Administrator shall review the letter
requesting secondary plat and all supporting information. Based on the history
and the complexity of the project, the Zoning Administrator shall determine if
the secondary plat should be presented to the Plan Commission or Plat
Committee. Should the Zoning Administrator determine Plan Commission or Plat
Committee review is necessary, the Zoning Administrator shall assign the
secondary plat a case number and place it on the first Plan Commission or Plat
Committee agenda that occurs 28 days after the secondary plat was submitted in
its entirety. The Zoning Administrator shall notify the applicant in writing if
Plan Commission or Plat Committee review is necessary and the date of the
meeting, if applicable.
      (2)   Review. The Zoning Administrator shall provide the letter
requesting secondary plat, the supporting information and a comment sheet to
all applicable departments and agencies. Each department shall determine if the
infrastructure improvements installed or proposed to be installed meet the
city’s construction standards and if the improvements include adequate
connection to existing and future systems. If applicable, each department shall
also review applicable cost estimates for reasonableness. Each department shall
return the comment sheet with any comments or concerns concerning the
infrastructure or the project to the Zoning Administrator. If it has been
determined that Plan Commission review is required, the Zoning Administrator
shall forward the comment sheets to the Plan Commission for review at the
meeting.
      (3)   Public notice. Notice and public hearing shall not be required for
secondary plat.
      (4)   Review and decision. The Zoning Administrator shall, based on
comments from departments, approve, approve with conditions or deny the
secondary plat. In cases where the secondary plat is being heard by the Plan
Commission, the Plan Commission shall review the comments from departments at a
regularly scheduled public meeting and approve, approve with conditions, or
deny secondary plat.
   (G)   Duration. An approved secondary plat and any conditions shall be
recorded in the office of the County Recorder within one year of the date of
approval or become null and void.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 9.15)
§ 165.466 SUBDIVISION OF LAND; ADMINISTRATIVE.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. An administrative subdivision provides the city
with the opportunity to expedite adjustments to property lines and mergers of
existing lots into fewer lots when such adjustments are considered non-
impacting to the city or surrounding properties.
   (B)   Project applicability. An administrative subdivision can be used to
modify the division of property within the planning jurisdiction, but only if
the proposed modification meets the applicable districts, applicable actions
and prerequisites standards listed below. All other divisions of land or
alterations to property lines shall be processed as a primary plat.
      (1)   Applicable districts. An administrative subdivision of land shall
be permitted in the following zoning districts: PR; AG; RE; R1; R2; R3; TR; M1;
M2; M3; MP; IS; NC; UC; C1; C2; HC; EC; I1; I2; MS; RO; and HI.
      (2)   Applicable actions.
         (a)   Merging common ownership lots. The owner of two to five lots may
merge them together as fewer buildable lots when the resulting lot(s) do(es)
not create any new non-conformance or an escalation in non-conformance; and
when there is no increase in public service demand, change to streets or
increase in the size or use of utilities.
         (b)   Splitting a lot and merging its pieces with two or more adjacent
lots. Two or more owners adjacent to another lot may jointly purchase the lot,
divide it and merge the pieces with their buildable lot. If the lot is not
vacant, any primary structure would have to first be demolished and/or primary
use dissolved, prior to application for an administrative subdivision.
         (c)   Adjusting lot lines. The owners of contiguous properties
mutually agree to adjust a lot line separating their two properties due to
either a survey error or both owners mutually desiring the adjustment; as long
as the adjustment does not result in any new non-conformance or an escalation
in an existing non-conformance.
         (d)   Creating non-developable land for utilities and infrastructure.
A utility or municipality may process an acquisition or donation of land for
non-development purposes as an administrative subdivision.
   (C)   Prerequisites.
      (1)   Eligible applicant. An application for an administrative
subdivision shall be initiated by the owner(s) of all applicable lots or the
owner’s authorized agent. If an authorized agent files an application, a signed
and notarized consent form from the owner(s) shall accompany the application.
      (2)   Removing unnecessary driveway(s). Under the actions listed in
divisions (B)(2)(a) and (B)(2)(b) above, pre-existing driveway(s) established
for the dissolved lot(s) shall be vacated and removed, especially including the
apron within the right-of-way.
   (D)   Administrative subdivision filing requirements.
      (1)   Application. An application for an administrative subdivision shall
be made on forms provided by the Zoning Administrator;
      (2)   Supporting information. The following supporting information shall
accompany a completed application for an administrative subdivision. The Zoning
Administrator may waive in writing the submittal of unnecessary information
relative to the application:
         (a)   Legal description of all lots involved; and
         (b)   Address for each lot involved.
      (3)   Site plan. A site plan, drawn to a scale not less than one inch
equals 100 feet (one inch = 100 feet), that includes the following items:
         (a)   Name and address of the owner(s);
         (b)   North arrow and graphic scale;
         (c)   Adjacent streets, sidewalks and easements;
         (d)   Boundary lines of each lot including necessary lot dimensions;
         (e)   Proposed adjustments with lot dimensions, lot area and building
setback lines on the resulting lots;
         (f)   Footprint and dimensions of existing structures with
measurements to property lines pre and post adjustments;
         (g)   Stamp of registered professional engineer or surveyor; and
         (h)   Any other information necessary to support a thorough review of
the project as requested on the application form or from the Zoning
Administrator.
      (4)   Deadline. Not applicable;
      (5)   Submittal material. Two hard copies of the application for an
administrative subdivision; two hard copies of all supporting information; and
one digital copy of the application for an administrative subdivision and all
supporting information in .pdf (portable document format); and
      (6)   Fees. The applicable fee shall be paid at the time the application
for an administrative subdivision is filed. An application without the
appropriate application fee shall not be considered substantially complete.
Technical expertise necessary to review an administrative subdivision that the
city does not have adequate proficiency may constitute hiring a professional
consultant to conduct the review or portions thereof at the expense of the
applicant and as per the city’s fee schedule.
   (E)   Procedure and approval.
      (1)   Review of material. An application for an administrative
subdivision, which is determined to be complete and in proper form by the
Zoning Administrator, shall be reviewed by the Zoning Administrator for
compliance with applicable regulations.
      (2)   Decision. The Zoning Administrator shall make a determination as to
whether the application complies with the applicable districts, applicable
actions and prerequisites standards written in divisions (B) and(C) above. If
the application is in compliance it shall be approved and signed by the Plan
Commission President and attested by the Zoning Administrator.
      (3)   Report to Plan Commission. After approved, the Zoning Administrator
shall report said approval at the first regularly scheduled Plan Commission
meeting.
      (4)   Proof of recording. To officially complete the process the
applicant shall record the plat with the County Recorder’s office and provide
two copies to the Zoning Administrator.
      (5)   Failure to record. If an approved administrative subdivision is not
recorded within 30 days from the date of approval and signature, the
application and approval shall be deemed void. The Zoning Administrator shall
report any failures to record to the Plan Commission at the first regularly
scheduled Plan Commission meeting after discovering default occurred; and shall
notify the applicant, and shall clearly note failure to record in the town’s
records.
   (F)   Improvement location permits. A building permit on any lot involved
shall not be issued until proof of recording has been submitted.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 9.16)
§ 165.467 TEXT AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. It may become necessary to amend the text of this
chapter from time to time. The Plan Commission has the authority to hear a
proposal to amend the text of this chapter. The Plan Commission shall make a
recommendation to the Common Council concerning a proposal to amend the text of
this chapter. The Common Council has the power to approve or reject a proposal
to amend the text of this chapter.
   (B)   Project applicability. Any proposal to add, remove or alter a
provision of this chapter shall follow the process outlined in this section.
   (C)   Prerequisites; eligible applicants. Members of the Common Council or
members of the Plan Commission shall initiate a proposal to amend the text of
this chapter. Persons who wish to propose an amendment to the text of this
chapter and who are not members of the Common Council or Plan Commission shall
find a sponsor among the Common Council or the Plan Commission to introduce the
proposal.
   (D)   Filing requirements.
      (1)   Application. A proposal for an amendment to the text of this
chapter shall be prepared by the Zoning Administrator upon the direction of
either the Common Council or the Plan Commission.
      (2)   Deadline. A proposal for an amendment to the text of this chapter
may be filed any time.
   (E)   Formal procedure.
      (1)   Assignment. The Zoning Administrator shall assign a case number and
place the proposed amendment to the text of this chapter on the first Plan
Commission agenda that occurs 28 days after the proposal is prepared.
      (2)   Internal review. The Zoning Administrator shall be responsible for
introducing the proposed amendment to the text of this chapter to the Technical
Review Committee and other applicable departments and agencies that may have an
interested in the proposed amendment. The Zoning Administrator shall also
notify the Technical Review Committee and other applicable departments and
agencies of the date of the Plan Commission meeting where the proposed
amendment to the text of this chapter will be heard.
      (3)   Public notice. The following public notice standards apply for a
proposal to amend the text of this chapter.
         (a)   The Zoning Administrator shall notify interested parties of the
public hearing. Notice shall be given in a manner deemed appropriate by the
Plan Commission.
         (b)   The Zoning Administrator shall publish a legal notice in a
newspaper of general circulation at least days before the public hearing.
         (c)   The Zoning Administrator shall be responsible for providing
proof of published notice to the Plan Commission and including proof in the
case file.
      (4)   Public hearing. A public hearing shall be held in accordance with
the Plan Commission rules of procedure.
      (5)   Review. In preparing and considering proposals to amend the text of
this chapter, the Plan Commission and the Common Council shall pay reasonable
regard to:
         (a)   The city’s Comprehensive Plan;
         (b)   Current conditions and the character of current structures and
uses in each district;
         (c)   The most desirable use for which the land in each district is
adapted;
         (d)   The conservation of property values throughout the jurisdiction;
and
         (e)   Responsible development and growth.
   (F)   Decision.
      (1)   Final action. The Plan Commission shall certify the amendment to
the text of this chapter and forward the proposal to the Common Council with a
favorable recommendation, an unfavorable recommendation or no recommendation.
      (2)   Effective date.
         (a)   Unless an amendment to the text of this chapter provides for a
later effective date, the amendment shall be effective when it is adopted under
I.C. 36-7-4-607.
         (b)   When a provision prescribing a penalty or forfeiture for a
violation is approved, it may not take effect until 14 days after the final day
on which notice of its adoption is published; or the day on which it is filed
in the office of the Clerk- Treasurer, whichever is later.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 9.17)
§ 165.468 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The Board of Zoning Appeals may vary the
regulations of this chapter for projects that meet the findings of fact set
forth in this section. Variances may be a development standards variance
granting relief from a development standard such as height, bulk or area; or a
use variance allowing a use that is not listed as a permitted or special
exception use in a district.
   (B)   Project applicability.
      (1)   Jurisdiction. Projects within the jurisdictional area of the Plan
Commission that are unable to meet the provisions of this chapter may apply for
a variance.
      (2)   Previously denied applications. The Zoning Administrator shall
refuse to accept an application for a variance that has been denied by the
Board of Zoning Appeals within the last 12 months. However, the Zoning
Administrator shall have the authority and discretion to determine that an
application for a variance containing major changes may justify re-filing
within the aforementioned 12- month period.
   (C)   Prerequisites.
      (1)   Eligible applicants. An application for a variance may be filed by
the owner, his or her agent or any person having a legal or equitable interest
in the subject property, but the written authorization of any owner who is not
an applicant shall be required.
      (2)   Pre-application meeting. Prior to submitting an application for a
variance, the applicant shall meet with the Zoning Administrator to review the
zoning classification of the site, ordinance provisions, the application packet
and the procedure involved.
   (D)   Filing requirements.
      (1)   Application. Application for a variance shall be made on a form
provided by the Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   Supporting information.
         (a)   A list of names and mailing addresses of all known adjacent
property owners. The measurement shall include any adjacent property regardless
if a road, river, railroad or other physical barrier exists. This information
may be obtained from the County Auditor’s Office;
         (b)   Applicable plans, drawings and descriptions of the use and
proposed site shall accompany the application for a variance. If the proposed
project is within the APO District, the supporting information listed in §
165.487(D)(2)(i) shall also be submitted. The supporting information shall
accurately and completely describe the proposed project and the need for the
requested variance;
      (3)   Deadline. An application for a variance shall be filed at least 28
days prior to the public meeting at which it is first to be considered by the
Board of Zoning Appeals; and
      (4)   Fees. Applicable fees shall be paid at the time the application for
a variance is filed.
   (E)   Formal procedure.
      (1)   Assignment. An application for a variance, which is determined to
be complete and in proper form by the Zoning Administrator, shall be assigned a
case number and placed on the first Board of Zoning Appeals agenda that occurs
28 days after the application for a variance is submitted in its entirety. The
Zoning Administrator shall notify the applicant, in writing, of the date of the
meeting.
      (2)   Internal review. Upon assignment of a number and hearing date, the
Zoning Administrator may ask applicable departments to review and comment on
the proposed project. The Zoning Administrator may submit a written report to
the Board of Zoning Appeals stating any facts concerning the physical
characteristics of the area involved, the surrounding land use, public
facilities available to service the area or other pertinent facts. The written
report may also contain opinions of the Zoning Administrator concerning the
application for a variance and/or information from other departments that have
reviewed the application for a variance. A copy of such report shall be made
available to the applicant and all remonstrators.
      (3)   Public notice. The following public notice standards apply to an
application for a variance. All costs associated with providing public notice
shall be borne by the applicant.
         (a)   The Zoning Administrator shall notify all interested parties of
the public hearing by regular U.S. mail a minimum of ten days before the public
hearing.
         (b)   The Zoning Administrator shall publish legal notice in a
newspaper of general circulation a minimum of ten days before the public
hearing.
         (c)   The Zoning Administrator shall be responsible for providing
proof of published notice to the Plan Commission and including proof in the
case file.
      (4)   Attendance. The applicant shall be present at the Board of Zoning
Appeals meeting to explain the proposed variance and address and discuss
comments and concerns posed by the Board of Zoning Appeals. Failure to appear
may result in the dismissal of the application for a variance.
      (5)   Public hearing. A public hearing shall be held in accordance with
the Board of Zoning Appeals rules of procedure.
      (6)   Review. At their regularly scheduled public meeting, the Board of
Zoning Appeals shall review:
         (a)   The application for a variance;
         (b)   Supporting information;
         (c)   Presentation by the applicant;
         (d)   Information presented in writing or verbally by the Zoning
Administrator or other applicable department or agency;
         (e)   Input from the public during the public hearing;
         (f)   Applicable provisions of this chapter; and
         (g)   Any other additional information as may be required by the Board
of Zoning Appeals to evaluate the application.
      (7)   Decision. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall make findings of fact
and take final action or continue the application for a variance to a defined
future meeting date.
         (a)   Development standards variance findings of fact. The Board of
Zoning Appeals shall make the following findings of fact for development
standards variances. Approval of findings may be in the form of a general
statement. Disapproval of findings shall specify the reason for non-compliance.
            1.   The approval of the variance will not be injurious to the
public health, safety, morals and general welfare of the community.
            2.   The use and value of the area adjacent to the property
included in the variance will not be affected in a substantially adverse
manner.
            3.   The strict application of the terms of the chapter will result
in practical difficulties in the use of the property.
         (b)   Use variance findings of fact. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall
make the following findings of fact for use variances. Approval of findings may
be in the form of a general statement. Disapproval of findings shall specify
the reason for non-compliance.
            1.   The approval of the variance will not be injurious to the
public health, safety, morals and general welfare of the community.
            2.   The use and value of the area adjacent to the property
included in the variance will not be affected in a substantially adverse
manner.
            3.   That the need for the use variance arises from some condition
peculiar to the property involved.
            4.   The strict application of the terms of the ordinance will
constitute an unnecessary hardship if applied to the property for which the
variance is sought.
            5.   The approval does not interfere substantially with the city’s
Comprehensive Plan.
         (c)   Final action.
            1.   If the Board of Zoning Appeals finds all of the findings of
fact in the affirmative, it shall approve or approve with conditions and/or
commitments the application for a variance.
            2.   If the Board of Zoning Appeals does not find all of the
findings of fact in the affirmative, it shall deny the application for a
variance.
         (d)   Commitments and conditions.
            1.   Commitments. The Board of Zoning Appeals may require the owner
to make a written commitment. Commitments shall be recorded in the office of
the County Recorder. A recorded commitment is binding own the owner of the
land, any subsequent owner of the land, and any person who acquires interested
in the land.
            2.   Conditions. The Board of Zoning Appeals may require certain
conditions for approval.
   (F)   Duration.
      (1)   Development standards variance. A development standards variance
granted by the Board of Zoning Appeals shall run with the land until such time
as the property conforms with this chapter.
      (2)   Use variance. A use variance granted by the Board of Zoning Appeals
may run with the land or applicant until such time as:
         (a)   The use of the variance ends, is vacated or unused for 12 months
consecutively; or
         (b)   The property conforms with this chapter as written.
   (G)   Modification. Modifications authorized by the Zoning Administrator
shall be reported, in writing, to the Plan Commission at the next regular
meeting of the Plan Commission.
      (1)   Development standards variance. Modification of a development
standards variance that makes a project more compliant with the provisions of
this chapter may be authorized by the Zoning Administrator. Modification of a
development standards variance that makes a project less compliant with the
provisions of this chapter shall re-file an application for a variance or other
appropriate application.
      (2)   Use variance. Modification of use variance shall not be permitted.
Any modification of an approved use variance shall meet all of the provisions
of this chapter or re-file an application for a variance or other appropriate
application.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 9.18)
§ 165.469 WAIVERS FROM DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. When the Plan Commission finds that an
extraordinary hardship or practical difficulty would result from strict
compliance with §§
165.385 through
165.401 and
165.415 through
165.424 and/or a regulation clearly does not apply to a proposed development,
and/or the purposes of these regulations may be served to a greater extent by
an alternative proposal; then the Plan Commission may approve a design standard
waiver. However, the design standard waiver shall not be used to subvert the
intent and purpose of these regulations, or solely for the purposes of
financial benefit to the developer.
   (B)   Prerequisites.
      (1)   Primary plat application. The applicant shall only file a design
standard waiver application in conjunction with a primary plat, secondary plat
or replat application.
      (2)   Design standards. The waiver shall be in regard to a regulation in
§§
165.385 through
165.401 and
165.415 through
165.424, and shall not be a request for relief from §§
165.260 through
165.294,
165.305 through
165.312,
165.325 through
165.332 and
165.345 through
165.353. Any relief request from §§
165.260 through
165.294,
165.305 through
165.312,
165.325 through
165.332 and
165.345 through
165.353 shall be subject to the variance procedure with the Board of Zoning
Appeals.
   (C)   Application.
      (1)   Filing deadline. The applicant shall apply for a design standard
waiver in conjunction with the applicant’s primary plat application.
      (2)   Supportive information. The application shall include the necessary
documentation as identified on the application form and/or as determined by the
Zoning Administrator based on specific circumstances of the particular project.
The application shall include, but not be limited to, the following documents:
         (a)   Design standard provision(s). The application shall identify the
design standard provision(s) that is(are) being requested to be waived or
reduced, the justification for the request, and a statement as to why the
waiver will not subvert or diminish the intent and purpose of this chapter,
particularly the subdivision type’s intent and the applicable design standards;
and
         (b)   Additional information. Additional information may be required
by the Zoning Administrator when necessary for the Plan Commission evaluate the
requested design standards waiver.
   (D)   Fees. The applicant shall submit the required application fee at the
time the waiver from design standards application is submitted.
   (E)   Zoning Administrator.
      (1)   Complete submittal. Once the Zoning Administrator has determined
that the applicant has made a complete submittal, the Zoning Administrator
shall:
         (a)   Docket number. Assign the item a docket number;
         (b)   Agenda. Place the item on an agenda of the Plan Commission; and
         (c)   Notification. Inform the applicant of the time, date and place
of the meeting.
      (2)   Inspection. The Zoning Administrator may inspect at any reasonable
time the site and any structure thereon if it relates to the requested design
standard waiver application.
      (3)   Department report. The Zoning Administrator will prepare a staff
report outlining its findings with respect to the design standard waiver
request.
   (F)   Plan Commission.
      (1)   Public notice.
         (a)   Responsibility. The applicant shall be responsible for
publishing and mailing the public notices.
         (b)   Proof. The applicant shall be responsible for returning proof of
publishing and mailing of notices to the Zoning Administrator. Failure to
submit proof of notice prior to the Plan Commission meeting may result in the
application being continued to the following month.
      (2)   Attendance. The applicant or the applicant’s representative is
required to be present at the Plan Commission meeting to address and discuss
comments and concerns posed by the Plan Commission. Failure to appear may
result in denial of the request, continuance or other appropriate action.
      (3)   Public hearing. A public hearing shall be held in accordance with
the Plan Commission rules of procedure. The public hearing may be held
concurrently with the public hearing for the primary plat or replat.
      (4)   Review of application. At their regularly scheduled meeting, the
Plan Commission shall review and consider:
         (a)   The application and supportive material submitted by the
applicant;
         (b)   The primary plat;
         (c)   The testimony of the applicant;
         (d)   Relevant evidence presented by other persons;
         (e)   The Comprehensive Plan;
         (f)   Any applicable provisions of this chapter;
         (g)   Any applicable requirements of the city’s construction
standards;
         (h)   The Zoning Administrator report; and
         (i)   Such other additional information as may be necessary or
required by the Plan Commission to evaluate the application.
      (5)   Findings of fact.
         (a)   Generally. The Plan Commission shall not approve a design
standard waiver unless it makes favorable findings based upon the evidence
presented to it in each specific case. Specifically, the findings shall include
that:
            1.   The granting of the design standard waiver shall not be
detrimental to the public safety, health or welfare, or otherwise be injurious
to other property;
            2.   The conditions upon which the request for a design standard
waiver is based are unique to the property for which the design standard waiver
is sought;
            3.   Because of the particular circumstances, physical
surroundings, efforts to conserve natural features or topographical conditions
of the specific property involved, a particular hardship or practical
difficulty to the property owner would result, as distinguished from a mere
inconvenience, if the strict letter of these regulations is enforced. A
financial hardship or difficulty on its own shall not constitute grounds for a
design standard waiver; and
            4.   The design standard waiver shall not in any manner subvert the
provisions of §§
165.260 through
165.294,
165.305 through
165.312,
165.325 through
165.332 and
165.345 through
165.353, the Comprehensive Plan or Thoroughfare Plan.
         (b)   Certification.
            1.   Signed. The findings document, whether finding in the
affirmative or not, shall be signed by the President of the Plan Commission and
be filed and recorded with the plat.
            2.   Notification. The Plan Commission shall furnish the applicant
with a copy of its decision.
      (6)   Decision. The Plan Commission shall either:
         (a)   Approve the application;
         (b)   Approve the application with conditions and/or commitments;
         (c)   Deny the application; or
         (d)   Continue the application to a definite future meeting date.
      (7)   Commitments.
         (a)   Acceptance. In conjunction with the approval of a design
standard waiver, the Plan Commission may permit or require the applicant to
make written commitments that remedy concerns.
         (b)   Form. The applicant shall prepare the commitment instrument, if
applicable, in a form approved by the city’s Attorney. The applicant and the
President of the Plan Commission shall sign the commitment instrument.
         (c)   Recording. The applicant shall record the commitment instrument
in the County Recorder’s office with the plat. The applicant shall deliver
receipt and a copy of the recorded commitment instrument to the Zoning
Administrator.
         (d)   Modification or termination. A commitment made under this
section may be modified or terminated only by a decision of the Plan Commission
made at a public hearing. Public notice of the public hearing shall be provided
per the Plan Commission rules of procedure. The applicant shall prepare and
record a commitment modification instrument or commitment termination
instrument in the same manner required for a commitment instrument. A modified
commitment shall be enforced in the same manner as any other commitment.
         (e)   Enforcement. The city may enforce any commitment the Plan
Commission has accepted as if the commitment were a standard of this chapter.
      (8)   Conditions of approval.
         (a)   Requirement. In conjunction with the approval of a design
standard waiver, the Plan Commission may impose conditions of approval
concerning the use or development of the parcel that will, in its judgment,
substantially secure the objectives of these regulations.
         (b)   Form. The Zoning Administrator shall prepare the conditions of
approval instrument in a form approved by the City Attorney. The President of
the Plan Commission shall sign the conditions of approval instrument.
         (c)   Recording. The applicant shall record the conditions of approval
instrument in the County Recorder’s office with the plat. The applicant shall
deliver receipt and a copy of the recorded conditions of approval instrument to
the Zoning Administrator.
         (d)   Modification or termination. A condition of approval imposed
under this section may be modified or terminated only by a decision of the Plan
Commission made at a public hearing. Public notice of the public hearing shall
be provided per the Plan Commission rules of procedure. The applicant shall
prepare and record a conditions of approval modification instrument or
conditions of approval termination instrument in the same manner required for a
conditions of approval instrument. A modified condition of approval shall be
enforced in the same manner as any other condition of approval.
         (e)   Enforcement. The city may enforce any condition of approval the
Plan Commission has imposed as if the condition were a standard of this
chapter.
   (G)   Appeal. Any aggrieved party with standing may appeal a waiver decision
to a court of jurisdiction within ten days after the date of the Plan
Commission decision.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 9.19)
§ 165.470 ZONING MAP AMENDMENTS; REZONINGS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. It may become necessary to change the zoning of an
area or a lot, thereby amending the Official Zoning Map. The Plan Commission
has the authority to hear a proposal to amend the Official Zoning Map. This
process is typically known as a “rezoning” of land. The Plan Commission shall
make a recommendation to the Common Council concerning a proposal to amend the
Official Zoning Map. The Common Council has the power to approve or deny a
proposal to amend the Official Zoning Map.
   (B)   Project applicability.
      (1)   Jurisdiction. Areas or lots shall be located within the
jurisdictional area of the Plan Commission.
      (2)   Previously denied applications. The Zoning Administrator shall
refuse to accept an application for a rezoning that has been denied by the
Common Council within the last 12 months. However, the Zoning Administrator
shall have the authority and discretion to determine that an application for a
rezoning containing major changes may justify re-filing within the
aforementioned 12-month period.
   (C)   Prerequisites.
      (1)   Eligible applicants.
         (a)   The Plan Commission may act as an applicant and initiate a
zoning map amendment.
         (b)   Unless the Plan Commission has initiated a zoning map amendment,
an application for a rezoning shall be filed by the owner, his or her agent or
any person having a legal or equitable interest in the subject property, but
the written authorization of any owner who is not an applicant shall be
required.
      (2)   Pre-application meeting. Prior to submitting an application for a
rezoning the applicant shall meet with the Zoning Administrator to review the
current zoning district, the proposed zoning district, adjacent zoning
districts and land uses, applicable ordinance provisions, the application
packet and the procedure involved.
   (D)   Filing requirements.
      (1)   Application. An application for a rezoning shall be made on a form
provided by the Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   Supporting information. An application for a rezoning shall be
accompanied by the following supporting information:
         (a)   A list of names and mailing addresses of all known adjacent
property owners. The measurement shall include any adjacent property regardless
if a road, river, railroad or other physical barrier exists. This information
may be obtained from the County Auditor’s office.
         (b)   A site plan, drawn to scale, that includes the following items:
            1.   North arrow;
            2.   Graphic scale;
            3.   Address of the site;
            4.   Boundary lines of the site including all dimensions of the
site;
            5.   Names, centerlines and right-of-way widths of all adjacent
streets, alleys and easements;
            6.   Layout, number, dimension and area of all lots;
            7.   Location and dimensions of all existing and proposed
structures;
            8.   Location of all floodway, floodway fringe areas and wetlands
within the boundaries of the site;
            9.   Use of each structure by labeling;
            10.   Distance of all structures from front, rear and side lot
lines;
            11.   Proposed landscaping buffers or landscaped areas; and
            12.   Any other information necessary to support a thorough review
of the project and as requested in writing by the Plan Commission or the Zoning
Administrator. This may include the supporting information listed in §
165.487(D)(2)(i) for projects within the APO District.
      (3)   Deadline. An application for a rezoning shall be filed at least 28
days prior to the public meeting at which it is first to be considered by the
Plan Commission.
      (4)   Fees. Applicable fees shall be paid at the time the application for
a rezoning is filed.
   (E)   Formal procedure.
      (1)   Assignment. An application for a rezoning, which is determined to
be complete and in proper form by the Zoning Administrator, shall be assigned a
case number and placed on the first Plan Commission agenda that occurs 28 days
after the application for a rezoning was submitted in its entirety. The Zoning
Administrator shall notify the applicant in writing of the date of the meeting
and provide the applicant with a legal notice.
      (2)   Internal review. Upon assignment of a case number and hearing date,
the Zoning Administrator shall review the application for a rezoning and all
supporting information. The Zoning Administrator may forward the application
for a rezoning and any other relevant information to the Technical Review
Committee, Building Department, Engineering Department, Fire Department, Police
Department, Department of Public Works, County Surveyor’s office, Utility
Departments or other applicable agencies. The Zoning Administrator may submit a
written report to the Plan Commission stating facts concerning the physical
characteristics of the area involved in the application for a rezoning,
adjacent zoning, the surrounding land use, facilities available to service the
area or other pertinent facts. The written report may also contain opinions of
the Zoning Administrator concerning the application for a rezoning and
information from any other agency that reviewed the application for a rezoning.
A copy of such report shall be made available to the applicant and all
remonstrators.
      (3)   Public notice. The following public notice standards apply to an
application for a rezoning. All costs associated with providing public notice
shall be borne by the applicant.
         (a)   The Zoning Administrator shall notify all interested parties of
the public hearing by regular U.S. mail a minimum of ten days before the public
hearing.
         (b)   The Zoning Administrator shall publish legal notice in a
newspaper of general circulation a minimum of ten days before the public
hearing.
         (c)   The Zoning Administrator shall be responsible for providing
proof of published notice to the Plan Commission and including proof in the
case file.
      (4)   Attendance. The applicant shall be present at the Plan Commission
meeting to explain the proposed rezoning and address and discuss comments and
concerns posed by the Plan Commission. Failure to appear may result in the
dismissal of the application for a rezoning.
      (5)   Public hearing. A public hearing shall be held in accordance with
the Plan Commission rules of procedure.
      (6)   Review. At their regularly scheduled public meeting, the Plan
Commission shall review:
         (a)   The application for rezoning;
         (b)   All supporting information;
         (c)   Information presented in writing or verbally by the Zoning
Administrator or other applicable department;
         (d)   Input from the public during the public hearing;
         (e)   Any applicable provisions of this chapter; and
         (f)   Any other information as may be required by the Plan Commission
to evaluate the application.
      (7)   Decision.
         (a)   The Plan Commission shall take final action or continue the
application for a rezoning to a defined future meeting date. The Plan
Commission shall pay reasonable regard to the following factors before taking
final action:
            1.   The city’s Comprehensive Plan;
            2.   Current conditions and the character of current structures and
uses in each district;
            3.   The most desirable use for which the land in each district is
adapted;
            4.   The conservation of property values throughout the
jurisdiction; and
            5.   Responsible development and growth.
         (b)   Final action. The Plan Commission shall certify the amendment to
the Official Zoning Map and forward the application to the Common Council with
a favorable recommendation, an unfavorable recommendation or no recommendation.
The Plan Commission may also recommend commitments concerning the use and/or
development of the land in connection with the application for rezoning. The
Common Council makes the final determination regarding an application for
rezoning and any recommended commitments by ordinance.
   (F)   Duration. A rezoning shall be effective from the date of its final
approval by the Common Council.
   (G)   Modification. Modification to an approved Zoning Map amendment shall
not be permitted.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 9.20)
PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS
§ 165.485 GENERAL.
   (A)   Purpose and intent; general. A planned development zoning district may
be used to provide for:
      (1)   A development with complex mixes of land uses, or mixes of land
uses within buildings;
      (2)   A development on:
         (a)   A unique geological feature;
         (b)   A site with notable quality natural features; or
         (c)   A site with notable quantity of natural features.
      (3)   A development with a notably unique or innovative design.
   (B)   Process outline. The three steps of the planned development process
are listed below and explained in detail in the following sections.
      (1)   Section
165.486 (Planned Development District Ordinance and Establishment Plan);
      (2)   Section
165.487 (Planned Development Detailed Development Plan); and
      (3)   Section
165.488 (Planned Development Final Development Plan).
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 9.09)
§ 165.486 DISTRICT ORDINANCE AND ESTABLISHMENT PLAN.
   (A)   Purpose and intent.
      (1)   Planned development district ordinance. The purpose of the Planned
Development District ordinance is to:
         (a)   Designate, or rezone, a parcel of land as a planned development
zoning district;
         (b)   Specify uses or a range of uses permitted in the planned
development zoning district;
         (c)   Specify development requirements in the planned development
zoning district;
         (d)   Specify the plan documentation and supporting documentation that
may be required;
         (e)   Specify any limitation applicable to the planned development
zoning district; and
         (f)   Meet the requirements of I.C. 36-7-4-1500 et seq.
      (2)   Establishment plan. The purpose of an establishment plan is to
delineate basic elements such as land uses, vehicular and pedestrian traffic
patterns, drainage, perimeter bufferyards and the like.
   (B)   Project applicability. Proposals for new planned developments shall
meet the standards of this section.
   (C)   Prerequisites.
      (1)   Ownership. Planned developments shall be initiated by the owners of
the land involved in the development or the owner’s authorized agent. If an
authorized agent files an application, a signed and notarized consent form from
all owners shall accompany the application.
      (2)   Pre-application meeting. Prior to submitting an application for a
planned development, the applicant shall meet with the Zoning Administrator to
review the zoning classification of the site, review regulatory ordinances and
materials, review the procedures and examine the proposed use and development
of the property.
   (D)   Filing requirements.
      (1)   Application. Application for a planned development shall be made on
a form provided by the Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   Supporting information. The application for a planned development
shall be accompanied by the following information:
         (a)   A list of names and mailing addresses of all known adjacent
property owners. The measurement shall include any adjacent property regardless
if a road, river, railroad or other physical barrier exists. This information
may be obtained from the County Auditor’s office;
         (b)   Survey and legal description of the proposed site of the planned
development;
         (c)   The establishment plan that conceptually delineates the basic
physical elements of the planned developments including land use, circulation
and perimeter buffers;
         (d)   A draft of the Planned Development District ordinance that
includes proposed development standards for all land uses within the planned
development; and
         (e)   Any other information requested in writing by the Plan
Commission or Zoning Administrator.
      (3)   Deadline. Thirteen hard copies of the application for a planned
development; 13 hard copies of all supporting information; one digital copy of
the application for a planned development and all supporting information in
.pdf (portable document format); and one digital copy of any drawings in .dwg
file format shall be submitted 28 days prior to the public meeting at which it
is first to be heard by the Plan Commission.
      (4)   Fees. Applicable fees shall be paid at the time the application for
a planned development is filed.
   (E)   Formal procedure.
      (1)   Assignment. An application for a planned development, which is
determined to be complete and in proper form by the Zoning Administrator, shall
be assigned a case number and placed on the first Plan Commission agenda that
occurs 28 days after the planned development was submitted in its entirety. The
Zoning Administrator shall notify the applicant in writing of the date of the
meeting.
      (2)   Internal review. Upon assignment of a case number and hearing date,
the Zoning Administrator shall review the application for a planned development
and all supporting information. While the establishment plan is conceptual, the
Zoning Administrator may forward the establishment plan and any other relevant
information to the Technical Review Committee, Plan Commission legal counsel,
Building Department, Engineering Department, Fire Department, Police
Department, Department of Public Works, County Surveyor’s Office, Utility
Departments or other applicable agencies. The Zoning Administrator may submit a
written report to the Plan Commission stating facts concerning the physical
characteristics of the area involved in the planned development, the
surrounding land use, public facilities available to service the area or other
pertinent facts. The written report may also contain opinions of the Zoning
Administrator concerning the planned development and information from any other
agencies that reviewed the planned development. A copy of such report shall be
made available to the applicant and all remonstrators.
      (3)   Public notice. The following public notice standards apply to an
application for a planned development. All costs associated with providing
public notice shall be borne by the applicant.
         (a)   The Zoning Administrator shall notify all interested parties of
the public hearing by regular U.S. mail a minimum of ten days before the public
hearing.
         (b)   The Zoning Administrator shall publish legal notice in a
newspaper of general circulation a minimum of ten days before the public
hearing.
         (c)   The Zoning Administrator shall be responsible for providing
proof of published notice to the Plan Commission and including proof in the
case file.
      (4)   Attendance. The applicant shall be present at the Plan Commission
meeting to explain the proposed planned development and address and discuss
comments and concerns posed by the Plan Commission. Failure to appear may
result in the dismissal of the application for a planned development.
      (5)   Public hearing. A public hearing shall be held in accordance with
the Plan Commission rules of procedure.
      (6)   Review. At its regularly scheduled public meeting, the Plan
Commission shall review:
         (a)   Application for a planned development;
         (b)   Planned development district ordinance draft;
         (c)   Establishment plan;
         (d)   The city’s Comprehensive Plan;
         (e)   Current conditions and the character of current structures and
uses in the area;
         (f)   The most desirable use for which the land in the area is
adapted;
         (g)   The conservation of property values throughout the jurisdiction;
         (h)   Responsible development and growth;
         (i)   The testimony of the applicant;
         (j)   Relevant evidence presented by other persons;
         (k)   The limitations, standards and requirements of §§
165.240 through
165.246;
         (l)   Any applicable provisions of this chapter;
         (m)   The Zoning Administrator’s report or any other documents
provided by other departments or agencies; and
         (n)   Any other additional information as may be required by the Plan
Commission to evaluate the application.
      (7)   Decision. The Plan Commission shall take final action or continue
the application for a planned development to a defined future meeting date.
         (a)   Final action. The Plan Commission shall certify and forward the
application for a planned development to the Common Council with:
            1.   A favorable recommendation;
            2.   A favorable recommendation and with recommendations for
commitments and/or conditions;
            3.   An unfavorable recommend- ation; and
            4.   No recommendation.
         (b)   Revisions. If the certified version of the Planned Development
District ordinance or establishment plan was revised during the process of Plan
Commission review, the Zoning Administrator shall make the revisions to the
Planned Development District ordinance and the applicant shall make the
revisions to the establishment plan so the Common Council receives the
certified versions of the Planned Development District ordinance and
establishment plan.
      (8)   Commitments and conditions. In conjunction with its recommendation
to the Common Council, the Plan Commission may recommend written commitments
and/or conditions for approval. Commitments and/or conditions shall be recorded
in the office of the County Recorder within 30 days of the Common Council’s
approval of the Planned Development District ordinance and establishment plan.
The applicant shall deliver a copy of the recorded commitments and/or
conditions to the Zoning Administrator before proceeding with Step 2 and filing
a planned development detailed development plan.
   (F)   Duration. If Step 2, a planned development detailed development plan,
has not been filed within one year of the date the Common Council approved the
Planned Development District ordinance and the establishment plan, the approval
expires and a new application for a planned development shall be submitted.
   (G)   Modification.
      (1)   Planned development district ordinance. An amendment to the text of
the Planned Development District ordinance shall follow the process in §
165.467 (Text Amendment).
      (2)   Establishment plan. Modification to an establishment plan shall be
explained and illustrated during a planned development detailed development
plan review and approval process, unless the Zoning Administrator determines
the modification is significant enough to change the character and intent of
the planned development. In such cases, a new application for a planned
development shall be required.
      (3)   Commitments and conditions. Commitments and conditions associated
with a Planned Development District ordinance and establishment plan shall only
be modified or terminated by a decision of the Common Council made at a public
hearing.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 9.10)
§ 165.487 DETAILED DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The planned development detailed development plan
shall provide the Plan Commission with the opportunity to review the details of
the site plan and determine compliance with the Planned Development District
ordinance. If the planned development involves the subdivision of land, this
step also serves as the primary plat.
   (B)   Project applicability. Proposals for new planned developments shall
meet the standards of this section.
   (C)   Prerequisites; Planned Development District ordinance and
establishment plan. The Planned Development District ordinance and
establishment plan shall be approved by the Common Council prior to submitting
a planned development detailed development plan. If approval included
commitments and/or conditions, those commitments and/or conditions shall be
recorded in the office of the County Recorder.
   (D)   Filing requirements.
      (1)   Application. Application for a planned development should be on
file with the Zoning Administrator from the Planned Development District
ordinance and the establishment plan.
      (2)   Supporting information. The following information shall be
submitted for the planned development detailed development plan review process.
         (a)   A list of names and mailing addresses of all known adjacent
property owners. The measurement shall include any adjacent property regardless
if a road, river, railroad or other physical barrier exists. This information
may be obtained from the County Auditor’s office.
         (b)   A site plan, drawn to scale, that includes the following items:
            1.   North arrow;
            2.   Graphic scale;
            3.   Address of the site;
            4.   Proposed name of the development;
            5.   Area map insert showing the general location of the site
referenced to major streets;
            6.   Boundary lines of the site including all dimensions of the
site;
            7.   Names, centerlines and right-of-way widths of all streets,
alleys and easements;
            8.   Layout, number, dimension and area of all lots;
            9.   Location and dimensions of all existing and proposed
structures, including paved areas, entryway features and signs;
            10.   Location of all floodway, floodway fringe areas and wetlands
within the boundaries of the site;
            11.   Use of each structure by labeling including approximate
density or size of all proposed uses and structures on the site (e.g., parking
- number of parking spaces provided; office-floor area);
            12.   Distance of all structures from front, rear and side lot
lines;
            13.   Areas reserved for park, recreation, conservation, wetland,
common area, lake, trails or other similar uses;
            14.   Proposed landscaping buffers or landscaped areas; and
            15.   Any other information necessary to support a thorough review
of the project and as requested in writing by the Plan Commission or the Zoning
Administrator.
         (c)   Representative building elevations for facades of residential
and non-residential primary structures shall be drawn to scale and include the
following items:
            1.   Proposed name of the development;
            2.   Graphic scale;
            3.   Specification of the type and color of building materials to
be used for wall, window, roof and other architectural features;
            4.   Placement, size, color and illumination details for any
proposed wall sign; and
            5.   Any other information necessary to support a thorough review
of the project and as requested in writing by the Plan Commission or the Zoning
Administrator.
         (d)   A site access and circulation plan shall be required, but may be
incorporated into the required site plan or may be submitted as a separate
plan. It shall be drawn to scale:
            1.   North arrow;
            2.   Graphic scale;
            3.   Address of site;
            4.   Proposed name of the development;
            5.   Names, centerlines and right- of-way widths of all existing
and proposed streets, alleys and easements within 100 feet of the site;
            6.   Location of any proposed or existing driveways onto a street
or alley and its width at the lot line;
            7.   All improvements to the street system on-site and off-site;
            8.   Measurement of curb radius and/or flares;
            9.   Location of proposed and existing sidewalk or sidepath; and
            10.   Any other information necessary to support a thorough review
of the project and as requested in writing by the Plan Commission or the Zoning
Administrator.
         (e)   A utility plan shall be drawn to scale and shall include the
following items:
            1.   Location of all existing and proposed utility easements;
            2.   Location and size of all existing and proposed utility
components including, but not limited to, sanitary sewer components, water
components, storm water components, electric, gas, telephone and cable;
            3.   Location and illumination capacity of all lights;
            4.   Names of legal ditches and streams in or adjacent to the site;
            5.   Contours sufficient to illustrate storm water runoff;
            6.   Storm water drainage plan including estimated runoff; and
            7.   Any other information necessary to support a thorough review
of the project and as requested in writing by the Plan Commission or the Zoning
Administrator.
         (f)   Traffic impact study:
            1.   A traffic impact study shall be required when a proposed
development meets or exceeds the warrants of the State Department of
Transportation Traffic Impact Study Guidelines (150 or more dwelling units;
15,000 square feet or more of retail space; 35,000 or more square feet of
office space; 70,000 square feet or more square feet of industrial space;
30,000 square feet or more of educational space; 120 or more occupied rooms;
46,000 or more square feet of medical space; or any mixed-use development which
generates 100 or more peak hour trips in the peak direction); and
            2.   A registered professional engineer shall prepare and certify
the traffic impact study. The traffic impact study shall evaluate the impact of
present and future traffic generated by the proposed development on the
adjacent roadway system. Prior to commencement, the applicant shall meet with
the Zoning Administrator and City Engineer to determine an appropriate scope
for the traffic impact study.
         (g)   Statement of development build- out: the applicant shall
indicate, either on the required site plan or in writing, a statement of:
            1.   The order of development of the major infrastructure elements
of the project;
            2.   Project phase boundaries, if any;
            3.   The order and content of each phase; and
            4.   An estimate of the timeframe for build-out of the project.
         (h)   Landscape plan: the applicant shall indicate, either on the
required site plan or on a separate landscape plan, existing and proposed green
space and landscaping on the site showing how the proposed landscaping meets or
exceeds the standards detailed in the §
165.399 (Perimeter Landscaping Standards) and landscape standards in §§
165.260 through
165.294,
165.305 through
165.312,
165.325 through
165.332 and
165.345 through
165.353.
         (i)   APO District requirements. If the proposed development is in the
APO District, the applicant shall submit the following:
            1.   A narrative description of the site including any existing
uses, setbacks, available sewage disposal facilities and a brief history of the
site (including any former uses, historical environmental concerns, abandoned
wells, underground storage tanks or septic systems);
            2.   Description of the proposed operations, including chemical/
products used or generated, chemical/product storage area descriptions, waste
generation quantities, equipment cleaning/ maintenance procedures;
            3.   Methods and locations of receiving, handling, storing and
shipping chemicals/products and wastes;
            4.   Spill or release response measures and reporting;
            5.   Description of slopes near containment vessels and waste
storage areas; and
            6.   The following information shall also be included on the
required site plan or an additional plan: all paved and non-paved areas; floor
drain locations and outlets; chemical/product storage locations; waste storage
locations; liquid transfer areas; underground storage tanks and associated
piping; above ground storage tanks and associated piping; slope and contours of
finished grade at two-foot intervals; and proposed containment area detail
drawings, including area, heights, materials, specifications, if applicable.
      (3)   Deadline. Thirteen hard copies of the application for a planned
development; 13 hard copies of all supporting information; one digital copy of
the application for a planned development and all supporting information in
.pdf (portable document format); and one digital copy of any drawings in .dwg
file format shall be submitted 28 days prior to the public meeting at which it
is first to be heard by the Plan Commission.
      (4)   Fees. Applicable fees shall be paid at the time when the planned
development detailed development plan is filed.
   (E)   Formal procedure.
      (1)   Assignment. A planned development detailed development plan, which
is determined to be complete and in proper form by the Zoning Administrator,
shall be assigned a case number and placed on the first Plan Commission agenda
that occurs 28 days after the planned development detailed development plan was
submitted in its entirety. The Zoning Administrator shall notify the applicant
in writing of the meeting date.
      (2)   Internal review. Upon assignment of a case number and hearing date,
the Technical Review Committee and/or the Building Department, Engineering
Department, Fire Department, Police Department, Department of Public Works,
County Surveyor’s office, Utility Departments and other applicable agencies
will be notified of the proposed planned development detailed development plan
and asked to review and comment. The Zoning Administrator may request a formal
meeting of the Technical Review Committee and request the applicant’s presence
at that meeting. Following a thorough review, the Zoning Administrator may
submit a written report to the Plan Commission stating any facts concerning the
physical characteristics of the area involved in the planned development
detailed development plan, the surrounding land use, public facilities
available to service the area or other pertinent facts. The written report may
also contain opinions of the Zoning Administrator concerning the planned
development detailed development plan and information from the Technical Review
Committee and/or other agencies that have reviewed the planned development
detailed development plan. A copy of such report shall be made available to the
applicant and all remonstrators.
      (3)   Public notice. The following public notice standards apply to a
planned development detailed development plan. All costs associated with
providing public notice shall be borne by the applicant.
         (a)   The Zoning Administrator shall notify all interested parties of
the public hearing by regular U.S. mail a minimum of ten days before the public
hearing.
         (b)   The Zoning Administrator shall publish legal notice in a
newspaper of general circulation a minimum of ten days before the public
hearing.
         (c)   The Zoning Administrator shall be responsible for providing
proof of published notice to the Plan Commission and including proof in the
case file.
      (4)   Attendance. The applicant shall be present at the Plan Commission
meeting to explain the proposed planned development and address and discuss
comments and concerns posed by the Plan Commission. Failure to appear may
result in the dismissal of the application for a planned development.
      (5)   Public hearing. A public hearing shall be held in accordance with
the Plan Commission rules of procedure.
      (6)   Review. At their regularly scheduled public meeting, the Plan
Commission shall review:
         (a)   The original application for a planned development;
         (b)   Approved Planned Development District ordinance;
         (c)   Approved establishment plan;
         (d)   All supporting information including the site plan, site access
and circulation plan, elevations, utility plan, statement of development build-
out, landscape plan and, if applicable, traffic impact study and APO District
requirements;
         (e)   The testimony of the applicant;
         (f)   Information presented in writing or verbally by the Zoning
Administrator, the Technical Review Committee or other applicable department or
agency.
         (g)   Input from the public during the public hearing;
         (h)   Any applicable requirements of the city’s construction
standards;
         (i)   The limitations, standards and requirements of §§
165.240 through
165.246;
         (j)   Any applicable provisions of this chapter;
         (k)   The Zoning Administrator’s report or any other documents
provided by other departments or agencies; and
         (l)   Any other additional information as may be required by the Plan
Commission to evaluate the application.
      (7)   Decision. The Plan Commission shall make findings of fact and take
final action or continue the planned development detailed development plan to a
defined future meeting date.
         (a)   Findings of fact. The Plan Commission shall make the following
findings of fact. Approval of findings may be in the form of a general
statement. Disapproval of findings shall specify the portion of the Planned
Development District ordinance, the unified development ordinance or city’s
construction standards with which there is not compliance.
            1.   The planned development detailed development plan is
consistent with the city’s Comprehensive Plan;
            2.   The planned development detailed development plan is
consistent with §§
165.240 through
165.246;
            3.   The planned development detailed development plan satisfies
the development standards of the approved Planned Development District
ordinance; and
            4.   The planned development detailed development plan satisfies
the construction requirements of the city’s construction standards.
         (b)   Final action. Based on the findings of fact, the Plan Commission
shall approve, approve with conditions or deny the planned development detailed
development plan. If conditions are required, the conditions shall be recorded
in the office of the County Recorder within 30 days of the Plan Commission’s
approval of the planned development detailed development plan. The applicant
shall deliver a copy of the recorded conditions to the Zoning Administrator
before filing a planned development final development plan.
         (c)   Signed. The findings and final decision shall be signed by the
President of the Plan Commission.
         (d)   Copy. The Zoning Administrator shall provide the applicant a
copy of the final decision.
   (F)   Duration. An approved planned development detailed development plan
shall be valid for two years from the date the Plan Commission granted
approval. The Zoning Administrator may grant one six-month extension. The
applicant shall submit the request for extension in writing, and the Zoning
Administrator shall make a written determination regarding the decision. Both
the request and the determination shall be made part of the Planned Development
record. If development of the project has not commenced by the end of the two-
year period (or by the end of the six-month extension), the approval expires
and an application for a planned development (district ordinance and
establishment plan) shall be required.
   (G)   Modification.
      (1)   Minor amendments. A minor amendment to an approved planned
development detailed development plan which does not involve an increase in
height, area, bulk or intensity of land uses; the designation of additional
land uses; a reduction in yards; the addition of driveways or access points; or
a reduction in the amount of parking may be authorized by the Zoning
Administrator without a public hearing, if the requested minor amendment does
not adversely impact the purpose or intent of the overall development. Minor
amendments authorized by the Zoning Administrator shall be reported, in
writing, to the Plan Commission at the next regular meeting of the Plan
Commission.
      (2)   Major amendments. If the Zoning Administrator determines that the
proposed modification may adversely impact the purpose or intent of the overall
development; or if the proposed modification includes an increase in intensity
of any land use; or if the proposed modification includes the designation of an
additional land use, the applicant shall be required to file a new planned
development detailed development plan.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 9.11)
§ 165.488 FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The planned development final development plan
shall clearly define all construction matters and special conditions such as
construction techniques, materials and the like, as well as prepare the plans
and documents for recording. If the planned development involves the
subdivision of land, this step also serves as the secondary plat approval.
   (B)   Project applicability. Proposals for new planned developments shall
meet the standards of this section.
   (C)   Prerequisites.
      (1)   Planned development detailed development plan. The planned
development detailed development plan shall be approved by the Plan Commission
prior to submitting a planned development final development plan. If planned
development detailed development plan approval included conditions, those
conditions shall be recorded in the office of the County Recorder.
      (2)   Infrastructure. A planned development shall have all of the
infrastructure improvements proposed in the planned development detailed
development plan that are intended to be dedicated to the city installed to
meet the city’s construction standards, or the applicant shall have financial
security for the cost of the infrastructure improvements in compliance with §
165.423 (Surety Standards).
   (D)   Filing requirements.
      (1)   Application. The applicant shall submit a letter stating the status
of infrastructure improvements and requesting planned development final
development plan approval. The original application for a planned development
should be on file with the Zoning Administrator from the Planned Development
District ordinance and the establishment plan.
      (2)   Supporting information. The following information shall accompany
the applicant’s letter requesting planned development final development plan
approval:
         (a)   Accurate location of all monumentation, if applicable;
         (b)   If infrastructure improvements are complete, the supporting
information shall include as-built drawings of each infrastructure system, and
copies of any required inspections or certifications;
         (c)   If infrastructure improvements intended to be dedicated to the
city are not complete, the supporting information shall include detailed
descriptions and locations of infrastructure to be installed, estimates from
contractors for all infrastructure improvements and a performance bond for the
total amount of the infrastructure improvements; and
         (d)   Any other information necessary to support a thorough review of
the project that is requested, in writing, by the Zoning Administrator or Plan
Commission.
      (3)   Deadline. Planned development final development plan approval shall
be requested within two years of the approval of planned development detailed
development plan by the Plan Commission.
      (4)   Fees. Applicable fees shall be paid at the time the request for
planned development final development approval is filed.
   (E)   Formal procedure.
      (1)   Assignment. The Zoning Administrator shall review the letter
requesting planned development final development plan approval and all
supporting information. Based on the history and the complexity of the project,
the Zoning Administrator shall determine if the planned development final
development plan should be presented to the Plan Commission. Should the Zoning
Administrator determine Plan Commission review is necessary, the Zoning
Administrator shall assign the planned development final development plan a
case number and place it on the first Plan Commission agenda that occurs 28
days after the request for planned development final development plan approval
was submitted in its entirety. The Zoning Administrator shall notify the
applicant in writing if Plan Commission review is necessary and the date of the
meeting, if applicable.
      (2)   Review. The Zoning Administrator shall provide the letter
requesting planned development final development plan approval, the supporting
information and a comment sheet to all applicable departments and agencies.
Each department shall determine if the infrastructure improvements installed or
proposed to be installed meet the city’s construction standards and establish
adequate connection to the existing and future systems. If applicable, each
department shall also review applicable cost estimates for reasonableness. Each
department shall return the comment sheet with any comments or concerns
concerning the infrastructure or the project. If it has been determined that
Plan Commission review is required, the comment sheets shall be forwarded to
the Plan Commission for review at the meeting.
      (3)   Public notice. Notice and public hearing shall not be required for
planned development final development plan.
      (4)   Decision. Based on comments from departments, the Zoning
Administrator or the Plan Commission shall approve, approve with conditions or
deny planned development final development plan.
   (F)   Duration. An approved planned development final development plan and
any conditions shall be recorded in the office of the County Recorder within
three months of the date of approval or become null and void.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 9.12)
ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES
§ 165.500 ACTIONABLE VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be an actionable violation of this chapter to:
   (A)   Non-permitted structures. Construct, place or modify a structure in a
manner that is not expressly permitted by this chapter;
   (B)   Permitted required. Construct, place or modify a structure in a manner
permitted by this chapter without first being issued all permits and/or other
approvals required by this chapter;
   (C)   Exempt permitted structures. For structures that are exempt from
needing a permit, construct, place or modify a structure in a manner that is
not expressly permitted by this chapter;
   (D)   Permit exempt. Utilize a property for a use that is not expressly
permitted by this chapter in the applicable zoning district; or by a use
variance or other approval allowed under this chapter;
   (E)   Permitted uses. Utilize a property for a use expressly permitted by
this chapter without first being issued a permit and/or other approvals
required by this chapter;
   (F)   Non-compliance with approvals. Fail to fully comply with procedural
requirements, payment of fees, conditions, enforceable covenants or commitments
associated with any approval; or
   (G)   Other violations. Otherwise fail to comply with any component of this
chapter.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 10.01)
§ 165.501 ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL.
   Enforcement of this chapter shall be conducted by the Enforcement Official.
When a type of enforcement action or role is assigned to a specific board, body
or individual by Indiana Code or applicable rules of procedure, then that
board, body or individual shall conduct the enforcement as specified.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 10.02)
§ 165.502 DISCOVERY OF VIOLATIONS.
   An Enforcement Official may survey the jurisdiction or may investigate
alleged violations in order to discover whether a violation occurred or exists.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 10.03)
§ 165.503 INSPECTION OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   Standard inspections. Inspections of property or structures may be
conducted by the Enforcement Official from the property where the violation or
alleged violation is located with permission from the violator at the time of
the inspection; from a public right-of-way, or from an adjacent property with
permission from its property owner. If requested, the Enforcement Official
shall present identification and describe the purpose of the inspection.
   (B)   Denial of access to property. In the event the Enforcement Official is
denied entry to a property or structure where there is a violation or alleged
violation, the Enforcement Official may apply to a court of jurisdiction to
secure a search warrant authorizing inspection of the property or structure.
   (C)   Surrender of right to deny access. A property owner surrenders his or
her right to deny an Enforcement Official access to his or her property or
structure upon filing for any approval. The surrender to deny access shall
commence upon filing and shall cease upon the Zoning Administrator issuing a
zoning compliance certificate or other required final inspection.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 10.04)
§ 165.504 RESPONSIBILITY OF VIOLATIONS.
   The owner or possessor (e.g., tenant or occupant) of the structure, land
and/or premises shall be liable for violations of this chapter. If the
possessor of the property or structure is determined to be liable for the
violation, but fails to comply or otherwise cannot be sufficiently pursued, the
owner shall be held liable for the violation.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 10.05)
§ 165.505 NEW PERMITS AT LOCATION WHERE VIOLATION EXISTS.
   When a violation or alleged violation of this chapter has been identified on
a property and notice of the violation or alleged violation has been conveyed
in writing to the violator, any new filing for any approval shall be held by
the Zoning Administrator until the violation or alleged violation is resolved,
provided that the desired approval would complicate, escalate, or add to the
violation or alleged violation. All other filings for an approval shall be
processed as described in this chapter.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 10.06)
§ 165.506 ENFORCEMENT OPTIONS.
   When a violation or alleged violation exists and when it is determined that
enforcement is necessary, the type of enforcement action will be at the
discretion of the Enforcement Official and generally should reflect what is
warranted by the evidence, severity of the violation or alleged violation and
history of violations on the same property or by the same violator. The
following options, as described in subsequent sections, may be used to enforce
this chapter:
   (A)   Request to stop work;
   (B)   Stop work order;
   (C)   Enforcement as a common nuisance;
   (D)   Request to remedy;
   (E)   Bring action to local court to invoke any legal, equitable or special
remedy;
   (F)   Bring action to local court to enforce a condition, covenant or
commitment;
   (G)   Bring action to local court to request a prohibitory or permanent
injunction to restrain;
   (H)   Bring action to local court to request a mandatory injunction to
remove a structure;
   (I)   Impose a fine for violations;
   (J)   Bring action to a local court to invoke a fine for violations; or
   (K)   Any remedy or actions set forth in Indiana Code, common law or other
applicable state regulations.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 10.07)
§ 165.507 REQUEST TO STOP WORK.
   (A)   Authority. The Enforcement Official may issue a request to stop work.
   (B)   Cause. A request to stop work may be issued for any violation or
alleged violation of this chapter when one or more of the following statements
apply:
      (1)   Cost to remedy. The violation or alleged violation is in regard to
an active project, such that if work is not stopped, the cost to remedy the
violation will likely increase;
      (2)   Non-compliance. The violation or alleged violation is in regard to
an active project, such that if work is not stopped, the violation will likely
escalate in non-compliance;
      (3)   Quantity of violations. The violation or alleged violation is in
regard to an active project, such that if work is not stopped, the number of
violations will likely increase; or
      (4)   Public risk. The violation or alleged violation is in regard to an
active project, such that if work is not stopped, the continuance will put the
health, safety or welfare of the public is at risk.
   (C)   General procedure.
      (1)   Issue notice. The request to stop work shall, in writing (i.e.,
notice), describe the violation or alleged violation and request the immediate
cessation of work until the matter is resolved.
      (2)   Post notice. The request to stop work shall be posted in a
conspicuous place on the property. A copy may also be delivered or mailed to
the property owner, developer, builder, property manager, tenant, occupant or
other interested parties.
      (3)   Effective. The request to stop work shall become effective upon
posting on the property.
      (4)   Conditions. An Enforcement Official may describe the conditions
under which the request to stop work will be lifted on the notice. Otherwise,
it is the responsibility of the violator to schedule a meeting with the
Enforcement Official.
      (5)   Agreement. To lift a request to stop work, a memorandum of
agreement identifying the process and steps necessary to resolve the violation
shall be signed by the property owner and the Enforcement Official; or a court
of jurisdiction shall rule on the matter; or the Enforcement Official shall
rescind the request to stop work.
      (6)   Failure to abide. An Enforcement Official may seek a court of
jurisdiction to issue a temporary or preliminary injunction (i.e., stop work
order) to the violator if he or she fails to abide by the request to stop work.
      (7)   Refusal to sign terms. An Enforcement Official may seek a court of
jurisdiction to issue a temporary or preliminary injunction (i.e., stop work
order) to the violator if he or she refuses to sign the terms of the memorandum
of agreement, giving the Enforcement Official time necessary to pursue other
enforcement options without furtherance of the violation or alleged violation.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 10.08)
§ 165.508 STOP WORK ORDER.
   (A)   Authority. The Enforcement Official may bring action to a court of
jurisdiction. A court of jurisdiction may issue a stop work order.
   (B)   Cause. A temporary or preliminary injunction may be issued when one or
more of the following statements apply:
      (1)   Cost to remedy. The violation or alleged violation is in regard to
an active project, such that if work is not stopped, the cost, time or
challenge to remedy the violation will likely increase;
      (2)   Non-compliance. The violation or alleged violation is in regard to
an active project, such that if work is not stopped, the violation will likely
escalate in non-compliance;
      (3)   Quantity of violations. The violation or alleged violation is in
regard to an active project, such that if work is not stopped, the number of
violations will likely increase; or
      (4)   Public risk. The violation or alleged violation is in regard to an
active project, such that if work is not stopped, the continuance will put the
health, safety or welfare of the public is at risk.
   (C)   General procedure.
      (1)   Issue notice. Before or after filing with the court, the
Enforcement Official shall mail a notice letter to the violator, the property
address or to the tax record address if mail is undeliverable to the property
(e.g., a vacant site) describing the violation or alleged violation.
      (2)   Investigation. Before or after filing with the court, the
Enforcement Official shall make reasonable attempt to investigate an alleged
violation to conclude if there is a violation.
      (3)   Stop work order. The Enforcement Official shall file for an action
for temporary or preliminary injunction, or temporary restraining order (i.e.,
stop work order) in the court of jurisdiction to restrain a person from
violating or further violating this chapter.
      (4)   Post notice. If the court grants the stop work order, the stop work
order shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the property. A copy may also
be delivered or mailed to the property owner, developer, builder, property
manager, tenant, occupant or other interested parties.
      (5)   Effective. The stop work order shall become effective upon court
issuance and either phone notification to the violator or posting the notice on
site.
      (6)   Conditions. The court of jurisdiction may determine and describe
the conditions and terms under which the stop work order will be lifted.
Otherwise, it is the responsibility of the violator to schedule a meeting with
the Enforcement Official and/or court of jurisdiction to resolve the violation.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 10.09)
§ 165.509 ENFORCING VIOLATION AS COMMON NUISANCE.
   (A)   Authority. The Enforcement Official may initiate enforcement action
and prepare a formal conveyance to legal counsel. Legal counsel may then
prosecute.
   (B)   Cause. According to Indiana Code, a structure that is erected, raised
or converted, or land or premises is used in violation of this chapter is a
common nuisance and the owner or possessor of the structure or land is liable
for maintaining a common nuisance.
   (C)   General procedure.
      (1)   Issue notice. Before or after formal conveyance, the Enforcement
Official shall mail a notice letter to the violator, the property address or to
the tax record address if mail is undeliverable to the property (e.g., a vacant
site) describing the violation or alleged violation.
      (2)   Investigation. Legal counsel shall, upon formal conveyance of
information in regard to an alleged violation of this chapter, make an
investigation of the alleged violation. If acts elicited by the investigation
are sufficient to establish a reasonable belief that a violation has occurred
on the part of the owner or possessor, the attorney representing the city may
file a complaint against the person and prosecute the alleged violation.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 10.10)
§ 165.510 REQUEST TO REMEDY.
   (A)   Authority. An Enforcement Official may initiate a request to remedy.
   (B)   Cause. A violation or alleged violation exists.
   (C)   General procedure.
      (1)   Investigation. Before or after sending a notice letter, the
Enforcement Official shall make reasonable attempt to investigate an alleged
violation to conclude if there is a violation.
      (2)   Issue notice. The Enforcement Official shall mail a notice letter
to the violator, the property address or to the tax record address if mail is
undeliverable to the property (e.g., a vacant site) describing the violation or
alleged violation.
      (3)   Timeframe to provide evidence or comply. The Enforcement Official
shall grant the violator an opportunity to provide evidence that there isn’t a
violation or to bring the violation into compliance; including a timeframe of
at least one day but not more than 21 days. The timeframe granted shall be
reasonably tied to the time necessary to remedy the violation (e.g., the time
to remove an a-frame portable sign could be one day).
      (4)   Timeframe extension. A timeframe extension may be granted upon
request by the Enforcement Official if the violator is making satisfactory
progress.
      (5)   Timely correction. If corrective measures have not been initiated
in a timely manner, or corrective measures are not effectively being conducted,
or corrective measures are significantly behind schedule, or the violation
remains after the timeframe given for remedy, then the Enforcement Official may
choose another enforcement option. If the violator is making satisfactory
progress and will likely meet the timeframe for remedy, the Enforcement
Official shall not begin another enforcement option until the timeframe has
expired and a violation remains unresolved.
   (D)   Safety from fines. The Enforcement Official shall not impose a fine to
a violator if a request to remedy is the first enforcement action and the
violation is remedied within the granted timeframe.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 10.11)
§ 165.511 INVOKING LEGAL, EQUITABLE OR SPECIAL REMEDY.
   (A)   Authority. The Plan Commission may bring action to a court of
jurisdiction as an independent enforcement action or concurrent to another
enforcement action; except as stated in §
165.510 (Request to Remedy). A court of jurisdiction may issue a legal,
equitable or special remedy.
   (B)   Cause. A violation or alleged violation exists on a property.
   (C)   General procedure.
      (1)   Issue notice. Before or after bringing an action to the court of
jurisdiction, the Plan Commission shall mail a notice letter to the violator,
the property address or to the tax record address if mail is undeliverable to
the property (e.g., a vacant site) describing the violation or alleged
violation.
      (2)   Investigation. Before or after bringing an action to the court of
jurisdiction, the Plan Commission shall make reasonable attempt to investigate
an alleged violation to conclude if there is a violation.
      (3)   Court-imposed remedy. The Plan Commission shall bring an action to
the court of jurisdiction to invoke a legal, equitable or special remedy for a
violation or alleged violation.
      (4)   Liability.
         (a)   Any violator found liable for a violation shall be subject to
any court-imposed legal, equitable or special remedy. The legal, equitable or
special remedy shall force compliance with this chapter or be a unique court
ruling that fulfills the intent of the city’s Comprehensive Plan and this
chapter.
         (b)   The severity of the court ruling may consider the severity of
the violation, impact to property values in the area, impact to quality of life
in the area, impact to the health, safety and welfare of the public,
repetitiveness of similar violations by the same violator and/or the precedent
that may be set by the ruling.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 10.12)
§ 165.512 ENFORCING CONDITION, COVENANT OR COMMITMENT.
   (A)   Authority. The Plan Commission may bring action to a court of
jurisdiction as an independent enforcement action or concurrent to another
enforcement action; except as stated in §
165.510 (Request to Remedy). A court of jurisdiction may enforce compliance
with a condition, covenant or commitment.
   (B)   Cause. A condition, covenant or commitment is not in compliance with
terms of an approval.
   (C)   General procedure.
      (1)   Issue notice. Before or after bringing an action to the court of
jurisdiction, the Plan Commission shall mail a notice letter to the violator,
the property address or to the tax record address if mail is undeliverable to
the property (e.g., a vacant site) describing the non-compliance.
      (2)   Investigation. Before or after bringing an action to the court of
jurisdiction, the Plan Commission shall make reasonable attempt to investigate
an alleged violation to conclude if there is non-compliance.
      (3)   Conditions. The Plan Commission shall bring an action to a court of
jurisdiction to enforce a condition, covenant (in connection to a plat, planned
development or development plan) or commitment.
      (4)   Court-imposed remedy. Any non-compliance shall be subject to any
court-imposed remedy. The court-imposed remedy may include enforcing the
condition, covenant or commitment, or be a unique court ruling that fulfills
the intent of the city’s Comprehensive Plan and this chapter. The severity of
the court ruling may consider the severity of the non-compliance, impact to
property values in the area, impact to quality of life in the area, impact to
the health, safety and welfare of the public, repetitiveness of similar
violations by the same violator and/or the precedent that may be set by the
ruling.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 10.13)
§ 165.513 REQUESTING PROHIBITORY OR PERMANENT INJUNCTION TO RESTRAIN.
   (A)   Authority. The Enforcement Official may bring action to a court of
jurisdiction as an independent enforcement action or concurrent to another
enforcement action; except as stated in §
165.510 (Request to Remedy). A court of jurisdiction may issue a prohibitory or
permanent injunction against a violator or potential violator.
   (B)   Cause. A violation, alleged violation or intent to violate exists.
   (C)   General procedure.
      (1)   Issue notice. Before or after bringing an action to the court of
jurisdiction, the Plan Commission shall mail a notice letter to the violator,
the property address or to the tax record address if mail is undeliverable to
the property (e.g., a vacant site) describing the violation, alleged violation
or intent to violate.
      (2)   Investigation. Before or after bringing an action to the court of
jurisdiction, the Plan Commission shall make reasonable attempt to investigate
an alleged violation to conclude if there is a violation, or an alleged intent
to violate.
      (3)   Request for injunction. The Enforcement Official shall bring an
action to a court of jurisdiction to request a prohibitory or permanent
injunction to restrain a violation of this chapter.
      (4)   Violation. Any violator found liable for a violation or intending
to violate this chapter shall be subject to prohibitory or permanent injunction
to restrain. The court-imposed restraint may instead result in a unique court
ruling that fulfills the intent of the city’s Comprehensive Plan and this
chapter. The severity of the court ruling may consider the severity of the
violation, impact to property values in the area, impact to quality of life in
the area, impact to the health, safety and welfare of the public,
repetitiveness of similar violations by the same violator and the precedent
that may be set by the ruling.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 10.14)
§ 165.514 REQUESTING MANDATORY INJUNCTION TO REMOVE STRUCTURE.
   (A)   Authority. The Board of Zoning Appeals may bring action to a court of
jurisdiction as an independent enforcement action or concurrent to another
enforcement action; except as stated in §
165.510 (Request to Remedy). A court of jurisdiction may issue a mandatory
injunction against a violator.
   (B)   Cause. A structure was constructed, modified or installed in violation
or alleged violation.
   (C)   General procedure.
      (1)   Issue notice. Before or after bringing an action to the court of
jurisdiction, the Board of Zoning Appeals shall mail a notice letter to the
violator, the property address, or to the tax record address if mail is
undeliverable to the property (e.g., a vacant site) describing the violation or
alleged violation.
      (2)   Investigation. Before or after bringing an action to the court of
jurisdiction, the Board of Zoning Appeals shall make reasonable attempt to
investigate an alleged violation to conclude if there is a violation.
      (3)   Request for injunction. The Board of Zoning Appeals may bring an
action to a court of jurisdiction to request a mandatory injunction to remove a
structure in violation of this chapter.
      (4)   Violation. If a structure is found in violation, the violator shall
be subject to a mandatory injunction to remove the structure and all costs
associated with the action. The court-imposed remedy may instead result in a
unique court ruling that fulfills the intent of the city’s Comprehensive Plan
and this chapter. The severity of the court ruling may consider the severity of
the violation, impact to property values in the area, impact to quality of life
in the area, impact to the health, safety and welfare of the public,
repetitiveness of similar violations by the same violator and the precedent
that may be set by the ruling.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 10.15) Penalty, see §
165.999
§ 165.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Impose a fine for violation.
      (1)   Authority. The Enforcement Official may impose a fine for violation
as an independent enforcement action or concurrent to another enforcement
action; except division (B) below or as stated in §
165.510 (Request to Remedy).
      (2)   Cause. A violation exists.
      (3)   General procedure.
         (a)   Collect evidence. Before imposing a fine, the Enforcement
Official shall collect evidence to conclude there is a violation.
         (b)   Issue notice. The Enforcement Official shall mail a notice
letter to the violator or the property address (or to the tax record address if
mail is undeliverable to the property (e.g., a vacant site)) describing the
violation. The notice letter shall also include the terms of the fine,
including the fine amount and the date payment is due.
         (c)   Timeframe to provide evidence or comply. If not addressed in a
concurrent enforcement action, the Enforcement Official shall grant the
violator an opportunity to provide evidence that there isn’t a violation or to
bring the violation into compliance, including a timeframe of at least one day
but not more than 21 days. The timeframe granted shall be reasonably tied to
the necessary time to remedy the violation (e.g., the time to remove an a-frame
portable sign in violation could be one day).
         (d)   Timeframe extension. A timeframe extension may be granted upon
request by the Enforcement Official if the violator is making satisfactory
progress.
         (e)   Financial liability. The Enforcement Official may impose a fine
in an amount not less than $50 or higher than $2,500 for the first violation
and not less than $50 or higher than $7,500 for the second or subsequent
violations. Each unique violation from the day it was confirmed as a violation
is subject to a fine; and each new day the violation persists, excluding days
granted to remedy the violation, shall constitute another fine. The fine for a
violation shall be reasonably in proportion to the severity of the violation,
repetitiveness of similar violations by the same violator and the cost
associated with enforcing, mitigating, administering, researching, inspecting,
legal fees and the like.
         (f)   Appeals. Fines imposed by the Enforcement Official may be
appealed to the Board of Zoning Appeals.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 10.16)
   (B)   Invoke a fine for violation.
      (1)   Authority. The Enforcement Official may bring action to a court of
jurisdiction as an independent enforcement action or concurrent to another
enforcement action; except division (A) above or as stated in §
165.510 (Request to Remedy). A court of jurisdiction may issue a fine for
violation.
      (2)   Cause. A violation exists.
      (3)   General procedure.
         (a)   Collect evidence. Before or after bringing an action to the
court of jurisdiction, the Enforcement Official shall collect evidence to
conclude there is a violation.
         (b)   Issue notice. Before or after bringing an action to the court of
jurisdiction, the Enforcement Official shall mail a notice letter to the
violator or the property address (or to the tax record address if mail is
undeliverable to the property (e.g., a vacant site)) describing the violation.
         (c)   Court-imposed fine. The Enforcement Official shall bring an
action to a court of jurisdiction to invoke a fine for a violation.
         (d)   Financial liability. A violator found liable for a violation
shall be subject to a court-imposed fine. The fine for a violation shall be
reasonably in proportion to the severity of the violation, repetitiveness of
similar violations by the same violator and the costs associated with
enforcing, mitigating, administering, researching, inspecting, court fees,
legal fees and the like. Fines imposed by the court of jurisdiction shall be no
higher than $2,500 for the first violation, and no higher than $7,500 for the
second or subsequent violations according to I.C. 36-1-3-8.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 10.17)
   (C)   Other remedy. Any action allowed by the Indiana Code, common law or
other applicable state regulations may be used to force a violation to be in
compliance with this chapter’s remedy or compliance with the terms of an
approval.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed - -2010, § 10.18)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
[Reserved]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Section Code Section
I.C. Section                         Code Section
1-1-1-8                              10.007
1-1-4-1                              10.005,
                                     10.006
1-1-41                               10.006
4-21.5-3-7                           150.020
4-21.5-1 et seq.                     32.019
                                     118.027,
4-21.5-5                             163.059,
                                     163.999
4-22-2                               165.003
4-27-5                               53.006
5-1-4-4                              32.015
5-2-1-9(f)                           33.022
5-2-8-2                              70.003
5-3-1                                36.014,
                                     92.005
5-4-1                                32.020
5-10.1 et seq.                       31.003,
                                     31.005
5-10.2 et seq.                       31.003,
                                     31.005
5-10.3 et seq.                       31.003,
                                     31.005
5-11-1-27(e)                         37.003
5-11-1-27(g)                         37.005
5-11-1-27(j)                         37.004
5-11-1-27(1)                         37.004
5-11-10                              31.007
5-12-1                               32.018
5-13-9-5.7                           35.001
5-13-9-5.7(a)                        35.001
5-13-9-5.7(b)                        35.001
5-14-1.5                             33.021
5-14-1.5-1                           163.021
5-14-1.5-1 et seq.                   32.021
5-14-1.5-5                           32.021
5-14-3-4                             33.021
5-16-7.2                             150.037
5-16-9                               75.034
                                     36.010,
5-22                                 36.011,
                                     36.019
5-22-8-3                             36.012,
                                     36.015
5-22-9                               36.013
6-1.1-6.2-27                         Ch. 159
6-1.1-12.1 et seq.                   35.002
6-1.1-12.1-4d(10)                    35.002
6-1.1-12.1-4.5d(10)                  35.002
6-1.1-24-4.5                         161.002
6-1.1-25-1                           161.003
6-1.1-25-4                           161.003
6-1.1-25-6                           161.003
7.1-3-20                             164.001
8-1-2-1 et seq.                      53.001
8-1.5-5-1 et seq.                    55.001
8-1.5-5-5                            55.002
8-1.5-5-7                            55.001
8-6                                  77.001
8-21-10                              165.120,
                                     165.126
8-22-2-1                             31.021,
                                     32.002
9-1-2-2(1)                           71.011
                                     150.004,
9-13-2-103.2                         150.006,
                                     150.017,
                                     165.002
9-13-2-1-23                          92.020
itle 9, Art. 21                      70.002
9-22-1 et seq.                       92.025
9-22-1-0.3 et seq.                   92.020
9-21-1-3(a)(3)                       74.006
9-21-1-3(a)(4)                       74.003
9-21-1-3(a)(6)                       74.004
9-21-1-3(a)(10)                      74.002
9-21-5-3                             74.001
9-22-1-0.3 through 9-22-6-3          92.021
9-22-1-27                            92.024
9-26-9-3                             70.003
12-7-2-33.7                          165.003
12-7-2-33.8                          165.003
12-7-28.4                            165.003
12-17.2-4-2 et seq.                  165.003
12-28-4                              165.003
14-21-1-19                           163.002
14-22                                90.028
14-28-1                              155.069
14-28-1-26                           155.069
itle 15                              Ch. 90
15-7-5                               90.028
15-20-2                              90.028
16-31                                34.023
16-31-2-9(3)                         34.023
16-31-5                              34.021
18-5-5-1                             151.002
18-7-4-101 et seq.                   160.002,
                                     160.006
19-2-14-1 through 19-2-32            59.149
19-2-20-1 through 19-2-20-15 et seq. 59.149
22-3-2 through 22-3-6                33.022
22-3-7                               33.022
22-9-1-2                             32.019
22-9-1-4 et seq.                     95.002
22-9-1-12.1                          32.019
22-9-1-12.1(a)                       32.019
22-9-1-12.1(b)                       32.019
22-9-1-12.1(c)(5)                    32.019
22-9-1-12.1(d)                       32.019
22-9-5 et seq.                       32.019
22-9.5-1 et seq.                     95.001
22-9.5-2-2                           95.002
22-9.5-2-3                           95.002
22-9.5-2-4                           95.002
22-9.5-2-8                           95.002
22-9.5-2-9                           95.002
22-9.5-2-11                          95.002
22-9.5-2-13                          95.002
22-9.5-3                             95.003
22-9.5-3 et seq.                     95.010
22-9.5-4-8                           95.011
22-9.5-5                             95.002
22-9.5-5-1                           95.003
22-9.5-6                             95.002,
                                     95.011
22-12-1-3                            153.007
22-13-2-3(b)                         150.003
22-13-2-7                            150.020
22-15-3-1                            150.004
24-4.5-1-301.5                       32.019
25-28.5-1 et seq.                    150.013
25-38.1-2-8                          90.028
31-6-4-15.7                          130.008
31-11-6 et seq.                      32.022
31-27-3-1                            165.003
31-27-5                              165.003
31-34-1                              165.003
31-37-2-3                            165.003
31-37-2-5                            165.003
31-37-3-3.5(b)(4)                    130.008
31-37-19-27                          130.008
32-24                                165.415
32-25 et seq.                        165.003
32-25                                165.464
32-30-8                              92.005
32-30-8-5                            92.005,
                                     92.999
34-7-5-1                             10.012
34-9-36                              31.002
itle 34, Art. 13, Ch. 3              32.019
34-13-3-0.1 through 34-13-3-25       32.019
34-13-3-3                            32.019
34-28-5-1(b)                         10.999
34-28-5-3                            10.999
34-28-5-3-35                         10.999
34-28-5-4                            10.999
35-43-5-5                            31.021
35-43-5-5(e)                         55.009
35-48-4                              92.005
36-1-3                               34.046,
                                     34.054
36-1-3-1 et seq.                     32.021
36-1-3-8                             155.999,
                                     165.999
36-1-3-8(a)(6)                       34.046
36-1-3-8(B)(ii)                      163.999
                                     56.002,
36-1-4-11                            57.025,
                                     152.002,
                                     152.012
36-1-6-2                             92.004,
                                     152.012
36-1-6-4                             10.999.
                                     113.999
36-1-8-11                            35.003
36-1-8-11(d)                         35.003
36-1-8-11(e)                         35.003
36-1-12                              36.004,
                                     36.005
36-1-12-3(a)                         36.004
36-1-27-1                            36.009
36-1-27-1 et seq.                    36.009
36-1-62                              57.025
36-1-4-11                            57.002
36-4-5                               31.020
36-4-6                               30.002
36-4-6-3                             30.002
36-4-6-9                             30.002
36-4-6-10 through 17                 30.002
36-4-6-15                            30.021
36-4-6-16                            30.021
36-4-6-21                            32.004
36-4-9-4                             32.001
36-4-9-5                             32.002
36-4-10-2(c)                         31.021
36-7-1-2                             165.003
36-7-3-10                            165.464
36-7-3-11                            165.464
36-7-3-12                            160.004
                                     56.002,
36-7-4                               57.002,
                                     152.002,
                                     155.001
36-7-4 et seq.                       160.004
36-7-4-200                           32.002
36-7-4-500                           165.003
36-7-4-604(i)                        165.126
36-7-4-607                           165.467
36-7-4-616                           165.440
36-7-4-700                           165.003
36-7-4-700 through 36-7-4-715        165.465
36-7-4-900                           32.002
36-7-4-918.5                         165.126
36-7-4-1109                          36.009
36-7-4-1400                          165.003
36-7-4-1500 et seq.                  165.486
                                     151.066,
                                     153.001,
36-7-9                               153.002,
                                     153.011,
                                     163.055
                                     151.061,
36-7-9 et seq.                       151.066,
                                     153.002,
                                     153.012
36-7-9-2                             153.002
36-7-9-4                             153.006
36-7-9-11                            153.009
36-7-9-12                            153.009
36-7-9-14(a)                         153.008
36-7-9-14(c)                         153.008
36-7-9-28                            153.010
36-7-10.1-1 et seq.                  92.003
36-7-10.1-3                          92.003
36-7-10.1-4                          92.003
36-7-11-4                            163.015
36-7-14-6.1                          32.002
36-7-14.5                            32.020
36-8                                 Ch. 94
36-8-2-2                             32.001
36-8-2-3                             32.001
36-8-2-12                            31.021
36-8-3-20                            33.022
36-8-4-2                             33.003,
                                     33.019
36-8-6                               32.003
36-8-7                               32.003
36-8-8                               32.003
36-8-12.2                            34.030,
                                     34.053
36-9-11-7                            Ch. 78, Sch. VIII
36-9-15.5                            35.017
36-9-23                              55.013
36-9-23-32                           55.014
36-9-23-33                           55.014
36-9-25                              55.004
                                     58.065,
                                     58.152,
36-9-25-1 et seq.                    59.002,
                                     59.013,
                                     59.100
36-9-25-3                            32.002
36-9-36                              31.002
36-10-3                              32.002
36-10-3-20                           35.015
36-10-3-22(b)(1)                     35.015
                                     
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code References 2023 Code Section
Prior Code References 2023 Code Section
10.01                 10.001
10.02                 10.002
10.03                 10.003
10.04                 10.004
10.05                 10.005
10.06                 10.006
10.07                 10.007
10.08                 10.008
10.09                 10.009
10.10                 10.010
10.11                 10.011
10.12                 10.012
10.13                 10.013
10.14                 10.014
10.80                 10.015
10.98                 10.016,
                      10.999
10.99                 10.999
30.01                 30.001
30.02                 30.002
30.03                 30.003
30.04                 30.004
30.05                 30.005
30.06                 30.006
30.07                 30.020
30.08                 30.021
30.09                 30.022
30.10                 30.023
30.11                 30.024
30.12                 30.025
30.13                 30.026
30.14                 30.027
30.15                 30.028
30.16                 30.029
31.01                 31.020
31.02                 32.001
31.03                 32.002
31.04                 31.021
31.05                 32.003
31.07                 35.015
31.08                 35.016
31.40                 33.001
31.42                 33.002
31.43                 33.003
31.50                 33.015
31.51                 33.016
31.52                 33.017
31.53                 33.018
31.54                 33.019
31.59                 33.020
31.60                 33.021
31.70                 33.022
32.10                 32.015
32.20                 32.016
32.30                 32.017
32.40                 32.018
32.50                 32.019
32.5101               95.001
32.5102               95.002
32.5103               95.003
32.5104               95.004
32.5105               95.005
32.5106               95.006
32.5107               95.007
32.5108               95.008
32.5109               95.009
32.5110               95.010
32.5111               95.011
32.5112               95.012
32.5113               95.013
32.60                 32.020
32.80                 32.021
32.99                 32.004
33.01                 31.001
33.02                 31.002
33.03                 31.003
33.04                 31.004
33.05                 31.005
33.06                 31.006
33.07                 31.007
35.01                 31.035
35.02                 31.036
35.03                 31.037
35.04                 31.038
35.05                 31.039
35.06                 31.040
35.07                 31.041
35.08                 31.042
35.09                 31.043
35.10                 31.044
41.01                 36.001
41.02                 36.002
41.03                 36.003
41.04                 36.004
41.05                 36.005
41.06                 36.006
41.07                 36.007
41.08                 36.008
41.09                 36.009
41.10                 36.010
41.11                 36.011
41.12                 36.012
41.13                 36.013
41.14                 36.014
41.15                 36.015
41.16                 36.016
41.17                 36.017
41.18                 36.018
41.19                 36.019
41.20                 36.020
41.21                 36.021
41.22                 36.022
41.23                 36.023
41.24                 36.024
41.25                 36.025
50.01                 59.001
50.02                 59.002
50.03                 59.003
50.04                 59.004
50.05                 59.005
50.07                 59.006
50.10                 59.025
50.11                 59.026
50.12                 59.027
50.13                 59.028
50.16                 59.040
50.17                 59.041
50.18                 59.042
50.19                 59.043
50.20                 59.044
50.21                 59.045
50.22                 59.046
50.23                 59.047
50.24                 59.048
50.25                 59.049
50.26                 59.050
50.27                 59.051
50.28                 59.052
50.29                 59.053
50.30                 59.054
50.31                 59.055
50.32                 59.056
50.33                 59.057
50.34                 59.058
50.35                 59.059
50.36                 59.060
50.37                 59.061
50.38                 59.062
50.39                 59.063
50.40                 59.064
50.41                 59.065
50.42                 59.066
50.45                 59.080
50.46                 59.081
50.47                 59.082
50.48                 59.083
50.49                 59.084
50.50                 59.085
50.53                 59.100
50.54                 59.101
50.55                 59.102
50.58                 59.115
50.59                 59.116
50.60                 59.117
50.61                 59.118
50.62                 59.119
50.63                 59.120
50.64                 59.999
50.65                 59.999
50.66                 59.007
50.67                 59.008
50.68                 59.009
50.69                 59.010
50.70                 59.011
50.71                 59.012
50.72                 59.013
50.73                 59.014
51.01                 54.001
52.01                 53.001
52.02                 53.002
52.03                 53.003
52.04                 53.004
52.05                 53.004
52.06                 53.004
52.07                 53.004
52.08                 53.005
52.09                 53.006
52.10                 53.007
53.01                 59.135
53.02                 59.136
53.03                 59.137
53.04                 59.138
53.05                 59.139
53.06                 59.999
53.07                 59.999
53.08                 59.140
53.10                 59.141
53.13                 59.142,
                      59.143
53.15                 59.144
53.16                 59.144
53.17                 59.145
53.18                 59.146
53.19                 59.147
53.20                 59.148
53.21                 59.149
53.22                 59.150
54.01                 58.001
54.02                 58.002
54.03                 58.030
54.04                 58.031
54.05                 58.032
54.06                 58.033
54.07                 58.034
54.08                 58.035
54.29                 58.050
54.30                 58.051
54.32                 58.052
54.33                 58.065
54.34                 58.066
54.35                 58.067
54.36                 58.068
54.37                 58.069
54.38                 58.080
54.39                 58.081
54.40                 58.082
54.41                 58.083
54.42                 58.084
54.43                 58.085
54.44                 58.086
54.46                 58.087
54.47                 58.088
54.48                 58.089
54.49                 58.090
54.50                 58.105
54.51                 58.106
54.52                 58.107
54.53                 58.108
54.54                 58.109
54.55                 58.110
54.56                 58.111
54.57                 58.112
54.58                 58.003
54.59                 58.004
54.60                 58.005
54.61                 58.006
54.63                 58.007
54.64                 58.008
54.65                 58.009
54.66                 58.010
54.67                 58.011
54.68                 58.012
54.69                 58.013
54.70                 58.125
54.71                 58.126
54.72                 58.127
54.73                 58.128
54.74                 58.140
54.75                 58.141
54.76                 58.142
54.77                 58.143
54.78                 58.144
54.79                 58.145
54.80                 58.146
54.81                 58.147
54.82                 58.148
54.83                 58.999
54.84                 58.999
54.85                 58.149
54.86                 58.150
54.87                 58.151
54.88                 58.152
54.89                 58.014
54.90                 58.015
54.91                 58.016
54.92                 58.017
55.01                 50.001
56.01                 56.001
56.02                 56.002
56.03                 56.003
56.04                 56.020
56.05                 56.021
56.06                 56.022
56.07                 56.004
56.08                 56.005
56.09                 56.040
56.10                 56.041
56.11                 56.042
56.12                 56.043
56.13                 56.044
56.14                 56.045
56.15                 56.046
56.16                 56.047
56.17                 56.023
56.18                 56.024
56.19                 56.025
56.20                 56.026
56.21                 56.027
56.22                 56.028
56.23                 56.029
56.24                 56.999
56.25                 56.999
57.01                 57.001
57.02                 57.002
57.03                 57.003
57.04                 57.004
57.05                 57.005
57.06                 57.006
57.07                 57.007
57.08                 57.020
57.09                 57.021
57.10                 57.022
57.11                 57.023
57.12                 57.024
57.13                 57.025
57.14                 57.026
57.15                 57.027
57.16                 57.028
57.17                 57.029
57.18                 57.999
57.19                 57.999
58.01                 51.001
58.02                 51.002
59.01                 55.001
59.02                 55.002
59.03                 55.003
59.04                 55.004
59.05                 55.005
59.06                 55.006
59.07                 55.007
59.08                 55.008
59.09                 55.009
59.10                 55.010
59.1.01               152.001
59.1.02               152.002
59.1.03               152.003
59.1.04               152.004
59.1.05               152.005
59.1.06               152.006
59.1.07               152.007
59.1.08               152.008
59.1.09               152.009
59.1.10               152.010
59.1.11               152.011
59.1.12               152.012
59.1.13               152.013
59.1.14               152.014
59.1.15               152.015
59.1.16               152.016
59.1.17               152.999
59.1.18               152.999
59.11                 55.011
59.12                 55.012
59.13                 55.013
59.14                 55.014
59.15                 55.999
59.16                 55.015
59.17                 55.016
59.18                 55.017
60.01                 150.035
60.02                 150.036
60.03                 150.037
60.04                 150.038
70.01                 70.001
70.02                 70.002
70.03                 70.003
70.06                 71.001
70.07                 71.002
70.08                 71.003
70.09                 71.004
70.10                 71.005
70.11                 71.006
70.12                 71.007
70.13                 71.008
70.14                 71.009
70.15                 71.010
70.16                 71.011
70.20                 71.025
70.21                 71.026
70.23                 71.027
70.24                 71.028
70.25                 71.029
70.35                 72.001
70.36                 72.002
70.37                 72.003
70.38                 72.004
70.39                 72.005
70.40                 72.006
70.41                 72.007
70.42                 72.007
70.43                 72.999
70.43                 72.008
70.44                 72.009
70.45                 72.010
71.01                 74.999
71.01                 74.001
71.02                 74.001
71.10                 74.002
71.11                 74.002
71.12                 74.002
71.13                 74.002
71.14                 74.002
71.20                 74.003
71.21                 74.003
71.25                 74.004
71.26                 74.004
71.27                 74.004
71.28                 74.004
71.29                 74.004
71.30                 74.004
71.31                 74.004
71.40                 74.005
71.41                 74.006
71.42                 74.006
71.43                 74.006
71.44                 74.006
71.45                 74.007
71.46                 74.008
71.47                 74.009
71.48                 74.010
72.00                 73.001
72.01                 73.002
72.02                 73.003
72.03                 73.004
72.04                 73.005
72.05                 73.999
74.00                 75.001
74.01                 75.002,
                      75.999
74.02                 75.002
74.03                 75.002,
                      75.999
74.04                 75.002
74.10                 75.015
74.11                 75.016
74.12                 75.017,
                      75.999
74.13                 75.018,
                      75.999
74.14                 75.019,
                      75.999
74.15                 75.020,
                      75.999
74.16                 75.021,
                      75.999
74.17                 75.022,
                      75.999
74.18                 75.023,
                      75.999
74.19                 75.024,
                      75.999
74.20                 75.025,
                      75.999
74.21                 75.026,
                      75.999
74.22                 75.027,
                      75.999
74.23                 75.028,
                      75.999
74.24                 75.029,
                      75.999
74.25                 75.030,
                      75.999
74.26                 75.031,
                      75.999
74.27                 75.032,
                      75.999
74.28                 75.033,
                      75.999
74.29                 75.034,
                      75.999
74.30                 75.035,
                      75.999
74.35                 75.050
74.36                 75.999
74.37                 75.051,
                      75.999
74.40                 75.052,
                      75.999
74.45                 Ch. 78, Schd. VII
74.47                 Ch. 78, Schd. VIII
74.50                 75.003
74.51                 75.004
75.01                 76.001
75.02                 76.002
75.03                 76.999
75.03                 76.003
75.04                 76.004
75.05                 76.005
75.06                 76.006
75.99                 76.999
77.01                 74.011
77.02                 74.011
77.03                 74.011
77.04                 74.999
77.05                 74.011
80.01                 34.020
80.02                 34.021
80.03                 34.022
80.04                 34.023
80.05                 34.024
80.06                 34.025
80.07                 34.026
80.08                 34.027
80.09                 34.028
80.10                 34.029
80.11                 34.030
80.12                 34.031
80.13                 34.032
81.01                 34.045
81.02                 34.046
81.03                 34.047
81.04                 34.048
81.05                 34.049
81.06                 34.050
81.07                 34.051
81.08                 34.052
81.09                 34.053
81.10                 34.054
81.11                 34.055
81.12                 34.056
Schd. I               Ch. 78, Schd. I
Schd. II              Ch. 78, Schd. II
Schd. III             Ch. 78, Schd. III
Schd. IV              Ch. 78, Schd. IV
Schd. V               Ch. 78, Schd. V
Schd. VI              Ch. 78, Schd. VI
90.01                 156.001
90.05                 156.015
90.06                 156.016
90.07                 156.017
90.08                 156.018
90.09                 156.019
90.10                 156.020
90.11                 156.021
90.12                 156.022
90.13                 156.023
90.20                 156.035
90.21                 156.036
90.22                 156.037
90.23                 156.038
90.24                 156.039
90.25                 156.040
90.26                 156.041
90.27                 156.042
90.28                 156.043
90.29                 156.044
90.30                 156.045
90.31                 156.046
90.32                 156.047
90.33                 156.048
90.40                 156.060
90.41                 156.061
90.42                 156.062
90.43                 156.063
90.44                 156.064
90.45                 156.065
90.46                 156.066
90.47                 156.067
90.48                 156.068
90.49                 156.069
91.01                 90.001
91.02                 90.015
91.03                 90.016
91.04                 90.017
91.05                 90.018
91.06                 90.019
91.07                 90.020
91.08                 90.021
91.09                 90.022
91.10                 90.023
91.11                 90.024
91.12                 90.025
91.13                 90.004
91.14                 90.026
91.15                 90.027
91.16                 90.028
91.17                 90.029
91.18                 90.030
91.97                 90.002
91.98                 90.999
91.99                 90.003
92.01                 91.020
92.02                 91.021
92.03                 91.022
92.04                 91.001
92.05                 91.002
92.06                 91.003
92.07                 91.004
92.08                 91.005
92.09                 91.006
92.10                 91.007
92.15                 91.035-
                      91.042
92.16                 91.999
92.17                 91.055-
                      91.058
93.01                 52.001
93.02                 52.002
93.03                 52.003
93.04                 52.004
93.05                 52.005
93.06                 52.006,
                      52.999
93.07                 52.007,
                      52.999
93.08                 52.008
93.09                 52.009
93.10                 52.010
93.15                 52.025,
                      52.999
93.16                 52.026,
                      52.999
93.17                 52.027
93.18                 52.028
93.19                 52.029
93.20                 52.030
94.01                 92.001
94.02                 92.002
94.03                 92.003
94.03                 92.999
94.04                 92.004
94.10                 92.020
94.11                 92.021
94.12                 92.022
94.13                 92.023
94.14                 92.024
94.15                 92.025
94.30                 92.040
94.31                 92.041
94.32                 92.042
94.33                 92.043
94.34                 92.044
94.35                 92.045
94.36                 92.046
94.40                 92.005,
                      92.999
95.01                 93.001
95.02                 93.002
95.03                 93.003
95.10                 93.015
95.11                 93.016
95.12                 93.017
95.13                 93.018
95.14                 93.019
95.15                 93.020
95.16                 93.021
95.17                 93.022
95.18                 93.023
95.19                 93.024
95.20                 93.025
95.23                 93.026
95.24                 93.027
95.25                 93.028
95.26                 93.029
95.30                 93.040
95.31                 93.041
95.32                 93.042
95.33                 93.043
95.34                 93.044
95.35                 93.045
95.36                 93.046
95.37                 93.047
95.38                 93.048
95.39                 93.049
                      93.050,
95.40                 93.052,
                      93.999
95.41                 93.051
96.01.01              157.016
96.01                 157.015
96.02                 157.017
96.03                 157.018
96.04                 157.019
96.10                 157.030,
                      157.999
96.11                 157.031
96.12                 157.999
96.12                 157.032
96.13                 157.033
96.14                 157.034
96.14                 157.999
96.20                 157.045
96.21                 157.046
96.22                 157.047
96.22                 157.999
96.23                 157.048
96.24                 157.049
96.25                 157.050
96.26                 157.051
96.30                 157.001
96.35                 157.002
96.99                 157.003
97.00                 159.015
97.01                 159.001
97.02                 159.016
97.03                 159.017
97.04                 159.018
97.05                 159.019
97.06                 159.030
97.07                 159.031
97.08                 159.032
97.09                 159.033
97.10                 159.034
97.11                 159.035
97.12                 159.036
97.13                 159.037
97.14                 159.038
97.15                 159.039
97.16                 159.040
97.17                 159.999
98.01                 153.001
98.03                 153.002
98.04                 153.003
98.05                 153.004
98.06                 153.005
98.07                 153.006
98.08                 153.007
98.09                 153.008
98.10                 153.009
98.11                 153.010
98.13                 153.011
98.14                 153.012
99.01                 131.001,
                      131.002
99.02                 131.003
99.03                 131.004
99.04                 131.005
99.05                 131.006
99.06                 131.007
99.07                 131.008
99.08                 131.999
99.09                 131.009
99.10                 131.010
99.11                 131.011
99.12                 131.012
100.01                34.001
100.02                34.002
100.03                34.003
100.98                34.004
100.99                34.005
105.01                158.001
105.02                158.002
105.03                158.003
105.04                158.025
105.05                158.026
105.06                158.027
105.07                158.028
105.08                158.029
105.09                158.030
105.10                158.031
105.11                158.032
105.12                158.004
105.13                158.005
105.14                158.006
105.15                158.007
105.16                158.008
105.17                158.009
105.18                158.010
105.19                158.011
105.20                158.045
105.21                158.046
105.22                158.047
105.23                158.048
105.24                158.049
105.25                158.050
105.26                158.051
105.27                158.052
105.28                158.053
105.29                158.054
110.01                110.001
110.02                110.002
110.03                110.003
110.04                110.004
110.05                110.005
110.06                110.006
110.07                110.007
110.08                110.008
110.09                110.009
110.10                110.010
110.11                110.011
110.12                110.012
110.13                110.013
111.10                111.001
112.01                112.001
112.06                112.002
112.07                112.003
112.08                112.004
112.09                112.005
112.99                112.999
115.01                114.001
115.02                114.015
115.03                114.016
115.04                114.017
115.05                114.018
115.06                114.019
115.07                114.020
115.08                114.021
115.09                114.022
115.10                114.023
115.11                114.024
115.12                114.040
115.13                114.041
115.14                114.042
115.16                114.043
115.17                114.044
115.17                114.025
115.18                114.026
115.19                114.045
115.20                114.002
116.01                113.001
116.02                113.002
116.03                113.003
116.04                113.004
116.05                113.005
116.06                113.006
116.07                113.999
118.01                77.001
118.02                77.002
118.03                77.003
118.04                77.004
118.05                77.005
118.06                77.006
118.07                77.007
118.08                77.008
118.09                77.009
120.01                94.002
120.01                94.001
120.03                94.003
120.04                94.004
120.05                94.005
120.06                94.006
120.07                94.007
120.08                94.008
120.09                94.009
120.10                94.010
120.11                94.011
120.12                94.012
120.13                94.999
120.14                94.013,
                      94.999
120.15                94.014
120.16                94.015,
                      94.999
120.17                94.016,
                      94.018
120.18                94.017
120.20                94.030
120.21                94.031
120.22                94.999
122.01                116.001
122.02                116.002
122.03                116.003
122.04                116.999
122.05                116.004
122.06                116.005
122.06                116.006
122.07                116.007
123.01                117.001
123.02                117.999
123.03                117.002
124.01                132.001
124.02                132.002
124.03                132.003
124.04                132.999
124.05                132.004
125.01                115.001
125.02                115.002
125.99                115.999
130.01                130.001,
                      130.999
130.02                130.002
130.03                130.003
130.05                130.004
130.06                130.005
130.07                130.006
130.08                130.007,
                      130.999
130.09                130.008,
                      130.999
130.15                130.020
130.16                130.021
130.17                130.022
130.25                130.035
130.26                130.036
130.27                130.037,
                      130.999
150.01                150.001
150.02                150.002
150.03                150.003
150.04                150.004
150.05                150.004
150.06                150.005
150.07                150.006
150.08                150.007
150.09                150.008
150.10                150.008
150.11                150.009
150.12                150.010
150.13                150.011
150.14                150.012
150.15                150.013
150.16                150.014
150.17                150.015
150.18                150.016
150.19                150.017
150.20                150.018
150.21                150.019
150.22                150.020
150.23                150.021
150.24                150.999
151.01                151.001
151.02                151.002
151.03                151.003
151.04                151.004
151.10                151.015
151.11                151.016
151.12                151.017
151.13                151.018
151.14                151.019
151.20                151.030
151.21                151.031
151.25                151.045
151.27                151.046
151.35                151.060
151.36                151.061
151.37                151.062
151.38                151.063
151.39                151.064
151.40                151.065
151.41                151.066
151.45                151.080
151.46                151.081
151.47                151.082
151.48                151.083
151.49                151.084
151.50                151.999
152.01                154.001
152.02                154.002
152.03                154.003
155.01                160.001
155.02                160.002
155.03                160.003
155.04                160.004
155.05                160.005
155.06                160.006
155.07                160.007
155.08                160.008
156.01                161.001
156.02                161.002
156.03                161.003
156.04                161.004
156.05                161.005
156.06                161.006
156.07                161.007
156.08                161.008
156.09                161.009
156.10                161.010
156.11                161.011
156.12                161.012
                      163.001,
                      163.002,
158.01                163.020,
                      163.021,
                      163.055
158.02                163.015-
                      163.019
158.03                163.022
158.04                163.035-
                      163.043
158.06                163.056
158.07                163.057
158.08                163.058
158.09                163.059
158.10                163.060
158.11                163.061
158.12                163.999
158.13                163.003
158.14                163.004
162.20                162.001
162.30                162.002
162.40                162.003
162.50                162.004
162.60                162.005
                      
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Description
Res. No. Date Passed Description
                     31.035,
15-1977  - -         31.037-
                     31.039,
                     31.042
11-1979  - -         53.004
24-1980  - -         32.015
2-1984   - -         59.144
4-1984   - -         31.021
1-1989   - -         59.144
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.   Date Passed Description
1-1980     - -         53.004
1-1985     - -         31.038
1-1992     - -         32.001
1-1998     - -         Ch. 78, Schd. VIII
1-2009     - -         Ch. 78, Schd. VIII
2-1984     - -         31.021
2-1988     - -         32.019
                       31.021,
4-1996     - -         32.001,
                       32.002
5-1987     - -         32.018
5-2018     - -         32.021
7-2004     - -         51.002
7-2005     - -         32.001
8-1985     - -         32.017
8-1989     - -         59.144
9-1985     - -         32.004
9-2004     - -         32.001
                       52.006,
                       52.007,
10-2001    - -         52.025,
                       52.026,
                       52.999,
                       55.007
11-1979    - -         52.002
11-1993    - -         75.033
13-1978    - -         53.003
15-1986    - -         32.016
17-1998    - -         Ch. 78, Schd. VIII
17-2012    - -         32.021
20-1996    - -         32.017
26-1982    - -         50.001
26-1985    - -         33.003,
                       33.019
26-1986    - -         30.029
32-1989    - -         33.017
26-2012    - -         Ch. 78, Schd. VIII
27-1978    - -         33.017
27-1992    - -         74.011
27-1995    - -         32.019
34-1998    - -         Ch. 78, Schd. VIII
34-2016    - -         32.001
34-3017    - -         75.052
35-1984    - -         31.006
35-1985    - -         31.021
38-1985    - -         58.107
39-1984    - -         53.007
40-1986    - -         31.001
41-1986    - -         33.020
42-1991    - -         59.145
45-1986    - -         32.019
45-2000    - -         31.004
47-1984    - -         75.033
47-1986    - -         32.016
48-2002    - -         33.017
49-1990    - -         75.034
                       75.026,
50-1998    - -         75.031,
                       75.999,
                       Ch. 78, Schd. VIII
53-1987    - -         71.027
                       56.004,
54-1981    - -         56.005,
                       57.006,
                       57.007
                       31.021,
54-1994    - -         33.018,
                       71.011
55-1983    - -         53.004
55-1987    - -         71.026
58-90      - -         32.020
58-2002    - -         75.029,
                       Ch. 78, Schd. VIII
59-2007    - -         70.003
60-1988    - -         71.011
61-1990    - -         30.001
61-2014    - -         75.034,
                       75.999
                       52.003,
                       52.007,
                       52.008,
62-1999    - -         52.009,
                       52.010,
                       52.027-
                       52.029
                       31.036-
63-2000    - -         31.042,
                       31.044
64-1991    - -         35.016
66-2000    - -         33.021
67-1990    - -         31.007
68-1988    - -         33.017
68-2002    - -         30.001
68-2008    - -         Ch. 78, Schd. II
70-2012    - -         30.001
71-1989    - -         32.019
71-1994    - -         32.019
71-1996    - -         32.002
72-2004    - -         56.999
72-2007    - -         58.081,
                       58.112
74-1996    - -         32.019
74-2006    - -         75.031,
                       75.999
75-1978    - -         72.008,
                       72.999
75-1979    - -         33.002
75-1981    - -         33.018
80-1984    - -         33.015
                       75.027,
80-2002    - -         75.032,
                       75.999
86-1981    - -         31.006
                       75.034,
86-1994    - -         75.035,
                       75.999
87-1985    - -         35.015
93-1986    - -         33.001
                       59.136-
                       59.139,
93-1995    - -         59.143,
                       59.146,
                       59.999
93-1998    - -         52.005,
                       52.030
                       56.005,
93-2002    - -         58.081,
                       58.107
97-1998    - -         75.019,
                       75.999
                       73.001-
98-1995    - -         73.005,
                       73.999
99-1990    - -         33.017
103-1985   - -         31.021
103-1993   - -         35.015
110-1984   - -         31.021
                       75.002,
                       75.003,
                       75.017-
                       75.020,
                       75.022-
                       75.025,
116-1997   - -         75.028,
                       75.030-
                       75.032,
                       75.051,
                       75.052,
                       75.999,
                       Ch. 78, Schd. VII,
                       Ch. 78, Schd. VIII
117-1984   - -         75.034
126-1985   - -         77.001
129-1996   - -         75.033
218-1910   - -         77.002
811-1925   - -         31.002
856-1926   - -         77.007
1085-1935  - -         53.001
1223-1941  - -         77.007
1307-1946  - -         33.002
1372-1949  - -         77.008,
                       77.009
1469-1952  - -         31.002
1479-1953  - -         77.001
                       70.001,
                       71.001-
                       71.010,
                       71.025-
                       71.029,
                       72.001-
                       72.007,
                       72.009,
                       72.010,
1781-1960  - -         73.002-
                       73.005,
                       74.001-
                       74.004,
                       74.006-
                       74.010,
                       75.050,
                       75.051,
                       75.999,
                       Ch. 78, Schd. II
1813-1960  - -         53.001
1889-1961  - -         54.001
2125-1965  - -         70.001
2153-1965  - -         31.005
                       52.001,
2432-1969  - -         52.002,
                       52.004
2774-1973  - -         33.016
2866-1973  - -         31.005
3022-1975  - -         74.005
3091-1976  - -         Ch. 78, Schd. VII
3129-1976  - -         Ch. 78, Schd. II
3176-1977  - -         31.005
3187-1977  - -         32.002,
                       33.017
3233-1977  - -         33.017
3269-1977  - -         Ch. 78, Schd. II
13105-1949 - -         77.008
14-2011    - -         34.056
-          10-6-1879   77.003-
                       77.006
-          3-1-1880    130.022
-          12-20-1880  157.001
-          10-5-1891   157.031
-          8-20-1894   130.020
-          8-12-1895   130.021
52-1906    - -1906     157.045
217-1910   - -1910     130.004
224-1910   - -1910     157.046
230-1910   - -1910     113.003,
                       113.004
231-1910   - -1910     92.040-
                       92.046
379-1914   - -1914     130.021
390-1914   - -1914     157.032,
                       157.999
-          1-17-1916   31.002
487-1917   - -1917     157.048
529-1918   - -1918     92.002
727-1922   - -1922     111.001
729-1922   - -1922     111.001
853-1926   - -1926     157.018
968-1930   - -1930     130.003
                       112.001-
1016-1932  - -1932     112.005,
                       112.999
1153-1937  - -1937     130.002,
                       130.020
1215-1940  - -1940     130.035
1283-1944  - -1944     92.001
                       154.001,
1325-1947  - -1947     154.002,
                       154.003
1492-1953  - -1953     130.006
                       156.001,
                       156.015-
                       156.023,
                       156.035-
1594-1956  - -1956     156.048,
                       156.060-
                       156.065,
                       156.067,
                       156.069
1663-1958  - -1958     157.030,
                       157.999
                       93.001-
                       93.003,
                       93.015-
1853-1961  - -1961     93.029,
                       93.040-
                       93.052,
                       93.999
1862-1961  - -1961     157.030,
                       157.999
                       151.001-
                       151.004.
                       151.015-
                       151.019,
                       151.030,
                       151.031,
2231-1966  - -1966     151.045,
                       151.046,
                       151.060-
                       151.066,
                       151.080-
                       151.084,
                       151.999
                       91.001-
2241-1966  - -1966     91.007,
                       91.022,
                       91.999
2282-1967  - -1967     160.001-
                       160.008
                       151.015-
2425-1969  - -1969     151.017,
                       151.019,
                       151.046
2688-1972  - -1972     91.020,
                       91.021
2850-1973  - -1973     93.016
                       156.001,
3159-1976  - -1976     156.066,
                       156.068
                       156.015-
                       156.023,
3259-1976  - -1976     156.035-
                       156.048,
                       156.060-
                       156.069
                       114.001,
                       114.002,
3267-1977  - -1977     114.015-
                       114.026,
                       114.040-
                       114.045
16-1978    - -1978     92.004
17-1978    - -1978     110.013
34-1978    - -1978     160.002
80-1978    - -1978     160.002
81-1980    - -1980     91.035-
                       91.042
6-1981     - -1981     130.036
89-1981    - -1981     10.999
3-1982     - -1982     92.020-
                       92.024
28-1982    - -1982     92.023
18-1984    - -1984     160.004
83-1984    - -1984     91.022
95-1984    - -1984     157.016
153-1984   - -1984     130.001,
                       130.005
15-1985    - -1985     150.035-
                       150.038
39-1985    - -1985     130.007,
                       130.999
                       94.001,
                       94.002,
47-1985    - -1985     94.004-
                       94.018,
                       94.999
67-1985    - -1985     92.003,
                       92.999
                       116.001-
130-1985   - -1985     116.007,
                       116.999
15-1986    - -1986     159.015
21-1986    - -1986     161.012
25-1986    - -1986     92.022
36-1986    - -1986     157.030,
                       157.999
38-1986    - -1986     10.015
47-1986    - -1986     159.015,
                       159.036
7-1987     - -1987     159.030
12-1987    - -1987     91.999
9-1988     - -1988     159.036
10-1988    - -1988     91.035,
                       91.037
16-1988    - -1988     91.040
31-1988    - -1988     153.011
19-1990    - -1990     93.029
77-1990    - -1990     113.999
89-1990    - -1990     131.001-
                       131.012
                       93.001,
                       93.002,
3-1991     - -1991     93.021,
                       93.022,
                       93.023,
                       93.026
                       157.030,
58-1991    - -1991     157.032,
                       157.034,
                       157.999
63-1991    - -1991     92.003,
                       92.999
73-1991    - -1991     91.055-
                       91.058
52-1992    - -1992     157.030,
                       157.999
1-1992     2-3-1992    31.021
                       132.001-
10-1993    - -1993     132.004,
                       132.999
23-1993    - -1993     92.003,
                       92.999
40-1993    - -1993     162.001-
                       162.005
49-1993    - -1993     159.030,
                       159.036
89-1993    - -1993     117.002
105-1993   - -1993     153.008
                       115.001,
54-1994    - -1994     115.002,
                       115.999
84-1994    - -1994     93.016
88-1994    - -1994     130.999
                       10.002,
                       10.006,
????-1995  - -1995     10.012,
                       10.015,
                       10.999,
                       72.010
28-1995    - -1995     95.001-
                       95.013
52-1995    - -1995     95.001-
                       95.013
-          1-27-1995   50.001
-          2-6-1995    30.003
-          8-7-1995    30.003,
                       30.005
94-1996    - -1996     153.002,
                       153.012
36-1997    - -1997     157.002,
                       157.030
37-1997    - -1997     150.012
                       157.030,
38-1997    - -1997     157.032,
                       157.999
57-1997    - -1997     157.016
121-1997   - -1997     150.004
21-1998    - -1998     130.037,
                       130.999
51-1998    - -1998     115.021
                       94.002,
                       94.004,
10-2000    - -2000     94.006,
                       94.015,
                       94.999
26-2000    - -2000     163.004,
                       163.043
2-2001     - -2001     150.016
39-2001    - -2001     94.003,
                       94.004
95-2001    - -2001     93.052,
                       93.999
-          12-1-2002   157.047,
                       157.999
12-2005    - -2005     150.003
                       150.004,
38-2005    - -2005     150.006,
                       150.008,
                       150.012
                       152.001-
68-2005    - -2005     152.016,
                       152.999
-          1-16-2006   157.019
-          2-5-2006    157.050
                       118.001-
                       118.007,
50-2006    11-6-2006   118.020-
                       118.028,
                       118.999
51-2007    - -2007     92.025
9-2008     - -2008     157.017
009-2017   2-21-2009   32.022
-          3-16-2009   34.032
55-2009    9-15-2009   33.022
66-2009    12-7-2009   164.001-
                       164.006
                       165.001-
                       165.018,
                       165.030-
                       165.034,
                       165.045-
                       165.051,
                       165.065-
                       165.070,
                       165.085-
                       165.108,
                       165.120-
                       165.127,
                       165.140-
                       165.148,
                       165.160-
                       165.165,
                       165.180-
                       165.186,
                       165.200-
                       165.205,
                       165.220-
                       165.226,
                       165.240-
10-2010    - -2010     165.246,
                       165.260-
                       165.294,
                       165.305-
                       165.312,
                       165.325-
                       165.332,
                       165.345-
                       165.353,
                       165.365-
                       165.374,
                       165.385-
                       165.401,
                       165.415-
                       165.424,
                       165.435-
                       165.440,
                       165.455-
                       165.470,
                       165.485-
                       165.488,
                       165.500-
                       165.514,
                       165.999
33-2010    - -2010     93.016
36-2011    - -2011     92.003,
                       92.999
                       157.003,
28-2013    - -2013     157.003,
                       157.999
31-2013    - -2013     93.016
72-2013    - -2013     95.001-
                       95.013
-          4-8-2013    30.029
                       153.011,
15-2014    - -2014     163.016,
                       163.055
-          11-16-2014  157.049
13-2015    - -2015     92.003,
                       92.999
                       155.001-
                       155.015,
                       155.030-
                       155.031,
4-2015     2-2-2015    155.045-
                       155.050,
                       155.065-
                       155.072,
                       155.999
18-2015    3-16-2015   53.002
36-2015    7-20-2015   Ch. 78, Schd. VIII
68-2015    11-16-2015  75.030,
                       75.999
27-2016    6-20-2016   37.001-
                       37.007
28-2016    6-20-2016   35.021
29-2016    6-20-2016   35.020
39-2016    7-18-2016   35.018
34-2016    9-19-2016   32.001
47-2016    11-7-2016   Ch. 78, Schd. VIII
58-2016    11-7-2016   35.019
                       90.017,
1-2017     3-20-2017   90.028,
                       90.999
                       115.015-
28-2017    8-21-2017   115.044,
                       115.999
39-2017    10-2-2017   35.015
                       75.002,
                       75.003,
                       75.004,
                       75.017-
                       75.030,
34-2017    1-2-2018    75.032-
                       75.034,
                       75.051,
                       75.999,
                       Ch. 78, Schd. VIII, 
                       Ch. 78, Schd. VII
1-2018     1-16-2018   90.028,
                       90.999
60-2018    3-4-2018    30.025
17-2018    3-19-2018   35.002
13-2018    4-16-2018   92.003,
                       92.999
                       75.026,
12-2018    5-21-2018   75.032,
                       75.999
37-2018    9-4-2018    163.035-
                       163.043
5-2019     2-19-2019   35.002
18-2019    5-6-2019    35.001
51-2019    12-16-2019  36.009
36-2020    - -2020     165.101
38-2020    - -2020     30.021,
                       30.025
10-2020    2-18-2020   35.017
51-2020    9-21-2020   93.016
53-2020    9-21-2020   35.003
37-2021    8-16-2021   150.004
44-2021    10-18-2021  90.015
27-2022    5-16-2022   30.001
45-2022    10-3-2022   91.022
6-2023     - -2023     163.999
5-2023     1-17-2023   31.004
                      
 
 
