RIPLEY COUNTY, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-8 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2024-13, passed 11-22-2024; and
State legislation current through Legislative Service, 2024 Acts, Pamphlet No.
3
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the county, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component codes, titles,
chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Ripley County
Code”, for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified ordinances” or
“code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   (1)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws,
amendments thereto and newly enacted laws.
      (2)   Any previously existing law or amendment thereto reenacted by this
code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it had not been repealed by
this code.
      (3)   All rules and regulations adopted under laws reenacted in this code
shall remain in full force and effect unless repealed or amended subsequent to
the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning, application
or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate meaning in
law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BOARD. The Board of Commissioners of Ripley County, Indiana.
      COUNCIL. The County Council of Ripley County, Indiana.
      COUNTY. Ripley County, Indiana.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as
applied to any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing or other modes of
representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
non-severability provision, each division or part of every section is
severable. If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the
invalidity does not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a statute stating that the provisions of an act are
severable as provided in division (B) above does not affect the operation of
division (B) above with respect to that act.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered, unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer or employee of the county exercising the
powers, duties or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any
transfer of functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
or Board refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department,
officer, agency, authority or instrumentality of any government, and that name
designation is incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or
following the effective date, the rights, powers, duties or liabilities placed
with that entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named
board, bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   (1)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided,
shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last.
      (2)   If the last day be a Saturday, Sunday or a state holiday, it shall
be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   (A)   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former
section or law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section
or law is not revived unless it so expressly provides.
   (B)   The repeal of any section shall not extinguish or release any penalty,
forfeiture or liability incurred under the section, unless the repealing
section so expressly provides.
   (C)   The section shall be treated as still remaining in force for the
purposes of sustaining any proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of
the penalty, forfeiture or liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   (1)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a
new chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of
this code, the proper number of the chapter or section.
      (2)   In addition to an indication thereof as may appear in the text of
the proposed ordinance, a caption or title shall be shown in concise form above
the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
      § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   (A)   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date
of this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those
laws. This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code.
   (B)   The liabilities, proceedings and rights are continued; punishments,
penalties or forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not
been enacted.
   (C)   In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway
rights-of-way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   COUNCIL AND BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
      
31.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
      
33.   FUNDS, FEES AND TAXATION; FINANCE
      
34.   GENERAL POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: COUNCIL AND BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
Section
   
30.01   Membership in state organizations
   
30.02   Commissioner election districts
   
30.03   Council election districts
   
30.04   Electronic meetings policy of Board of Commissioners
   
30.05   Electronic meetings policy of County Council
§ 30.01 MEMBERSHIP IN STATE ORGANIZATIONS.
   The membership fees of the following state governmental associations shall
be paid from the general funds of the county to aid the elected officials in
performing their elected office:
   (A)   Association of Indiana Counties;
   (B)   Association of County Commissioners;
   (C)   Association of County Councils;
   (D)   Association of County Assessors;
   (E)   Association of County Auditors;
   (F)   Association of County Clerks;
   (G)   Association of County Coroners;
   (H)   Association of County Recorders;
   (I)   Association of County Surveyors; and
   (J)   Association of County Treasurers.
(Ord. 1991-4, passed 6-3-1991)
§ 30.02 COMMISSIONER ELECTION DISTRICTS.
   The County Commissioner election districts are hereby drawn and established
as follows:
   (A)   District 1. Adams Township, Delaware Township, Precinct 1 of Franklin
Township, Laughery township and Jackson Township;
   (B)   District 2. Center Township, Precincts 2 and 3 of Franklin Township,
Johnson Township, Otter Creek Township and Precinct 2 of Washington Township;
and
   (C)   District 3. Brown Township, Shelby Township and Precinct 1 of
Washington Township.
(Ord. 1991-2-A, passed 12-27-1991; Ord. 2021-08, passed 12-28-2021)
§ 30.03 COUNCIL ELECTION DISTRICTS.
   The following County Council election districts for the county shall be
divided by election precincts as follows:
   (A)   District 1. Precincts 1 & 3 of Adams Township and Laughery Township.
   (B)   District 2. Precinct 2 of Adams Township, Franklin Township and
Washington Township.
   (C)   District 3. Center Township, Delaware Township, Jackson Township and
Otter Creek Township.
   (D)   District 4. Brown Township, Johnson Township and Shelby Township.
(Ord. 1991-3, passed 12-27-1991; Ord. 2021-08, passed 12-28-2021)
§ 30.04 ELECTRONIC MEETINGS POLICY OF BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.
   (A)   (1)   The provisions of the Act (I.C. 5-14-1.5-1 et seq.), including
definitions, apply to this section.
      (2)   This section shall be known as the “Electronic Meetings Policy” of
the Board of Commissioners and applies to the Board and any committee appointed
directly by this Board or its presiding officer.
   (B)   (1)   Subject to divisions (C) and (E) below, any member may
participate in a meeting by any electronic means of communication that:
         (a)   Allows all participating members of the governing body to
simultaneously communicate with each other; and
         (b)   Other than a meeting that is an executive session, allows the
public to simultaneously attend and observe the meeting.
      (2)   A member who participates by an electronic means of communication:
         (a)   Shall be considered present for purposes of establishing a
quorum; and
         (b)   May participate in final action only if the member can be seen
and heard.
      (3)   All votes taken during a meeting at which at least one member
participates by an electronic means of communication must be taken by roll call
vote.
   (C)   (1)   At least 50% of the members must be physically present at a
meeting at which a member will participate by means of electronic
communication. Not more than 50% of the members may participate by an
electronic means of communication at that same meeting.
      (2)   A member may not attend more than 50% of the meetings in a calendar
year by an electronic means of communication, unless the member's electronic
participation is due to:
         (a)   Military service;
         (b)   Illness or other medical condition;
         (c)   Death of a relative; or
         (d)   An emergency involving actual or threatened injury to persons or
property.
      (3)   A member may attend two consecutive meetings (a set of meetings) by
electronic communication. A member must attend in person at least one meeting
between sets of meetings that the member attends by electronic communication,
unless the member’s absence is due to:
         (a)   Military service;
         (b)   Illness or other medical condition;
         (c)   Death of a relative; or
         (d)   An emergency involving actual or threatened injury to persons or
property.
   (D)   The minutes of a meeting at which any member participates by
electronic means of communication must:
      (1)   Identify each member who:
         (a)   Was physically present at the meeting;
         (b)   Participated in the meeting by electronic means of
communication; and
         (c)   Was absent; and
      (2)   Identify the electronic means of communication by which:
         (a)   Members participated in the meeting; and
         (b)   Members of the public attended and observed the meeting if the
meeting was not an executive session.
   (E)   No member of the Board may participate by means of electronic
communication in a meeting at which the Board may take final action to:
      (1)   Adopt a budget;
      (2)   Make a reduction in personnel;
      (3)   Initiate a referendum;
      (4)   Impose or increase a fee;
      (5)   Impose or increase a penalty;
      (6)   Exercise the Board's power of eminent domain; or
      (7)   Establish, impose, raise or renew a tax.
(Res. 2021-02, passed 5-17-2021)
§ 30.05 ELECTRONIC MEETINGS POLICY OF COUNTY COUNCIL.
   (A)   (1)   The provisions of the Act (I.C. 5-14-1.5-1 et seq.), including
definitions, apply to this section.
      (2)   This section shall be known as the “Electronic Meetings Policy” of
the Council and applies to the Council and any committee appointed directly by
this Council or its presiding officer.
   (B)   (1)   Subject to divisions (C) and (E) below, any member may
participate in a meeting by any electronic means of communication that:
         (a)   Allows all participating members of the governing body to
simultaneously communicate with each other; and
         (b)   Other than a meeting that is an executive session, allows the
public to simultaneously attend and observe the meeting.
      (2)   A member who participates by an electronic means of communication:
         (a)   Shall be considered present for purposes of establishing a
quorum; and
         (b)   May participate in final action only if the member can be seen
and heard.
      (3)   All votes taken during a meeting at which at least one member
participates by an electronic means of communication must be taken by roll call
vote.
   (C)   (1)   At least 50% of the members must be physically present at a
meeting at which a member will participate by means of electronic
communication. Not more than 50% of the members may participate by an
electronic means of communication at that same meeting.
      (2)   A member may not attend more than 50% of the meetings in a calendar
year by an electronic means of communication, unless the member's electronic
participation is due to:
         (a)   Military service;
         (b)   Illness or other medical condition;
         (c)   Death of a relative; or
         (d)   An emergency involving actual or threatened injury to persons or
property.
      (3)   A member may attend two consecutive meetings (a set of meetings) by
electronic communication. A member must attend in person at least one meeting
between sets of meetings that the member attends by electronic communication,
unless the member’s absence is due to:
         (a)   Military service;
         (b)   Illness or other medical condition;
         (c)   Death of a relative; or
         (d)   An emergency involving actual or threatened injury to persons or
property.
   (D)   The minutes of a meeting at which any member participates by
electronic means of communication must:
      (1)   Identify each member who:
         (a)   Was physically present at the meeting;
         (b)   Participated in the meeting by electronic means of
communication; and
         (c)   Was absent; and
      (2)   Identify the electronic means of communication by which:
         (a)   Members participated in the meeting; and
         (b)   Members of the public attended and observed the meeting if the
meeting was not an executive session.
   (E)   No member of the Council may participate by means of electronic
communication in a meeting at which the Board may take final action to:
      (1)   Adopt a budget;
      (2)   Make a reduction in personnel;
      (3)   Initiate a referendum;
      (4)   Impose or increase a fee;
      (5)   Impose or increase a penalty;
      (6)   Exercise the Board's power of eminent domain; or
      (7)   Establish, impose, raise or renew a tax.
(Res. 2021-04, passed 6-21-2021)
CHAPTER 31: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
   
31.01   Public Defender Board
   
31.02   Local Advisory Council for the Help Americans Vote Act
   
31.03   Convention, Recreation and Visitor Commission
   
31.04   Department of Redevelopment; Commission
   
31.05   Department of Parks and Recreation; Board
   
31.06   Police Reserves
   
31.07   Community Corrections Advisory Board
§ 31.01 PUBLIC DEFENDER BOARD.
   (A)   Establishment and purpose of Board. The County Public Defender Board
is hereby established for the purpose of providing legal representation to
indigent persons who are defendants or respondents in criminal, juvenile,
probation violation, extradition, child support, civil commitment and other
proceedings where the right to counsel at public expense has been established
by law; provided, however, that, this section shall not be construed to require
the provision of legal representation to indigent persons seeking post-
conviction relief, for whom representation by the State Public Defender is
provided by law.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BOARD. The County Public Defender Board created by this section.
      INDIGENT PERSON. A person who, as a defendant or a respondent, requests
legal representation and is determined by the court to be entitled to legal
representation at public expense.
      LEGAL REPRESENTATION.
         (a)   The services of an attorney provided to an indigent person in a
matter originating in a state court in the county involving:
            1.   A person charged with a crime, as defined by I.C. 35-41-1-6;
            2.   A juvenile charged with an act of delinquency, as defined in
I.C. 31-37-1-2;
            3.   A person charged with a violation of a condition of probation
established as a part of a disposition or sentence in a juvenile or criminal
matter;
            4.   Detention of a person subject to extradition to another
jurisdiction;
            5.   Proceedings to collect unpaid child support pursuant to I.C.
31-16-17-12;
            6.   Civil commitment and contempt proceedings; or
            7.   Other proceedings where the right to counsel at public expense
has been established by law.
         (b)   The term LEGAL REPRESENTATION includes services in connection
with all pretrial, trial and appellate proceedings in which an indigent person
has a right to counsel.
   (C)   Board membership and appointment.
      (1)   The Board shall consist of three members: one member appointed by
the County Commissioners; and two members, who may not be from the same
political party, appointed by majority vote of the judges in the county who
exercise felony or juvenile jurisdiction.
      (2)   The initial term of the member appointed by the County
Commissioners shall expire on 12-31-2013. The initial term of one member
appointed by the judges shall expire on 12-31-2014 and the initial term of the
other member appointed by the judges shall expire on 12-31-2015.
      (3)   After the initial term of each member, appointments shall be for
three-year terms. A member of the Board shall serve until his or her successor
is appointed. An appointment to fill a vacancy shall be made by the authority
appointing the member vacating the position and shall be for the remainder of
the unexpired term.
      (4)   The following persons shall be ineligible to serve as members of
the Board: a city, town or county attorney, a law enforcement officer, a judge
or a court employee.
      (5)   Board members shall serve without pay but may, as provided by I.C.
33-40-7-4, receive reimbursement for expenses incurred in connection with their
duties, if approved by the Board.
      (6)   Two members of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the purpose
of conducting the business of the Board. To be effective, all decisions of the
Board must be approved by a majority vote of the members present.
      (7)   The Board shall meet at least quarterly or upon call of its
Chairperson or any two members of the Board.
      (8)   The Board shall elect its Chairperson by a majority vote of the
Board.
      (9)   The Board may be terminated by the Board of Commissioners by giving
at least 90-days’ written notice to the appointing judges.
   (D)   Powers and duties of Board. The Board shall have the following powers
and duties:
      (1)   Prepare a comprehensive plan for providing legal representation to
indigent persons in the county in accordance with I.C. 33-40-7-5. The
comprehensive plan shall, at a minimum, provide for:
         (a)   Legal representation to an indigent person at the earliest
possible point in time;
         (b)   Legal representation to an indigent person by the same attorney
or attorneys through the pendency of the matter to the greatest extent
possible; except that, representation on appeal should be by an attorney other
than trial counsel; and
         (c)   Professional development, continuing legal education and
malpractice coverage for public defenders.
      (2)   Establish policies and procedure for the provision of competent
legal representation for indigent persons in criminal, juvenile, probation
violation, extradition, child support and criminal contempt and other matters
pursuant to the comprehensive plan;
      (3)   Establish guidelines and procedures for the determination of
indigence and for the appropriate reimbursement for legal representation
provided at public expense in accordance with I.C. 33-40-3-1 et seq.;
      (4)   Recommend an annual operating budget for the Board and monitor the
expenditures of its funds; and
      (5)   Prepare and submit to the County Council and the general public an
annual report on the operation of the Board.
   (E)   Authority of judges. Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to
abridge the authority of any judge of a state court of the county from
appointing counsel for any person entitled thereto under the Constitution of
the United States or the Constitution of the state.
   (F)   Scope. Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to create a right of
reimbursement pursuant to I.C. 33-40-6-1 et seq. and I.C. 33-40-7-11, except to
the extent that any claims for reimbursement comply with I.C. 33-40-6-1 et
seq., I.C. 33-40-7-11 and the standards of the State Public Defender
Commission.
   (G)   Reference to statutes and severability. It is recognized that the
State General Assembly may from time to time amend, recodify or repeal its
statutes relating to county public defender boards. References to statutes
contained herein shall be deemed references to those in effect after any such
amendment or recodification. To the extent permitted by law, any part of this
section enacted with reference to a statute repealed by the General Assembly
shall remain in full force and effect. If any part of this section is abrogated
by an act of the General Assembly or a court of competent jurisdiction, the
remainder shall remain in full force and effect.
   (H)   Effective date. This section shall be in full force and effect upon
passage, recording and publication as required by law.
(Ord. 2013-08, passed 8-19-2013)
§ 31.02 LOCAL ADVISORY COUNCIL FOR THE HELP AMERICANS VOTE ACT.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners of the county hereby establishes a local
advisory council for the purposes to view, assess and determine polling and
voting places that are in compliance with the Help Americans Vote Act that are
both accessible to persons with disabilities and elderly persons. Said Advisory
Council shall be comprised of three members and that two of said members shall
be representatives of the disabilities community or elderly and/or being
disabled themselves or age 65 or over.
   (B)   The term of said Advisory Council members shall be for a period of two
years with the first period beginning on 1-1-2011 and ending 12-31-2012 and
continuing every two years thereafter.
(Ord. 2011-2, passed 2-18-2010)
§ 31.03 CONVENTION, RECREATION AND VISITOR COMMISSION.
   (A)   There is hereby established the County Convention, Recreation and
Visitor Commission.
   (B)   Said Commission shall be composed of five members. Of said members, no
more than a simple majority may be affiliated with the same political party and
each member shall reside in the county.
   (C)   Members of said Commission shall be appointed in the following manner.
      (1)   Four members are to be appointed by the County Board of
Commissioners.
      (2)   One member is to be appointed by the Mayor of the City of
Batesville.
      (3)   At least one member of the five-member Commission must be engaged
in the hotel or motel business within the county.
   (D)   The term of office of each member shall be two years and shall begin
January 1. Initial terms for two members will be for a term of one year with
subsequent appointments for two-year terms enabling the terms to be staggered.
A member whose term expires may be reappointed to serve another term. If a
vacancy occurs, the appointing authority shall appoint a qualified person to
serve for the remainder of the term. If the vacancy is not filled within 30
days, the Commission shall appoint a member by majority vote.
   (E)   Members of the Commission may not receive a salary, but are entitled
to reimbursement for necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their
respective duties.
   (F)   The Commission shall meet after January 1 each year for the purpose of
organization. It shall elect one of its members President, another Vice-
President, another Secretary and another Treasurer and these elected officers
shall perform the duties pertaining to the offices. The first officers chosen
shall serve from the date of their election until their successors are elected
and qualified. A majority of the Commission constitutes a quorum, and the
concurrence of a majority of the Commission is necessary to authorize any
action.
   (G)   All other conditions relating to said Commission shall be defined by
I.C. 6-9-18.
   (H)   This section shall be effective 1-12-1996.
(Ord. 1996-1, passed 1-12-1996)
§ 31.04 DEPARTMENT OF REDEVELOPMENT; COMMISSION.
   (A)   Under legislative authority granted by I.C. 36-7-14-3, there is hereby
established a Department of Redevelopment for the purposes and to exercise the
powers set forth in the Act or otherwise granted by law. The Department of
Redevelopment shall be controlled by a board of five members to be known as the
County Redevelopment Commission.
   (B)   The Commissioners of the County Redevelopment Commission shall be
appointed and shall serve in accordance with the Act, including the following
provisions.
      (1)   A Redevelopment Commissioner must be at least 18 years of age and
must be a resident of the county.
      (2)   The Commissioners (members) for the County Redevelopment Commission
shall be appointed by the county executive (County Commissioners) of the
county.
      (3)   (a)   Each Redevelopment Commissioner shall serve for one year from
January 1 after his or her appointment and until his or her successor is
appointed and has qualified; except that, the original Commissioners shall
serve from the date of their appointment until January 1 in the second year
after their appointment.
         (b)   If a vacancy occurs, a successor shall be appointed in the same
manner as the original Commissioners, and the successor shall serve for the
remainder of the vacated term.
      (4)   Each Redevelopment Commissioner, before beginning his or her
duties, shall take and subscribe an oath of office in the usual form, to be
endorsed on the certificate of his or her appointment, which shall be promptly
filed with the Clerk for the unit that he or she serves.
      (5)   Each Redevelopment Commissioner, before beginning his or her
duties, shall execute a bond payable to the state, with surety to be approved
by the Commissioners of the county. The bond must be in the penal sum of
$15,000 and must be conditioned on the faithful performance of the duties of
his or her office and the accounting for all moneys and property that may come
into his or her hands or under his or her control. The cost of the bond shall
be paid by the county, as the special taxing district under the Act.
   (C)   This section shall be in full force and effect from and after its
adoption in the manner provided by law.
(Ord. 2003-19B, passed 12-8-2003)
§ 31.05 DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION; BOARD.
   (A)   Under the provisions of I.C. 36-10-3, there is hereby created a County
Department of Parks and Recreation to be operated by a County Parks and
Recreation Board.
   (B)   (1)   The Park and Recreation Board shall be composed of:
         (a)   Two members appointed by the Judge of the County Circuit Court;
         (b)   One member appointed by the county executive; and
         (c)   Two members appointed by the county fiscal body.
      (2)   All members shall be appointed on the basis of their interest in
and knowledge of parks and recreation. No more than one member appointed under
divisions (B)(1)(a) and (B)(1)(c) above may be affiliated with the same
political party.
   (C)   (1)   Upon establishment of the Board, the initial terms of its
members shall be as follows.
         (a)   The appointments by the County Circuit Court Judge shall be one-
and three-year terms, respectively.
         (b)   The appointment by the County Commissioner shall be for a two-
year term.
         (c)   The appointments by the County Council shall be for two- and
four-year terms, respectively.
      (2)   As a term expires, each new appointment shall be for a four-year
term. All terms shall expire on the first Monday in January, but a member shall
continue in office until his or her successor is appointed. The appointing
authorities shall make initial appointments within 90 days after the creation
of the Department. If an appointment for any new term is not made by the first
Monday in April, the incumbent shall serve another term. If a vacancy on the
Board occurs, the appointing authority shall appoint a person to serve for the
remainder of the unexpired term.
   (D)   At its first regular meeting in each year, the Board shall elect a
President and a Vice-President. The Vice-President shall have authority to act
as the President of the Board during the absence or disability of the
President. The Board may select a Secretary either from within or without its
own membership.
   (E)   The Board shall have the power to perform all acts necessary to
acquire and develop sites and facilities and to conduct such programs as are
generally understood to be park and recreation functions. In addition, the
Board shall have all the powers and duties listed in I.C. 36-10-3.
   (F)   The Board shall prepare and submit an annual budget in the same manner
as other departments of county government as prescribed by the State Board of
Accounts. The Board may accept gifts, donations and subsidies for park and
recreation purposes.
   (G)   This section shall be in full force and effect from and after its
passage and approval according to the laws of the state.
(Council Ord. 1993-O-93-3, passed 9-28-1993)
§ 31.06 POLICE RESERVES.
   (A)   The county is authorized to have a Sheriff’s Reserve Police Unit, more
commonly known as “The Ripley County Sheriff’s Police Reserve Unit”.
   (B)   Such unit and its members shall serve under the following rules.
      (1)   Appointing authority. Appointments to membership of the Sheriff’s
Police Reserve Unit shall be made by the County Sheriff’s Merit Board following
recommendation of the County Sheriff.
      (2)   Termination. Any Police Reserve officer may be terminated at any
time, without cause, by the Sheriff of the county.
      (3)   Membership number. The Sheriff’s Police Reserve Unit shall consist
of a membership of not more than 35 persons.
      (4)   Residency. Each Police Reserve officer shall, at the time of his or
her membership, reside within the area set by rule of the County Sheriff’s
Merit Board.
      (5)   Qualifications. Each Police Reserve officer shall be in good
physical condition, of good character and not less than 21 years of age. Prior
to appointment as a Police Reserve officer, the applicant shall successfully
complete a pre-basic course as prescribed by I.C. 5-2-1-9(f) and any other
requirements set by rule of the County Sheriff’s Merit Board.
      (6)   Oath.
         (a)   Prior to assuming his or her duties, each Police Reserve officer
shall take and subscribe an oath in the same fashion as is taken and subscribed
by all Sheriff’s deputies.
         (b)   Upon taking and subscribing the oath of office, each Police
Reserve officer shall be issued an official commission card signed by the
Sheriff of the county. This card shall be retained in the personal possession
of the member at all times.
      (7)   Powers. Police Reserve officers shall have the same police powers
as regular members of the County Sheriff’s office. Police reserve officers
shall function under the immediate direction of the Sheriff of the county or,
in his or her absence, the senior officer on duty. Police Reserve officers
shall be subject to the rules and regulations of the Sheriff’s office;
provided, however, that, membership in the Sheriff’s Police Reserve Unit shall
not constitute membership in the regularly constituted Sheriff’s office, nor
shall any member be entitled to any right or privilege of compensation, pension
or any other similar right or privilege of members of the regularly constituted
Sheriff’s office.
      (8)   Uniforms. The Police Reserve officers shall furnish their own
uniforms and other necessary equipment without reimbursement from the county or
the Sheriff’s office, excepting and only to the extent, if any, specifically
provided for by appropriation of the County Council.
      (9)   Training. Each Police Reserve officer is required to successfully
complete all training mandated by the state for regular members of the
Sheriff’s Department and all training required by rule of the County Sheriff’s
Merit Board.
      (10)   Status. Each Police Reserve officer shall serve as a volunteer and
shall not be considered an employee of the county and shall not be eligible for
benefits of regular employees of the county. However, subject to rule of the
County Sheriff’s Merit Board and the extent of appropriation of funds for the
following purposes, Police Reserve officers may receive:
         (a)   A uniform allowance;
         (b)   Compensation for time lost from other employment because of
court appearances; and
         (c)   Insurance for life, accident and sickness coverage, including
worker’s compensation.
      (11)   Pensions. Police Reserve officers are not eligible to participate
in any pension program which may be provided for the regular members of the
Sheriff’s Department.
      (12)   Rules. Each Police Reserve officer shall be bound by rules
establishing operation procedures and protocol adopted by the County Sheriff’s
Merit Board (i.e., training, limitation of powers, scope of duties, scope of
authority, chain of authority, qualifications, uniforms and the like).
(Ord. 2007-6, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 31.07 COMMUNITY CORRECTIONS ADVISORY BOARD.
   (A)   Establishment. The County Community Corrections Advisory Board
(hereinafter “Advisory Board”) is hereby established.
   (B)   Membership.
      (1)   The County Commissioners Corrections Advisory Board shall consist
of up to 18 members.
      (2)   The following four members shall serve by virtue of their office or
position:
         (a)   The County Sheriff or designee;
         (b)   The Prosecuting Attorney or designee;
         (c)   The Director of the County Children Services or designee; and
         (d)   The Mayor of the City of Batesville, Indiana or designee.
      (3)   The following three members shall serve by virtue of their
appointment by the Circuit Court Judge:
         (a)   Two judges having criminal jurisdiction, if available, appointed
by the Circuit Court Judge, or the judges’ designees; and
         (b)   One judge having juvenile jurisdiction, appointed by the Circuit
Court Judge.
      (4)   The following 12 members shall be appointed by the Board of
Commissioners:
         (a)   One public defender or the public defender’s designee;
         (b)   One victim or victim advocate, if available;
         (c)   One ex-offender, if available;
         (d)   One member of the County Council or designee;
         (e)   One probation officer;
         (f)   One educational administrator;
         (g)   One representative of a private correctional agency (PCA) if
such agency exists or is established in the county (no PCA exists currently);
         (h)   One mental health administrator, or if there is none available
in the county, one psychiatrist, psychologist or physician; and
         (i)   Four lay persons, at least one of whom must be a member of a
minority race, if a member of a minority race is willing to serve.
      (5)   Designees of officials designated under subsections (B)(2)(a)
through (d) of this section and (C)(1) and (2) serve at the pleasure of the
designating official.
      (6)   The public defender and the members of the Advisory Board appointed
by the Board of Commissioners shall be appointed for a terms of four years;
provided, however, that the initial terms of such appointees shall expire on
December 31, 2018. Thereafter, such appointments shall be made for terms of
four years commencing January 1 of the reappointment year. Other members shall
serve only while holding the office or position held at the time of
appointment.
      (7)   A vacancy occurring before the expiration of the term of office
shall be filled for the unexpired term in the same manner as original
appointments. In the event that a successor has not been named to replace a
member upon the expiration of such member’s term, such member shall continue to
serve until a successor has been duly appointed and qualified.
   (C)   Organization.
      (1)   The members of the Advisory Board shall meet within 30 days after
the last initial appointment is made for the purpose of organizing and shall
elect one member as chairman and another member as vice-chairman and shall
appoint a secretary-treasurer, who need not be a member of the Advisory Board.
Thereafter, the Advisory Board shall meet during the month of January of each
year for the purpose of selecting a chairman, vice-chairman and secretary-
treasurer for the succeeding calendar year. The chairman, vice-chairman and
secretary-treasurer shall continue to serve until a successor shall have been
selected.
      (2)   The Advisory Board shall adopt such bylaws, rules and regulations
and select such other officers as it may deem necessary to properly conduct its
business. A majority of the members of the Advisory Board may provide for a
number of members that is less than the majority of the members and at least
six, to constitute a quorum for purposes of transacting business. The
affirmative votes of at least five members, but not less than a majority of the
members present are required for the Advisory Board to take action. A vacancy
in the membership shall not impair the right of a quorum to transact business.
      (3)   The Advisory Broad shall meet at least once prior to the end of
each calendar quarter for the purpose of conducting its business and carrying
out its duties and responsibilities.
      (4)   The members of the Advisory Board shall serve without compensation.
Such members may, however, be reimbursed for approved out-of-pocket expenses
incurred in the performance of their duties.
      (5)   The Board of Commissioners and the County Council shall provide the
necessary assistance and appropriations to the Advisory Board that are limited
to:
         (a)   Department of Corrections grants;
         (b)   Community corrections user fees; and
         (c)   Other funds as contained within a plan, approved by the Board of
Commissioners and County Council.
      (6)   It is the intent of the Board of Commissioners, and a condition for
the establishment of a Community Corrections program and Advisory Board, that
all funding for the community corrections program shall be derived solely from
grants from the Department of Corrections and Community Correction user fees.
In the event that grants from the Department of Corrections or Community
Correction user fees are not sufficient to cover all expenses of the community
corrections program, said Advisory Board shall be dissolved, resulting in the
termination of a community corrections program.
   (D)   Powers; duties and responsibilities. The County Community Corrections
Advisory Board shall have the following powers, duties and responsibilities:
      (1)   To formulate a community corrections plan providing for individual
community corrections programs;
      (2)   To make recommendations to the Board of Commissioners and any city,
town or private organization in the county for the establishment and operation
of community correctional programs.
      (3)   To prepare any application for state financial aid for such plan
and programs as required by I.C. 11-12-2-4, as now or hereafter amended, and to
take any action which might be required from time to time under state law in
order to qualify such plan and programs for state financial aid;
      (4)   To observe and coordinate the operation of community corrections in
the county;
      (5)   To make an annual report to the Board of Commissioners and County
Council containing an evaluation of the effectiveness of the community
corrections programs, with particular attention to any programs receiving state
financial aid, and recommendations for improvement, modification, or
discontinuance of these programs;
      (6)   To make recommendations to community corrections programs receiving
state financial aid concerning compliance with the standards adopted by the
Indiana Department of Corrections for such programs;
      (7)   To recommend to the Board of Commissions the approval or
disapproval of contracts with units of local government or non-governmental
agencies who desire to participate in the community corrections plan. Before
recommending approval of a contract, the Advisory Board must determine that a
program is capable of meeting the standards adopted by the Indiana Department
of Corrections for programs receiving state financial aid; and
      (8)   To maintain an office if approved and designated by the Board of
Commissioners.
   (E)   Definition.
      (1)   As used in this section, COMMUNITY CORRECTION PROGRAM means a
community base or community-oriented program that provides for any of the
following:
         (a)   The prevention of crime or delinquency;
         (b)   Services to victims of crime or delinquency;
         (c)   Services to persons charged with or diverted from charge of a
crime and/or act of delinquency, who are not tried and who voluntarily
participate;
         (d)   Services to persons on probation;
         (e)   Services to persons sentenced to imprisonment in the county jail
(other than a state- owned or operated facility); and
         (f)   Services to committee offenders, with the approval of the
Indiana Department of Corrections.
      (2)   Community corrections programs may provide employments,
educational, mental health, drug or alcohol abuse, or counseling services, and
may include housing or supervision.
      (3)   Community corrections programs for victims of crime or delinquency
may include:
         (a)   Medical, counseling or other social services;
         (b)   Advising victims regarding available medical, counseling,
victim’s compensation, rehabilitative, or other social services, including
services provided at public expense, assisting them in obtaining such services
and, when requested, arranging for transportation to and from places where
these services are provided;
         (c)   Advising victims of investigatory and judicial proceedings
pertaining to the crime or delinquent act, keeping them informed as to all
proceedings at which their presence is needed, and, when requested, arranging
for transportation to and from these proceedings; and
         (d)   Assisting victims in obtaining police protections.
(Res. 2014-03, passed 8-29-2014)
CHAPTER 32: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Purpose
   
32.02   Definitions
   
32.03   General scope and intent; liberal construction of powers
   
32.04   Limitations: non-supersession of emergency powers of County Sheriff
   
32.05   Limitations: non-supersession of emergency management powers of
political subdivisions; conformance of political subdivision emergency
management rules and regulations with county’s emergency management program and
emergency plan
Authority; Organization and Officers
   
32.20   County Emergency Management Advisory Council; establishment; officers;
powers and duties
   
32.21   Director of Emergency Management; general powers and duties
   
32.22   Department of Emergency Management; establishment; staffing; oath;
prohibition of political activity; budget and finance
   
32.23   Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan; formulation; content and
adoption
   
32.24   Jurisdiction; Department of Emergency Management, County Comprehensive
Emergency Management Plan and political subdivisions
   
32.25   Tests of the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan; other emergency
tests
   
32.26   County Board of Commissioners; general administrative powers and duties
Program; Emergency Powers, Regulations and Procedures
   
32.40   Applicability
   
32.41   Special emergency powers and duties of principal executive officer;
declaration of local disaster emergency
   
32.42   County Board of Commissioners; convention of special emergency meeting;
special emergency powers and duties
   
32.43   Officers and employees of incorporated and unincorporated areas of the
county; general duties during emergency
   
32.44   Non-compliance with emergency orders, rules and regulations;
obstruction or impersonation of emergency management authorities
   
32.45   Limitation of liability during disaster emergency or emergency or
emergency management tests
   
32.46   Compensation for property commandeered or used during disaster
emergency
 
   
32.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish in the county a Department of
Emergency Management and to provide for the exercise of necessary powers during
disaster emergencies.
(Ord. 2012-05, passed 10-15-2012)
§ 32.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADVISORY COUNCIL. The County Emergency Management Advisory Council, as
established under this chapter, pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-17.
   BOARD. The Board of County Commissioners, as elected pursuant to I.C. 36-2-
2.
   CHAIRPERSON. The Chairperson of the County Emergency Management Advisory
Council, as established under this chapter, pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-17.
   COUNTY. Ripley County, Indiana.
   DIRECTOR. The County Director of Emergency Management (formally referred to
as Director) as established and appointed pursuant to this chapter in
accordance with I.C. 10-14-3-17.
   DEPARTMENT. The Department of Emergency Management as established under this
chapter, pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-17.
   DISASTER. Occurrence or imminent threat of widespread or severe damage,
injury or loss of life or property resulting from any natural or human-made
cause, including, but not limited to, fire, flood, earthquake, wind, storm,
wave action, oil spill, other water contamination requiring emergency action to
avert danger or damage, air contamination, drought, explosion, riot or hostile
military or paramilitary action.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. The preparation for and the coordination of all
emergency functions, other than functions for which military forces or other
federal agencies are primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize and repair
injury and damage resulting from disasters. These functions include, without
limitation, firefighting services, police services, medical and health
services, rescue, engineering, warning services, communications, radiological,
chemical and other special weapons defense, evacuation of persons from stricken
areas, emergency welfare services, emergency transportation, plant protection,
temporary restoration of public utility services, and other functions related
to civilian protection, together with all other activities necessary or
incidental to the preparation for and coordination of the foregoing functions.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT VOLUNTEER. Any person who serves without compensation
in the Department of Emergency Management, being first duly rostered,
identified and appointed by the Director, including persons and private
agencies or governmental units offering services to the county during emergency
situations or mutual aid to other emergency services who request assistance.
   IDHS. The State Emergency Management Agency established under I.C. Title 10.
   PARTICIPATING EMERGENCY SERVICE.
      (1)   Any county department or agency designated in the emergency
operations plan to participate in emergency management activities; and
      (2)   Any department or agency of the state, another county, a municipal
corporation or a volunteer organization designated to participate in the
county’s emergency management programs and activities pursuant to a cooperative
or mutual aid agreement entered into pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-17.
   PERSONNEL. County officers and employees and emergency management
volunteers, unless otherwise indicated.
   PLAN or EMERGENCY PLAN. The current local Comprehensive Emergency Management
Plan whose preparation and updating are mandated by I.C. 10-14-3-17.
   PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER OF THE COUNTY.
      (1)   As referred to in I.C. 10-14-3-29 for purposes of declaring a local
disaster emergency, and as referred to hereinafter, means the County Board of
Commissioners established under I.C. 36-2-2.
      (2)   If a quorum of the County Board of Commissioners (two of the three
Commissioners) is unavailable or is incapacitated, then the following
establishes the line of succession for principal executive officer.
         (a)   Regularly designated President of the County Board of
Commissioners. If a quorum of the County Board of Commissioners (two of the
three Commissioners as established under I.C. 36-2-4-3) is unavailable or is
incapacitated, then the regularly designated President of the County Board of
Commissioners shall serve as the principal executive officer for the purposes
of this chapter until such time that a quorum of the County Board of
Commissioners is no longer unavailable or incapacitated.
         (b)   President pro tem of the Board of County Commissioners. If both
a quorum of the County Board of Commissioners and the regularly designated
President of the County Board of Commissioners are unavailable or are
incapacitated, then the President pro tem of the County Board of Commissioners
shall serve as the principal executive officer for the purposes of this chapter
until such time that either the regularly designated President or a quorum of
the County Board of Commissioners is no longer unavailable or incapacitated.
         (c)   Remaining Commissioner of the Board of County Commissioners. If
a quorum of the Board of County Commissioners, the regularly designated
President of the Board of County Commissioners and the President pro tem of the
County Board of Commissioners are all unavailable or are incapacitated, then
the remaining Commissioner of the County Board of Commissioners shall serve as
the principal executive officer for the purposes of this chapter until such
time that the President pro tem, the regularly designated President or a quorum
of the County Board of Commissioners is no longer unavailable or incapacitated.
         (d)   County Auditor. If all of the County Commissioners are
unavailable or incapacitated, then the County Auditor shall serve as the
principal executive officer for the purposes of this chapter until such time
that a County Commissioner is no longer unavailable or incapacitated.
         (e)   County Clerk. If all of the County Commissioners and the County
Auditor are unavailable or incapacitated, then the County Clerk shall serve as
the principal executive officer for the purposes of this chapter until such
time that the County Clerk or a County Commissioner is no longer unavailable or
incapacitated.
         (f)   County Recorder. If all of the County Commissioners, the County
Auditor and the County Clerk are unavailable or incapacitated, then the County
Recorder shall serve as the principal executive officer for the purposes of
this chapter until such time that the County Auditor, the County Clerk or a
County Commissioner is no longer unavailable or incapacitated.
(Ord. 2012-05, passed 10-15-2012)
§ 32.03 GENERAL SCOPE AND INTENT; LIBERAL CONSTRUCTION OF POWERS.
   (A)   The general intent of this chapter is to provide for all necessary and
indispensable powers and procedures reasonably needed to mitigate, prepare for,
respond to and recover from emergency conditions.
   (B)   To this end, all powers, both ministerial and discretionary, as
conferred herein shall be liberally construed to supplement and augment, not to
limit, any other powers or reasonable exercise of discretion which may
ordinarily pertain to county officers, employees, department and agencies.
(Ord. 2012-05, passed 10-15-2012)
§ 32.04 LIMITATIONS: NON-SUPERSESSION OF EMERGENCY POWERS OF COUNTY SHERIFF.
   Nothing in this chapter is intended to supersede or delimit any statutory
powers of the County Sheriff.
(Ord. 2012-05, passed 10-15-2012)
§ 32.05 LIMITATIONS: NON-SUPERSESSION OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT POWERS OF
POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS; CONFORMANCE OF POLITICAL SUBDIVISION EMERGENCY
MANAGEMENT RULES AND REGULATIONS WITH COUNTY’S EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PROGRAM AND
EMERGENCY PLAN.
   Nothing in this chapter is intended to supersede or delimit the powers
granted under I.C. 10-14-3-17 to any political subdivision to adopt and
implement emergency plans and promulgate and enforce emergency management rules
and regulations in the advent of an actual emergency affecting such political
subdivision. However, pursuant to I.C. 10-4-1-15, such regulations and
procedures as promulgated by the political subdivision may not be inconsistent
with the county emergency management program and emergency plan established in
accordance with this chapter.
(Ord. 2012-05, passed 10-15-2012)
AUTHORITY; ORGANIZATION AND OFFICERS
§ 32.20 COUNTY EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ADVISORY COUNCIL; ESTABLISHMENT; OFFICERS;
POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   General. In accordance with I.C. 10-14-3-17(c), there is established
the County Emergency Management Advisory Council which shall consist of the
following individuals or their designees:
      (1)   The president of the county executive;
      (2)   The president of the county fiscal body;
      (3)   The mayor of each city located in the county;
      (4)   An individual representing the legislative bodies of all towns
located within the county;
      (5)   Representatives of such private and public agencies or
organizations which can be of assistance to emergency management as the
organizing group considers appropriate, or as may be added later by the County
Emergency Management Advisory Council; and
      (6)   One commander of a local civil air patrol unit in the county or the
commander’s designee.
   (B)   Officers. The Advisory Council shall have a Chairperson, a Vice-
Chairperson and a Recording Secretary. The Advisory Council shall elect these
officers for one-year terms.
   (C)   Power and duties.
      (1)   The Advisory Council shall exercise general supervision and control
over the emergency management program of the county.
      (2)   The Advisory Council shall select, or cause to be selected, with
the approval of the county executive, a County Emergency Management Director.
This appointment shall be permanent unless it is terminated in accordance with
division (C)(3) below.
      (3)   The Advisory Council shall have the power to terminate, with the
approval of the county executive, the County Emergency Management Director, if
the Advisory Council determines that the Director:
         (a)   Is incapable of fulfilling his or her duties;
         (b)   Has failed to perform his or her duties; or
         (c)   Not able to hold any other local or state elective office,
appointive position or any other position that is created by statute.
      (4)   The Advisory Council shall consult with the Executive Director of
IDHS to obtain his or her opinion regarding the abilities and competence of the
County Emergency Management Director prior to the appointment or termination of
the Director. The IDHS Executive Director’s opinion hereunder shall be advisory
only.
      (5)   The Advisory Council shall meet at least once every six months: the
frequency, time and location being determined by the Advisory Council.
      (6)   (a)   The Advisory Council is a governing body of a public agency,
as defined under I.C. 5-14-1.5-2, and as such is subject to all of the
requirements of the State Open Door Law (I.C. 5-14-1.5 et seq.).
         (b)   In addition, any records generated, received, retained,
maintained, used or filed by the Advisory Council are public records subject to
the State Access to Public Records Act (I.C. 5-14-3 et seq.).
         (c)   Also, these public records are subject to the retention schedule
adopted by the County Commission of public records in accordance with I.C. 5-
15-6 et seq.
(Ord. 2012-05, passed 10-15-2012)
§ 32.21 DIRECTOR OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT; GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Director, subject to the direction and control of the Advisory Council,
shall be executive head of the Department and shall have responsibility for the
organization, administration and operation of the emergency management
organization, including the following specific powers and duties:
   (A)   Keep the Advisory Council fully informed on emergency management
activities;
   (B)   Keep the County Commissioners fully informed on emergency management
activities;
   (C)   Submit to the Advisory Council and the County Commissioners a yearly
report on the county’s comprehensive emergency management, including
mitigation, preparedness, response and recovery taken in the previous year and
planned and recommended for the year to come;
   (D)   Assure that all of the duties and responsibilities of the Emergency
Management Agency are completed;
   (E)   Assure that all county employees and rostered volunteers with
responsibilities as part of the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan receive
training in the functions that they are to perform under the Plan;
   (F)   Design and conduct exercises of the Comprehensive Emergency Management
Plan, as required by the State Emergency Management Agency;
   (G)   Assure that the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan addresses all
hazards and includes all cities, towns and other population centers within the
county;
   (H)   Submit to State Emergency Management Agency the assessment specified
in IDHS’s required format and within IDHS’s required time frame for submission;
   (I)   Provide to the State Emergency Management Agency Director annual
reports and documentation as mandated;
   (J)   Competently manage the Department’s various functions, including among
others financial, personnel and logistic;
   (K)   Timely respond to the Chairperson of the Advisory Council, as mandated
by I.C. 10-14-3-17;
   (L)   Timely obey to the directives of superior state authorities;
   (M)   Assure that the activities of the Department at all times comport with
I.C. 10-14-3 and other applicable statutes, rules and county ordinances;
   (N)   Develop an emergency operating center (“EOC”) as a site from which key
officials can direct and control operations during a disaster or emergency;
   (O)   Attend, and attain passing grades in, the Emergency Management
Professional Development Series for emergency management presented by the
Public Safety Training Institute within four years of first assuming the
position of Director;
   (P)   Attend, and attain passing grades in, such emergency management
training as may be required by IDHS in subsequent years;
   (Q)   Assure the Deputy Director’s attendance at, and passing grades in, the
Emergency Management Professional Development Series for emergency management
presented by the Public Safety Training Institute within four years of first
assuming the position of Deputy Director;
   (R)   Assure the Deputy Director’s and all paid emergency management staffs
attendance at, and passing grades in, such emergency management training as may
be required by IDHS in subsequent years;
   (S)   Assure on-going attendance by the Director, the Deputy Director and
all paid emergency management staff at further emergency management courses
presented by the Public Safety Training Institute to assure continued knowledge
of the latest information on emergency management;
   (T)   Assume responsibility for public relations, information and education
regarding all phases of emergency management;
   (U)   Assure coordination within the county of all activities for emergency
management;
   (V)   Maintain liaison and coordinate with all other affected agencies,
public and private;
   (W)   Coordinate the recruitment and training for volunteer personnel and
agencies to augment the personnel and facilities of the county for emergency
management purposes;
   (X)   Seek, negotiate and enter into (with the approval or ratification of
the County Commissioners and consistent with the State Emergency Operations
Plan and program) mutual aid arrangements with other public and private
agencies for emergency management purposes, and taking all steps in accordance
with such arrangements to comply with or take advantage thereof in the event of
an actual emergency affecting the parties;
   (Y)   Accept any offer of the Federal Government to provide for the use of
the county any services, equipment, supplies, materials or funds for emergency
management purposes by way of gift, grant or loan, when the Governor has
approved such offer;
   (Z)   Seek and accept from any person, firm or corporation, any gratuitous
offers to provide services, equipment, supplies, materials, funds or licenses
or privileges to use real estate or other premises, to the county for emergency
management purposes;
   (AA)   Issue proper insignia and papers to emergency management workers and
other people directly concerned with emergency management;
   (BB)   Assure that all volunteers meet the criteria set forth below in §
32.22(A)(2)(c) of this chapter, prior to accepting them as members of the
Department;
   (CC)   Make rapid and accurate assessment of the following as soon as an
emergency or disaster declaration has been made:
      (1)   Property damage;
      (2)   Personal injuries;
      (3)   Fatalities;
      (4)   Basic needs; and
      (5)   Special needs.
   (DD)   In addition to the powers and duties expressly provided above, the
Director shall be construed to have all powers and duties of a local emergency
management Director as provided under I.C. 10-14-3. In particular, but not by
limitation, the Director, through the Department, may perform or cause to be
performed with respect to the county, any function parallel or analogous to
those performed on a statewide basis by IDHS under I.C. 10-14-3.
(Ord. 2012-05, passed 10-15-2012)
§ 32.22 DEPARTMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT; ESTABLISHMENT; STAFFING; OATH;
PROHIBITION OF POLITICAL ACTIVITY; BUDGET AND FINANCE.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   There is hereby established a Department of Emergency Management
within the executive branch of the county government for the purpose of
utilizing to the fullest extent possible the personnel and facilities of
existing county departments and agencies to prepare for and meet any disaster
as defined in this chapter. The Director of Emergency Management shall be
responsible for its organization, administration and operation.
      (2)   The Department shall consist of the following:
         (a)   An executive head of the Department of Emergency Management, who
shall be known as the Director of Emergency Management, appointed in accordance
with §
32.21 of this chapter;
         (b)   A Deputy Director appointed by the Director with the approval of
the Advisory Council. The Deputy Director shall fulfill the duties of the
Director in the absence or incapacity of the Director to serve; and assist the
Director in the performance of Director’s duties;
         (c)   Emergency management volunteers, as deemed necessary and
appointed by the Director. In addition to the other requirements in this
section, the Director shall ensure that all volunteer personnel meet the
following qualifications before being placed on the roster as a member of the
Department:
            1.   Be at least 18 years of age or older:
            2.   Not be convicted of a felony; and
            3.   Have completed and have on file with the Department an
application form.
         (d)   The employees, equipment and facilities of all county
departments and agencies suitable for, or adaptable to, emergency management
and designated by the Plan to participate in emergency management activity;
         (e)   Staff officers with responsibility for communications and
warning, radiological, health and medical care, law enforcement, fire and
search and rescue, public works and public information in accordance with the
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan; and
         (f)   Such assistants, clerical help and other employees as deemed
necessary and appointed by the Director in accordance with the Comprehensive
Emergency Management Plan.
      (3)   Pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-27(a), no person shall be employed or
associated in any capacity in any emergency management organization established
under this chapter who:
         (a)   Advocates a change by force or violence in the constitutional
form of the government of the United States or the overthrow of any government
in the United States by force or violence; or
         (b)   Has been convicted of or is under indictment or information
charging any subversive act against the United States.
      (4)   Pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-27(b), each individual who is appointed to
serve in an organization for emergency management shall:
         (a)   Before entering upon the individual’s duties, take an oath, in
writing, before a person authorized to administer oaths in the state. The oath
shall be substantially as follows:
            “I,                         , do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I
will support and defend the Constitution of the United States and the
Constitution of the State of Indiana against all enemies, foreign and domestic;
that I will bear true faith and allegiance to the same; that I take this
obligation freely, without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and
that I will well and faithfully discharge the duties upon which I am about to
enter. And I do further swear (or affirm) that I do not advocate, nor am I a
member of any political party or organization that advocates, the overthrow of
the government of the United States or of this state by force or violence; and
that during such time as I am a member of the County Department of Emergency
Management I will not advocate nor become a member of any political party or
organization that advocates the Code 10-4-1-10(Q).”
         (b)   Work closely with officers and employees of incorporated and
unincorporated areas of the county to develop a hazard mitigation program to
eliminate or reduce potential hazards;
         (c)   Write and implement the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan,
which shall conform to the guidelines contained in the most current state and
federal guidance documents, (the county cannot receive state and/or federal
matching funds unless this is done), and the requirements established
hereunder. As part of the preparation of this Plan, the Department shall:
            1.   Identify and analyze the effects of hazards that threaten the
county;
            2.   Inventory manpower and material resources from governmental
and private sector sources that would be available in a disaster or emergency;
            3.   Establish a system to alert key officials in event of a
disaster or emergency;
            4.   Identify resource deficiencies and work with appropriate
officials on measures to correct them;
            5.   Develop and maintain an emergency communications system, thus
assuring proper functioning of emergency communications throughout the county,
including all cities and towns;
            6.   Take all actions necessary to ensure the continuity of
government procedures and systems in the event of a disaster;
            7.   Establish and maintain a shelter and reception and care system
for both people and animals;
            8.   Develop a training program for emergency response personnel
ensuring that mitigation, training and exercising have been performed for all
such personnel; and
            9.   Coordinate with industry to develop and maintain industrial
emergency plans and capabilities in support of the Comprehensive Emergency
Management Plan.
         (d)   Update the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan as needed to
keep it current, as required by I.C. 10-14-3-17(h); and
         (e)   Develop a program to test and exercise the Emergency Plan.
   (B)   Budget and finance.
      (1)   The Advisory Council shall advise the Director in the preparation
of the budget.
      (2)   The County Council shall appropriate such funds, as it may deem
necessary for the purpose of emergency management.
      (3)   All funds appropriated or otherwise available to the Department of
Emergency Management shall be administered by the Director.
(Ord. 2012-05, passed 10-15-2012)
§ 32.23 COMPREHENSIVE EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PLAN: FORMULATION; CONTENT AND
ADOPTION.
   (A)   A County Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan, referred to as the
inter-jurisdictional disaster emergency plan by I.C. 10-14-3-17(h), shall be
adopted by resolution of the County Board of Commissioners. In the preparation
of this Plan, as it pertains to county organization, it is the intent that the
services, equipment, facilities and personnel of all existing departments and
agencies shall be utilized to the fullest extent possible.
   (B)   The Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan shall include, at minimum,
the following:
      (1)   An Administrative Section which includes:
         (a)   Authorities and Directives;
         (b)   Terms and Definitions;
         (c)   Acronyms/Abbreviations; and
         (d)   Financial Management.
      (2)   A Hazards Specific Section which includes:
         (a)   Unique hazards; and
         (b)   Special Events.
      (3)   An Operations Section which includes:
         (a)   Coordination and Control Emergency Support Function;
         (b)   Communications and Warning Emergency Support Function;
         (c)   Public Information Emergency Support Function;
         (d)   Resource Management Emergency Support Function; and
         (e)   Information and Planning Emergency Support Function.
      (4)   An Emergency Services Section which includes:
         (a)   Military Emergency Support Function;
         (b)   Law Enforcement Emergency Support Function;
         (c)   Firefighting Emergency Support Function;
         (d)   Transportation Emergency Support Function;
         (e)   Health and Medical Emergency Support Function;
         (f)   Search and Rescue Emergency Support Function; and
         (g)   Public Works/Engineering Emergency Support Function.
      (5)   A Consequent Effects Section which includes:
         (a)   Evacuation Emergency Support function;
         (b)   Shelter/Mass Care Emergency Support Function;
         (c)   Damage Assessment Emergency Support Function;
         (d)   Hazardous Materials Emergency Support Function;
         (e)   Radiological Protection Emergency Support Function; and
         (f)   Energy Emergency Support Function.
   (C)   In addition, all emergency services within the county shall:
      (1)   Develop standard operating procedures, standard operating guides
and checklists that are drafted subject to the requirements of the
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan;
      (2)   Coordinate standard operating procedures, standard operating guides
and checklists with the Department of Emergency Management;
      (3)   Assure inclusion of the standard operating procedures, standard
operating guides and checklists within the County Comprehensive Emergency
Management Plan;
      (4)   Perform the functions and duties assigned by the County
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan; and
      (5)   Maintain their portion of the Comprehensive Emergency Management
Plan in a current state of readiness at all times.
(Ord. 2012-05, passed 10-15-2012)
§ 32.24 JURISDICTION; DEPARTMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT; COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PLAN AND POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Except as provided by §§
32.04 and
32.05 of this chapter, the jurisdiction of the County Department of Emergency
Management shall be comprehensive and inclusive countywide and effective in
both the incorporated and unincorporated areas of the county.
   (B)   The jurisdiction and applicability of the County Comprehensive
Emergency Management Plan, as adopted pursuant to §
32.23 of this chapter, and the exercise of any powers of the principal
executive officer of the county and of the County Board of Commissioners under
§§
32.40 through
32.46 of this chapter, shall be comprehensive and inclusive countywide and
effective in both the incorporated and unincorporated areas of the county.
   (C)   All political subdivisions in the county shall:
      (1)   If they develop a plan for their political subdivision:
         (a)   Ensure that the plan is consistent with the requirements of the
County Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan;
         (b)   Coordinate the development of the plan with the Department of
Emergency Management; and
         (c)   Ensure inclusion of the plan within the County Comprehensive
Emergency Management Plan.
      (2)   Perform the functions and duties assigned by the County
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan; and
      (3)   Maintain their portion of the Comprehensive Emergency Management
Plan in a current state of readiness at all times.
(Ord. 2012-05, passed 10-15-2012)
§ 32.25 TESTS OF THE COMPREHENSIVE EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PLAN; OTHER EMERGENCY
TESTS.
   Tests of the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan may be conducted at any
time with or without prior notification to persons other than the Director. All
emergency tests conducted within the boundaries of the county shall be
coordinated with the Department.
(Ord. 2012-05, passed 10-15-2012)
§ 32.26 COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS; GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POWERS AND
DUTIES.
   In time of normal county operations, powers and duties of the County
Commissioners pertaining to emergency management shall be:
   (A)   Maintaining general supervision over the planning and administration
for the Department;
   (B)   Adopting the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan;
   (C)   Coordinating emergency management activities consistent with the
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan;
   (D)   Making assignments of county personnel to emergency management
activities consistent with the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan;
   (E)   Making assignments of county personnel to emergency management duties
in order to meet situations not covered in the normal duties and powers of such
agencies consistent with the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan;
   (F)   Taking all necessary action in coordination with the Department to
conduct tests of the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan; and
   (G)   Educating themselves as to their responsibilities under the
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan.
(Ord. 2012-05, passed 10-15-2012)
PROGRAM; EMERGENCY POWERS, REGULATIONS AND PROCEDURES
§ 32.40 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter shall apply whenever:
   (A)   The Governor, pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-17, has declared a disaster
emergency affecting all or part of the county;
   (B)   The principal executive officer of the county, pursuant to I.C. 10-14-
3-29 and §
32.42 of this chapter, is preparing to, or has declared, a local disaster
emergency affecting all or part of the county; and
   (C)   The County Board of Commissioners has implemented a test of the
county’s Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan and procedures in accordance
with and to the extent necessary or dispensable to such test.
(Ord. 2012-05, passed 10-15-2012)
§ 32.41 SPECIAL EMERGENCY POWERS AND DUTIES OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER;
DECLARATION OF LOCAL DISASTER EMERGENCY.
   (A)   (1)   In the event of an actual or threatened disaster emergency
affecting the county, if feasible, the principal executive officer of the
county shall seek the advice and input of the Director as to the advisability
of declaring a local disaster emergency.
      (2)   If the County Board of Commissioners, acting as the principal
executive officer of the county, is the entity declaring the local disaster
emergency, then the statutory requirements contained in I.C. 36-2-2-8 and I.C.
5-14-1.5-5(d) regarding special and emergency meetings of the County Board of
Commissioner must be met.
      (3)   The principal executive officer of the county may, in the event of
an actual or threatened disaster emergency affecting the county declare a local
disaster emergency, pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-29.
         (a)   This declaration shall:
            1.   Be in writing;
            2.   State the nature of the disaster;
            3.   State the conditions that have brought the disaster about;
            4.   State the area or areas threatened;
            5.   State the area or areas to which the local disaster emergency
declaration applies (this may include the entire county or only designated
parts thereof); and
            6.   State the effective period of the local disaster emergency
declaration.
         (b)   The disaster declaration shall not be continued or renewed for a
period in excess of seven days, except by or with the consent of the County
Board of Commissioners.
      (4)   The declaration of a local disaster emergency, as well as any
continuation or termination of such declaration, shall be:
         (a)   Announced or disseminated to the general public by the best
means available; and
         (b)   Filed promptly in the offices of the County Clerk, the County
Auditor and the clerk of any incorporated municipality located in the declared
disaster area.
      (5)   The declaration shall not be invalidated or ineffective if any of
the filing and dissemination requirements cannot be complied with due to the
prevailing adverse circumstances.
      (6)   Upon a declaration, the county’s Comprehensive Emergency Management
Plan or such component parts thereof as may be relevant to the emergency shall
be activated and implemented.
      (7)   Declaration of a local disaster emergency is not necessary if the
Governor, pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-17, has already proclaimed a statewide or
area-wide disaster emergency that includes the county.
   (B)   (1)   In the event that a disaster emergency has been declared that
affects all or part of the county, and a quorum of the County Board of
Commissioners cannot be assembled for purposes of the meeting needed under §
32.42 of this chapter, the principal executive officer of the county shall
have, on an interim basis, all powers of the County Board of Commissioners and
may take all such actions with respect to the disaster emergency declaration
that the County Board of Commissioners would have been authorized to take.
      (2)   When a quorum of the County Board of Commissioners is assembled,
these interim powers of the principal executive officer of the county shall
cease.
(Ord. 2012-05, passed 10-15-2012)
§ 32.42 COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS; CONVENTION OF SPECIAL EMERGENCY MEETING;
SPECIAL EMERGENCY POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   As allowed by I.C. 36-2-2-8 and I.C. 5-14-1.5-5(d), a special
meeting of the County Board of Commissioners shall be called as soon as
possible after the disaster emergency that affects the county has been
declared, either by the Governor or by the principal executive officer of the
county, to perform their legislative and administrative functions as the
situation may demand.
      (2)   As required by I.C. 36-2-2-8(b) and I.C. 5-14-1.5-5(d), the
following conditions must be met for this meeting.
         (a)   The notice for the meeting must include a specific statement of
the purpose of the meeting.
         (b)   News media that have requested notice of meetings must be given
the same notice as is given the members of the County Board of Commissioners.
         (c)   The public must be notified of this meeting by posting a copy of
the notice at the principal office of the County Board of Commissioners or, if
no such office exists, at the building where the meeting is to be held.
         (d)   The County Board of Commissioners may not conduct any business
at this meeting that is unrelated to the disaster emergency declaration.
         (e)   All other such requirements that are applicable to a meeting
that is called to deal with an emergency.
      (3)   In addition, such a meeting may:
         (a)   Be held in any convenient and available place;
         (b)   Continue without adjournment for the duration of the disaster
emergency; and
         (c)   Be recessed for reasonable periods of time as necessary and
permitted by the circumstances.
   (B)   (1)   At the meeting convened under division (A) above, the County
Board of Commissioners may exercise any of its normal executive and legislative
powers to the extent related to the emergency and necessary to deal therewith.
      (2)   In addition to the powers enumerated in division (B)(1) above, the
Board may also exercise any of the following special and extraordinary powers.
         (a)   The County Board of Commissioners may extend the period of a
local disaster emergency declared by the principal executive officer of the
county, pursuant to §
32.41 of this chapter, to last more than seven days if necessary.
         (b)   The County Board of Commissioners may terminate the local
disaster emergency.
         (c)   The County Board of Commissioners may assemble and utilize
emergency management resources, including:
            1.   Personnel of the Department of Emergency Management;
            2.   Participating emergency services; and
            3.   Any other resources at the disposal of the Commissioners
hereunder for emergency management purposes.
         (d)   1.   The County Board of Commissioners may order volunteer
forces which have been activated pursuant to the Comprehensive Emergency
Management Plan to the aid of the county, state or political subdivisions
thereof as soon as practicable.
            2.   These volunteer forces shall be under the direction of the
Department of Emergency Management.
         (e)   In order to control the local disaster emergency and provide for
public health, safety and welfare, the County Board of Commissioners may, to
the extent permitted by I.C. 10-14-3 and subject to its provisions, command
services and/or requisition the use of:
            1.   Equipment;
            2.   Facilities;
            3.   Supplies; or
            4.   Other property.
         (f)   The County Board of Commissioners may order the evacuation of
all or part of the population from stricken areas of the county, and prescribe:
            1.   Routes;
            2.   Modes of transportation; and
            3.   Evacuation destinations.
         (g)   The County Board of Commissioners may make provision for
availability and use of temporary emergency housing, which housing need not
necessarily comply with any minimum housing standards, building or zoning
regulations and the like, which would govern the use and location of premises
for housing purposes during normal times.
         (h)   Except in accordance herewith, the County Board of Commissioners
shall not suspend any provisions of ordinances or procedures, which are
mandated by statute.
         (i)   In the event of a disaster emergency that has been declared by
the Governor, the County Board of Commissioners, in accordance with I.C. 10-14-
3-17(j)(5), may waive any procedures or requirements of statute, or of county
ordinances reflecting statutory requirements and mandates, pertaining to:
            1.   The performance of public works;
            2.   The entering into contracts;
            3.   The incurring of obligations;
            4.   The employment of permanent and temporary workers;
            5.   The utilization of volunteer workers;
            6.   The rental of equipment;
            7.   The purchase and distribution of supplies, materials and
facilities; and
            8.   The appropriation and expenditure of public funds.
         (j)   The County Board of Commissioners may assign any special
emergency duties and functions to county:
            1.   Offices;
            2.   Departments; and
            3.   Agencies.
         (k)   Any unexpended and unencumbered moneys budgeted and appropriated
but not otherwise dedicated by law to different purposes may, within the scope
of each major budget and appropriation category (major object classification),
be utilized and expended for the purpose of carrying out such special emergency
duties and functions.
         (l)   Pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-22, the County Board of Commissioners
may make, amend and rescind such orders, rules and regulations as may be
necessary for emergency management purposes and to supplement the carrying out
of the provisions of this chapter. Such orders, rules and regulations:
            1.   Cannot be inconsistent with any orders, rules or regulations
promulgated by the Governor or by any state agency exercising a power delegated
to it by the Governor;
            2.   Cannot be inconsistent with the county’s emergency management
program or Emergency Plan;
            3.   Shall have full force and effect of law when filed in the
office of the County Clerk; and
            4.   Are enforceable by any local or state law enforcing authority
in accordance with I.C. 10-14-3-24.
         (m)   The County Board of Commissioners may, in accordance with the
Plan, request the state or the United States or their agencies and political
subdivisions to send aid (including financial assistance) if the situation is
beyond the control of the regular and emergency county forces and resources.
      (3)   All actions taken by the County Board of Commissioners under this
section shall be:
         (a)   Adopted by ordinance or resolution pursuant I.C. 10-14-3-22; and
         (b)   Consistent with, and subordinate to, any actions, orders or
regulations made by the Governor or a state agency implementing the State
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan.
(Ord. 2012-05, passed 10-15-2012)
§ 32.43 OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES OF INCORPORATED AND UNINCORPORATED AREAS OF THE
COUNTY; GENERAL DUTIES DURING EMERGENCY.
   During a declared disaster emergency, all officers and employees of
incorporated and unincorporated areas of the county shall:
   (A)   Cooperate with and give active support to the County Board of
Commissioners and the County Emergency Management Director; and
   (B)   Comply with all orders, rules and regulations issued pursuant to this
chapter by the County Board of Commissioners or the County Emergency Management
Director.
(Ord. 2012-05, passed 10-15-2012)
§ 32.44 NON-COMPLIANCE WITH EMERGENCY ORDERS, RULES AND REGULATIONS;
OBSTRUCTION OR IMPERSONATION OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AUTHORITIES.
   Any regular or Reserve Police officer of the state or any of its political
subdivisions is hereby empowered to issue and serve a civil citation against
any person found to be committing an offense described above.
(Ord. 2012-05, passed 10-15-2012)
§ 32.45 LIMITATION OF LIABILITY DURING DISASTER EMERGENCY OR EMERGENCY OR
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT TESTS.
   During an emergency management test or declared disaster emergency, the
county, the county’s assigned personnel, participating emergency services and
rostered emergency management volunteers shall be immune from liability to the
full extent provided by I.C. 10-14-3 and any other applicable law.
(Ord. 2012-05, passed 10-15-2012)
§ 32.46 COMPENSATION FOR PROPERTY COMMANDEERED OR USED DURING DISASTER
EMERGENCY.
   Pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-21, compensation for property shall be paid only if
the property was commandeered or otherwise used in coping with a disaster
emergency and its use or destruction was ordered by the Governor or a member of
the disaster emergency forces of the state. Any person claiming compensation
for the use, damage, loss or destruction of such property shall make a claim
for it. This claim shall be filed and adjudicated as provided in I.C. 1971.32-
11.
(Ord. 2012-05, passed 10-15-2012)
§ 32.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whenever this chapter applies, it shall be unlawful and a penal
ordinance violation for any person to:
      (1)   Willfully obstruct, hinder or delay the County Board of
Commissioners, the Director of Emergency Management, participating emergency
services, authorized emergency management volunteers or other authorities from
implementing, carrying out and enforcing the Emergency Plan;
      (2)   Fail to observe, abide by and comply with any emergency management
duties, orders, regulations and procedures as made applicable to such person by
the appropriate authorities; or
      (3)   Falsely wear or carry identification as a member of the County
Department of Emergency Management or to otherwise falsely identify or purport
to be a county emergency management authority.
   (B)   Any person who commits an offense as described above shall be liable
to a fine of $2,500; such fine to be subject, however, to the discretion of the
court of jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2012-05, passed 10-15-2012)
CHAPTER 33: FUNDS, FEES AND TAXATION; FINANCE
Section
General Provisions
   
33.001   Reserved
   
33.002   Purchasing agency, agents
   
33.003   Bad check collection program
   
33.004   Payment of certain claims in advance
   
33.005   Veterans’ burial allowance
   
33.006   Capital asset policy
   
33.007   Budget transfers; Council approval required
Taxes
   
33.020   Innkeeper’s tax
Funds and Accounts
   
33.035   Identification Security Protection Fund
   
33.036   Offender Transportation Fund
   
33.037   Probation Transfer Application Fee Clearing Account
   
33.038   Substance Abuse Outpatient Program Fund
   
33.039   Juvenile Substance Abuse Program Fund
   
33.040   Wagering Tax Revenue Clearing Fund
   
33.041   Riverboat Wagering Revenue Sharing Fund
   
33.042   Riverboat-Belterra Revenue Clearing Fund
   
33.043   Traffic Court Division Petty Cash Fund
   
33.044   Sheriff’s Department Petty Cash Fund
   
33.045   Emergency Medical Services Fund
   
33.046   Rainy Day Fund
   
33.047   Court Ordered Testing Fund
   
33.048   Community Transition Program Fund
   
33.049   Pretrial Services Clearing Fund
   
33.050   Redevelopment Commission Non-Reverting Fund
   
33.051   Sheriff's Department Uniform Fund
   
33.052   Rainy Day Restricted Fund
   
33.053   MVH Fund
   
33.054   Coronavirus Local Recovery Fund
   
33.055   Safe Haven Project Fund
Fees and Charges
   
33.060   NSF charges; checks
   
33.061   Coroner fees
   
33.062   Mobile home transfer and moving permit fees
   
33.063   Health Department fees
   
33.064   Sheriff’s Sale Program service fee
   
33.065   Treasurer’s office copy charge
   
33.066   U.C.C. filing recording fee
   
33.067   Inmates of County Jail
   
33.068   In-home incarceration fees
   
33.069   Real property endorsement fee
   
33.070   Recording document fee
   
33.071   Assessor’s office copy charge
   
33.072   Sales disclosure fee
   
33.073   Heritage barns; fee
   
33.074   Fee for background checks/criminal history checks
   
33.075   Electronic map ordinance
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.001 RESERVED.
§ 33.002 PURCHASING AGENCY, AGENTS.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners hereby determines that the purchasing
agency for the county shall be the Board of Commissioners of the county.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners hereby designates the following elected and
appointed positions to serve as purchasing agents for the county:
      (1)   Board of Commissioners of the county;
      (2)   All elected officials (Assessor, Auditor, Clerk, Circuit Court
Judge, Coroner, Council members, Prosecutor, Recorder, Sheriff, Superior Court
Judge, Surveyor, Treasurer); and
      (3)   Deputy purchasing agents:
         (a)   Chief Deputy, County Sheriff;
         (b)   President, Board of Trustees, County Department of Parks and
Recreation;
         (c)   President, County Convention, Recreation and Tourism Commission;
         (d)   Superintendent, County Highway Department;
         (e)   Extension agents, County Cooperative Extension Service;
         (f)   Executive Director, County Area Planning Commission;
         (g)   County Health Officer, County Health Department; and
         (h)   Such other county employees as are designated from time to time.
   (C)   The deputy purchasing agents shall be limited to purchases less than
$25,000.
   (D)   The county will prepare rules and a policy to cover aspects of
purchasing as allowed by I.C. 5-22 et seq., as amended, which may apply to all
purchases generally or to a specific purchase as stated in the solicitation for
the purchase, and this policy statement also may be amended, in whole or in
part from time to time, as the Board of Commissioners determines appropriate.
   (E)   The section is effective upon passage.
(Ord. 2000-7, passed 10-30-2000)
§ 33.003 BAD CHECK COLLECTION PROGRAM.
   (A)   The County Prosecutor may establish a bad check collection program
through the office of the Prosecutor whereby any person who is the payee or
holder of a bad check and who intends to prosecute the issuer of the bad check
under I.C. 35-43-5-5 if such check is not made good may:
      (1)   Authorize the Prosecutor to contact the issuer of the bad check to
determine if such person wishes and intends to make the check good in
accordance with I.C. 35-43-5-5(e) in lieu of suffering prosecution;
      (2)   Authorize the Prosecutor to collect, on behalf of the payee or
holder of the bad check, a protest and service fee in such amount as the
Prosecutor may stipulate and fix on a uniform bases (which may be a fixed
dollar amount or a percentage of the value of the bad check), but which may not
exceed the amount permitted under I.C.35-43-5-5(e);
      (3)   Authorize the Prosecutor to retain all protest and services
collected by the Prosecutor pursuant to division (A)(2) above in consideration
of the services provided to the payee or holder by the Prosecutor; and
      (4)   The Prosecutor may waive the collection of the fee if the
Prosecutor finds that probable cause for prosecution no longer exists.
   (B)   Upon implementation of the bad check collection program, as authorized
by division (A) above, the Prosecutor may establish and maintain a trust
checking account into which shall be deposited the principal amount of any bad
check along with all other fees collected from the issuer thereof. Checks from
such account may be written to the payee or holder of the bad check to whom the
money is lawfully due without appropriation. All fees not distributed to the
merchants collected pursuant to division (A) above shall be regularly delivered
to the County Auditor, not less than quarterly, in the manner of fees collected
by county officers, for deposit in the County General Fund.
   (C)   Funds so received by the county may be expended by the Prosecuting
Attorney only by following the budget appropriation and claim procedure. Funds
collected through imposition of a bad check service charge may not be disbursed
from the bad check account for the direct payment of the Prosecuting Attorney’s
office expenses without proper appropriation. Such funds may only become
available for this purpose upon appropriation by the County Council from the
County General Fund into a line in the Prosecuting Attorney’s budget.
   (D)   This section shall be in full force and effect from and after the date
of adoption.
(Ord. 2000-8, passed 12-11-2000)
§ 33.004 PAYMENT OF CERTAIN CLAIMS IN ADVANCE.
   (A)   The following kinds of expenses, if for lawful county purposes, may be
paid by the County Auditor in advance of approval by the Board of Commissioners
of the county:
      (1)   Property or services purchased or leased from the U.S. Government,
its agencies or its political subdivisions;
      (2)   License or permit fees;
      (3)   Insurance premiums;
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
      (5)   General grant programs where advance funding is prohibited;
      (6)   Grants or state funds authorized by statute;
      (7)   Maintenance or service agreements;
      (8)   Lease or rental payments;
      (9)   Bond or coupon payments;
      (10)   Payroll;
      (11)   State or federal taxes;
      (12)   Expenses paid for emergency services;
      (13)   Collect freight deliveries;
      (14)   Conference registrations approved by the Board of Commissioners;
      (15)   Reimbursement for conference expenses incurred while attending
approved conferences;
      (16)   Credit card or charge card expenses incurred by county government
offices for lawful purposes; and
      (17)   Postage.
   (B)   Pursuant to Indiana Code, each payment must be fully itemized and each
invoice or bill certified by the County Auditor. The pre-approved or pre-paid
claim must be published as required by law and approved at the next scheduled
meeting of the County Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 2001-14, passed 10- -2001)
§ 33.005 VETERANS’ BURIAL ALLOWANCE.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners of the county hereby limits the claim for
the burial allowance to $250 and limits the claim for the marker placement
allowance to $100.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners of the county shall pay such a claim for a
burial allowance one time, payable either when the veteran dies or when the
spouse of a veteran dies, but not both, as per State Form 49890.
   (C)   The Board of Commissioners of the county shall pay a claim for the
marker placement allowance only when a marker is supplied by the Federal
Government, and the claim for said allowance must be accompanied by VA Form 40-
1330.
(Ord. 2011-11, passed 7-25-2011; Ord. 2023-09, passed 11-13-2023)
§ 33.006 CAPITAL ASSET POLICY.
   (A)   Purpose. This capital asset policy will be effective upon adoption.
The purpose of this policy is to facilitate the preparation of financial
statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.
   (B)   Classification of assets. Capital assets are personal and real
property used in the operations of the county that have an expected estimated
useful life beyond a single period. Capital assets are to include any item that
falls into one of the following categories:
      (1)   Land;
      (2)   Building and building improvements;
      (3)   Machinery and equipment;
      (4)   Vehicles;
      (5)   Computer software;
      (6)   General infrastructure (roads, bridges, and rights-of-way); or
      (7)   Construction in progress.
   (C)   Capitalization thresholds.
      (1)   To be considered a capital asset for financial reporting purposes,
an item must be at or above the capitalization threshold and have a unit
historical cost of $5,000 or more, as well as all computers (laptops, notebooks
and tablets), printers, copiers, and emergency radios.
      (2)   With regard to improvements and buildings and general
infrastructure, a capital outlay must be significant and increase capacity,
increase efficiency or extend the asset’s estimated useful life beyond the
original expectation.
      (3)   A change in capacity increases the level of service provided by the
asset. A change in efficiency increases the level of service but without
increasing the size of the asset or the change maintains the same level of
service at a lower cost.
      (4)   For example, an addition to a building provides increased square
footage, hence, the capacity is increased and the capital outlay is
capitalized. Widening a road with additional lanes increases capacity and
hence, the capital outlay is capitalized. An extended estimated useful life
involves a significant alteration, structural change or improvement.
      (5)   While substantial repairs and renovations will be reviewed for
potential capitalization, it is anticipated that most will be expenses in the
current year. These expenses often merely restore the asset to the original
service potential but do not necessarily improve the asset.
      (6)   All land, including right-of-ways, is capitalized at the time of
acquisition regardless of historical costs or fair value if donated.
   (D)   Historical cost or estimated historical costs.
      (1)   Prospective reporting. Capital assets are recorded at historical
cost which includes any ancillary charges necessary to place the asset into its
intended location and condition for use. Ancillary charges include, for
example, freight and transportation charges, site preparation costs, and
professional fees. Engineering costs (internal and external) include related
preliminary project and environmental studies; project estimating, design, and
planning (drawings and specifications); and construction engineering,
construction management, construction inspection and project payment. Donated
capital assets are recorded at their estimated fair value at the time of
acquisition.
      (2)   Retroactive reporting at transition of GASB statement 34. When
actual historical cost source data is unavailable, estimated historical cost is
developed utilizing a normal cost approach. With this method of estimating
historical cost, a current replacement cost is ascertained. An appropriate cost
index (including Consumer Price Index and Federal Highway Price Trends)
corresponding to an estimated date of acquisition/construction is then applied
to lower the replacement cost more in line with an estimated historical cost.
   (E)   Estimated useful years of depreciable assets. Capital assets have
estimated useful lives extending beyond a single reporting period (one year)
and are depreciated using the straight-line method with no allowance for
salvage value. The estimated useful life of assets currently used were
developed with the input of knowledgeable staff and reflect our government’s
experience with these assets:
Land and Improvements to Land Non-Depreciable
Land and Improvements to Land       Non-Depreciable
Buildings and Building Improvements 50 Years
Machinery and Equipment             5 Years
Vehicles -    Automobiles        5 Years
      Light Trucks            8 Years
      Heavy Trucks            15 Years
General                              
Infrastructure    Roads          50 Years
         Bridges           75 Years
Outdoor Lighting                    10 Years
Software                            5 Years
 
   (F)   Depreciation method / convention. Depreciation will be calculated
using the straight-line method and full-year convention. No salvage value or
residual value will be recognized.
   (G)   Retirements.
      (1)   Retirements apply to all capital assets including land, buildings,
machinery and equipment, vehicles and general infrastructure.
      (2)   When an asset is disposed of, scrapped, sold, subject to
demolition, etc. it is to be removed from the property record and the
appropriate reduction will be made to historical cost, accumulated
depreciation, and net book value amounts.
      (3)   Retirements will reflect the actual historical cost of the asset
when the amount is ascertainable. When historical cost is not ascertainable, an
estimated historical cost will be determined.
   (H)   Responsibility for property record maintenance.
      (1)   The Ripley County Auditor will ensure that reporting for capital
assets is being exercised by establishing a capital asset inventory, both
initially and periodically in subsequent years. The Ripley County Auditor will
further ensure that the capital asset report will be updated annually to
reflect improvements, additions, retirements, and transfers and to reflect the
new annual capital asset balance for financial reporting purposes and the
annual and accumulated depreciation calculations and net book value amounts.
      (2)   Day-to-day stewardship of all personal property is the expressed
responsibility of the department/office and/or department head/office holder
utilizing the property.
      (3)   For annual updating of the capital asset report, the departments/
offices have the responsibility to report improvements, additions, retirements,
and transfers in detail to the Ripley County Auditor. It is expected that this
reporting will be in a timely manner, as the capital asset record must be
updated annually.
   (I)   Property control.
      (1)   Capital assets above and below the capitalization threshold of
$5,000, on a unit basis but warranting “control” shall be inventoried at the
department level and an appropriate list will be maintained. Data elements are
to include asset description, location, make, mode, serial number, and other
information that assists control or deemed relevant.
      (2)   The Ripley County Auditor shall determine appropriate means, level
of detailed data elements, and the system to be utilized. Finally, the Ripley
County Auditor shall have the right to request copies of the inventory and/or
updated inventory of controllable items so as to periodically review the
information and adhere to policy.
(Res. 2021-05, passed 10-4-2021)
§ 33.007 BUDGET TRANSFERS; COUNCIL APPROVAL REQUIRED.
   The County Council does hereby require that any and all budget transfers be
effective only upon the passage of such proposed budget transfer by a majority
vote of the elected members of the County Council, effective as of December 20,
2022.
(Ord. 2022-12, passed 12-19-2022)
TAXES
§ 33.020 INNKEEPER’S TAX.
   (A)   (1)   It does hereby impose the State Uniform County Innkeeper’s Tax
(I.C. 6-9-18 et seq.) at the rate of 5% on every person engaged in the business
of renting or furnishing, for periods of less than 30 days, any room or rooms,
lodgings or accommodations in any hotel, motel, boat motel, inn, college or
university memorial union, college or university residence hall or dormitory,
or tourist cabin located in the county. The tax does not apply to gross income
received in a transaction in which:
         (a)   A student rents lodgings in a college or university residence
hall while that student participates in a course of study for which the student
receives college credit from a college or university located in the county; or
         (b)   A person rents a room, lodging or accommodations for a period of
30 days or more.
      (2)   The County Treasurer shall establish a Convention, Recreation and
Visitor Promotion Fund. He or she shall deposit in this Fund all amounts he or
she receives under this section.
      (3)   The County Auditor shall send a certified copy of this section to
the Commissioner of the Department of State Revenue immediately upon adoption
of this section.
      (4)   The County Auditor shall issue warrants directing the County
Treasurer to transfer money from the Convention, Recreation and Visitor
Promotion Fund to the County Convention, Recreation and Visitors Commission’s
Treasurer if and when the Commission submits a written request for the
transfer.
      (5)   Money in a Convention, Recreation and Visitor Promotion Fund, or
money transferred from such a Fund, may be expended only to promote and
encourage conventions, trade shows, special events, recreation and visitors
within the county.
      (6)   This section shall be effective 1-1-1996.
   (B)   The tax be paid monthly to the Treasurer of the county not more than
20 days after the end of the month the tax is collected. A collection allowance
of 2% may be taken. A late penalty charge of 10% shall be added for taxes paid
after the due date, plus interest at the rate of 1.5% per month (annual
percentage rate of 18%) for each month or part of a month the tax payment is
overdue.
(Council Ord. 1995-3, passed 2-27-1995; Council O-1995-8, passed 9-26-1995)
FUNDS AND ACCOUNTS
§ 33.035 IDENTIFICATION SECURITY PROTECTION FUND.
   (A)   Fund. Pursuant to I.C. 36-2-7.5, the County Identification Security
Protection Fund (“Fund”) is hereby established as of 1-1-2006.
   (B)   Administration. The Fund shall be administered by the County Recorder.
   (C)   Appropriations. Expenditures from the Fund shall be subject to
appropriation by the County Council.
   (D)   Deposits. The Fund shall consist of the fees deposited in the Fund by
the County Recorder pursuant to I.C. 36-2-7.5-6.
   (E)   Use of Fund. The County Recorder may use money in the Fund only to
purchase, upgrade, implement or maintain redacting technology used in the
office of the County Recorder.
   (F)   Reversion. Money in the Fund does not revert to County General Fund.
   (G)   Governing law. The Fund shall be governed by and subject to the
provisions of I.C. 36-2-7.5, as amended.
(Ord. 2005-13, passed 11-7-2005)
§ 33.036 OFFENDER TRANSPORTATION FUND.
   There is hereby established the County Offender Transportation Fund.
(Council Ord. 2011-9, passed 7-18-2011)
§ 33.037 PROBATION TRANSFER APPLICATION FEE CLEARING ACCOUNT.
   There is hereby established an account to be known as the Probation Transfer
Application Fee Clearing Account.
(Council Ord. 2011-10, passed 7-18-2011)
§ 33.038 SUBSTANCE ABUSE OUTPATIENT PROGRAM FUND.
   The fees collected or received for enrollment and use in the substance abuse
outpatient program shall be deposited to a separate fund to be known as the
Substance Abuse Outpatient Program Fund for appropriation and disbursement in
accordance with state law and the County Council.
(Ord. 2003-02, passed 4-15-2003; Ord. 2013-02, passed 4-15-2013)
§ 33.039 JUVENILE SUBSTANCE ABUSE PROGRAM FUND.
   Fees collected and/or other related funds received for application and use
in the juvenile substance abuse program, and including interest earned, shall
be deposited to a separate fund to be known as the Juvenile Substance Abuse
Program Fund for appropriation and disbursement in accordance with state law.
(Council 2001-8, passed 6-19-2001)
§ 33.040 WAGERING TAX REVENUE CLEARING FUND.
   There is hereby established a fund to be known as the Wagering Tax Revenue
Clearing Fund.
(Council Ord. 2011-5, passed 5-16-2011)
§ 33.041 RIVERBOAT WAGERING REVENUE SHARING FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a fund to be known as Riverboat Wagering
Tax Revenue Sharing Fund.
   (B)   The funds received from the state as a distribution of wagering taxes
under I.C. 4-3-13-5 shall be deposited to the Riverboat Wagering Tax Revenue
Sharing Fund.
   (C)   Interest earned on the Riverboat Wagering Tax Revenue Sharing Fund
shall be deposited to and/or retained in said Fund.
(Council Ord. 2003-14, passed 8-19-2003)
§ 33.042 RIVERBOAT-BELTERRA REVENUE CLEARING FUND.
   There is hereby established an account to be known as the Riverboat-Belterra
Revenue Clearing Fund.
(Council Ord. 2011-6, passed 6-20-2011)
§ 33.043 TRAFFIC COURT DIVISION PETTY CASH FUND.
   There is hereby established a petty cash fund for the Traffic Court of the
County Superior Court not to exceed $100.
(Ord. 1998-1, passed 2-23-1998)
§ 33.044 SHERIFF’S DEPARTMENT PETTY CASH FUND.
   Ord. 1995-3 is amended to increase the County Sheriff’s Department Petty
Cash Fund in the amount not to exceed $200, with the total amount of the County
Sheriff’s Department Petty Cash Fund not to exceed $1,000.
(Ord. 1997-8, passed 9-8-1997)
§ 33.045 EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a fund to be known as Emergency Medical
Services (“EMS”) Fund.
   (B)   The funds received by the county as revenues from emergency medical
services billings or donations be deposited to the Emergency Medical Services
(“EMS”) Fund.
   (C)   Interest earned on the Emergency Medical Services (“EMS”) Fund shall
be deposited to and/or retained in said Fund.
(Council Ord. 2003-13A, passed 9-3-2003)
§ 33.046 RAINY DAY FUND.
   (A)   The County Council, fiscal body of the county, hereby establishes a
Rainy Day Fund for the county.
   (B)   The sources of funding for the Rainy Day Fund shall include:
      (1)   Transfers of unused and unencumbered funds authorized by I.C. 36-1-
8-5, not to exceed 10% of the county’s total budget for the fiscal year;
      (2)   Supplemental distribution of excess county adjusted gross income
tax (CAGIT) funds per I.C. 6-3.5-1.1-21.1;
      (3)   Supplemental distribution of excess economic development income tax
(EDIT) funds per I.C. 6-3.5-6-17.3 and I.C. 6-3.5-7-17.3; and
      (4)   Supplemental distribution of excess funds from any special account
of the county per I.C. 6-3.5-6-17.3 and I.C. 6-3.5-7-17.3.
   (C)   The purposes of the Rainy Day Fund shall include financing the
development and implementation (including construction costs) for capital
projects in and for the county.
(Council Ord. 2004-05, passed 2-17-2004)
§ 33.047 COURT ORDERED TESTING FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a new fund to be known as the Court
Ordered Testing Fund into which the user fees collected for the drug screens
will be deposited and from which the cost of administering the drug screens
shall be paid.
   (B)   Said Court Ordered Testing Fund shall be a non-reverting fund so that
the balance, if any, at the end of the calendar year shall be carried over to
the next calendar year.
   (C)   The County Probation Department shall use these funds:
      (1)   To develop, implement and administer drug screens to individuals as
ordered by the County Circuit Court and the County Superior Court;
      (2)   Determine the individual costs associated with the administration
of drug screens;
      (3)   Assess a fee for the individual cost to the adult or juvenile
participant and/or other responsible party, in compliance with the financial
guidelines as established by the County Circuit Court and the County Superior
Court; and
      (4)   Collect and deposit the fees to the Court Ordered Testing Fund to
pay the costs associated with the administration of drug screens.
(Council Ord. 2008-11, passed 7-21-2008)
§ 33.048 COMMUNITY TRANSITION PROGRAM FUND.
   Fees collected and/or other related funds received for application and use
in the community transition program shall be deposited to a separate fund to be
known as the Community Transition Program Fund for appropriation and
disbursement in accordance with state law, including the interest earned
thereon.
(Council Ord. 2001-13, passed 9-18-2001)
§ 33.049 PRETRIAL SERVICES CLEARING FUND.
   There is hereby established an account and fund to be known as the Pretrial
Services Clearing Fund for pretrial services fees to be collected, cleared and
transferred to the appropriate funds as set forth by statute and this section.
(Council Ord. 2015-03, passed 6-15-2015)
§ 33.050 REDEVELOPMENT COMMISSION NON-REVERTING FUND.
   There is hereby created a Redevelopment Commission Non-Reverting Fund to
which the public funds of the county Redevelopment Commission shall be
deposited and administered, invested and disbursed under the authority and
responsibility of the County Treasurer.
(Council Ord. 2015-07, passed 12-14-2015)
§ 33.051 SHERIFF'S DEPARTMENT UNIFORM FUND.
   There is hereby created a Sheriff's Department Uniform Fund. The fees
collected for background/criminal history checks shall be deposited in this
Fund.
(Ord. 2016-05, passed 6-28-2016)
§ 33.052 RAINY DAY RESTRICTED FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established Ripley County, Indiana Fund 1303 Rainy Day
Restricted for which monies and funds from Ripley County MVH funds may be
transferred for a matching grant by the Local Road and Bridge Matching Grant
Fund, which shall only be used for the purposes outlined by the Local Road and
Bridge Matching Grant Fund, within the parameters of an approved Transportation
Asset Management Plan.
   (B)   Any unused funds shall be returned to the appropriate originating fund
from which said funds were obtained.
(Ord. 2017-02A, passed 5-15-2017)
§ 33.053 MVH FUND.
   (A)   There is established MCH Fund #1173 for which monies and funds from
all appropriate sources may be deposited and held, distributed for the purposes
as set forth in I.C. 8-1-14-4(a), or as thereafter amended, and accounted for
as per the recommendation of the Indiana State Board of Accounts; and
   (B)   Any unused funds shall remain in said MCH Fund #1173.
(Res. 2019-01, passed 1-22-2019)
§ 33.054 CORONAVIRUS LOCAL RECOVERY FUND.
   (A)   Fund established. The ARP Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Fund,
within a fund number range of 8950-8975, shall remain the ARP Fund of the
county, effective as of May 17, 2021.
   (B)   Sources of funding. The source of funding includes money allocated to
Ripley County, Indiana from the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021, distributed
to Ripley County, Indiana in 2021 and 2022.
   (C)   Classification of funding and planned use.
      (1)   The county shall amend the classification of the ARP Coronavirus
Funds electing to classify said funds as revenue replacement, effective as of
May 17, 2022. The county shall appropriate and use the revenue replacement
funds, for permitted purposes set forth in the American Recovery Plan, in
accordance with U.S. Treasury Guidance, to cover costs obligated by the county
by December 31, 2024, and expended by the county by December 31, 2026, for the
following:
         (a)   To respond to the public health emergency with respect to the
Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) or its negative economic impacts, including
assistance to households, small businesses, and non-profits, or aid to impacted
industry such as tourism, travel, and hospitality;
         (b)   To respond to workers performing essential work during the
COVID-19 public health emergency by providing premium pay to eligible workers
who perform essential work;
         (c)   For the provision of government services to the extent of the
reduction in revenue of the county due to the COVID-19 public health emergency
relative to revenues collected in the most recent full fiscal year of the
county prior to the emergency, that being 2019; or
         (d)   To make necessary investments in water, sewer or broadband
infrastructure.
      (2)   The county's plan for use of said ARP funds, as revenue replacement
funds, shall focus primarily in the following areas:
         (a)   The needs of the county related to revenue loss;
         (b)   Expansion of the Milan, Indiana EMS facility to provide for
COVID testing and contact tracing record storage, COVID testing, PPE storage,
distancing of EMS employees, area for vaccinations and vaccine storage and
improved HVAC for mitigation of airborne viruses;
         (c)   Obtaining two replacement ambulance units with ultraviolet
airborne virus mitigation, to limit the exposure to, and spread of the
Coronavirus/COVID-19;
         (d)   Extension of broadband internet service, where such coverage
does not exist, within the county;
         (e)   Extension, repair and replacement of water mains, valves and
service, with the cooperation of rural and regional water companies, servicing
areas within the county;
         (f)   Extension of sanitary sewer, within the county;
         (g)   The repair and replacement of Courthouse HVAC, including
required plumbing and wiring for said HVAC, and replacement windows, to
mitigate and eliminate airborne viruses, and provide better air quality, free
of airborne viruses, such as Coronavirus, to mitigate and stop the spread of
COVID-19.
   (D)   Appropriation. The funds shall be appropriated by the County Council
before use.
   (E)   Confirmation of use of funding consistent with plan/return of funds.
All expenditure of funds shall be approved by the Board of Commissioners, with
any and all claims to be paid from the county’s ARP fund. The Board of
Commissioners planned uses set forth above may have conditions and rules upon
which the funds are to be requested and used and may thereby be amended from
time to time as required by law.
   (F)   Record keeping. The County Auditor shall keep accurate and complete
financial records of the receipt and expenditure of any and all funds deposited
and paid from the ARP fund.
   (G)   Prohibition on uses.
      (1)   No money received in the ARP fund shall be used for any type of
deposit into any pension fund, and money from the ARP fund may not be
transferred to another fund of the county.
      (2)   Additional prohibited uses include:
         (a)   Debt service payments;
         (b)   Replenishment of financial reserve accounts (rainy day funds);
         (c)   Payment of judgments or settlements; and
         (d)   Programs, service or capital expenditures that include terms or
conditions that undermine efforts to mitigate and/or stop the spread of COVID-
19.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 5-17-2021; Ord. 2023-01, passed 3-6-2023)
§ 33.055 SAFE HAVEN PROJECT FUND.
   (A)   That funds, from private donations or public appropriations, will be
separated and deposited in the Safe Haven Project Fund - Milan EMS (212 Maple
Street, Milan, IN 47031), as directed by donor(s).
   (B)   The funds, from private donations or public appropriations, will be
separated and deposited in the Safe Haven Project Fund - Versailles EMS (727
West Hopewell Road, Versailles, IN 47042), as directed by donor(s).
   (C)   The Ripley County Safe Haven Project Fund, Milan EMS or Versailles
EMS, may be used as follows at either location: installation of a Safe Haven
Baby Box, alarm and monitoring equipment, along with the continued operational
cost, phone line, maintenance and annual service fee of the box and equipment.
(Ord. 2022-08, passed 9-19-2022)
FEES AND CHARGES
§ 33.060 NSF CHARGES; CHECKS.
   The Board of Commissioners of the county hereby limits the collection amount
to the actual NSF fee charged to county government offices by the depository
bank of the county government, plus cost of providing notice, in the amount of
$10 and that said amounts for a NSF check may be placed upon the person’s,
persons’, entity’s or entities’ taxes, (that presented said NSF check), by the
Treasurer of the county.
(Ord. 2011-12, passed 8-22-2011)
§ 33.061 CORONER FEES.
   The fees and charges for the services of the County Coroner shall be:
   (A)   Providing a copy of an autopsy report: $25;
   (B)   Providing a copy of autopsy photos: $30; and
   (C)   Providing testimony: $30 per hour.
(Ord. 2009-7, passed 6-29-2009)
§ 33.062 MOBILE HOME TRANSFER AND MOVING PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Effective as of 8:00 a.m. on 11-1-2013, a fee of $10 shall be charged
by the County Treasurer for each mobile home moving permit or transfer of title
permit issued by the Treasurer.
   (B)   The County Treasurer shall post the fee set forth in this section in a
prominent place within the Treasurer’s office where the fee schedule is readily
accessible to the public.
   (C)   Such fee shall be paid at, or prior to, the time of the request in
cash or by check or money order payable and delivered to the Treasurer of the
county. The sum of $10 of each such fee collected shall be deposited in the
County General Fund.
   (D)   This section shall be effective 11-1-2013.
(Council Ord. 2013-10, passed 10-21-2013)
§ 33.063 HEALTH DEPARTMENT FEES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following terms
shall be defined as set forth below:
      BOARD OF HEALTH. The Ripley County Board of Health as provided for in
I.C. 16-20-2-1 et seq.
      HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The Ripley County Health Department.
      PERSON. Any association, company, corporation, firm, individual, or
partnership.
   (B)   Collection of fees. The Health Department shall collect the fees for
all services it provides in accordance with this section.
   (C)   Fees for services. The Board of Health shall charge a fee for
providing any person with the services listed in division (E) below.
   (D)   Collection of fees, accounting and disposition.
      (1)   Collection of fees. The Health Department shall collect the fees
established by this section in accordance with division (E) below.
      (2)   Accounting for fees. All fees collected by the Health Department
shall be accounted for in detail for each program service area.
      (3)   Disposition of fees. All fees collected by the Health Department
pursuant to this section shall be transferred to the County Health Fund. The
monies collected in accordance with this section shall be used only for the
maintenance or future expansion of the specific program service areas from
which they are derived.
      (4)   Fees for other county health jurisdictions. Fees collected for
health services and records provided to persons in other county health
jurisdictions and involving payment from the county tax revenues shall be
collected in accordance with agreements entered into pursuant to I.C. 16-20-1-
8.
   (E)   Fee schedule. The following fee schedule is established and approved
for the services and records provided by the Health Department:
Services Fee
Services                                                           Fee
Environmental Pool Inspections
   Pool fee seasonal                                            $25
   Pool fee yearly                                              $50
Food Establishments
   Food establishment plan review                               $100
   Food service establishment permit (12 months)                $100
      After January 5 late fee                               $50
   Home based vendor permit (per event)                         $50
      After 14 days prior to event late fee                  $50
   Mobile food permit                                           $200
      14 days prior to first event                           $50
   Temporary food service permit (per event)                    $50
      After 14 days prior to event late fee                  $50
Septic Systems
   Commercial septic permit                                     $200
   Registration fee for on-site sewage disposal system contracto$50
   Residential septic permit                                    $100
   Septic installer exam                                        $15
   Site survey                                                  $30
Tattoo Parlors
   Tattoo artist permit                                         $50
   Tattoo establishment permit                                  $200
Vital Records
   Amendments                                                   $10
   Birth certificate                                            $25
   Death certificate                                            $20
   Genealogy search                                             $5
   Paternity                                                    $10
 
(Ord. 2013-13, passed 10- -2013; Ord. 2021-06, passed 7-13-2021; Ord. 2024-06,
passed 4-12-2024)
§ 33.064 SHERIFF’S SALE PROGRAM SERVICE FEE.
   (A)   The Sheriff’s Sale Program is approved and established to provide the
procedure for the Sheriff to contract for those administrative, technical,
clerical and related services that are reasonable and appropriate for the
Sheriff to effectively prepare for, manage and implement foreclosure sales.
   (B)   The Commissioners hereby establish a fund to be titled the Sheriff
Sale Fund into which all collections of foreclosure costs fees, as hereafter
defined, shall be deposited and from which the appropriate expenses of the
Sheriff Sale Program shall be appropriated and paid. The Sheriff Sale Fund
shall be a non-reverting fund to be used only for the purposes set forth herein
and shall not revert to the County General Fund at year end.
   (C)   The Sheriff is authorized to negotiate and execute a contract with a
provider to obtain such administrative, technical, clerical and related
services (the “Sheriff Sale Services”) in order for the Sheriff to conduct the
Sheriff’s Sale Program.
   (D)   (1)   The Sheriff Sale Services contract shall provide for the
delivery of such services by a contractor (the “contractor”) in compliance with
all applicable statutory provisions for the conduct of foreclosure sale
proceedings and the Sheriff’s Sale Program.
      (2)   The Sheriff’s Sale services contract shall also provide for the
payment of a fee, not to exceed the amount in division (H) below for each cause
number scheduled in the Sheriff’s Sale Program, to the contractor for such
services.
   (E)   The Sheriff is hereby authorized to charge a fee of the amount in
division (H) below per cause number of property in the Sheriff’s Sale Program
(the “foreclosure costs fees”) and to deposit such foreclosure costs fees
collected by or on behalf of the Sheriff in the Sheriff’s Sale Fund.
   (F)   The foreclosure costs fee shall be payable at the time of filing the
praecipe under I.C. 32-29-7-3(i), which shall be a charge for the Sheriff’s
Sale in addition to other statutory costs and fees.
   (G)   The Sheriff’s Sale Program contract shall provide for a complete and
accurate accounting of all Sheriff Sale Program proceeds and compliance with
any reporting or record requirements as set forth by the State Board of
Accounts.
   (H)   The estimated costs herein are estimates of the County Sheriff for the
administration of foreclosure sales as required by I.C. 32-29-7. The fees are
authorized by I.C. 32-29-7-3:
      (1)   Contractual services: $100 per cause number;
      (2)   Employee time defined;
      (3)   Employee cost per definition in division (H)(2) above; and
      (4)   Other defined costs (i.e., service of notice, cost of paper,
envelopes, phone calls).
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 4-30-2012)
§ 33.065 TREASURER’S OFFICE COPY CHARGE.
   The Treasurer of the county is authorized to charge up to the sum of $1 per
page/per tax profile for copies of property tax records.
(Ord. 2011-3, passed 2-7-2011)
§ 33.066 U.C.C. FILING RECORDING FEE.
   Beginning 1-1-1999, the county supplemental recording fee of $3 shall apply
to U.C.C. filings.
(Ord. 1998-8, passed 11-16-1998)
§ 33.067 INMATES OF COUNTY JAIL.
   (A)   (1)   The Sheriff of the county is hereby authorized to collect a fee
of $2 for meals considered to be an excess of that food prepared for the noon
and evening meals of inmates incarcerated in the County Jail.
      (2)   (a)   It will not be the policy of the Sheriff of the county to
have an excessive amount of food prepared specifically for the purpose of
feeding other than individuals designated as inmates and are in a state of
incarceration.
         (b)   According to I.C. 36-8-10-7, the Sheriff of the county will
account for the revenue received per meal; this accounting will be forwarded to
the Auditor of the county and be maintained as provided for by the State Board
of Accounts.
      (3)   The revenue collected will be placed by the Auditor of the county
into a fund designated as the Sheriff’s Improvement Fund and such revenue will
be utilized for payment of improvements made specifically to the infrastructure
known as the County Jail.
      (4)   This section shall take effect immediately upon adoption.
   (B)   (1)   There is hereby established a housing fee of $50 per day for
housing of an inmate at the County Jail for an intermittent jail sentence.
      (2)   Any person who is as follows shall reimburse the county the sum of
$50 per day for each day served of an intermittent sentence:
         (a)   Sentences for a felony or misdemeanor;
         (b)   Subject to lawful detention in I.C. 35-41-1-18 in the County
Jail and is ordered to serve said sentence on an intermittent basis; and
         (c)   Not detained as a child subject to the jurisdiction of a
juvenile court.
      (3)   The County Sheriff shall collect the amounts due from a period
under this division (B) and deposit said funds into the County General Fund.
   (C)   The Sheriff of the county, or his or her designee, is authorized to
charge the inmate’s commissary account the sum of $15 for each occurrence of a
doctor or dentist visit; the sum of $10 for each occurrence of a jail medical
staff visit; and the sum of $3 for an origination fee for each prescription.
Said amount is to be collected and deposited with the Auditor of the county for
credit to the County General Fund.
(Ord. 96-2, passed 2-26-1996; Council Ord. 2000-1, passed 4-18-2000; Council
Ord. 2007-10A, passed 9-17-2007; Ord. 2008-004, passed 1-28-2008)
§ 33.068 IN-HOME INCARCERATION FEES.
   (A)   (1)   For purposes of this section, PER DAY shall be defined to mean
each 24-hour period irrespective whether an inmate is incarcerated for the full
24-hour period.
      (2)   An inmate approved by the Sheriff to participate in either program
shall pay an administrative fee of $100.
      (3)   An inmate approved for home incarceration shall pay $20 per day for
each day served.
      (4)   An inmate approved for work release shall pay a minimum of $20 per
day, or the inmates hourly wage per day, whichever is greater.
      (5)   An inmate approved by the Sheriff to participate in either program
shall pay two weeks fees in advance of initiating said program.
      (6)   For an inmate who is serving a period less than 30 days, a non-
refundable user fee of $250 will be assessed in addition to any other fees.
      (7)   For an inmate who works outside of the county, a non-refundable
user fee of $200 will be assessed for those participants serving a period of
less than 180 days and a fee of $400 will be assessed for those serving a term
greater than 180 days.
      (8)   The Commissioners recognize that flexibility is required and that
deviation from the fees may be appropriate in the interest of fairness and
justice. Therefore, either the Sheriff, or the Director of Home Incarceration
and Work Release, shall be authorized to deviate from the fees, if either
believes it to be appropriate. Any and all deviations, with the reasons stated,
should be recorded and included in the annual report to the Commissioners and
Council.
   (B)   (1)   There is established the following fees for participation in the
Juvenile Home Detention Program:
         (a)   Initial installation fee: $25; and
         (b)   Daily fee: $8.
      (2)   The Juvenile Home Detention Program Fund is established.
      (3)   Fees when collected by the County Probation Department shall be
deposited to said Fund for use by the County Probation Department in
administering the Juvenile Home Detention Program.
(Council Ord. 2001-3, passed 2-20-2001; Ord. 2007-015A, passed 12-3-2007)
§ 33.069 REAL PROPERTY ENDORSEMENT FEE.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-2-9-18, the Auditor of the county is hereby
authorized to collect a fee of $3 for each real property endorsement that the
Auditor makes. The Auditor shall place revenue received under this chapter in a
dedicated fund for use in maintaining plat books.
   (B)   From and after 1-1-1998, the custody and continued maintenance of the
county plat records shall be with the County Surveyor.
(Ord. 92-2, passed 7-6-1992; Ord. 1997-10, passed 10-20-1997)
§ 33.070 RECORDING DOCUMENT FEE.
   (A)   Effective as of 8:00 a.m. on 1-2-1996, a supplemental fee for
recording a document in the amount of $3 per document shall be charged by the
County Recorder’s office.
   (B)   All revenue received by the Recorder pursuant to this section shall be
deposited to the County Recorder’s Records Perpetuation Fund.
   (C)   The County Recorder shall post the fee set forth in this section in a
prominent place with the Recorder’s office easily visible by the general
public.
(Ord. 1995-9, passed 11-6-1995)
§ 33.071 ASSESSOR’S OFFICE COPY CHARGE.
   The Assessor of the county is authorized to charge the sum of $1 per page
for copy(ies) of property record cards and copies of plat maps.
(Ord. O-1995-7, passed 8-1-1995)
§ 33.072 SALES DISCLOSURE FEE.
   (A)   This section establishes the Sales Disclosure Fee, and creating/re-
dedicating Funds 1131 and 7105 to and for the purposes outlined by I.C. 6-1.1-
5.5-4, 6-1.1-5.5-4.5, and 6-1.1-5.5-4.7; such that the Sales Disclosure Fee
shall be the sum of $20 or in an amount as thereafter amended by statute,
unless a certain specified waiver of said fee applies, pursuant to statute.
   (B)   Fifty percent of the revenue collected under I.C. 6-1.1-5.5-4 shall be
deposited in the county sales disclosure fund established under I.C. 6-1.1-5.5-
4.5, and 50% of the revenue shall be transferred to the State Treasurer for
deposit in the State Assessment training fund established under I.C. 6-1.1-5.5-
4.7.
   (C)   The effective date of this section shall be July 1, 2021.
(Ord. 2001-11, passed 7-23-2001; Ord. 2019-06, passed 6-17-2019; Ord. 2021-04,
passed 6-15-2021)
§ 33.073 HERITAGE BARNS; FEE.
   (A)   A public safety fee of $50 shall be charged by the County Auditor for
a heritage barn for which a person receives the heritage barn deduction.
   (B)   The County Auditor shall post the fee set forth in this section in a
prominent place within the Auditor’s office where the fee schedule is readily
accessible to the public.
   (C)   The County Heritage Barn Public Safety Fund is hereby established and
that such fees shall be paid at the time of application, in cash, by check or
money order payable and delivered to the County Auditor.
   (D)   The full amount of $50 of each such fee collected shall be deposited
in the County Heritage Barn Public Safety Fund and distributed as set in this
section.
(Council Ord. 2015-02, passed 3-16-2015)
§ 33.074 FEE FOR BACKGROUND CHECKS/CRIMINAL HISTORY CHECKS.
   A fee of $10 shall be charged for each background check/criminal history
check performed at the county Sheriff’s Department. The funds collected from
this fee shall be deposited into the Sheriff’s Department Uniform Fund.
(Ord. 2016-05, passed 6-28-2016)
§ 33.075 ELECTRONIC MAP ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Title and definitions.
      (1)   This section and any parts herein shall be known as the Ripley
County Electronic Map Ordinance.
      (2)   In accordance with I.C. 5-14-3-2, as used in this section:
         ELECTRONIC MAP DATA is defined as copyrighted data created and
provided by a public agency from an electronic geographic information system.
         PERSON is defined as an individual, a corporation, a limited liability
company, a partnership, an unincorporated association, or a governmental
entity.
   (B)   Fee schedule. Pursuant to I.C. 5-14-3-8(j) the county may charge a
fee, uniform to all persons for providing electronic map data that is based
upon a reasonable percentage of the county’s direct cost of maintaining
upgrading and enhancing the electronic map and for the direct cost of supplying
the electronic map in the form requested by the person(s).
      (1)   In the case where disclosable and nondisclosable electronic map
data are combined, I.C. 5-14-3-6 provides that the county may charge a
reasonable fee for the county’s direct cost of computer programming to separate
disclosable from nondisclosable electronic map data.
      (2)   It is hereby established by the Ripley County Commissioners and
County Council that the initial fee schedule for the transmission of electronic
map data is as set forth in an attached fee schedule that is incorporated by
reference herein.
      (3)   If the county contracts with a third party contractor to handle the
transmission of county electronic map data, the third party contractor shall
receive 2/3, and the county 1/3 of the fees charged the person for electronic
map data. This fee schedule shall be reviewed on an annual basis and may be
changed on an annual basis to reflect the change in the cost in providing the
electronic map data.
   (C)   Exceptions to fee schedule.  
      (1)   Pursuant to I.C. 5-14-3-8(k) any public agency, as defined by I.C.
5-14-3-2, located within the county or within adjacent counties that agrees to
share with the county any electronic map information that that public agency
might have, if any, that is of the same type as is being shared by the county,
the county will agree to automatically approve a data sharing application with
that public agency and waive that portion of the electronic map fee that would
otherwise be retained by the county.
      (2)   Pursuant to I.C. 5-14-3-8(k) the county’s retained portion of the
electronic map fee shall be waived at the county’s discretion if the use of the
electronic map data will be used for a noncommercial purpose, including the
following: public agencies that do not agree to share with county the same type
of electronic map data being provided by the county, nonprofit activities,
journalism, and/or academic research.
   (D)   Third party contractor. 
      (1)   In accordance with I.C. 5-14-3-3.6, electronic map information may
be provided to person(s) through the county’s own computer gateway, or by
agreement through a computer gateway of a third party contractor. I.C. 5-14-3-
3.6(e) provides that a contract entered into under this section may require the
payment of a reasonable fee to either the third party contractor, the county,
or both.
      (2)   In accordance with I.C. 5-14-3-4, neither the county nor the third
party contractor shall disclose electronic map data that is specifically
excepted from disclosure requirements.
   (E)   Payment. Where the county is using its own computer gateway for the
provision to person(s) of electronic map data, payment shall be made by the
person(s) at the time of delivery. Where the county has entered into an
agreement with a third party contractor to provide electronic map data through
the third party contractor's computer gateway, the third party contractor shall
handle the billing and invoicing of the fees charged and shall agree to send by
U.S. mail that portion of the fee due the county to the county’s electronic map
generation fund within ten business days of the receipt of payment of fees to
the third party contractor by the person(s) making the purchase.
   (F)   Compliance with state statutes. Nothing herein shall compel any office
or their contracted third party contractor to charge a fee for copies if the
fee imposed by this section is contrary to state law. In the event the fees in
this section are contrary to any charges established by state statute, the
state statute shall apply.
   (G)   Use restrictions and notice.  
      (1)   Pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 5-14-3-3(e), no person, other
than those authorized in writing by the Board of Commissioners, may use the
electronic map data provided by the county for commercial purposes, including
to sell, advertise, or solicit the purchase of merchandise, goods, or services,
or sell, loan, give away, or otherwise deliver the information obtained by
request to any other person for these purposes. This includes the repackaging
or assimilation of electronic map data for a commercial purpose in paper or
electronic media. The electronic map data may be used as a reference for
determining the accuracy of maps developed independently from the county's
electronic map data.
      (2)   A person who uses information in a manner contrary to this chapter
or a rule or ordinance adopted under I.C. 5-14-3-3 may be prohibited by the
county from obtaining any electronic map data. The following notice regarding
data ownership, restrictions, and qualifications shall be provided to every
person that receives a copy of the county’s electronic map data.
“Ripley County electronic map data is the property of Ripley County, Indiana.
All electronic map data supplied by Ripley County has been derived from public
records that are constantly undergoing change and is not warranted for content
or accuracy. The County does not guarantee the positional or thematic accuracy
of the data. The cartographic digital file server is not a legal representation
of any of the features depicted, and the County disclaims any assumption of the
legal status they represent. Any implied warranties, including warranties of
merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose, shall be and/or expressly
excluded. The data represents an actual reproduction of data contained in the
County's computer files. This data may be incomplete or inaccurate and is
subject to modifications and changes. Therefore, the County cannot be held
liable for errors or omissions in the data. The recipient's uses and reliance
upon such data is at the recipient's risk. By using this data, the recipient
agrees to protect, hold harmless and indemnify Ripley County and its employees
and officers. This indemnity covers reasonable attorney's fees and all court
costs associated with the defense of Ripley County arising out of this
disclaimer. The recipient may copy this data into computer memory or onto
computer storage devices and prepare derivative works from it for the
recipient's own use.”
      (3)   Pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 5-14-3-3(e), no person, other
than those authorized in writing by the Board of Commissioners may use the
electronic map data provided by the county for commercial purposes, including
to sell, advertise, or solicit the purchase of merchandise, goods, or services,
or sell, loan, give away, or otherwise deliver the information obtained by
request to any other person for these purposes. A person who uses information
in a manner contrary to a rule or ordinance adopted under I.C. 5-14-3-3(e) may
be prohibited by the Board of Commissioners from obtaining any electronic map
data.
      (4)   Please refer to Ripley County Ordinance 2021-02 for any other
restrictions on the use of electronic map data or penalties for the misuse
electronic map data.
      (5)   A copy of the language contained in this section shall be
conspicuously posted in all offices where electronic map data is sold in the
county and shall be provided to any person(s) (as defined by I.C. 5-14-3-2) who
desires to purchase electronic map data from the county.
   (H)   Use violation penalty. Any person(s) who violates the terms and
conditions of this section by failing to pay for purchased electronic map data
shall be liable for total fee charged for the electronic map data plus
attorney's fees and the cost of collection. Any person(s) who violates the
restrictions on the use of electronic map data as set forth in division (G)
above shall be guilty of an infraction and may be fined by the county up to
$2,500, and each violation shall be deemed a separate offense. Also, in the
event that there is an improper use of electronic map data as set forth in
division (G) or in violation of state or federal law, the county may prohibit
the person(s) (as defined by I.C. 5-14-3-2) from obtaining any electronic map
data and seek injunctive relief from any misuse of electronic map data by the
person(s) who originally purchased the electronic map data or any other person
(s) who has received a copy of the electronic map data.
   (I)   Electronic Map Generation Fund. Pursuant to I.C. 5-14-3-8.5, the
Ripley County Council hereby establishes the Ripley County Electronic Map
Generation Fund. The Electronic Map Generation Fund shall consist of fees
charged for providing electronic map data to person(s) in accordance with I.C.
5-14-3-8(j) and be subject to the appropriation by the Ripley County Council.
In accordance with I.C. 5-14-3-8.5(b), all funds collected in the Electronic
Map Generation Fund shall be specifically dedicated to the following purposes:
      (1)   The maintenance, upgrading, and enhancement of the electronic map.
      (2)   The reimbursement of expenses incurred by a public agency in
supplying an electronic map in the form requested by the person(s).
   (J)   Dispute resolution. Any person who has a dispute or seeks relief from
the terms of this section may seek resolution of that dispute or relief from
the Board of Commissioners of Ripley County.
(Ord. 2021-02, passed 2-22-2021)
CHAPTER 34: GENERAL POLICIES
Section
   
34.01   Drug-free workplace policy
   
34.02   Duty weapon and retirement badge retention
   
34.03   Laying pipe and the like; contract and bond
   
34.04   Parental responsibility and reimbursement procedure
   
34.05   Deferred compensation plan
   
34.06   Smoking
   
34.07   Tuberculosis testing for school employees
   
34.08   Mandatory employment of able-bodied persons seeking poor relief
   
34.09   County highway rights-of-way in non-use; improvement and maintenance
   
34.10   Enhanced emergency telephone system
   
34.11   ADA Coordinator; procedures
   
34.12   County credit cards; issuance and use
   
34.13   Internal Control Standards/Materiality Procedures
   
34.14   Longevity pay for Sheriff's Department
   
34.15   Bulk form copies
   
34.16   Nondiscrimination policy
   
34.17   National Incident Management System
   
34.18   Hazard Mitigation Plan
   
34.19   Broadband infrastructure policy
§ 34.01 DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE POLICY.
   (A)   Overview. The county makes a commitment to provide employees a safe
working environment, to ensure that employees, equipment and operating
practices comply with health and safety standards and to maintain public
confidence in the county and its employees. Since the county values each
employee, the county offers employees assistance in dealing with alcohol and
drug abuse problems.
   (B)   Policy.
      (1)   The county requires all employees to report for work in a condition
that allows them to perform their duties in a safe and efficient manner.
Employees will not be permitted to work under the influence of alcohol or with
prohibited drugs in their systems thereby affecting job performance.
      (2)   Violation of any provision of this section will be considered just
cause for disciplinary action up to and including discharge, even for a first
offense. In addition, refusal to adhere to any part of the policy may be
considered an act of insubordination and also may lead to disciplinary action
up to and including discharge.
      (3)   This section and related procedures may be modified by the county
at any time in order to comply with any applicable federal, state or local laws
or to better serve the needs of the county.
   (C)   Prohibited drugs.
      (1)   Prohibited drugs are defined as illegal substances, including
controlled substances as defined in the Controlled Substance Act (21 U.S.C. §
8120) and 21 C.F.R. §§ 1308.11 through 1308.15 and prescription controlled
substance which have not been prescribed by a licensed physician or dentist for
specific treatment purposes for the employee. Abuse of prescription or over-
the-counter drugs will also be treated as a substance abuse problem under this
section.
      (2)   This section prohibits the illegal use, sale, transfer,
distribution, possession or unlawful manufacture of narcotics, drugs or other
controlled substances while on the job or on county premises (including
vehicles used for county business). These include, but are not limited to,
marijuana, cocaine, crack, PCP, heroin, LSD, amphetamines, hallucinogens and
barbiturates. Any illegal substances found on such premises will be turned over
to the state police and may lead to criminal prosecution.
   (D)   Alcohol.
      (1)   The use of alcohol on the job or on county premises is prohibited,
unless such use is non-abusive and is part of an authorized official event held
off county premises. The use of alcohol in vehicles used for county business is
strictly prohibited.
      (2)   Alcohol possession applies to all open or unsealed alcoholic
beverage containers. Such containers are not allowed on the job or on county
premises, unless their possession is part of an authorized official event.
Possession of such containers in vehicles used for county business is never
authorized.
   (E)   Reporting violations.
      (1)   Employees must as a condition of employment, abide by the terms of
this section and report any conviction to the county under a criminal drug
statute for violations occurring on or off county premises when conducting
county business. Report of a conviction must be made to the county within five
business days after the conviction. The county will then notify the appropriate
contracting officer within ten days after receiving notice from either the
employee or from another source. (These requirements are mandated by the Drug-
Free Workplace Act of 1988, being 21 U.S.C. §§ 701 et seq.)
      (2)   An employee who is involved with off the job illegal drug activity
may be considered in violation of this section. In determining whether
disciplinary action will be imposed for this activity, the county will consider
the circumstance of each incident, including, but not limited to, any adverse
effect the employee’s actions may have on its customers, other employees, the
public or the county’s reputation and image.
      (3)   Any questions regarding the reporting of violations should be
directed to the County Commissioners.
   (F)   Employee rehabilitation.
      (1)   Health maintenance is primarily a personal responsibility and it is
the individual’s responsibility to correct unsatisfactory job performance or
behavioral problems caused by alcohol or drug abuse. In an effort to assist
employees, the county will provide various means for employees and their family
members to remain aware of the dangers of substance abuse in the workplace and
to overcome drug and alcohol related problems.
      (2)   Employees with a personal, alcohol or drug related problem are
encouraged to volunteer to participate in an approved rehabilitation program
upon referral from the Employee and Family Assistance Program, before work
performance becomes affected.
      (3)   Participation in a rehabilitation program will not be considered a
barrier to employment nor a cause for disciplinary action. Employees will not
be disciplined merely because of participation in a rehabilitation program or
excused from the disciplinary consequences of conduct which is in violation of
this section or any other county policies or job requirements.
      (4)   Any employee identified through a county investigation as having a
substance abuse problem also may not avoid disciplinary action by requesting to
participate in an approved rehabilitation program.
      (5)   Circumstances in each case will be evaluated to determine the
course of action to be taken (i.e., whether the employee will be offered the
opportunity to participate in a rehabilitation program and/or will be subject
to discipline).
   (G)   Testing.
      (1)   The county may ask employees to submit to random alcohol or drug
tests. Alcohol or drug tests may be required for employees in the following
circumstances:
         (a)   When unsatisfactory job performance or other employee behavior
is reasonably indicative of substance abuse;
         (b)   During and after participation in a drug or alcohol
rehabilitation program for a reasonable period of time as determined by the
county; and
         (c)   When required by law.
      (2)   If a supervisor identifies an employee with a behavior pattern and/
or job performance reasonably indicative of substance abuse, the supervisor
(with the concurrence of the next level of supervision) may recommend that the
employee have a fitness for duty examination by a physician designated by the
county. The physician will determine whether a fitness for duty examination is
necessary and whether alcohol or drug tests will be required.
      (3)   Pre-employment drug testing is part of the pre-employment physical.
The method of testing will be determined by the county. Applicants who test
positive for prohibited drugs in their systems will not be offered employment.
Any questions regarding reapplication opportunities should be directed to the
County Commissioners.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 5-13-2013)
§ 34.02 DUTY WEAPON AND RETIREMENT BADGE RETENTION.
   When a police employee of the county retires in good standing after at least
20 years of service as a police employee and when the County Sheriff, who has
served the county in such office for at least eight years and leaves such
office in good standing, he or she hereby is authorized, upon approval of the
County Sheriff’s Merit Board, to retain his or her issued duty weapon
(handgun), and receive a “retired” badge and a identification that provides his
or her name and rank, signifies that he or she is retired and notes that he or
she is authorized to retain their issued duty weapon. Further, the County
Sheriff hereby is authorized, in his or her sole discretion, and upon approval
of the County Sheriff’s Merit Board, to allow the Chief Deputy who has served
the county in such position for at least eight years, and who leaves their
respective position in good standing, to retain his or her issued duty weapon
(handgun), and receive a “retired” badge and a identification that provides his
or her name and rank, signifies that he or she is retired and notes that he or
she is authorized to retain their issued duty weapon.
(Ord. 2012-2, passed 4-30-2012)
§ 34.03 LAYING PIPE AND THE LIKE; CONTRACT AND BOND.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners of the county hereby establishes this
section requiring a person (defined by I.C. 8-1-23-4 as: the word person as
used herein shall include a public utility, partnership, limited liability
company, firm, association or corporation) to enter into a contract with the
Board of Commissioners of the county and to post a surety bond as determined by
the Board of Commissioners of the county, pursuant to I.C. 8-1-23-3, prior to
the installation of a pipe line, conduit or private drain across or along any
county highway within the county, as follows: “I.C. 8-1-23-3. Laying pipe line,
conduit or drain along or across county highway — Contract for restoration of
highway and use thereof — Surety bond filed with commissioners — Contract not
to create easement”.
   (B)   If any person shall desire to lay a pipe line, conduit or private
drain, across or along any county highway of the state, such person shall first
enter into a contract with the Board of County Commissioners in each county
wherein it is desired to locate such pipe line, conduit or drain, which
contract will obligate the owner thereof to restore the county highway to its
original condition after the laying thereof and to reimburse the county for the
use of such highway. In addition, such person shall file with the Board of
County Commissioners a surety bond, payable to the county, in a sum to be set
by and to the approval of the Board of County Commissioners, conditioned upon
the performance of such contract. No such contract shall give any person a
permanent right or easement to use any county highway but such contract may
give the right to use such highway so long as such pipe line, conduit or drain,
does not interfere with the alteration, use, abandonment or public enjoyment of
such county highway.
(Ord. 2011-13, passed 12-12-2011)
§ 34.04 PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY AND REIMBURSEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   After receiving a petition for reimbursement for such costs, the
Juvenile Court shall hold a hearing to determine whether to order reimbursement
by the child’s parent or guardian of the child’s estate to the county as
described in this section.
   (B)   The Juvenile Court shall order the child’s parent or guardian of the
child’s estate to pay for secure detention of the child and any costs
associated with the secure detention unless the Court finds that the parent or
guardian is unable to pay or that justice would not be served by ordering
payment from the parent or guardian.
   (C)   Whenever the juvenile court orders detention of a child, the Court
shall refer to the State Supreme Court Child Support Guidelines to determine
the financial contribution required from each parent of the child or the
guardian of the child’s estate.
   (D)   An order issued pursuant to this section shall be paid through the
Clerk of the Circuit Court as trustee for remittance to the county.
   (E)   The County Probation Department shall monitor the enforcement of
orders issued pursuant to this section.
   (F)   Enforcement of any orders issued pursuant to this section shall be
sought and/or prosecuted by the Board of Commissioners of the county.
(Ord. 2010-05, passed 10-18-2010)
§ 34.05 DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN.
   (A)   The County Commissioner meeting, in a regularly scheduled session,
hereby establishes a deferred compensation plan for the County Sheriff’s
Department to allow for the voluntary participation of employees of such
Sheriff’s Department.
   (B)   The Sheriff’s Department will utilize the deferred compensation plan
established by county sheriffs departments in the state known as the Indiana
Sheriffs 457(b) Plan and participate in the group trust arrangement established
by that deferred compensation plan; and the Sheriff is authorized to sign the
adoption agreement to participate in the deferred compensation plan.
   (C)   The County Commissioners hereby authorize the County Auditor to make
deductions from the pay of employees of the Sheriff’s Department who
voluntarily participate in the deferred compensation plan and to deposit the
deferrals in the Trust. The County Commissioners also authorize the committee
made up of representatives of the sheriff’s departments participating in the
Plan (as determined by participating sheriff’s departments) to make such other
arrangements as are necessary to implement the Plan. It is understood that,
other than the incidental expenses related to collecting the employees’
deferrals and other minor administrative matter, there is to be no cost to or
contribution by the county to this Plan.
(Ord. 2008-15, passed 10-6-2008)
§ 34.06 SMOKING.
   From and after the adoption date of the section, smoking is prohibited
inside the courthouse building of the county.
(Ord. 1991-1, passed 1-18-1991)
§ 34.07 TUBERCULOSIS TESTING FOR SCHOOL EMPLOYEES.
   It shall be unlawful for school authorities to employ administrative
personnel, clerical personnel, teachers, janitors, maintenance personnel, bus
drivers or food handlers who have tuberculosis or syphilis in an infectious
stage. This shall include temporary administrative personnel, clerical
personnel, bus drivers and food handlers. Every Board of Education and School
Trustee shall require an annual physical examination for tuberculosis,
including adequate laboratory tests and diagnostic x-rays of all such employees
of the Board of School Trustees. This examination shall be made prior to
employment of new personnel, permanent or temporary, paid or unpaid, and
annually, thereafter, prior to the beginning of the school year. Such
examination, tests and x-rays shall be made by family physicians holding an
unlimited license to practice medicine or the County Health Department. The
physician shall submit a report indicating negative reaction to an intradermal
skin test for tuberculosis in lieu of the above stated x-ray report. If an
employee so tested shall have a negative reaction, then the intradermal skin
test shall be repeated each year so long as the employee remains negative. If
an employee so tested shall have a positive reaction to such test, then a
diagnostic x-ray and laboratory tests shall be taken to determine whether or
not the disease is in an infectious state. If the disease is not in an
infectious state, the employee shall be eligible for service, but such employee
shall then annually thereafter submit to a diagnostic x-ray and laboratory test
to determine his or her continued eligibility for such employment.
(Ord. 2-1980, passed 8-18-1980) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 34.08 MANDATORY EMPLOYMENT OF ABLE-BODIED PERSONS SEEKING POOR RELIEF.
   (A)   Under the provisions of I.C. 12-2-1-10, there is hereby established a
program in the county, providing for mandatory employment of able-bodied
persons seeking poor relief.
   (B)   The purpose of this section is to mandate that all of those able-
bodied persons who receive poor relief from township trustees in the county
shall do any work required by said trustee or for the Board of Commissioners of
the county who shall administer said program on behalf of said trustees
pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 12-2-1-10, a copy of which is attached to
the ordinance codified herein and incorporated herein.
   (C)   Hereafter, the names of all of those persons who receive poor relief
from township trustees in the county shall be forwarded to the Board of
Commissioners of the county or its designated representative, who shall
determine those persons eligible to be required to work in exchange for the
poor relief payments and determine the manner, type and amount of work
required.
   (D)   The poor relief recipients that are required to work under this
program shall be required to do an amount of work which equals the value of
assistance received by him or her, at an hourly rate equal to the federal
minimum wage rate.
   (E)   All work performed under this section is considered as satisfaction of
a condition for poor relief and is not as services performed for remuneration.
   (F)   This section shall be in full force and effect on 6-6-1983.
(Ord. passed 6-6-1983)
§ 34.09 COUNTY HIGHWAY RIGHTS-OF-WAY IN NON-USE; IMPROVEMENT AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Any county roads and/or rights-of-way which are not now or which do
not remain a part of the inventory of the county road system in the county as
determined by the highway funding authorities of the state are deemed
unnecessary for county use.
   (B)   The county shall not accept and assume responsibility for the expense
of improvement and maintenance of any such abandoned or non-used right-of-way
until:
      (1)   The county road or right-of-way has been improved, at private
expense and not at the expense of the county, to at least a level of upgrade
determined at the time by the Board of Commissioners of the county; and
      (2)   The improved road or right-of-way has been accepted by the state as
a part of the road inventory of the county road system of the county for
funding purposes.
   (C)   Upon compliance with the requirements of this section, the county will
accept said improved road and assume responsibility for its maintenance and
repair.
(Res. 1989-2, passed 3-6-1989)
§ 34.10 ENHANCED EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM.
   (A)   Under the authority of and subject to I.C. 36-8-16, an enhanced
emergency telephone system is hereby established together with a fee system to
provide for the funding of an enhanced emergency telephone system to serve the
county. This fee shall be collected from the telephone service users of the
county and administered in accordance with the following terms.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ENHANCED EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM. A telephone system that utilizes the
three-digit number 911 to send automatic number identification and automatic
location identification for reporting police, fire, medical or other emergency
situations.
      EXCHANGE ACCESS FACILITY.
         (a)   The access from a particular service user’s premises to a
telephone system;
         (b)   The term includes the following that is provided by the service
supplier. The term also includes a mobile telephone system access trunk,
whether the trunk is provided by a telephone company or a radio common carrier:
            1.   An access line;
            2.   A private branch exchange (PBX) trunk; and
            3.   A centrex line trunk equivalent.
         (c)   The term does not include:
            1.   A service supplier owned and operated telephone pay station
line;
            2.   A wide area telecommunications service (WATS) line;
            3.   A foreign exchange (FX) line; or
            4.   An incoming only line.
      SERVICE SUPPLIER. A person who provides exchange telephone service to a
service user.
      SERVICE USER. A person to whom exchange telephone service is provided.
   (C)   A monthly fee of $2.40 per telephone access line or other exchange
access facility will be collected by the service supplier to pay the lease,
purchase or maintenance of enhanced emergency telephone equipment, including
necessary computer hardware, software and data base provisioning; and the rates
associated with the service suppliers’ enhanced emergency telephone system
network services; and personnel expenses.
   (D)   The service supplier(s) shall be entitled to retain an administrative
fee of 3% of the monthly fees collected as compensation for collecting the
fees.
   (E)   All monthly fees collected except for the 3% administrative fee shall
be remitted to the Auditor of the county within 30 days after the last day of
the month. With the fee remittal, the service supplier shall provide a fee
collection report on a form provided by the County Auditor.
   (F)   The County Auditor shall deposit the remitted fees in a separate fund
named the County Emergency Telephone System Fund. The County Auditor may invest
moneys in the Fund in the same manner that other moneys of the county are
invested with the interest earned from such investment to be deposited in that
Fund.
   (G)   During January of each year, each service supplier that collects the
enhanced emergency telephone system fee for the county shall provide a
delinquent fee report to the County Auditor. The report shall list the name,
address and amount due for each service user who is two or more months
delinquent in paying the fee.
   (H)   Each service supplier shall commence collecting the enhanced emergency
telephone system fee from its service users in the month of August, 1990.
   (I)   This section shall be in full force and effect on the first day of the
second month after its passage by the County Council.
(Council Ord. 1990-2, passed 5-22-1990; Council Ord. 2011-8, passed 7-18-2011)
§ 34.11 ADA COORDINATOR; PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners shall appoint an ADA Coordinator.
   (B)   The notice under the Americans with Disabilities Act, a copy of which
is attached to Res. 2014-04 is adopted as the notice under the Americans with
Disabilities Act.
   (C)   The county grievance procedure under the Americans with Disabilities
Act, a copy of which is attached to Res. 2014-04 is adopted as the grievance
procedure for addressing complaints alleging discrimination on the basis of
disability in the provision of services, activities, programs or benefits by
the government agencies of the county.
   (D)   In compliance with federal and state laws, the county resolves to post
the required information regarding the ADA Coordinator, notice under the
Americans with Disabilities Act and the county grievance procedure under the
Americans with Disabilities Act on its website and at such other locations as
may be determined from time to time.
(Res. 2014-04, passed - - )
§ 34.12 COUNTY CREDIT CARDS; ISSUANCE AND USE.
   (A)   Oversight of credit card use issued to county generally. The County
Auditor is responsible for issuing, accounting for, monitoring and generally
overseeing compliance with this policy. All credit card applications must be
approved and issued by the Auditor.
   (B)   Requests for credit cards. Request for credit cards by county
employees, including elected office holders, must be submitted in writing to
the Auditor. The request must identify the person to whom the credit card will
be issued and include a proposed monthly total credit limit.
   (C)   Review of credit card applications. Upon receiving a request for a
credit card from an employee, the Auditor shall present the request to the
Commissioners for review. The Commissioners shall approve or deny each credit
card request.
   (D)   Persons authorized to use credit cards. A card issued to an employee
is to be used by that employee only. The Auditor or the Commissioners may, at
any time and without notice to the employee and with or without cause, cancel
the credit card.
   (E)   Record keeping. The Auditor shall maintain a list of all credit cards
issued to elected county officials. Each county official shall maintain a list
of the employees whom the credit card is used by. Each official and/or employee
shall sign a form acknowledging receipt of the credit card, and that the
employee has received, read and understands this policy.
   (F)   Authorized uses. County credit cards are the property of the county
and may be used only for the purchase of goods or services for the official
business of the county. Personal use of county credit cards is expressly
prohibited, even if the employee later reimburses the county for purchases made
for personal use.
   (G)   Identification as government employees. Employees who use a credit
card have a duty to present themselves as government employees to the point of
purchase and present sales tax exemption from ST-105 to ensure that the county
is not charged state sales tax.
   (H)   Documentation of purchases. County employees who use a credit card
shall submit the vendor’s itemized receipt to the Auditor, and a voucher signed
by the employee’s department head indicating that the purchase should be
approved for payment, the nature of the official business that required the
transaction, the credit card account number, and the budget line item to which
the transaction is to be charged. The credit card cannot be used to bypass the
county’s accounting system.
   (I)   Review of credit card statements. The Auditor’s office shall review
each credit card statement and all documentation submitted by county employees
to ensure that transactions comply with this policy. Any transactions that are
not documented with an itemized credit card receipt and a signed voucher shall
be immediately investigated. Transactions that do not appear to comply with
this policy shall be reported to the Commissioners.
   (J)   Approval for payment. The Commissioners shall not approve a payment to
the entity issuing the credit card until all transactions have been verified.
   (K)   Payment of credit cards. Each month, the balance due on the credit
cards for all verified transactions shall be paid when due to avoid the
assessment of interest and late charges.
   (L)   Lost or stolen credit cards. An employee who is issued a credit card
is responsible for its protection and custody. If a credit card is lost or
stolen, the official or employee shall notify the Auditor as soon as possible.
The Auditor shall contact the entity issuing the lost or stolen credit card
immediately and request it be canceled.
   (M)   Return of credit card upon termination of employment. An employee
issued a credit card shall return the credit card to the Auditor upon
termination of his or her employment or service with the county.
   (N)   Responsibility for credit card misuse. County employees shall have
personal liability for the payment of transactions that do not comply with this
policy.
   (O)   Credit card issued to the County Sheriff/Sheriff’s Department. The
County Sheriff and the county shall be responsible for the issuing accounting
for monitoring and generally overseeing compliance with this policy. A credit
card application by the County Sheriff/Sheriff’s Department must be approved
and co-signed with the County Sheriff. The same requirements shall apply as set
forth above for any deputies utilizing the credit card issued to the County
Sheriff/Sheriff’s Department.
   (P)   Rewards points and/or card use benefits. Any reward points, benefits,
cash back bonus or discounts, if applicable, shall be utilized solely for the
purchase of goods or services for official county business. No elected
official, employee, or deputy, may utilize the reward points, benefits, cash
back bonus or discounts for personal use or de minimis fringe benefits and/or
gifts.
   (Q)   Rules for credit card use. The rules for credit card use, attached as
Exhibit A to Ord. 2014-05, are adopted by reference as if set out in full in
this section.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 8-29-2014)
§ 34.13 INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS/MATERIALITY PROCEDURES.
   There is hereby adopted the Ripley County Ethics Policy/Internal Control/
Materiality Declaration regarding establishment of a policy on materiality and
a process for reporting material items, attached to Ordinance 2016-06 and
incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein.
(Ord. 2016-06, passed 6-20-2016)
§ 34.14 LONGEVITY PAY FOR SHERIFF'S DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   It is the policy of the county, at the request of the County Sheriff,
to award longevity pay for certain employees of the County Sheriff's Office
based upon their years of service for that office. This provision applies to
each merit officer, Chief Deputy, Matron and Jail Commander. Employees entered
into the longevity system prior to January 1, 2023, will continue to receive
longevity until resignation or termination. Longevity pay is to be calculated
based on the anniversary date of each covered employee. Longevity pay will be
applicable on the first full month after the anniversary date for each covered
employee. Applicable longevity pay will be equally divided up into the
subsequent 26 pay periods per year.
   (B)   Longevity pay shall be a percentage of the then current base pay after
three years of continuous employment for the position of the covered employee,
plus the following longevity percentage:
      (1)   5% after five years of service;
      (2)   10% after ten years of service;
      (3)   15% after 15 years of service;
      (4)   20% after 20 years of service.
   (C)   If a covered employee is laid off from the office in good standing and
subsequently returns to the office in a covered position, then that employee
would resume the position with the same longevity pay rate as when they left. A
termination by the Merit Board, or a termination for cause by the Sheriff, or a
resignation by an employee for any reason each constitute a break in service
with the County Sheriff's Office and should that person be employed
subsequently by the office in a covered position, then longevity pay will be
reset and that employee will not be again eligible for longevity pay until
after another five-year period of service.
   (D)   Matrix pay for Sheriff’s Office. It is the policy of the county, at
the request of the County Sheriff, to implement matrix pay for certain
employees of the County Sheriff's Office based upon years of experience in law
enforcement as a certified police officer. This provision applies to each newly
hired merit officer. Matrix pay is to be calculated based on the anniversary
date of each covered employee. When a previously certified police officer is
hired as a merit officer, they will be awarded credit time in the matrix pay
for years of certified police officer service.
(Ord. 2017-04, passed 10-6-2017; Ord. 2017-04A, passed 12-18-2017; Ord. 2023-
10, passed 12-18-2023; Ord. 2024-12, passed - -)
§ 34.15 BULK FORM COPIES.
   (A)   Definitions. For purposes of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BULK FORM COPY. An aggregation of:
         (a)   Copies of all recorded documents received by the County Recorder
for recording in a calendar day, week, month, or year;
         (b)   The indices for finding, retrieving, and viewing all recorded
documents received by the County Recorder for recording in a calendar day,
week, month, or year; or
         (c)   Both divisions (a) and (b) above.
      BULK USER. An individual, a corporation, a partnership, a limited
liability company, or an unincorporated association that receives bulk form
copies under a contract with the County Recorder.
      COPY. A reproduction, including an image of a Recorder document or
indices created by:
         (a)   Duplicating electronically stored data onto a disk, tape, drum,
or any other medium of electronic data storage; or
         (b)   Reproducing on microfilm.
      INDICES. All of the indexing information used by the County Recorder for
finding, retrieving, and viewing a recorded document.
      RECORDED DOCUMENT. A writing, a paper, a document, a plat, a map, a
survey, or anything else received at any time for recording or filing in the
public records maintained by the County Recorder or the County Recorder's
designee.
   (B)   Manner and form of production. It is hereby established that the
County Recorder shall provide bulk form copies to a bulk user only by
electronically transmitting the copies using an electronic transfer process.
   (C)   Procedure for requesting bulk form copies. A bulk user must submit a
written request to the County Recorder that identifies the requested bulk form
copies with reasonable particularity. Unless the request is refused under
division (F) below, upon receipt of a valid written request the County Recorder
or the County Recorder's designee shall provide the bulk form copies to the
bulk user by the method or methods established by ordinance. The bulk form
copies shall be provided within a reasonable time after the later of the
following events:
      (1)   The Recorder's archival process is completed and bulk form copies
become available in the County Recorder's Office.
      (2)   (a)   The bulk form user executes a contract that meets the
requirements of with division (E) below with:
            1.   The County Recorder; and
            2.   If the County Recorder uses a third party to provide bulk copy
services, the County Recorder's designee.
         (b)   The County Recorder or the County Recorder's designee shall work
with reasonable diligence to ensure that bulk form copies are timely produced
to the bulk user.
   (D)   Fees charged for bulk form copies.
      (1)   Based on a cost study dated June 27, 2017 presented to the Recorder
of Ripley County, Indiana, by its vendor (which is incorporated herein by
reference), this Board finds and determines that the costs incurred by the
County Recorder of producing bulk form copies (including applying a watermark
or other protective feature) substantially exceed both the standard fee of
$0.10 per page or per recorded document fixed by I.C. 36-2-7-10.1(d) and the
fee hereafter fixed. Accordingly, the following fee schedule is hereby adopted:
         (a)   $0.20 per page for a copy of a recorded document, including the
instrument's book and page, if applicable.
         (b)   $0.20 per recorded document for a copy of the indices used by
the County Recorder for finding, retrieving, and viewing a recorded document.
      (2)   The fees charged by the County Recorder are subject to the
following requirements:
         (a)   The County Recorder shall pay the fees into the County Treasury
at the end of each calendar month.
         (b)   The fees prescribed and collected under this section supersede
all other fees for bulk form copies required by law to be charged for services
rendered by the County Recorder to bulk users.
         (c)   All revenue generated by the County Recorder under this section
shall be deposited in the County Recorder's records perpetuation fund and used
by the Recorder in accordance with I.C. 36-2-7-10(f).
         (d)   The Recorder shall periodically update and verify the cost study
referred to in division (D)(1) above.
   (E)   Bulk user contract; termination.
      (1)   (a)   A bulk user must enter into a contract with the County
Recorder and if the County Recorder uses a third party to provide bulk copy
services, the County Recorder's designee, in order to receive bulk form copies.
The contract must be in writing and must require that the bulk user agree not
to do any of the following:
            1.   Except as provided in division (F) below, provide, transfer,
or allow the transfer of any copy of a recorded document obtained by the bulk
user under this section to a third party.
            2.   Engage in unauthorized access to recorded documents.
            3.   Engage in unauthorized alteration of recorded documents.
         (b)   A contract required under this division (E) may not include any
restrictions on a bulk form user's use of the bulk form copies other than those
contained in this section.
      (2)   If a bulk user does not comply with a contract, the County Recorder
may terminate the contract, immediately stop providing bulk form copies to the
bulk user, and refuse to provide the bulk form copies required by the bulk user
if all termination provisions and procedures in the contract have been met by
the County Recorder. The County Recorder may refuse subsequent requests from a
bulk user for bulk form copies in the following circumstances:
         (a)   The bulk user is a person that has had a previous bulk form copy
contract terminated by the County Recorder because the Recorder determined that
the bulk user failed to comply with the contract.
         (b)   The bulk user is a corporation or limited liability company in
which a person has a majority or controlling interest and:
            1.   The person requested bulk form copies under a previous
contract with the County Recorder; and
            2.   The contract was terminated by the County Recorder because the
County Recorder determined that the person failed to comply with the contract.
   (F)   Resale of bulk form copies by bulk user.
      (1)   (a)   A bulk user that is licensed under I.C. 27-1-15.6-6(d) or
holds a certificate of authority under I.C. 27-7-3-6 may provide bulk form
copies related to the specific order for a title search (as defined in I.C. 27-
7-3-2) when operating as:
            1.   A title plant for the issuance of title insurance (as defined
in I.C. 27-7-3-2); or
            2.   Title company (as defined in I.C. 27-7-3-2).
         (b)   A bulk user that meets the requirements of this division (F)(1)
may charge its customers a fee for using the bulk form copies obtained by the
bulk user that may not exceed the costs incurred by the bulk user for obtaining
the bulk form copies. A bulk user that meets the requirements of this division
(F)(1) may not resell, provide, transfer, or allow the transfer of any copy of
a recorded document, whether in bulk form or as individual copies or images, to
any other bulk user or title plant.
      (2)   A bulk user that does not meet the requirements of division (F)(1)
above is prohibited from selling, offering for sale, advertising for sale,
soliciting a purchase of, loaning, giving away, allowing subscription service
to, or otherwise transferring, provide, or allowing the transfer of bulk form
copies for commercial purposes to a third party, whether the copies are in bulk
form or individual copies or images.
   (G)   Enhanced access not affected. This section does not apply to enhanced
access authorized under I.C. 5-14-3-3 and any county ordinances promulgated
thereunder.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 7-3-17)
§ 34.16 NONDISCRIMINATION POLICY.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners of the County of Ripley, Indiana hereby
establishes a Nondiscrimination Policy and confirms that its program and
activities will be conducted such that no person in the United States shall, on
the grounds of race, color, national origin, sex, age, disability/handicap, nor
low income, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be
otherwise subjected to discrimination pursuant to and as provided by applicable
state and federal law.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners will from time to time name a Title VI
Coordinator to assist in the implementation of this Nondiscrimination Policy
and to assist in addressing any Title VI complaints which will be processed and
administered in accordance with the same procedures as those established for
Ripley County's ADA Compliance Program.
   (C)   The Nondiscrimination Policy shall be interpreted so as to be
consistent with and in compliance with the requirements of applicable state and
federal law; this Nondiscrimination Policy shall be understood and acknowledged
to be a policy which prohibits discrimination but does not otherwise grant nor
afford any special advantages, privileges or other benefits to any person in
the United States; and that this Nondiscrimination Policy does not exceed the
requirements of nor otherwise place any burden upon the county beyond the
requirements of applicable state and federal law.
(Res. 2017-01, passed 3-13-2017)
§ 34.17 NATIONAL INCIDENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM.
   The Board of Commissioners hereby adopts the National Incident Management
System dated October 23, 2017. This System provides for a consistent approach
to the effective management of situations involving natural disasters, man-made
disasters or terrorism.
(Ord. 2017-07, passed 10-23-2017)
§ 34.18 HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN.
   The county supports the hazard mitigation planning efforts and wishes to
adopt the Ripley County Multi-Hazard Mitigation Plan.
(Res. 2018-01, passed 5-21-2018)
§ 34.19 BROADBAND INFRASTRUCTURE POLICY.
   (A)   As used in this section, “permit” means any local permit, license,
certificate, approval, registration, or similar form of approval required by
policy, administrative rule, regulation, ordinance, or resolution with respect
to a project.
   (B)   As used in this section, “project” means the construction or
deployment of wireline or wireless communications facilities to provide
communications services (as defined in I.C. 8-1-32.5-3) in a unit (as defined
in I.C. 36-1-2-23).
   (C)   Notwithstanding any other provision of county ordinances, regulations,
policies, or practices, the following shall apply to a project:
      (1)   The Board of Commissioners of the county shall establish and adopt
adequate procedures for the review of applications and issuance of permits for
“projects” set forth in this section.
      (2)   The procedures of division (C)(1) above shall:
         (a)   Appoint a single point of contact for all matters related to a
project;
         (b)   Guarantee that all applications related to a project will be
reviewed and either approved or rejected within ten business days after an
application is submitted;
         (c)   Assure that all inspections, including necessary approvals,
related to a project will occur in a timely and expeditious manner; and
         (d)   Authorize and establish procedures for all forms, applications,
and documentation related to a project to be filed and signed by electronic
means.
      (3)   Processes and procedures established under this section may not:
         (a)   Require an applicant to designate a final contractor to complete
the project;
         (b)   Impose a fee to review an application or issues a permit for a
project;
         (c)   Impose a seasonal moratorium on the issuance of permits for a
project; and
         (d)   Discriminate among communications service providers or utilities
with respect to any action described in this section or otherwise related to a
project, including granting access to public rights-of-way, infrastructure and
poles, river and bridge crossings, and any other physical assets owned or
controlled by the county.
(Ord. 2023-06, passed 9-1-2023)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SEWERS
CHAPTER 50: SEWERS
Section
On-Site Sewage Systems
   
50.01   Authority
   
50.02   Definitions
   
50.03   Required on-site sewage system or connection to sanitary sewer
   
50.04   Installer registration
   
50.05   Sewage holding tanks
   
50.06   General requirements for on-site sewage systems
   
50.07   Connection or reconnection to an existing on-site sewage system
   
50.08   Enforcement
   
50.09   Procedure for appeal
   
50.10   Remedies
   
50.11   Fee schedule
Sewage Disposal Systems
   
50.15   Purpose
   
50.16   Definitions
   
50.17   General requirements
   
50.18   Specific requirements
   
50.19   Registered installers
   
50.20   Permits and inspection
   
50.21   Proposed reconnects of new dwellings into existing onsite sewage
systems
   
50.22   Enforcement procedure and hearings
   
50.23   Change in policy
   
50.24   Adoption
 
   
50.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Erosion, see
Ch. 153
   Subdivisions, see
Ch. 155
   Zoning, see
Ch. 156
ON-SITE SEWER SYSTEMS
§ 50.01 AUTHORITY.
   The County Health Department is hereby authorized to issue residential and
commercial on-site sewage system permits, collect permit fees and penalties,
perform inspections, hold hearings, and order or otherwise compel correction of
violations of this subchapter, and is otherwise authorized to perform all
actions necessary for the administration and enforcement of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2024-08, passed - -)
§ 50.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONSTRUCTION, NEW. 
      (1)   Construction of a new home, residential outbuilding, or commercial
facility where there previously was no home, outbuilding, or commercial
facility; or
      (2)   Replacing, rebuilding, or remodeling an existing home, residential
outbuilding, or commercial facility when the design daily flow of the new
structure(s) exceeds what was previously at the site.
      (3)   Best judgment shall not be used for new construction.
   CONSTRUCTION, REPAIR/REPLACEMENT. Repair or replacement of a residential on-
site sewage system for an existing home, residential outbuilding, or commercial
facility or the rebuilding or remodeling of an existing home, residential
outbuilding, or commercial facility without an increase in the design daily
flow of the project. In accordance with Rule 410 I.A.C. 6-8.3, the best
judgment of the County Health Department may be used, when necessary and
appropriate, for the repair or replacement of a failing residential on-site
sewage system.
   INSTALLER. Any individual who performs any work in furtherance of
construction, installation, replacement, alteration, repair, or abandonment of
any residential or commercial on-site sewage system in the county.
   INVOLUNTARY. A need to modify or improve a dwelling, residential
outbuilding, or commercial facility due to factors outside of the owner's
control, such as destruction by wind, fire, flood, or other natural disaster,
or due to condemnation of a dwelling.
   ON-SITE SEWAGE SYSTEM MALFUNCTION or MALFUNCTION. A residential or
commercial on-site sewage system component that is not functioning in
accordance with this subchapter or per manufacturers’ requirements. ON-SITE
SEWAGE SYSTEM MALFUNCTION does not have to meet the definition of on-site
sewage system failure, but may also be a failure. MALFUNCTION may include, but
is not limited to, one or more of the following:
      (1)   The backup of sewage into an upstream on-site sewage system
component;
      (2)   The liquid level in a septic tank consistently above the invert of
the septic tank outlet;
      (3)   An outlet filter that is plugged sufficiently to cause backup in
the septic tank;
      (4)   The liquid level in a dosing tank above the invert of the dosing
tank inlet;
      (5)   The liquid level in a treatment unit above that recommended by the
manufacturer;
      (6)   The liquid level in a distribution box consistently above the
invert of the outlets or a distribution box that does not provide equal
distribution;
      (7)   Structural failure of a septic tank, dosing tank, treatment unit,
distribution box or other required component;
      (8)   Electrical failure of a float or transducer, an effluent pump,
alarm, or other electrical component of an on-site sewage system; or
      (9)   Removal of an outlet filter, an effluent pump, or any other system
component if that outlet filter, pump, or component was required in the
construction or operating permit
   VOLUNTARY. An owner's intentional or deliberate action to construct, modify
or improve a dwelling or residential outbuilding or increase the design daily
flow of a structure.
(Ord. 2024-08, passed - -)
§ 50.03 REQUIRED ON-SITE SEWAGE SYSTEM OR CONNECTION TO SANITARY SEWER.
   (A)   All persons owning, leasing, or otherwise occupying property that has
a residence, residential outbuilding or commercial facility with plumbing not
connected to sanitary sewer shall comply with the requirements of Rules 410
I.A.C. 6-8.3 et. seq., 410 I.A.C. 6-10.1 et. seq ., and/or Bulletin S.E. 11. as
applicable, and the provisions of this subchapter for an on-site sewage system.
   (B)   In the event of a residential or commercial on-site sewage system
failure the residence, residential outbuilding, or commercial facility shall be
required to make a direction connection to sanitary sewer, if the sanitary
sewer is available within 300 feet of the affected property line or is
available for connection at a construction cost and connection fee estimated
not to exceed 150% of the cost estimated for installing an on-site sewage
system to serve the residence, residential outbuilding or commercial facility.
(Ord. 2024-08, passed - -) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.04 INSTALLER REGISTRATION.
   (A)   All on-site sewage system installers in the county shall abide by all
associated requirements in state statutes, rules, and this subchapter’s
regarding on-site sewage systems.
   (B)   An installer must register with County Health Department if they wish
to install, replace, alter, repair, or abandon any residential or commercial
on-site sewage system in Ripley County, Indiana. Registration requires:
      (1)   Applying to County Health Department for registration on a form
provided by the department;
      (2)   Paying the appropriate registration fee as required in the County
Health Department Fee Ordinance; and
      (3)   Providing proof of certification by:
         (a)   Passing an examination offered by the County Health Department
or another entity approved by the County Health Department; or
         (b)   Providing proof of:
            1.   Current, valid registration in another Indiana County;
            2.   Providing proof of a certificate being issued from IOWPA for
the type of system(s) to be installed; and
            3.   Providing proof of membership in good standing with IOWPA.
   (C)   Registration is valid from January 1 to December 31 of the same year
and must be renewed annually. Proof of continued registration in another county
and/or certification is required for renewal of registration.
   (D)   Certification must be maintained throughout the period of
registration. A lapse of certification will render the registration with the
County Health Department invalid.
   (E)   A certification examination will be offered no less than monthly by
the County Health Department.
      (1)   An examination fee as required in §
33.063 will be due prior to examination.
      (2)   The test will consist of 80 questions all of which will be true/
false or multiple choice.
      (3)   A score of 80% or above is considered passing.
      (4)   A retest will be allowed for anyone failing the test no more
frequently than once per week.
   (F)   A registered installer must be on-site during installation, repair,
replacement, alteration, modification, or system abandonment and shall be
deemed responsible for the work done.
   (G)   A lapse of certification and/or registration or repeated violation of
any state statute, rules, or this subchapter pertaining to on-site sewage
systems may result in revocation of registration or denial of registration
renewal. Any registration revocation or denial of registration renewal may be
appealed to the County Board of Health.
      (1)   The period of revocation shall be no less than 90 days, or a time
period deemed appropriate by the County Health Officer; and
      (2)   The registered individual shall be advised in writing for the basis
of the revocation, the right and procedure for appeal and the opportunity for a
hearing.
(Ord. 2024-08, passed - -) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.05 SEWAGE HOLDING TANKS.
   (A)   A sewage holding tank is an alternative method of sewage disposal in
accordance with I.C. 16-41-25-9.
   (B)   An application for a sewage holding tank must be filed by the property
owner or property owner's agent including:
      (1)   An application form provided by the County Health Department;
      (2)   A construction plan of sufficient clarity to show compliance with
this subchapter;
      (3)   A copy of a written contract with an operator of a septage
management vehicle providing for the removal of septage at regular intervals;
      (4)   A written statement, signed by the property owner, indicating that
copies of all receipts and other records as requested be submitted to the local
health department within 30 days of service; and
      (5)   For commercial sites where IDOH has completed plan review and
approval for a commercial holding tank, a copy of the written approval from
IDOH.
   (C)   All sewage holding tanks shall:
      (1)   Have a minimum capacity of:
         (a)   For holding tanks that are permitted as septic and/or dosing
tanks and planned to precede a soil absorption field, the minimum capacity as
determined by Rule 410 I.A.C. 6-8.3 or Rule 410 I.A.C. 6-10.1 for septic and/or
dosing tanks.
         (b)   For permanent holding tanks, the greater of:
            1.   One thousand gallons; or
            2.   At least three times the design daily flow of the home or
commercial structure as determined by Rule 410 I.A.C. 6-8.3 or Rule 410 I.A.C.
6-10.1.
      (2)   Have a capacity of no more than 10,000 gallons.
   (D)   A sewage holding tank shall meet all separation distances required for
septic tanks in Rules 410 I.A.C. 6-8.3 and 410 I.A.C. 6-10.1.
   (E)   A sewage holding tank shall meet all construction requirements of
septic tanks in Rules 410 I.A.C. 6-8.3 and 410 I.A.C. 6-10.1.
   (F)   All sewage holding tanks shall have at least one riser to the surface
for ease in pumping the tank. A secondary childproof plug shall be installed
under a safely secured riser lid.
   (G)   A construction permit issued by the County Health Department is
required prior to the installation of the holding tank or sewer.
   (H)   A sewer, meeting the requirements for a residential sewer in Rule 410
I.A.C. 6-8.3 or the requirements for a building sewer in Rule 410 I.A.C. 6-
10.1, shall be used to make a direct connection between the plumbing of the
structure and the holding tank.
   (I)   All sewage holding tanks installed in the county shall have:
      (1)   An installation inspection to confirm proper installation and to
confirm the outlet of the last tank has been appropriately sealed prior to
backfilling; and
      (2)   The alarm wired in and verified operational.
   (J)   All holding tanks shall be required to have an operating permit issued
by the County Health Department.
      (1)   The construction permit issued for the installation of the holding
tank shall also serve as the operating permit for the first two years of
service.
      (2)   An operating permit for a sewage holding tank shall be valid for a
period of two years from the date of issuance.
      (3)   Prior to operating permit renewal, a registered installer must
inspect the holding tank(s) for verification of proper operation of the tank
and alarm system. An inspection report must be provided to the County Health
Department prior to renewal.
      (4)   An operating permit shall be renewed prior to, or within ten days
of, expiration.
      (5)   An operating permit fee as stated in the §
33.063 shall be due at the time of operating permit renewal.
   (K)   All receipts from pumping and maintenance of a sewage holding tank and
other documents for repair or modification of a sewage holding tank need to be
submitted to the County Health Department within 30 days of the service
provided.
   (L)   An operating permit not renewed within 30 days of expiration, or a
sewage holding tank not operated in a safe and sanitary manner, including
receipts and other paperwork not submitted as required, is a violation of this
subchapter and may be subject to penalty as described in division (I) above,
permit revocation, and/or denial of operating permit renewal.
   (M)   In the event that a sewage holding tank is not operated in a safe and
sanitary manner and in accordance with I.C. 16-41-25-9 and this subchapter, the
County Health Department may require the residence, residential outbuilding, or
commercial facility to:
      (1)   Connect to sanitary sewer if the sanitary sewer is available within
300 feet of the affected property line or is available for connection at a
construction cost and connection fee estimated not to exceed 150% of the cost
estimated for installing an on-site sewage system to serve the residence,
residential outbuilding or commercial facility; or
      (2)   Install an on-site sewage system with a soil absorption field in
compliance with Rule 410 I.A.C. 6-8.3 or Rule 410 I.A.C. 6-10.1 and that has
not failed.
   (N)   Upon connection to an approved soil absorption field, as part of a
full on-site sewage system, or sanitary sewer, the sewage holding tank shall be
abandoned in accordance with the rules unless it will be converted for use as a
septic tank or a dosing tank in an on-site sewage system.
(Ord. 2024-08, passed - -) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.06 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ON-SITE SEWAGE SYSTEMS.
   (A)   An on-site sewage system construction permit issued by the County
Health Department shall be obtained prior to the installation of any component
of an on-site sewage system or prior to the repair, replacement, alteration, or
modification of any component of an on-site sewage system.
   (B)   Approval of a site for an on-site sewage system and issuance of a
construction permit shall not be completed until the on-site soil evaluation
and a construction plan showing compliance with the applicable rule and this
subchapter have been submitted.
   (C)   On-site sewage system soil evaluation.
      (1)   An on-site soil evaluation is required, as described in Rule 410
I.A.C. 6-8.3 or Rule 410 I.A.C. 6-10.1, prior to permit issuance for all
residential and commercial sites where a soil absorption field is to be
installed, expanded, or replaced and as needed for repairs.
      (2)   A minimum of three soil borings and/or soil pits are required to be
evaluated in the area of the soil absorption field. The County Health
Department may request additional soil borings or soil pits if deemed necessary
by the County Health Officer.
      (3)   The on-site soil evaluation report created from the evaluation of
the soil profile must be signed by the professional soil scientist and
submitted directly to the County Health Department by the soil scientist.
   (D)   All distribution boxes shall be stabilized so as to prevent movement
during installation and operation.
(Ord. 2024-08, passed - -) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.07 CONNECTION OR RECONNECTION TO AN EXISTING ON-SITE SEWAGE SYSTEM.
   (A)   An existing residential or commercial on-site sewage system may be
considered for connection or reconnection to a new or replacement dwelling,
residential outbuilding, or commercial facility if:
      (1)   The system is inspected by an installer registered with the County
Health Department or a qualified inspector and found to consist minimally of a
septic tank and a soil absorption field that has not failed or malfunctioned;
      (2)   Either:
         (a)   The original system installation was permitted through the
County Health Department; or
         (b)   The original system was not permitted through the County Health
Department, but a registered installer develops a plan of the site and system
showing compliance with the rules and this ordinance; and
      (3)   The existing system is appropriately sized for the structure to be
served.
         (a)   If the connection or reconnection is due to involuntary events,
the County Health Department may utilize their best judgment for the soil
absorption field when approving a connection or reconnection to an existing
system.
         (b)   If the connection or reconnection is due to voluntary events,
the system being connected to must meet the requirements of the appropriate
rule, unless the site meets the requirements of the definition of repair or
replacement construction in this subchapter.
   (B)   All commercial facilities wanting to connect or reconnect to an
existing on-site sewage system must have written approval from the Indiana
Department of Health.
   (C)   A construction permit for connection or reconnection to an existing
on-site sewage system shall be obtained prior to the start of construction of
the residence, residential outbuilding, or commercial facility.
(Ord. 2024-08, passed - -) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Whenever the Health Officer determines there are reasonable grounds to
believe that there has been a violation of this subchapter, Rule 410 I.A.C. 6-
8.3, or Rule 410 I.A.C. 6-10.1 the County Health Officer shall issue a notice
of violation to the person or persons, responsible, as hereafter provided. Such
notice shall:
      (1)   Indicate the date and location of the violation;
      (2)   Clearly indicate the nature of the violation and the related
ordinance, statute, and/or rule citation;
      (3)   Allow a reasonable time for the performance of necessary
remediation; and
      (4)   Be properly served upon the person(s) responsible. Proper service
shall include any of the following:
         (a)   Sent to the person directly via first class mail;
         (b)    Sent by certified mail to the last known mailing address of the
person;
         (c)   Posted in a conspicuous place in or about the property affected
by the notice; or
         (d)   Other method of service authorized or required under the laws of
this state.
   (B)   After receiving an order in writing from the County Health Officer,
the owner of the property shall comply with the provisions of this subchapter
and/or rule as set forth in said order and within the time limit specified
therein. Said order shall be served on the owner but may be served on any
person who, by contract with the owner, has assumed the duty of complying with
the provisions of an order. Failure to comply with such order shall constitute
a violation of this subchapter and the violator shall be subject to the
penalties as prescribed in §
50.99.
   (C)   The County Health Officer may compel an immediate stop work order of
work completed, in progress, or planned, which is in violation of any provision
(s) of this subchapter. Such stop work order shall:
      (1)   Result in the immediate suspension of all work at the work site;
and
      (2)   Be posted at the construction site and confirmed by written notice
to the owner or occupant of the premises and any person engaged in the
performance of said work or any person causing such work to be performed.
      (3)   Failure to comply with such stop work order shall constitute a
violation of this subchapter and the violator shall be subject to the penalties
as prescribed in §
50.99.
(Ord. 2024-08, passed - -)
§ 50.09 PROCEDURE FOR APPEAL.
   (A)   Appeals may be filed with the County Board of Health for any of the
following decisions or actions taken by the County Health Officer:
      (1)   Denial of a permit to install, construct, reconnect, replace,
alter, or repair an onsite sewage system, holding tank, or sanitary vault
privy;
      (2)   Revocation of a permit;
      (3)   The issuance of a notice of violation, a stop work order, or an
emergency order as prescribed in §
50.08;
      (4)   Registration revocation, or duration of revocation, or denial of
registration renewal as prescribed in §
50.04; or
      (5)   A penalty as prescribed in §
50.99.
   (B)   Any person(s) filing such appeal shall be granted a hearing on the
matter before the County Health Board. The request shall be in writing and
received at the office of the County Health Department within ten calendar days
of receipt of the notice. If a request for hearing is not received within the
ten calendar days, the decision or action shall stand.
   (C)   Such request shall briefly state the reasons for the requested
hearing. Upon receipt of a request for a hearing, the County Health Officer
shall arrange a time and a place for such hearing and shall give the petitioner
written notice thereof.
   (D)   Such hearing shall be held as soon as practical after receipt of the
request in compliance with I.C. 5-14-1.5-5 (Open Door Law).
   (E)   At such hearing, the petitioner shall be given the opportunity to be
heard and to show evidence as to why such decision or action should be modified
or withdrawn. Additionally, the Health Officer shall be given time to explain
the circumstances of the decision and/or action.
   (F)   The proceedings at such hearing, including the findings and decision
of the County Health Board, shall be summarized in the minutes of the hearing
and entered as a matter of public record in the office of the County Health
Department. In addition, all pertinent information including, but not limited
to, permit application and written correspondence, shall be included in the
public record. Any person may seek relief thereof from any court of competent
jurisdiction as provided by the law of the state.
(Ord. 2024-08, passed - -)
§ 50.10 REMEDIES.
   Upon refusal or neglect of any person to correct an unlawful or unsanitary
condition when the abatement of the condition has been ordered in writing by
the Health Officer or an appeal against the decision and/or action has been
sustained by the Health Board, the Health Officer may, through the office of
the County Attorney, or an attorney representing the Health Department,
institute proceedings in the judicial court district wherein the offense occurs
for enforcement by prohibitory or mandatory injunction to restrain any person
from violating the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2024-08, passed - -)
§ 50.11 FEE SCHEDULE.
   All applicable fees as set forth in the §
33.063 and any amendments or revisions hereafter, shall be made payable to the
County Health Department.
(Ord. 2024-08, passed - -)
SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS
§ 50.15 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter regulates the construction, maintenance and operation of
sewage disposal systems in the county and provides penalties for violation of
these regulations. In, addition, adopted by reference will be Indiana
Department of Health Rule 410 IAC 6-8.3.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 50.16 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of the
terms used in the subchapter shall be as follows.
   ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITY. This subchapter shall be administered by the
Ripley County Board of Health through its Health Officer and his or her
authorized representatives.
   DISTRIBUTION BOX. A structure designed to distribute the effluent from a
septic tank by gravity equally into the pipes of an absorption field.
   DWELLING. Any house or place used or intended to be used as a place of
seasonal or human habitation or for sleeping for one or two families.
   FRAGIPAN. A loamy, brittle, subsurface horizon that is seemingly cemented.
FRAGIPANS are a few inches to several feet thick and are very slowly permeable
to water.
   HEALTH OFFICER. That person elected by the County Board of Health as their
Health Officer.
   IDOH. Indiana Department of Health.
   LIMITING LAYER. Any soil horizons which exhibit one or more of the
following:
      (1)   A loading rate greater than 0.75 gallons per day per square foot.
      (2)   A gravel content of 35% or greater.
      (3)   A loading rate less than 0.25 gallons per day per square foot.
      (4)   Seasonal high water table indicated by soil wetness
characteristics.
      (5)   Bedrock.
      (6)   Fragipan.
   LOADING RATE. The allowable rate of application of septic tank effluent to
the soil. It is expressed in gallons per day per square foot.
   OWNER. That person or his or her agent reported as the legal possessor of a
dwelling or property.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, trust, estate or any other legal entity, its or their
successors or assigns or agents of the aforesaid.
   PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. All equipment and devices necessary for
proper conduction, collection, storage, treatment and on-site disposal of
sewage from any building.
   PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM FAILURE. One which exhibits one or more of
the following:
      (1)   The system refuses to accept sewage at the rate of design
application thereby interfering with the normal use of residential plumbing
fixtures.
      (2)   The effluent discharge exceeds the absorptive capacity of the soil,
resulting in ponding, seepage or other discharge of the effluent to the ground
surface or to surface water.
      (3)   The effluent is discharged from the system causing contamination of
a potable water supply, ground water or surface waters.
   RISER. A vertical port of cylindrical concrete 20 to 24 inches in diameter
extending to the ground surface with a gas tight seal.
   SANITARY SEWAGE SYSTEM. A sewer or a system of sewers which convey sewage
away from the lot on which it originates to a wastewater treatment facility
owned and operated by an incorporated city or town, conservancy district,
regional sewer district or private utility.
   SEPTIC TANK. A watertight structure into which sewage is discharged for
settling and solids digestion.
   SEWAGE. All water-carried waste derived from ordinary living processes.
   SLUDGE. The digested or partly digested solid material accumulated in a
septic tank.
   SOIL ABSORPTION. A process which utilizes the soil to treat and dispose of
effluent from a septic tank.
   SOIL ABSORPTION SYSTEM. Pipes laid in a system of trenches or elevated beds
into which the effluent from the septic tank is discharged for soil absorption.
   SOIL HORIZON. A layer of soil or soil material approximately parallel to the
land surface and differing from an adjacent genetically related layer in
physical, chemical, and biological properties or characteristics such as color,
structure, texture, consistency, kinds and numbers of organisms present and
degree of acidity or alkalinity.
   SOIL PROFILE ANALYSIS. The observation and evaluation of the physical
characteristics of the soil horizons or layers to a depth of at least five feet
or, if shallower, to a layer which cannot be readily penetrated.
   SOIL SCIENTIST. An individual with a baccalaureate degree with a major in
agronomy, soils, or a closely allied field of science who is proficient in the
application of the principles of pedology to soil classification,
investigation, education and consultation and on the effect of measured,
observed and inferred soil properties and their use, whose name is included on
the IDOH list of soil scientists.
   RCHD. Ripley County Health Department.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 50.17 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall throw, run, drain, seep, or otherwise dispose of or
cause, permit, or suffer to be thrown, run, drained, allowed to seep, or
otherwise disposed into any of the surface waters or ground waters of this
state or in an insanitary manner upon public or private property within the
county or in any area under the jurisdiction of the county any organic matter
that would cause or contribute to a health hazard on such property unless a
permit for such disposal has been obtained from the Indiana Department of
Environmental Management.
   (B)   Whenever a sanitary sewerage system is available within 300 feet of
the property line of a residential or commercial property, a connection must be
made to said sewer. Thereafter the private sewage disposal system must be
abandoned in a safe and sanitary manner and the contents of the tank must be
removed and the tank filled with compacted material.
   (C)   Any building situated in the county which is not connected or cannot
be connected to a sanitary sewerage system must comply with IDOH Rule 410 IAC
6-8.3 for residential sewage disposal systems or IDOH Rule 410 IAC 6-10 for
commercial operation.
   (D)   The design, construction, installation, location, maintenance and
operation of private sewage disposal systems shall comply with the provisions
of this subchapter and the standards of the IDOH Rule 410 IAC 6-8.3 and 6-10.
   (E)   Should any defects exist or occur in any private sewage disposal
system which would cause said sewage disposal system to fail and cause an
insanitary condition, the defect shall be corrected by the owner or agent of
the owner, or by the occupant or agent of the occupant. Failure to do so shall
be a violation of this subchapter and the violator shall be subject to the
penalties prescribed in division (A) of this section.
   (F)   If any conditions preclude the installation of a sewage disposal
system as described in this subchapter, the RCHD may approve the use of an
alternative sewage disposal system that is deemed appropriate, only under the
provisions cited in 410 IAC 6-8.3.
   (G)   No portion of the private sewage disposal system or its associated
drainage system shall be constructed upon property other than that from which
the sewage originates. Easements can only be granted for drainage that would
divert ground water away from any private sewage disposal system in order to
achieve an acceptable outlet on an adjacent property. Legal documentation of
said easements would need to be provided to RCHD and filed with the County
Recorder's office.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 50.18 SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All septic tanks and dosing tanks must meet the IDOH requirements per
IDOH Rule IAC 6-8.3.
   (B)   Only that piping material meeting specifications required by the IDOH
may be used. The pipe must be positioned in the trench with the holes located
at 12 o'clock, four o'clock and eight o'clock for three-hole pipe or four
o'clock and eight o'clock for two-hole pipe.
   (C)   The size of the soil absorption system will vary depending on the soil
profile and loading rate of the site. The soil profile and loading rate will be
determined using the methods outlined in IDOH Rule 410 IAC 6-8.3. When
requested, and when possible, the RCHD will provide that soil boring and
analysis.
   (D)   In calculation of minimum requirements, mobile homes will be
considered as three-bedroom dwellings.
   (E)   Pumps must have the proper pump curve, be acid resistant and be
equipped with an adjustable float switch and a high-water alarm. Each pump must
be placed a minimum of eight inches off the bottom of the pump chamber and have
an acid resistant retrievable device.
   (F)   Special attention must be given to the installation process as
outlined in the IDOH Rule 410 IAC 6-8.3. For example, in evaluation of when
soil is too wet for system construction, the plastic limit of the soil shall be
considered to have been exceeded when the soil can be rolled between the palms
of the hands to produce threads one-eighth inch in diameter without breaking
apart and crumbling.
   (G)   Residential sewage disposal systems shall not be used for the disposal
of water from roof drains, foundation drains, swimming pool drains, hot tub
drains or area drains. Neither shall they be used for the disposal of chemical
wastes in quantities which would pollute ground water or inhibit the settling
or digestion of solids in the septic tank.
   (H)   Any jetted bathtub with a capacity of greater than 125 gallons will be
treated as an extra bedroom for the system sizing requirements of this rule.
   (I)   The landowner proposing to have an on-site sewage system installed is
solely responsible for disclosing all property details before the RCHD
permitting process will begin. The landowner will be responsible for
researching their own property. (Wetland, potential to be a wetland, located
within a flood plain, has been heavily logged in the past that would have
caused compaction to the soils, and the like.)
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 50.19 REGISTERED INSTALLERS.
   (A)   Individuals wanting to install in the county must register with the
County Health Department. Registration shall consist of, but not be limited to,
the following:
      (1)   A completed application for registration with payment of the
application fee;
      (2)   Application fee of $50, or in an amount as established by the
County Board of Health; and
      (3)   (a)   Passing a written proficiency examination conducted by the
County Health Department.
         (b)   If an applicant fails to pass any part of the examination, the
applicant may re-apply for registration no earlier than one month following the
examination.
      (4)   If an installer is IOWPA certified to install and inspect on-site
sewage systems, these individuals may bypass RCHD's exam and only complete the
registration form; submit bond and insurance information, and pay the RCHD's
fees.
   (B)   Registration issued shall be valid for a term of one year beginning
January 1, and expiring December 31 of the same year, and shall be renewed
annually. The registration shall bear the name, address, associated firm or
company where applicable, and the expiration date.
   (C)   All registered installers shall post a surety bond with the County
Board of Health in the penal sum of not less than $20,000 in favor of the
County Board of Health conditioned upon registrant's faithful compliance with
this subchapter. The surety bond will remain in effect throughout the duration
that the installer will be engaged in the work with the property and homeowner.
   (D)   All registered installers shall provide proof of liability insurance
for a minimum of $500,000 for the Ripley County Board of Health to keep on file
with all documentation.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 50.20 PERMITS AND INSPECTION.
   (A)   Prior to construction of any building or private residence where a
private sewage disposal system is to be installed, or prior to any replacement,
reinspection of, expansion or remodeling of a residence which may increase the
number of bedrooms or bedroom equivalents and any addition to, alteration of,
or repair of an existing sewage disposal systems, the owner or agent of the
owner shall obtain a written construction permit signed by the Health Officer.
The application for such a construction permit shall be made on a form provided
by the RCHD, which application shall contain information outlined in Section 53
of the IDOH Rule 410 IAC 6-8.3, the profile analysis of the soils in which the
system is to be constructed, and any other information deemed necessary by the
Health Officer. A construction permit and inspection fee shall be paid to the
RCHD at the time the application is filed.
   (B)   If a permittee or installer requests a plasticity test by RCHD, the
permittee or installer will be charged $25 per request after first initial
request.
   (C)   A permit for the construction, installation, alteration or repair of
an on-site system or privy shall not constitute final approval of such system
until the same is completed to the satisfaction of the County Health
Department. The County Health Department shall be notified by the permittee/
installer before beginning the construction of the on-site system, before any
components of the on-site system are covered, and when the work is ready for
final inspection. The final inspection shall be made within the shortest
reasonable time, but not to exceed two working days of receipt of notice to the
County Health Department excluding weekends, legal holidays, and days when the
weather is unfit to make an inspection as reasonably determined by the County
Health Officer or his or her designee.
   (D)   The Health Officer or his or her agent shall be permitted to enter
upon all properties at any stage of construction for purpose of inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling and testing necessary to assure compliance
with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (E)   (1)   If RCHD is unable to physically perform a final inspection in
person:
      (2)   Pictures can be filed with an affidavit that has been notarized
stating that the installer stands by his or her work and takes full
responsibility for the installation.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 50.21 PROPOSED RECONNECTS OF NEW DWELLINGS INTO EXISTING ONSITE SEWAGE
SYSTEMS.
   (A)   If we have a permit on file, RCHD is able to do a visual inspection
for signs of a system failure (sewage ponding in yard or discharging into
environment, and the like).
      (1)   If there are no visible signs of a system failure then a reconnect
letter will be issued. Bedroom count cannot exceed the number noted on the
onsite sewage permit.
      (2)   If there are signs or concern of a potential system failure, a
registered county onsite sewage installer must assess the system and make
necessary repairs and follow permitting process if appropriate.
   (B)   If there is no onsite sewage permit on file with RCHD, the homeowner
will contact IOWPA (Indiana Onsite Wastewater Professional Associates) or a
registered the county onsite sewage installer to inspect the system and provide
its current condition along with the following:
      (1)   Septic tank size.
      (2)   Location of distribution box.
      (3)   Location of leach lines and depth.
      (4)   Location of drain if applicable.
      (5)   Submit a layout of the system's location.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 50.22 ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURE AND HEARINGS.
   (A)   Any person found to be in violation of this subchapter immediately
shall be subject to the penalties set forth and must abandon said system until
all materials and procedures used in construction are proved to meet all
requirements of this subchapter. Only then would a construction permit be
issued. Any person found to be in violation of any other provision of this
subchapter shall be served by the Health Officer with a written order stating
the nature of the violation and providing a time limit for satisfactory
correction thereof.
   (B)   Any registered installers, as defined in this subchapter, and
registered with RCHD, found to be in violation of this subchapter or the
applicable rules and regulations of the State Department of Health shall
receive notice of violation. Upon receiving said notification, the installer
shall correct the violation within the time frame as specified by the County
Health Officer or his or her agent.
   (C)   If the violation is not corrected within the specified time frame, the
County Health Officer, or his or her agent, may suspend or revoke the installer
registration. If the registration is suspended the installer may be reinstated
by the County Health Officer, or his or her agent, upon successful correction
of all violations. If the registration is revoked, the requirements for
becoming registered including reexamination and payment of the application fee
shall apply prior to re-registration. Re-registration shall not occur until all
outstanding violates are corrected.
   (D)   After receiving an order in writing from the RCHD, the owner of the
property shall comply with the provisions of this subchapter as set forth in
said order and within the time limit specified therein. Said order shall be
served on the owner or the agent of the owner but may be served on any person
who, by contract with the owner, has assumed the duty of complying with the
provisions of the order.
   (E)   Any person affected by any such order issued by the Health Officer or
his or her agent may request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter
before the Ripley County Health Officer, provided that such person shall file
in the office of the Health Officer within ten days after service of the order,
a written petition requesting such hearing and setting forth a brief statement
of the ground thereof. Upon receipt of the petition, the Health Officer shall
arrange a time and a place for the hearing and shall give the petitioner
written notice thereof. The hearing shall be held as soon as practicable after
the receipt of the written request. At the hearing the petitioner shall be
given an opportunity to be heard and to show cause why the order should not be
obeyed.
   (F)   Depending upon the findings at the hearing, the Health Officer will
sustain, modify or withdraw the order. Notification of that decision will
include a time limit for the correction of the problem.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 50.23 CHANGE IN POLICY.
   It is anticipated that this policy may need periodic updating. Any such
changes in this policy shall be made by the RCHD at a public hearing. Notices
of that public hearing would be made one time in two newspapers of general
circulation in the county no fewer than 15 days prior to the hearing date.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 50.24 ADOPTION.
   With the adoption of this subchapter, the RCHD recognizes that all design
and construction standards are not listed therein. Copies of those unlisted
standards are available at the offices of the Ripley County Health Department.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)    Any person found to be in violation shall be immediately subject to
the penalties set forth.
   (B)   Any person found to be violating any provision of §§ 50.15 through
50.24 shall be punished for the first offense by a fine of $200; for the second
offense by a fine of not more than $500; and for the third and each subsequent
offense by a fine of not more than $1,000. Each day after the expiration of the
time limit for abating insanitary conditions and completing improvements as
ordered by the RCHD, or by the duly appointed Health Officer of the county,
shall constitute a distinct and separate offense.
(Ord. passed 8-31-1984; Ord. 2022-3, passed 3-1-2022)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.01   Speed limits
   
70.02   Weight limits
§ 70.01 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   Speed limits on county roads (outside of cities and towns) shall be 45
mph unless otherwise posted.
   (B)   The penalty for a violation of said speed limits shall be as set forth
in I.C. 9-21-5-13 or as amended thereafter.
(Ord. 2-82, passed 12-20-1982; Ord. 1986-2, passed 4-15-1986; Ord. 2013-04,
passed 4-15-2013)
§ 70.02 WEIGHT LIMITS.
   (A)   The maximum weight limit of vehicles traveling on county roads
(outside of cities and towns) shall be the maximum weight limits set forth in
I.C. 9-20-4-1 or as amended thereafter.
   (B)   The penalty for a violation of said weight limits shall be as set
forth in I.C. 9-20-18-12 or as amended thereafter.
(Ord. 2-82, passed 12-20-1982; Ord. 1986-2, passed 4-15-1986; Ord. 2013-04,
passed 4-15-2013)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   FAIR HOUSING
      
91.   ALARM SYSTEMS
      
92.   ANIMALS
      
93.   FIRE PROTECTION
CHAPTER 90: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
90.01   Policy statement
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Unlawful practice
   
90.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
90.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
90.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage service
   
90.07   Interference, coercion or intimidation
   
90.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
90.09   Exemptions
   
90.10   Administrative enforcement
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the county to provide, within Constitutional
limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for
under the Federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended, being 42 U.S.C. §§
1404a et seq., the Federal Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as
amended, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 5301 et seq. and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(Council Ord. 2013-05, passed 4-29-2013)
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who (I.C. 22-9.5-2-2):
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
   COMMISSION. The State Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-
9.5-4-1.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-3)
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-4)
   DISABILITY.
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person’s major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment;
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment; and/or
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the Federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, 42 U.S.C. §§ 1201 et seq.
      (2)   The term DISABILITY shall not include current illegal use of or
addictions to a controlled substance as defined in 21 U.S.C. § 802; nor does
the term DISABILITY include an individual solely because that individual is a
transvestite.
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
90.04,
90.05,
90.06,
90.07 or
90.08 of this chapter or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure or part of a building or structure that is
occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-8)
   FAMILIAL STATUS.
      (1)   One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18 years
being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of such
individual or the written permission of such parent or other person.
      (2)   The protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of
FAMILIAL STATUS shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process
of securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18
years.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual (I.C. 22-9.5-2-9), with the status of
such family being further defined herein. Also, pursuant to 24 C.F.R. part 5,
the definition of FAMILY is revised to include families regardless of the
actual or perceived sexual orientation, gender identity or marital status of
its members.
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees,
trustees in cases under 11 U.S.C., receivers and fiduciaries.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the rights to occupy the premises not owned by the occupant.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-13)
(Council Ord. 2013-05, passed 4-29-2013)
§ 90.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below, §
90.09 of this chapter and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against
discrimination in the sale or rental of housing set forth in I.C. 22-9.5-5-
1 and in §
90.04 of this chapter shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings, except as exempted by division (B) below and I.C. 22-
9.5-3;
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) below, nothing in §
90.04 of this chapter shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that, in the sale of such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24-month period. The
private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or
reserved on his or her behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the
proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses
at any one time. The sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be
exempted from application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesperson, or any person in
the business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of
any such broker, agent or salesperson, or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
90.04(C) of this chapter, but noting in this provision shall prohibit the use
of attorneys, escrow agents, abstracters, title companies and other such
professional assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title.
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) above, a person shall be deemed to be
in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
agent, other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in
providing sales or rental facilities or services in two or more transactions
involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended
for occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Council Ord. 2013-05, passed 4-29-2013)
§ 90.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
90.03 of this chapter and except as exempted by §§
90.03(B) and 90.09 of this chapter, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status or national origin;
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services of
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status or national origin;
   (C)   To make, print or publish, or cause to be made, printed or published
any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, sex, disability, familial status or national origin, or
an intention to make any such preference, limitation or discrimination;
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status or national origin that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is in fact so
available;
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induct any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
sex, disability, familial status or national origin;
   (F)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a disability
of:
      (1)   The buyer or renter;
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is so sold, rented or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person.
   (G)   (1)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a disability of:
         (a)   The person;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (2)   (a)   For purposes of this section, DISCRIMINATION includes:
            1.   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the disabled person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises; except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may, where it is reasonable to do so, condition permission for a modification
on the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
            2.   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules,
policies, practices or services when such accommodations may be necessary to
afford such person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
            3.   In connection with the design and construction of covered
multi-family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months
after 9-13-1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that:
               a.   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings
are readily accessible to and usable by disabled persons;
               b.   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
disabled persons in wheelchairs; and
               c.   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
                  i.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
                  ii.   Light, switches, electrical outlets, thermostats and
other environmental controls in accessible locations; and
                  iii.   Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in
a wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
         (b)   Compliance with the appropriate requirements of the Americans
with Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq. and of the
American National Standard for Buildings and Facilities providing accessibility
an usability for physically disabled people (commonly cited as “ANSI A117.1”)
suffices to satisfy the requirements of division (G)(1)(a)3.c.iii. above.
         (c)   Nothing in this division (H) requires that a dwelling be made
available to an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to
the health of safety of other individuals of whose tenancy would result in
substantial physical damage to the property of others.
(Council Ord. 2013-05, passed 4-29-2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, disability, familial status or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED
TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Is secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this section prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, disability or familial
status.
(Council Ord. 2013-05, passed 4-29-2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICE.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple- listing service, real estate brokers’
organization or other service, organization or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her
in the terms or conditions of such access, membership or participation, on
account of race, color, religion, sex, disability, familial status or national
origin.
(Council Ord. 2013-05, passed 4-29-2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
90.03,
90.04,
90.05 or
90.06 of this chapter.
(Council Ord. 2013-05, passed 4-29-2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   It is unlawful for any person, whether or not acting under code or law, by
force or threat of force, to willfully injure, intimidate or interfere with, or
attempt to injure, intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status or national origin and because he or she is or has
been selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings; or
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, disability, familial status or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A)
above; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
(Council Ord. 2013-05, passed 4-29-2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.09 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association or society, or any non-profit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color or national
origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact
open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes
provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to its members
or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons. As used in this section, HOUSING FOR
OLDER PERSONS means housing:
      (1)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary of
the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the State Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly person (as defined in the state or federal program);
      (2)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, person 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years
of age or older per unit.
(Council Ord. 2013-05, passed 4-29-2013)
§ 90.10 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commission as set forth in
division (B) below shall be vested in the chief elected official of the county.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the county, because
of lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under this chapter, herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of the articles of this
chapter by complainants to the State Civil Rights Commission for administrative
enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-5 and the chief elected official of
the county shall refer all said complaints to the Commission as provided for
under division (A) above to said Commission for purposes of investigation,
resolution and appropriate relief as provided for under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the county shall administer
their departments, programs and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter
and shall cooperate with the chief elected official and the Commission to
further such purposes.
   (D)   The chief elected official of the county, or the chief elected
official’s designee, shall provide information on remedies available to any
aggrieved person or complainant requesting such information.
(Council Ord. 2013-05, passed 4-29-2013)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   Any citizen, because he or she is or has been, or in order to discourage
such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or encouraging other
persons to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, disability, familial status or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in §
90.08(A) of this chapter, or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful
assembly opposing any denial of the opportunity to participate shall be fined
according to local, state and federal law; and if bodily injury results shall
be fined not more than $10,000 or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both;
and, if death results, shall be subject to imprisonment for any term of years
or for life.
(Council Ord. 2013-05, passed 4-29-2013)
CHAPTER 91: ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
   
91.01   Title
   
91.02   Definitions
   
91.03   Automatic telephone dialing devices
   
91.04   False alarm
   
91.05   Notice of violations
   
91.06   Service of notice and contents
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be referred to as the "Ripley County Alarm Ordinance".
(Ord. O-1994-1, passed 6-20-1994; Ord. 2018-01, passed 5-7-2018)
§ 91.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM SYSTEM. 
      (1)   Any device used for the detection of an unauthorized entry or
attempted entry into a building, structure, or facility or for alerting others
of the commission of an unlawful act within a building, structure, facility, or
grounds, which when activated causes notification to be made directly or
indirectly to the Ripley County Sheriffs Department ("RCSD").
      (2)   An ALARM SYSTEM shall not include:
         (a)   An alarm installed on a motor vehicle;
         (b)   An alarm system designated so that no notification is given to
the RCSD until after the occupants, an agent of the owner or lessee, or an
agent of an alarm system business have checked the alarm site and determined
that the alarm was the result of criminal activity of the kind for which the
alarm system was designated to give notice;
         (c)   An alarm installed upon premises occupied by the United States,
the State of Indiana, or any political subdivision thereof.
   AUTOMATIC TELEPHONE DIALING DEVICE. Any device, excluding a medical alert
system, connected to an alarm system which automatically sends a pre-recorded
message or coded signal to a law enforcement agency indicating the activation
of the alarm system.
   FALSE ALARM.  An alarm eliciting a response by RCSD where there is no
obvious evidence of an attempted unlawful intrusion or entry (e.g., pry marks,
broken windows, footprints, etc.), as determined by the responding officer(s).
A false alarm, for purposes of this chapter, does not include alarms triggered
by atmospheric conditions or other circumstances not reasonably under the
control of the permit holder or installer.
   PERMIT HOLDER. The individual, corporation, partnership or other legal
entity to whom an alarm system permit is issued.
   RIPLEY COUNTY. The geographic territory of Ripley County, Indiana.
(Ord. O-1994-1, passed 6-20-1994; Ord. 2018-01, passed 5-7-2018)
§ 91.03 AUTOMATIC TELEPHONE DIALING DEVICES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to use or permit the use of any automatic
telephone device or attachment which automatically selects any telephone line
leading into the communication center of RCSD and then transfers any pre-
recorded message or signal.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to sell or install any automatic telephone device
which automatically selects any telephone line leading into the communication
center of the RCSD and then transmits any pre-recorded message or signal.
   (C)   Any person who operates or uses an automatic telephone device at this
time this chapter becomes effective shall have 60 days to comply with the
requirements of this section.
(Ord. O-1994-1, passed 6-20-1994; Ord. 2018-01, passed 5-7-2018)
§ 91.04 FALSE ALARM.
   It shall be unlawful for a person who controls property on which an alarm
system is installed to issue, cause to be issued, allow or permit the issuance
of false alarm.
(Ord. 2018-01, passed 5-7-2018)
§ 91.05 NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS.
   Whenever an officer of the RCSD, in his or her sole discretion based upon
the circumstances, shall find that the owner or operator of any alarm system
has committed any of the acts which have been declared unlawful by any
provision of this chapter, the officer shall give written notice to the person
of the violation in the manner directed in §
91.06.
(Ord. 2018-01, passed 5-7-2018)
§ 91.06 SERVICE OF NOTICE AND CONTENTS.
   (A)   An officer of the RCSD shall notify the owner or operator of an alarm
system, or his representative, of any violation of this chapter by presenting
the person found in possession of or in charge of the alarm system with a
notice of violation. If the officer shall not find any person in possession or
in charge of the premises, or if the person is a child or incapable of
receiving the notice, the officer shall notify the owner of operator thereof by
posting or attaching a notice of violation in a conspicuous place upon the
premises and the person shall be bound thereby.
   (B)   All notices of violations, as required to be served by this section,
shall be executed by the officer in duplicate. One copy shall be served upon
the violator and the other copy shall be retained by the RCSD.
   (C)   All notices of violations shall be numbered and shall contain at least
the following information:
      (1)   The specific violation with which the violator is charged;
      (2)   The name and address of the person who controls property on which
the alarm is installed;
      (3)   The location of the violation;
      (4)   The signature of the officer;
      (5)   The badge number, if any, of the officer;
      (6)   The date and time of the violation.
(Ord. 2018-01, passed 5-7-2018)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The following fines shall be imposed for violations of this chapter
that take place within a calendar year:
      (1)   Upon the first two notices of violation issued for false alarms or
operation of an illegal telephone dialing device, no fine shall be charged, but
a record of the violation/s shall be made.
      (2)   Upon the third notice of violation for a false alarm or operation
of an illegal telephone dialing device, a fine of $25 shall be imposed.
      (3)   Upon the fourth notice of violation for a false alarm or operation
of an illegal telephone dialing device, a fine of $50 shall be imposed.
      (4)   Upon the fifth notice of violation, for a false alarm or operation
of an illegal telephone dialing device and upon each and every other notice of
violation thereafter, a fine of $100 shall be imposed.
      (5)   All fines imposed by this section shall be paid to the RCSD within
30 days after the notice of violation is served. In the event such fines are
not paid as required, penalties may be imposed in accordance with division (B)
below. All fines collected shall be deposited in the Ripley County General
Fund.
   (B)   The Ripley County Attorney or the attorney for the Ripley County
Sheriff is hereby authorized to institute court action under the authority of
I.C. 36-1-6-3(b) or I.C. 36-1-6-4 to enforce any provisions of this chapter,
including the payment of fines. In such event, the court is authorized to
impose, in addition to any unpaid fines imposed under division (A) above,
penalties of up to $2,500 for the first violation, and up to $7,500 for a
second and subsequent violations, pursuant to §
10.99 of this Code, and I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10).
(Ord. 2018-01, passed 5-7-2018)
CHAPTER 92: ANIMALS
Section
Vicious Dogs
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Confinement
   
92.03   Leash and muzzle
   
92.04   Signs
   
92.05   Insurance
 
   
92.99   Penalty
VICIOUS DOGS
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation, organization or department possessing
or harboring or having the care or custody of a dog.
   UNCONFINED. If the dog is not securely confined indoors or confined in a
securely enclosed and locked pen or structure upon the premises of the owner of
the dog. The pen or structure must have secure sides and a secure top attached
to the sides. If the pen or structure has no bottom secured to the sides, the
sides must be embedded into the ground no less than one foot. All such pens or
structures must be adequately lighted and kept in a clean sanitary condition.
   VICIOUS DOG.
      (1)   Any dog with a known propensity, tendency or disposition to attack
unprovoked, to cause injury to or otherwise threaten the safety of human beings
or domestic animals;
      (2)   Any dog which because of its size, physical nature or vicious
propensity is capable of inflicting serious physical harm or death to humans
and which would constitute a danger to human life or property if it were not
kept in the manner required by this subchapter;
      (3)   Any dog which, without provocation, attacks or bites, or has
attacked or bitten, a human being or domestic animal; or
      (4)   Any dog owned or harbored primarily or in part for the purpose of
dog fighting, or any dog trained for dog fighting.
(Ord. 1991-4, passed 12-27-1991)
§ 92.02 CONFINEMENT.
   The owner of a vicious dog shall not suffer or permit the dog to go
unconfined.
(Ord. 1991-4, passed 12-27-1991) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 LEASH AND MUZZLE.
   The owner of a vicious dog shall not suffer or permit the dog to go beyond
the premises or the owner unless the dog is securely muzzled and restrained by
a chain or leash, and under the physical restraint of a person. The muzzle
shall be made in a manner that will not cause injury to the dog or interfere
with its vision or respiration, but shall prevent it from biting any human or
animal.
(Ord. 1991-4, passed 12-27-1991) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 SIGNS.
   (A)   The owner of a vicious dog shall display in a prominent place on his
or her premises a clearly visible warning sign indication that there is a
vicious dog on the premises.
   (B)   A similar sign is required to be posted on the pen or kennel of the
animal.
(Ord. 1991-4, passed 12-27-1991) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 INSURANCE.
   Owners of vicious dogs must within 60 days of the effective date of this
subchapter provide proof to the Auditor of the county of public liability
insurance in the amount of at least $100,000, insuring the owner for any
personal injuries inflicted by his or her vicious dog.
(Ord. 1991-4, passed 12-27-1991) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
92.01 through
92.05 of this chapter shall be guilty of an infraction and may be punished by a
fine of not less than $100 and not more than $500.
(Ord. 1991-4, passed 12-27-1991)
CHAPTER 93: FIRE PROTECTION
Section
   
93.01   Home Rule power
   
93.02   Purpose
   
93.03   Fire protection aid
   
93.04   Effective date
§ 93.01 HOME RULE POWER.
   Under the provisions of I.C. 36-1-3-1 et seq., the General Assembly gave
local units of government broad and extensive powers to conduct its own
business, popularly known as “Home Rule”. I.C. 36-1-3-2 specifically provides:
“The policy of the state is to grant units all the powers that they need for
the effective operation of government as to local affairs.”
(Ord. 1985-1, passed 5-20-1985)
§ 93.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the protection of life, public
safety, real and personal property and the general welfare of all citizens of
the county.
(Ord. 1985-1, passed 5-20-1985)
§ 93.03 FIRE PROTECTION AID.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners of the county hereby declare the need for
the county to help in providing fire protection for the county and, in order to
fulfill said need, hereby agrees to expend the sums of money set by the Board
of Commissioners to the respective fire departments for the provision of said
fire protection:
      (1)   Morris Volunteer Fire Department: $1,116;
      (2)   Friendship Volunteer Fire Department: $812;
      (3)   Sunman Rural Fire Department: $1,668;
      (4)   Milan Volunteer Fire Department: $2,839;
      (5)   Delaware Community Volunteer Fire Department: $738;
      (6)   Napoleon Volunteer Fire Department: $2,110;
      (7)   Osgood Volunteer Fire Department: $1,736;
      (8)   Batesville Community Fire Association: $3,221;
      (9)   Otter Creek Township Volunteer Fire Department: $931;
      (10)   New Marion Volunteer Fire Department: $770; and
      (11)   Versailles Fire Department, Inc.: $2,031.
   (B)   Said funds shall be paid to said departments for the year 1985, and
for each continuing year thereafter, unless this chapter is repealed. The
amounts may be increased or decreased by the Board each succeeding year through
its budget process. The areas of protection which each fire department shall be
responsible shall be that area as defined by the County Fire Chief’s
Association.
(Ord. 77-1, passed 3-7-1977; Ord. 1985-1, passed 5-20-1985)
§ 93.04 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be in full force and effect upon its passage.
(Ord. 1985-1, passed 5-20-1985)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS
      
111.   SWIMMING POOLS
CHAPTER 110: FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
110.01   State rules adopted by reference
§ 110.01 STATE RULES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The county hereby adopts 410 I.A.C. 7-24, “Retail Food Establishment
Sanitation Requirements,” as if it was set forth in full in this chapter.
CHAPTER 111: SWIMMING POOLS
Section
   
111.01   State rules adopted by reference
§ 111.01 STATE RULES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The county hereby adopts 410 I.A.C. 6-2.1, “Public and Semi-Public Swimming
Pools Rule,” as if it was set forth in full in this chapter. The county Health
Department may promulgate and enforce policies and standard operating
procedures in compliance with 410 I.A.C. 6-2.1.
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   ALCOHOL IN COUNTY FAIRGROUNDS PARK
CHAPTER 130: ALCOHOL IN COUNTY FAIRGROUNDS PARK
Section
   
130.01   Possession, consumption of alcoholic beverages in the county
fairgrounds park during the County 4-H Fair
   
130.02   Warning
   
130.03   Signs and notices
   
130.04   Effective date
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 POSSESSION, CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES IN THE COUNTY
FAIRGROUNDS PARK DURING THE COUNTY 4-H FAIR.
   No person shall possess or consume any alcoholic beverage in or at the
county fairgrounds, during the County 4-H Fair, in the Town of Osgood, Indiana.
(Ord. 1999-6, passed 6-28-1999) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 WARNING.
   (A)   Before issuing a citation for a violation of this chapter, any police
officer of the town or county may give an oral warning or issue a written
warning ticket.
   (B)   If the person or persons receiving the oral warning or warning ticket
do not discontinue the violation, a citation for ordinance violation shall be
issued to the violator.
   (C)   If it appears necessary to make an arrest to preserve the public
peace, a police officer may make an arrest for a violation of this chapter,
with or without a previous oral warning or warning ticket.
(Ord. 1999-6, passed 6-28-1999)
§ 130.03 SIGNS AND NOTICES.
   Signs shall be posted and notices shall be placed on bulletin boards in the
parks, stating substantially as follows: “No alcoholic beverage of any kind may
be brought into this fairground/park or consumed in the fairground/park. County
ordinance enforced.” The signs shall be placed in locations to be visible on
entering the fairgrounds/park.
(Ord. 1999-6, passed 6-28-1999)
§ 130.04 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be in full force and effect upon passage, approval and
publication.
(Ord. 1999-6, passed 6-28-1999)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall be fined not less than $5, nor more than $500, for each offense. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 1999-6, passed 6-28-1999)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDINGS AND CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   BUILDING CODE
      
152.   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
      
153.   EROSION
      
154.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
155.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
156.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDINGS AND CONSTRUCTION
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Building permit fees
   
150.02   Department of Buildings; Building Commissioner
Uniform Numbering System for Houses and Structures
   
150.15   Enactment of plan
   
150.16   Relation to health and welfare
   
150.17   Conformity
   
150.18   Base lines and sequences
   
150.19   Administrative office
   
150.20   Numbers other than on public streets and roads
   
150.21   Standards for posting house numbers
   
150.22   Renumbering of houses and structures
   
150.23   Notification of local agencies
   
150.24   Effective date
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 BUILDING PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Permits required by §
151.20 of this code of ordinances shall be issued upon prior payment of fees
according to the following:
Single-family dwelling (SFD) (New additions, alterations) $115 + $.10 sq. ft.
Manufactured dwelling (single wide)                       $115
Manufactured/modular dwelling                             $215
Accessory building                                        $115
   Additions to accessory building                     $90
Manufactured portable buildings                           $40
Electric upgrade                                          $40
Swimming pools                                            $40
   Above ground                                        $80
   In ground
Duplex                                                    $250 x 2
Commercial                                                $315 + $.15 sq. ft.
Churches and schools                                      $365
Wireless communications tower                             $990
Wireless communications facilities (cabinet building)     $265
Business/advertising                                      $80
   On site (per sign)                                  $65
   Off site (per sign)
Billboard                                                 $765
 
   (B)   All improvements made to a property, regardless of the type of
construction, shall require an improvement location permit, issued by the Area
Plan Commission, with a fee of $15. Said $15 improvement location permit fee is
included with the fees set forth above.
   (C)   Where additional inspections are required due to failure of the permit
holder to have work ready for inspection at a designated stage of construction,
or non-compliance with
Ch. 151 of this Code of Ordinances, the Building Commissioner shall assess a
re-inspection fee of $25 for each additional inspection.
   (D)   For unusually large or complex buildings or structures, the Building
Commissioner shall have the authority to increase the number of required
inspections by 50%.
   (E)   Additional fees or fees for re-inspection shall be paid prior to the
inspection being performed.
   (F)   This section shall be in full force and effective from and after the
date on which the County Commissioners have adopted this section.
(Ord. 2010-04, passed 1-25-2010; Ord. 2015-11, passed 12-21-2015)
§ 150.02 DEPARTMENT OF BUILDINGS; BUILDING COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   Under the provisions of § 1, Ch. 348 of the Acts of the General
Assembly of the state for 1965 as amended by § 1 of Pub. Law No. 236 of the
Acts of the General Assembly of the state for 1971 ( I.C. 17-2-72-1), there is
hereby established a Department of Buildings and the Office of Building
Commissioner, which shall be composed of the Building Commissioner, inspectors
and such other personnel as the Board of Commissioners shall determine.
   (B)   The purpose of this section is to provide for the protection of life,
public safety, real and personal property, energy conservation and access for
the physically handicapped in the design and construction of buildings and
structures in the county.
   (C)   Hereafter, all construction, alteration, addition, repair, relocation,
use or occupancy of all buildings and structures, except agricultural service
buildings, shall conform with this section and such ordinances as may be
hereafter enacted for such purposes by the Board of Commissioners of the
county; provided, however, that, the construction, alteration or repair of
industrialized building systems such as mobile homes and manufactured buildings
shall also conform to rules and regulations promulgated by the Administrative
Building Council applicable to such systems.
   (D)   (1)   The following rules, regulations and codes are hereby adopted by
reference as the rules and regulations governing the construction, addition,
alteration, repair, relocation and use of buildings and structures in the
county:
         (a)   Construction Rules and Regulations, Volume I, 1978 Edition,
promulgated by the Administrative Building Council of Indiana (U.B.C. as
amended);
         (b)   Electric Rules and Regulations, Volume II, 1978 Edition, being
the National Electrical Code, 1978 Edition, promulgated by the Administrative
Building Council of Indiana;
         (c)   Plumbing Rule’s and Regulations, Volume III, 1976 Edition,
amended 1976, promulgated by the Administrative Building Council of Indiana;
         (d)   Mechanical Rules and Regulations, Volume IV, 1977 Edition,
promulgated by the Administrative Building Council of Indiana;
         (e)   The One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code, 1976 Edition, promulgated
by the Administrative Building Council of Indiana; and
         (f)   Swimming Pool Construction Rules and Regulations, 1978 Edition,
promulgated by the Administrative Building Council of Indiana.
      (2)   Two copies of the foregoing rules and regulations are on file for
reference in the office of the Building Commissioner of the county in the
County Courthouse.
   (E)   The Building Commissioner shall have the power to administer and
enforce any and all ordinances or codes adopted now or hereafter by the Board
of Commissioners of the county and to regulate construction, additions, repair,
alteration, relocation and use of building, heating, ventilation, air
conditioning, electrical and plumbing construction.
   (F)   For the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this section, the
Board of Commissioners of the county may employ such additional personnel in
the Department as may be necessary.
   (G)   In the administration of this section, and any other ordinances
incident thereto, the Department shall cooperate with, and coordinate its
activities with, all affected or related city, county and state agencies so as
to prevent unnecessary overlapping, duplication and waste in the administrative
process.
   (H)   No construction of any building or structure, or the addition
alteration or repair thereof, having a contract or estimated cost of the
proposed work of more than $5,000, shall be started until the owner or
contractor in charge shall first obtain a permit therefor from the Building
Commissioner. Application for such permit shall be made in writing on a form
furnished for that purpose and shall be accompanied by such plans and
specifications as may be required by the Building Commissioner. Upon approval
of such application and acceptance of any plans and specifications, the
Building Commissioner shall issue such permit upon payment of permit fees
prescribed herein. No changes to such accepted plans or specifications shall be
made without prior approval of the Building Commissioner. Plans and
specifications for industrialized building systems shall not be required by the
Building Commissioner where such systems bear the insignia of acceptance issued
by the Administrative Building Council of the state or the United States
Department of Housing and Urban Development, except, however, site development
and foundation plans for such systems may be required to accompany an
application for permit. The Building Commissioner shall refuse to issue a
permit in any case where such proposed work would result in a violation of the
rules, regulations and codes, adopted herein or any other applicable ordinance
of the county. No permit shall be required for any outside or inside painting
or minor repair or maintenance work as determined by the Building Commissioner.
   (I)   The fee for all permits shall be as set forth in §
150.01 of this chapter. An additional reinspection fee of $25 shall be charged
in the event that the work is not ready for inspection when called for, in all
cases. Square footage shall be determined by the gross dimensions as contained
in the plans and specifications of the builder.
   (J)   All persons shall have the right to appeal the Building Commissioner’s
decision, through the executive committee of the Administrative Building
Council of the state, in accordance with the provisions of applicable state
law.
   (K)   If any person violates this section they shall be subject to
applicable penalties as set forth in state law. Each day a violation occurs
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (L)   Whenever any work is being done in violation of the provisions of this
section, or in variance with the terms of any permit issued for such work, the
Building Commissioner may order all work on the job stopped until such
violations or variance is eliminated and any work or installation made in
violation of this section corrected. Such stop order, if oral, shall be
followed by a written stop order within 24 hours (excluding Saturday, Sunday or
holidays). It shall be unlawful to do or perform any work in violation of such
stop order, except as may be necessary to prevent injury or damage to persons
or property, or to correct said violation or variance. Such stop order may be
revoked by the Building Commissioner.
   (M)   This section will be in full force and effect on 5-22-1979, according
to the laws of the state.
(Ord. 1979-1, passed 5-21-1979) Penalty, see §
150.99
UNIFORM NUMBERING SYSTEM FOR HOUSES AND STRUCTURES
§ 150.15 ENACTMENT OF PLAN.
   A plan for the orderly and systematic numbering of houses and structures
located with the jurisdictional area of the County Area Plan Commission is
hereby enacted (hereinafter “Uniform Numbering System”). Any and all ordinances
previously adopted by the Board of Commissioners of the county regarding the
numbering of houses and structures are hereby repealed.
(Ord. 1991-3, passed 6-20-1991)
§ 150.16 RELATION TO HEALTH AND WELFARE.
   The number of houses and other structures in an orderly and systematic
manner will make the location for such houses and structure more expeditious in
cases of fire emergencies, in situations involving immediate need for medical
attention for members of family or occupants of a building, and in instances
where police protection may be required. An orderly and systematic house
numbering process will also enhance the delivery of goods and services, as well
as increase the efficiency of operations such as postal delivery.
(Ord. 1991-3, passed 6-20-1991)
§ 150.17 CONFORMITY.
   From the effective date of this subchapter, the numbering of all houses and
structures located on lots or parcels of land abutting public streets or roads
within the jurisdictional area of the County Area Plan Commission shall be
accomplished in conformity with the Uniform Numbering System as herein
described. At the time of the issuance of any permit for the construction of a
house or structure, a number shall be assigned by the County Building
Commissioner to said house or structure as hereinafter provided. Such number
shall be included on the permit, and no permit authorizing the occupancy of a
house or structure shall be issued and no final inspection of a building
performed for the purpose of permitting its occupancy shall be deemed complete
unless such house or structure displays, at the time of inspection, the
officially assigned number in full compliance with the standards of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 1991-3, passed 6-20-1991)
§ 150.18 BASE LINES AND SEQUENCES.
   (A)   The general rule shall be 1000 addresses per section or “block”,
except in certain areas where the irregular direction of the county highways
makes variations necessary, and except in the buffer area adjacent to the
incorporated City of Batesville.
   (B)   Even numbers shall be used on the north and east sides of roads and
odd numbers on the south and west.
   (C)   The grid system to be used is to be constructed on a north, south,
east and west basis with the starting point of “0” for this grid system at the
common section corner of Sections 1, 2, 11 and 12 in Township 7 North, Range 11
East, with each mile portion of roadway becoming a “block” for uniform
numbering purposes. Each dividing line is to be known as Base Road. East Road
North extends from said intersection due north to the Decatur County line. Base
Road South extends from said intersection due south to the Jefferson County
line. Base Road East extends from said intersection due east to the Dearborn
County line. Base Road West extends from said intersection due west to the
Jennings County line.
   (D)   The Uniform Numbering System is to keep the current official county
road numbers and add to them a prefix with a four-digit numerical location
followed by a letter (N, S, E, W) indicating the direction, north, south, east
or west the road runs from the base lines. For example, 4950E 300N.
   (E)   Notwithstanding the uniformity and simplicity of sequentially numbered
county roads, certain county roads are better suited to be given a common name
rather than a number.
(Ord. 1991-3, passed 6-20-1991)
§ 150.19 ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE.
   (A)   (1)   The County Building Commission shall act as the administrative
office (hereinafter, the “administrative office”) in charge of issuing numbers
to houses or structures in compliance with the provisions of this subchapter.
      (2)   The administrative office shall issue numbers to all new houses or
structures, renumber houses and structures whenever it becomes necessary to do
so in the implementation of the Uniform Numbering System, and cause the
numbering of all existing homes or structures which are not numbered to be
numbered in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
      (3)   Barns, sheds and outbuildings not used for a habitation or business
shall not be numbered.
   (B)   The administrative office may establish written guidelines to use in
implementing this subchapter and may amend such guidelines from time to time.
(Ord. 1991-3, passed 6-20-1991)
§ 150.20 NUMBERS OTHER THAN ON PUBLIC STREETS AND ROADS.
   The administrative office may, if it deems proper and necessary for the
implementation of the Uniform Numbering System, assign numbers to houses or
structures that are situated on private streets or roads within the
jurisdictional area of the County Area Plan Commission.
(Ord. 1991-3, passed 6-20-1991)
§ 150.21 STANDARDS FOR POSTING HOUSE NUMBERS.
   The owner or occupant of a house or structure located within the
jurisdictional area of the County Area Plan Commission shall post officially
assigned numbers in a location providing easy identification from the abutting
street or road. Such official number may be placed attached to the mail box (as
according to postal regulations) or on a post or outside light, or on any
prominent place on the house or structure so that the number is identifiable;
provided, however, that, if a building is not visible from a road or if a
building is more than 200 feet from a road, the number shall be displayed at
the entrance to the access road or driveway to such building by means of a
separate marker or on a mailbox. Such number shall be a minimum of three inches
in height, made of durable, weather-proof material and shall contrast in color
from its background for easy visibility.
(Ord. 1991-3, passed 6-20-1991)
§ 150.22 RENUMBERING OF HOUSES AND STRUCTURES.
   Houses and structures that were numbered prior to the effective date of this
subchapter shall be renumbered in order that the same may comply with the
Uniform Numbering System and so that the numerical harmony throughout an area
or areas is substantially achieved. The County Building Commission, as
designated in this subchapter, shall authorize such changes.
(Ord. 1991-3, passed 6-20-1991)
§ 150.23 NOTIFICATION OF LOCAL AGENCIES.
   The administrative office shall provide a uniform system of notification of
the issuance of numbers or the renumbering of houses and structures.
Notification shall be made reasonably ahead of impending changes so as to allow
interested groups and agencies to plan and to prepare for proposed changes. The
administrative office shall keep accurate records and shall, from time to time,
prepare and make available to the County Commissioners a report of the status
of the implementation of the Uniform Numbering System. In the assignment of
house numbers, the administrative office shall use its best judgment and shall
carefully consider and evaluate all contingencies and shall, with due regard to
the sensitive nature of the job assigned to it, be considerate of the citizens
of the county.
(Ord. 1991-3, passed 6-20-1991)
§ 150.24 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall become effective on 6-20-1991, after due publication
hereof.
(Ord. 1991-3, passed 6-20-1991)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation owning or occupying a building
who shall fail to number such building or who shall fail to maintain the number
of such building as provided in §§
150.15 through
150.24 of this chapter shall be deemed to have violated the provisions of §§
150.15 through
150.24 of this chapter and shall be fined a sum of not less than $25, nor more
than $100, for each day’s violation.
      (2)   The Board of Commissioners may institute a suit for injunction in
the courts of the county to restrain any person, firm or corporation who shall
take down, alter, deface, destroy or conceal any number assigned to or placed
upon any building in compliance with §§
150.15 through
150.24 of this chapter, or who shall place or substitute or permit to be placed
or substituted upon any building an erroneous or improper number not in
compliance with §§
150.15 through
150.24 of this chapter, or who shall allow to be retained upon any building an
erroneous or improper number not in compliance with §§
150.15 through
150.24 of this chapter. The Board of Commissioners may institute a suit for
mandatory injunction directing a person, firm or corporation to correct any
violation of the provisions of §§
150.15 through
150.24 of this chapter or to bring about compliance with the provisions of §§
150.15 through
150.24 of this chapter. If the Board of Commissioners is successful in any such
suit, the defendant or respondent shall bear the costs of the action, including
reasonable attorney’s fees.
(Ord. 1991-3, passed 6-20-1991)
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Title
   
151.02   Purpose
   
151.03   Definitions
   
151.04   Scope
   
151.05   Authority
   
151.06   Effect of adoption on prior ordinance
   
151.07   Effective date
Building Permits
   
151.20   Building permit required
   
151.21   Application for building permit
   
151.22   Issuance of building permit
   
151.23   Certificate of occupancy
Investigations and Inspections
   
151.35   General authority to make inspection and investigations
   
151.36   Inspections by Fire Department
Minimum Construction Standards
   
151.50   Adoption of rules by reference
   
151.51   Lifting devices located within a private residence
Enforcement
   
151.65   Withhold issuance of permits
   
151.66   Permit revocation
   
151.67   Stop-work order
   
151.68   Right of appeal
 
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 TITLE.
   This chapter and all material included herein by reference shall be known as
the “Building Code of Ripley County, Indiana”.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 1-25-2010)
§ 151.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to protect the life, public safety, health
and general welfare of the citizens of the county and shall be constructed in
such a manner to effectuate this purpose.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 1-25-2010)
§ 151.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING COMMISSIONER. Individuals employed by the Building Department that
are authorized to represent the Building Commissioner.
   CLASS 1 STRUCTURE. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-4, has the following definition:
      (1)   CLASS 1 STRUCTURE means any part of the following:
         (a)   A building or structure that is intended to be or is occupied or
otherwise used in any part by any of the following:
            1.   The public;
            2.   Three or more tenants; and/or
            3.   One or more persons who act as the employees of another.
         (b)   A site improvement affecting access by persons with physical
disabilities to a building or structure described in division (1)(a) above.
         (c)   Any class of buildings or structures that the Commission
determines by rules to affect a building or structure described in division (1)
(a) above, except buildings or structures described in divisions (3) through
(6) below.
      (2)   Division (1)(a) above includes a structure that contains three or
more condominium units (as defined in I.C. 32-25-2-9) or other units that:
         (a)   Are intended to be or are used or leased by the owner of the
unit; and
         (b)   Are not completely separated from each other by an unimproved
space.
      (3)   Division (1) above does not include a building or structure that:
         (a)   Is intended to be or is used only for agricultural purpose on
the land where it is located; and
         (b)   Is not use do for retail trade or is a stand used for retail
sales of farm produce for eight or less consecutive months in a calendar year.
      (4)   Division (1)(a) above does not include a Class 2 structure.
      (5)   Division (1)(a) above does not include a vehicular bridge.
      (6)   Division (1)(a) above does not include a structure that is intended
to be or is occupied solely to provide periodic maintenance or repair of:
         (a)   The structure; or
         (b)   Mechanical or electrical equipment located within and affixed to
the structure.
      (7)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-24, structure includes swimming pool.
   CLASS 2 STRUCTURE. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-5, has the following definition:
      (1)   CLASS 2 STRUCTURE means any part of the following:
         (a)   A building or structure that is intended to contain or contains
only one dwelling unit or two dwelling units unless any part of the building or
structure is regularly used as a Class 1 structure; and/or
         (b)   An outbuilding for a structure described in division (1)(a)
above, such as a garage, barn or family swimming pool, unless any part of the
outbuilding is regularly used as a Class 1 structure.
      (2)   Division (1) above does not include a vehicular bridge.
      (3)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-24, structure includes swimming pool.
   CONSTRUCTION. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-7, means any of the following:
      (1)   Fabrication of any part of an industrialized building system or
mobile structure for use at another site;
      (2)   Erection or assembly of any part of a Class 1 or Class 2 structure
at the site where it will be used;
      (3)   Installation of any part of the permanent heating, ventilating, air
conditioning, electrical, plumbing, sanitary, emergency detection, emergency
communication or fire or explosion suppression systems for a Class 1 or Class 2
structure at the site where it will be used;
      (4)   Work undertaken to alter, remodel, rehabilitate or add to any part
of a Class 1 or Class 2 structure; and/or
      (5)   Work undertaken to relocate any part of a Class 1 or Class 2
structure, except a mobile structure.
   INDUSTRIALIZED BUILDING SYSTEM. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-14, means any part
of a building or other structure that is in whole or in substantial part
fabricated in an off-site manufacturing facility for installation or assembly
at the building site as part of a Class 1 structure, a Class 2 structure or
another building or structure. However, the term does not include a mobile
structure or a system that is capable of inspection at the building site.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-16, has the meaning set forth in
42 U.S.C. § 5402 as it existed on 1-1-2003. This definition is as follows:
MANUFACTURED HOME means a structure, transportable in one or more sections,
which, in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or 40 feet or
more in length, or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet, and which
is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or
without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities, and
includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical systems
contained therein; except that, such term shall include any such structure
which meets all the requirements of this definition, except the size
requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a
certification required by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and
complies with the standards established under 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq. and
except that such term shall not include any self-propelled recreational
vehicle.
   MOBILE STRUCTURE. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-17, has the following definition:
      (1)   MOBILE STRUCTURE means any part of a fabricated unit that is
designed to be:
         (a)   Towed on its own chassis; and
         (b)   Connected to utilities for year-round occupancy or use as a
Class 1 structure, a Class 2 structure or another structure.
      (2)   The term includes the following:
         (a)   Two or more components that can be retracted for towing purposes
and subsequently expanded for additional capacity; and
         (b)   Two or more units that are separately towable, but designed to
be joined into one integral unit.
   PERSON. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-18, an individual, corporation, limited
liability company, partnership, unincorporated association or governmental
entity.
   STRUCTURE. Both Class 1 and Class 2 structures, unless specifically stated
otherwise.
   VEHICULAR BRIDGE. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-26, any bridge that is neither of
the following suspended between two or more parts of a building or between two
or more buildings:
      (1)   A pedestrian walkway; nor
      (2)   A passageway for light vehicles.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 1-25-2010)
§ 151.04 SCOPE.
   (A)   All construction shall be accomplished in compliance with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-6, this chapter shall not apply to
industrialized building systems or mobile structures certified under I.C. 22-
15-4; however, the provisions of this chapter and the rules promulgated by the
Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission do apply to any construction
related to an industrialized building system or mobile structure not certified
under I.C. 22-15-4.
   (C)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-9, this chapter is not applicable to
regulated amusement devices, regulated boilers, regulated pressure vessels or
regulated lifting devices.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 1-25-2010)
§ 151.05 AUTHORITY.
   The Building Commissioner is hereby authorized and directed to administer
and enforce the following:
   (A)   All the provisions of this chapter;
   (B)   Variances granted in accordance with I.C. 22-13-2-11; and
   (C)   Orders issued under I.C. 22-12-7.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 1-25-2010)
§ 151.06 EFFECT OF ADOPTION ON PRIOR ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The expressed or implied repeal of amendment by this chapter of any
other ordinance or part of any other ordinance does not affect any rights or
liabilities accrued, penalties incurred or proceedings begun prior to the
effective date of this chapter.
   (B)   These rights, liabilities and other proceedings are continued and
penalties shall be imposed and enforced under the repealed or amended ordinance
as if this chapter had not been adopted.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 1-25-2010)
§ 151.07 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be in full force and effect from and after the date on
which both of the following have occurred:
   (A)   The County Commissioners have adopted this chapter; and
   (B)   The Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission of the state has
approved of this chapter as required by I.C. 36-7-8-3 and I.C. 22-13-2-5.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 1-25-2010)
BUILDING PERMITS
§ 151.20 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Construction is prohibited (except for interior and exterior painting, re-
roofing, residing and the like) unless in conformity with a valid building
permit from the Building Commissioner prior to commencement of construction.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 1-25-2010)
§ 151.21 APPLICATION FOR BUILDING PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person required to have a building permit (property owner,
builder, contractor or agent thereof) shall submit a complete application to
the Building Commissioner.
   (B)   This application shall be submitted on a form prepared by the Building
Commissioner and shall contain the following:
      (1)   Information that the Building Commissioner determines to be
necessary to locate and contact the applicant;
      (2)   A clear and understandable copy of detailed plans (floor plans) and
specifications drawn to scale, which indicate in a precise manner the nature
and location of all work to be accomplished;
      (3)   A plot plan drawn to scale; provided, however, such plot plan shall
not be required in the instance where all construction is to occur entirely
within an existing structure. This plot plan shall reflect the location of the
structure in relation to existing property lines and show streets, curbs and
sidewalks and proposed changes or additions to such streets, curbs and
sidewalks;
      (4)   If required by state law or any rule of the Fire Prevention and
Building Safety Commission, a copy of a design release for the work to be done
that has been issued by the Building Law Compliance Officer, pursuant to I.C.
22-15-3;
      (5)   Any additional information that the Building Commissioner finds to
be necessary to determine that the construction will conform to all applicable
building laws and will not violate any other applicable ordinances or laws;
      (6)   The building permit fees establish by §
150.01 of this code of ordinances;
      (7)   All improvements made to a property, regardless to the type of
construction, shall require an improvement location permit; and
      (8)   An improvement location permit shall not be issued until the
proposed use meets the minimum standards for a sewage disposal system and water
supply system as required by the County Health Officer.
   (C)   (1)   Application for a building permit shall be made by the person
entitled to obtain the permit, property owner, contractor, builder, employee or
agent of that person.
      (2)   The Building Commissioner may require that such contractor,
builder, employee or agent provide written authority to apply for a permit.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 1-25-2010)
§ 151.22 ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMIT.
   The Building Commissioner shall issue a building permit to a person, firm or
corporation, after the person has submitted a complete application, including
any applicable fee; provided that, the proposed construction will conform to
all applicable building laws and will not violate any other applicable
ordinances or laws.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 1-25-2010)
§ 151.23 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   No certificate of occupancy for any building or structure shall be issued
unless such building or structure was constructed in compliance with the
provisions of this chapter. It shall be unlawful to occupy any such building or
structure unless the Building Commissioner has issued a full, partial or
temporary certificate of occupancy.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 1-25-2010) Penalty, see §
151.99
INVESTIGATIONS AND INSPECTIONS
§ 151.35 GENERAL AUTHORITY TO MAKE INSPECTION AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   All construction shall be subject to periodic inspections by the
Building Commissioner irrespective of whether a building permit has been or is
required to be obtained.
   (B)   The Building Commissioner may at any reasonable time go in, upon,
around or about the premises where any structure subject to the provisions of
this chapter or to the rules of the Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission is located for the purposes on inspection and investigation of such
structure. Such inspection and investigation may be made before and/or after
construction of the project is completed for the purposes of determining
whether the structure meets building standards and procedures, and ascertaining
whether the construction and procedures have been accomplished in a manner
consistent with this chapter and the rules of the Fire Prevention and Building
Safety Commission.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 1-25-2010)
§ 151.36 INSPECTIONS BY FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   The Building Commissioner and the Fire Department shall work cooperatively
to conduct inspections and investigations to promote compliance with fire
safety laws. (The Fire Department has independent authority to conduct
inspections and take enforcement actions under I.C. 36-8-17.)
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 1-25-2010)
MINIMUM CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
§ 151.50 ADOPTION OF RULES BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-3(b), the rules of the Indiana Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission as set out in the following articles
of Title 675 of the Indiana Administrative Code are hereby incorporated by
reference in this code and shall include any later amendments to those rules.
      (1)   Article 13 - Building Codes:
         (a)   Fire and Building Safety Standards; and
         (b)   Indiana Building Code.
      (2)   Article 14 - Indiana Residential Code;
      (3)   Article 16 - Indiana Plumbing Code;
      (4)   Article 17 - Indiana Electrical Code;
      (5)   Article 18 - Indiana Mechanical Code;
      (6)   Article 19 - Indiana Energy Conservation Code;
      (7)   Article 20 - Indiana Swimming Pool Code;
      (8)   Article 22 - Indiana Fire Code;
      (9)   Article 24 - Migrant Day Care Nursery Fire Safety Code; and
      (10)   Article 25 - Indiana Fuel Gas Code.
   (B)   Two copies of the above building rules incorporated by reference are
on file in the office of the Clerk for the legislative body for public
inspection as required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
   (C)   (1)   The Building Commissioner and the Fire Prevention and Building
Safety Commission may grant a variance to the fire safety laws and buildings
adopted in this chapter.
      (2)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-7(b), a variance granted by the Building
Commissioner is not effective until it has been approved by the Fire Prevention
and Building Safety Commission.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 1-25-2010)
§ 151.51 LIFTING DEVICES LOCATED WITHIN A PRIVATE RESIDENCE.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-22(b)(12), lifting devices, such as elevators
and wheel chair lifts, located within a private residence are not regulated
lifting devices. Therefore, the following standards applicable to lifting
devices located within a private residence are incorporated by reference.
      (1)   Part 5.3, Private Residence Elevators, ANSI/ASME A17.1-2000, Safety
Code for Elevators and Escalators published by the American Society of
Mechanical Engineers, Three Park Avenue, New York, New York, 10016;
      (2)   Part 5.4, Private Residence Inclined Elevators, ANSI/ASME A17.1 -
2000, Safety Code for Elevators and Escalators published by the American
Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three Park Avenue, New York, New York, 10016;
      (3)   Section 5, Private Residence Vertical Platform Lifts, ASME A18.1a,
2001 (Addenda to ASME 18.1-1999), Safety Standard for Platform and Stairway
Chair Lifts, published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three
Park Avenue, New York, New York, 10016;
      (4)   Section 6, private Residence Inclined Platform Lifts, ASME A18.1a,
2001 (Addenda to ASME 18.1-1999), Safety Standard for Platform and Stairway
Chair Lifts, published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three
Park Avenue, New York, New York, 10016; and
      (5)   Section 1, Private Inclined Stairway Lifts, ASME A18.1a, 2001
(Addenda to ASME 18.1-1999), Safety Standard for1 Platform and Stairway Chair
Lifts, published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three Park
Avenue, New York, New York, 10016.
   (B)   Two copies of the above lifting device standards incorporated be
reference are on file in the office of the Clerk for the legislative body for
public inspection as required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 1-25-2010)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 151.65 WITHHOLD ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Whenever a person who is either an applicant for a building permit or
an obtainer of a building permit owes fees (including checks returned for
insufficient funds, permit fees owed pursuant to the County Building Department
or inspection fees owed pursuant to the County Building Department) to the
Building Commissioner. The Building Commissioner may withhold the issuance of
subsequently requested permits and/or inspections, until such time the debt is
satisfied.
   (B)   Whenever a person applies for a building permit for a structure that
is not being used or constructed in conformance with applicable provisions of
an applicable zoning ordinance or other ordinance relating to land use, the
Building Commissioner is authorized to withhold the issuance of requested
permits until such time that the property is brought in, conformance with
applicable ordinances.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 1-25-2010)
§ 151.66 PERMIT REVOCATION.
   The Building Commissioner may revoke a building permit when any of the
following are applicable:
   (A)   The application, plans or supporting documents contain a false
statement or misrepresentation as to a material fact;
   (B)   The application, plans or supporting documents reflect a lack of
compliance with building standards and procedures;
   (C)   There is failure to comply with this chapter; and
   (D)   The structure for which the building permit has been issued is not
being used or constructed in conformance with an applicable zoning ordinance or
other ordinance relating to land use.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 1-25-2010)
§ 151.67 STOP-WORK ORDER.
   (A)   The Building Commissioner may issue an order requiring suspension of
the pertinent construction (stop-work order) in accordance with this section.
   (B)   The stop-work order shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   State with specificity the construction to which it is applicable
and the reason for its issuance;
      (3)   Be posted on the property in a conspicuous place;
      (4)   If practicable, be given to:
         (a)   The person doing the construction; and
         (b)   To the owner of the property or the owner’s agent.
      (5)   The stop-work order shall state the conditions under which
construction may be resumed.
   (C)   The Building Commissioner may issue a stop-work order if:
      (1)   Construction is proceeding in an unsafe manner, including, but not
limited to, in violation of any standard set forth in this chapter or any state
law pertaining to safety during construction;
      (2)   Construction is occurring in violation of this chapter or in such a
manner that if construction is allowed to proceed, there is a reasonable
probability that it will substantially be difficult to correct the violation;
and
      (3)   Construction for which a building permit is required is proceeding
without a building permit being in force.
   (D)   The issuance of a stop-work order shall in no way limit the operation
of penalties provided elsewhere in this chapter.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 1-25-2010)
§ 151.68 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by an order issued under this chapter shall have
the right to petition for review of any order of the Building Commissioner.
   (B)   Such a person may file a petition using either, or both, of the
following procedures.
      (1)   Appeal to the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission.
         (a)   A person aggrieved by an order issued under this chapter may
appeal to the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission, in accordance
with I.C. 22-13-2-7.
         (b)   The Commission may modify or reverse any order issued by the
county that covers a subject governed by I.C. 22-12, I.C. 22-13, I.C. 22-14,
I.C. 22-15, a fire safety or a building rule.
         (c)   The Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission must review
orders that concern a Class 2 structure if the person aggrieved by the order
petitions for review under I.C. 4-21.5-3-7 within 30 days after the issuance of
the order.
         (d)   The Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission may review
all other orders issued under this chapter.
         (e)   The review of an order by the Fire Prevention and Building
Safety Commission does not suspend the running time period under any statute in
which a person, firm or corporation must petition a court for judicial review
of the order.
      (2)   Appeal to an established local administrative body or court.
Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-8-9, a person aggrieved by a decision of the Building
Department may appeal as in other civil actions. The appellant must, by
registered mail, give the county executive a 15-day written notice of his or
her intention to appeal. This notice must concisely state the appellant’s
grievance. If, pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-9, the county has established by
ordinance to hear appeals of orders issued under ordinances, then a person,
firm or corporation aggrieved by an order may petition for review with the
administrative body in accordance with this chapter. If no such administrative
body exists, then the person, firm or corporation may petition a court for
judicial review of the order.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 1-25-2010)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Civil action. Pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-4, the county may initiate a
civil action in a court of competent jurisdiction to restrain any person from
violating a provision of this chapter.
   (B)   Monetary penalty. Any person, firm or corporation violating any
provisions of this chapter may be subject to a fine in any sum not exceeding
$2,500. The assessment of a monetary penalty shall in no way limit the
operation of penalties provided elsewhere in this chapter.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 1-25-2010)
CHAPTER 152: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
Section
   
152.01   Adoption of Comprehensive Plan
§ 152.01 ADOPTION OF COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners of the county adopts the County
Comprehensive Plan (prepared by HNTB) as certified by the County Area Plan
Commission as the Comprehensive Plan (a conceptual guide for the future) for
the county and for participating towns that adopt said Comprehensive Plan.
   (B)   A copy of the County Comprehensive Plan shall be placed on file in the
office of the Recorder of the county.
   (C)   The Comprehensive Plan shall be effective for the county upon the
adoption of this section and effective for each participating town upon its
adoption by the legislative bodies of each participating town.
(Res. 2002-13, passed 6-10-2002)
CHAPTER 153: EROSION
Section
   
153.01   Purpose
   
153.02   Applicability
   
153.03   Definitions
   
153.04   General principles
   
153.05   Design criteria, standards and specifications for erosion control
measures
   
153.06   Erosion and sediment control requirements
   
153.07   Inspection
   
153.08   Enforcement
   
153.09   Effective date
§ 153.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to conserve the natural resources; to protect
the quality of air and water; and to protect and promote the health, safety and
welfare of people to the extent practicable by minimizing the amount of
sediment and other pollutants resulting from soil erosion due to land
disturbing activities, from being transported off-site to adjacent public or
private lands including ditches, streams, lakes, wetlands and reservoirs.
(Ord. 1997-2, passed 4-7-1997)
§ 153.02 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   (1)   This chapter applies to all land disturbing activities on land
within the boundaries and jurisdiction of the County Area Plan Commission,
hereafter referred to as the “jurisdiction”.
      (2)   Agricultural land disturbing activities, as defined in §
153.03 of this chapter, are exempted from the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   This section applies to those sites requiring an improvement location
permit.
   (C)   This chapter does not preclude the applicable from acquiring any other
necessary local, state and federal permits.
(Ord. 1997-2, passed 4-7-1997)
§ 153.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURAL LAND DISTURBING ACTIVITIES. The disturbance of land for the
production of animal or plant life, including forestry, pasturing of livestock
and planting and growing, cultivating and harvesting crops for human or
livestock consumption. This does not include the construction of farm
facilities such as dwellings, barns, sheds or other structures.
   EROSION. The detachment and movement of soil, sediment or rock fragments by
water, wind, ice or gravity.
   EROSION CONTROL MEASURE. A practice or a combination of practices to control
erosion and resulting sedimentation.
   LAND DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Any human-made change of the land surface,
including removing vegetative cover, excavating, filling, transporting and
grading.
   RUNOFF. The portion of precipitation from such sources as rainfall, snowmelt
or irrigation water that flows over the ground surface.
   SITE. The entire area included in the legal description of the land on which
land disturbing activity has been conducted.
(Ord. 1997-2, passed 4-7-1997)
§ 153.04 GENERAL PRINCIPLES.
   The following principles apply to all land disturbing activities within the
jurisdiction.
   (A)   To minimize the potential for soil erosion, development should fit the
topography and soils of the site. Areas with steep slopes where deep cuts and
fills may be required should be avoided wherever possible and natural contours
should be followed as closely as possible.
   (B)   Natural vegetation should be retained and protected wherever possible.
Areas immediately adjacent to watercourses and lakes also should be left
undisturbed wherever possible.
   (C)   All activities on a site should be conducted in a logical sequence so
that the smallest practical area of land will be exposed for the shortest
practical period of time during development.
   (D)   Provision should be made to accommodate the increased runoff caused by
changed soil and surface conditions (impervious areas) during and after
development.
   (E)   Minimize the length and steepness of slopes to reduce erosion control.
(Ord. 1997-2, passed 4-7-1997)
§ 153.05 DESIGN CRITERIA, STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS FOR EROSION CONTROL
MEASURES.
   All erosion control measures including, but not limited to, those required
to comply with this chapter shall meet the design criteria, standards, and
specifications for erosion control measures similar to or the same as those
outlined in the Indiana Handbook for Erosion Control in Developing Areas,
published by the State Department of Natural Resources.
(Ord. 1997-2, passed 4-7-1997)
§ 153.06 EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL REQUIREMENTS.
   The following requirements shall be met on all sites.
   (A)   Sediment-laden water flowing from the site shall be detained by
erosion control measures appropriate to minimize sedimentation.
   (B)   Water shall not be discharged in a manner that causes erosion at or
downstream of the point of discharge.
   (C)   All access to building sites that cross a natural watercourse,
drainage easement or swale/channel shall have a culvert of appropriate size.
   (D)   Wastes or unused building materials, including, but not limited to,
garbage, debris, cleaning wastes, wastewater, toxic materials and hazardous
substances, shall not be carried by runoff from a site. All wastes shall be
disposed of in a proper manner.
   (E)   Sediment being tracked from a site onto public or private roadways
shall be minimized. This can be accomplished initially by a temporary gravel
construction entrance, in addition to a well-planned layout of roads, access
drives and parking areas.
   (F)   Public or private roadways shall be kept cleared of accumulated
sediment. Bulk clearing of sediment shall not include flushing the area with
water.
   (G)   All storm drain inlets shall be protected against sedimentation with
barriers meeting accepted criteria, standards and specifications.
   (H)   Runoff passing through a site from adjacent areas shall be controlled
by diverting it around disturbed areas, where practical. Diverted runoff shall
be conveyed in a manner that will not erode the channel and receiving areas.
Alternatively, the existing channel may be left undisturbed or improved erosion
or sedimentation from occurring.
   (I)   Drainage ways and swales shall be designed and adequately protected so
that their final gradients and resultant velocities will not cause channel or
outlet scouring.
   (J)   Appropriate sediment control practices shall be installed prior to any
land disturbances and thereafter whenever necessary.
   (K)   During the period of construction activity at a side, erosion control
measures necessary to meet the requirements of this chapter shall be
maintained.
(Ord. 1997-2, passed 4-7-1997)
§ 153.07 INSPECTION.
   The County Building Inspector, or his or her representative, may enter the
site for the purpose of verifying compliance with the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 1997-2, passed 4-7-1997)
§ 153.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Building Inspector shall post a stop-work order on the site if the
requirements of this chapter are not being met.
   (B)   If, within 30 days after issuance of a stop-work order, a permit
holder does not comply with the requirements of this chapter, the Building
Inspector may ask the Executive Director of the County Area Plan Commission to
revoke the improvement location permit.
   (C)   Appeal of the revocation of an improvement location permit may be made
in accordance with §§
156.075 through
156.085 of this code of ordinances.
   (D)   Compliance with the provisions of this chapter also may be enforced by
injunction.
(Ord. 1997-2, passed 4-7-1997)
§ 153.09 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect immediately upon its passage and approval in
accordance with the provisions of the State Area Planning Law.
(Ord. 1997-2, passed 4-7-1997)
CHAPTER 154: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
Statutory Authorization, Findings of Fact, Purpose, and Methods
   
154.01   Statutory authorization
   
154.02   Findings of fact
   
154.03   Statement of purpose
   
154.04   Methods of reducing flood loss
General Provisions
   
154.20   Definitions
   
154.21   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
154.22   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard
   
154.23   Establishment of floodplain development permit
   
154.24   Compliance
   
154.25   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
154.26   Discrepancy between mapped floodplain and actual ground elevations
   
154.27   Interpretation
   
154.28   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
154.29   Penalties for violation
Administration
   
154.40   Designation of Administrator
   
154.41   Floodplain development permit and certification requirements
   
154.42   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
   
154.43   Administrative procedures
   
154.44   Map maintenance activities
   
154.45   Variance procedures
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
154.60   Floodplain status standards
   
154.61   General standards
   
154.62   Specific standards
   
154.63   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
154.64   Standards for critical facilities
STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE, AND METHODS
§ 154.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Indiana Legislature has in I.C. 36-1-4-11 granted the power to local
government units to control land use within their jurisdictions. Therefore, the
Board of County Commissioners of Ripley County, Indiana and the Town Councils
of Holton, Milan, Napolean, Osgood, Sunman, and Versailles hereby adopts the
following floodplain management regulations.
(Ord. 2024-03, passed 2-16-2024)
§ 154.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   The flood hazard areas of Ripley County, Indiana and the towns of Holton,
Milan, Napolean, Osgood, Sunman, and Versailles are subject to periodic
inundation which results in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
Additionally, structures that are inadequately elevated, floodproofed, or
otherwise protected from flood damage also contribute to the flood loss. In
order to minimize the threat of such damages and to achieve the purposes
hereinafter set forth, these regulations are adopted.
(Ord. 2024-03, passed 2-16-2024)
§ 154.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone, and sewer lines, streets, and bridges located
in floodplains;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize flood blight
area;
   (G)   Ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard assume
responsibility for their actions;
   (H)   Minimize the impact of development on adjacent properties within and
near flood prone areas;
   (I)   Ensure that the flood storage and conveyance functions of the
floodplain are maintained;
   (J)   Minimize the impact of development on the natural, beneficial values
of the floodplain;
   (K)   Prevent floodplain uses that are either hazardous or environmentally
incompatible; and
   (L)   Meet community participation requirements of the National Flood
Insurance Program.
(Ord. 2024-03, passed 2-16-2024)
§ 154.04 METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSS.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, these regulations include methods and
provisions for:
   (A)   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health, safety,
and property due to water hazards, or which result in damaging increases in
flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities, which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels,
and natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel flood
waters;
   (D)   Controlling filling, grading, dredging, excavating, and other
development which may increase flood damage; and
   (E)   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers, which
will unnaturally divert floodwaters, or which may increase flood hazards in
other areas.
(Ord. 2024-03, passed 2-16-2024)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.20 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in these
regulations shall be interpreted so as to give them meaning they have in common
usage and to give these regulations the most reasonable application.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure with a floor area of 400 square feet or
less that is on the same parcel of property as a principal structure and the
use of which is incidental to the use of the principal structure; an accessory
structure specifically excludes structures used for human habitation.
      (1)   ACCESSORY STRUCTURES are considered walled and roofed where the
structure includes at least two outside rigid walls and a fully secured roof.
      (2)   Examples of ACCESSORY STRUCTURES include but are not necessarily
limited to two-car detached garages (or smaller), carports, storage and tool
sheds, and small boathouses.
      (3)   The following may have uses that are incidental or accessory to the
principal structure on a parcel but are generally not considered to be
accessory structures by the NFIP:
         (a)   Structures in which any portion is used for human habitation,
whether as a permanent residence or as temporary or seasonal living quarters,
such as a detached garage or carriage house that includes an apartment or guest
quarters, or a detached guest house on the same parcel as a principal
residence.
         (b)   Structures used by the public, such as a place of employment or
entertainment.
         (c)   Development that does not meet the NFIP definition of a
structure for floodplain management purposes.
      (4)   Examples include, but are not necessarily limited to, a gazebo,
pavilion, picnic shelter, or carport that is open on all sides (roofed but not
walled).
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a structure in which the addition is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition, which is
connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing
walls, is new construction.
   ALTERATION OF A WATERCOURSE. A dam, impoundment, channel relocation, change
in channel alignment, channelization, or change in cross-sectional area of the
channel or the channel capacity, or any other modification which may alter,
impede, retard, or change the direction and/or velocity of the flow of water
during conditions of the base flood.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator's
interpretation of any provision of this chapter, a request for a variance, or a
challenge of a Board decision.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land within a community subject to a 1% or
greater chance of being flooded in any given year.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year. The BASE FLOOD may also be referred to as the 1% annual chance
flood or 100 year flood.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The water surface elevation of the base flood in
relation to a specified datum, usually the North American Vertical Datum of
1988.
   BASEMENT. That portion of a structure having its floor sub-grade (below
ground level) on all sides.
   BEST AVAILABLE FLOOD LAYER (BAFL). Floodplain studies and any corresponding
floodplain maps prepared and/or approved by the Indiana Department ofNatural
Resources which provide base flood elevation information, floodplain limits,
and/or floodway delineations for flood hazards identified by approximate
studies on the currently effective FIRM (Zone A) and/or for waterways where the
flood hazard is not identified on available floodplain mapping.
   BUILDING. See “structure.”
   COMMUNITY. A political entity that has the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the areas within its jurisdiction.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. A facility for which even a slight chance of flooding
might be too great. CRITICAL FACILITIES include, but are not limited to,
schools, nursing homes, hospitals, police, fire, and emergency response
installations, and installations which produce, use, or store hazardous
materials or hazardous waste.
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   For floodplain management purposes, any man-made change to improved
or unimproved real estate including but not limited to:
         (a)   Construction, reconstruction, or placement of a structure or any
addition to a structure;
         (b)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home, or installing a recreational vehicle on a site for more than
180 days;
         (c)   Installing utilities, erection of walls and fences, construction
of roads, or similar projects;
         (d)   Construction of flood control structures such as levees, dikes,
dams, channel improvements, etc.;
         (e)   Mining, dredging, filling, grading, excavation, or drilling
operations;
         (f)   Construction and/or reconstruction of boat lifts, docks, piers,
and seawalls;
         (g)   Construction and/or reconstruction of bridges or culverts;
         (h)   Storage of materials; or
         (i)   Any other activity that might change the direction, height, or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include activities such as the maintenance of
existing structures and facilities such as painting; re-roofing; resurfacing
roads; or, gardening, plowing, and similar agricultural practices that do not
involve filling, grading, excavation, or the construction of permanent
structures.
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A FEMA form that is routinely reviewed and approved
by the White House Office of Management and Budget under the Paperwork
Reduction Act, that is encouraged to be used to collect certified elevation
information.
   ENCLOSED AREA (ENCLOSURE). An area of a structure enclosed by walls on all
sides.
   ENCLOSURE BELOW THE LOWEST FLOOR. See “lowest floor” and “enclosed area.”
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the community's first floodplain ordinance.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FILL. For floodplain management purposes, means any material deposited or
placed which has the effect of raising the level of the ground surface above
the natural grade elevation. Fill material includes but is not limited to
consolidated material such as concrete and brick and unconsolidated material
such as soil, sand, gravel, and stone.
   FLOOD or FLOODING.
      (1)   A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from:
         (a)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters;
         (b)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters
from any source; or
         (c)   Mudslides (i.e., mudflows) which are proximately caused by
flooding and are akin to a river of liquid and flowing mud on the surfaces of
normally dry land areas, as when earth is carried by a current of water and
deposited along the path of the current.
      (2)   FLOOD or FLOODING also includes the collapse or subsidence of land
along the shore of a lake or similar body of water as a result of erosion or
undermining caused by waves or current of water exceeding anticipated cyclical
levels that result in a flood as defined above.
   FLOOD HAZARD AREA. Areas subject to the 1% annual chance flood. See “special
flood hazard area.”
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
FEMA has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the risk premium
zones applicable to the community. A FIRM that has been made available
digitally is called a digital flood insurance rate map (DFIRM).
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official hydraulic and hydrologic report
provided by FEMA. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the FIRM and
the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOOD PRONE AREA. Any land area acknowledged by a community as being
susceptible to inundation by water from any source. See “floodplain.”
   FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE (FPG). The BFE plus two feet at any given location in
the SFHA. See "freeboard.”
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source. “See “flood.”
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including but not limited
to emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations, and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. Zoning ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances
(such as a floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and erosion control
ordinance), and other applications of police power which control development in
flood-prone areas. The term describes such state or local regulations in any
combination thereof, which provide standards for the purpose of flood damage
prevention and reduction.
   FLOODPROOFING (DRY FLOODPROOFING). A method of protecting a structure that
ensures that the structure, together with attendant utilities and sanitary
facilities, is watertight to the floodproofed design elevation with walls that
are substantially impermeable to the passage of water. All structural
components of these walls are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy, and anticipated debris impact
forces.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form used to certify compliance for non-
residential structures as an alternative to elevating structures to or above
the FPG.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulative increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated
height.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood.
   FRINGE or FLOOD FRINGE. The portion of the floodplain lying outside the
flood way.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE. A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
   HARDSHIP. As related to variances of this chapter, means the exceptional
hardship that would result from a failure to grant the requested variance. The
Board of Zoning Appeals requires that the variance is exceptional, unusual, and
peculiar to the property involved. Mere economic or financial hardship alone is
NOT exceptional. Inconvenience, aesthetic considerations, physical handicaps,
personal preferences, or the disapproval of one's neighbors likewise cannot, as
a rule, qualify as an exceptional hardship. All of these problems can be
resolved through other means without granting a variance, even if the
alternative is more expensive, or requires the property owner to build
elsewhere or put the parcel to a different use than originally intended.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to the start of construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of the Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified by (a)
an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of Interior, or (b)
directly by the Secretary of Interior in states without approved programs.
   HYDROLOGIC AND HYDRAULIC ENGINEERING ANALYSIS. Analyses performed by a
professional engineer licensed by the State of Indiana, in accordance with
standard engineering practices that are accepted by the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources and FEMA, used to determine the base flood, other frequency
floods, flood elevations, floodway information and boundaries, and flood
profiles.
   INTERNATIONAL CODE COUNCIL-EVALUATION SERVICE (ICC-ES) REPORT. A document
that presents the findings, conclusions, and recommendations from a particular
evaluation. ICC-ES REPORTS provide information about what code requirements or
acceptance criteria were used to evaluate a product, and how the product should
be identified, installed.
   LETTER OF FINAL DETERMINATION (LFD). A letter issued by FEMA during the
mapping update process which establishes final elevations and provides the new
flood map and flood study to the community. The LFD initiates the six-month
adoption period. The community must adopt or amend its floodplain management
regulations during this six-month period unless the community has previously
incorporated an automatic adoption clause.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). A general term used to refer to the several
types of revisions and amendments to FEMA maps that can be accomplished by
letter. They are broken down into the following categories:
      (1)   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR). FEMA's comment on a
proposed project that would, upon construction, result in modification of the
SFHA through the placement of fill outside the existing regulatory floodway.
      (2)   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (CLOMR-F). A
letter from FEMA stating that a proposed structure that will be elevated by
fill would not be inundated by the base flood.
      (3)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). An amendment by letter to the
currently effective FEMA map that establishes that a building or area of land
is not located in a SFHA through the submittal of property specific elevation
data. A LOMA is only issued by FEMA.
      (4)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT OUT AS SHOWN (LOMA-OAS). An official
determination by FEMA that states the property or building is correctly shown
outside the SFHA as shown on an effective NFIP map. Therefore, the mandatory
flood insurance requirement does not apply. An out-as-shown determination does
not require elevations.
      (5)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). An official revision to the
currently effective FEMA map. It is issued by FEMA and changes flood zones,
delineations, and elevations.
      (6)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). FEMA's modification
of the SFHA shown on the FIRM based on the placement of fill outside the
existing regulatory floodway.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The lowest elevation, after completion of
construction, of the ground, sidewalk, patio, deck support, or basement
entryway immediately next to the structure.
   LOWEST FLOOR. For floodplain management purposes, the lowest elevation
described among the following:
      (1)   The lowest floor of a building;
      (2)   The basement floor;
      (3)   The garage floor if the garage is connected to the building;
      (4)   The first floor of a structure elevated on pilings or pillars;
      (5)   The floor level of any enclosure, other than a basement, below an
elevated structure where the walls of the enclosure provide any resistance to
the flow of floodwaters. Designs for meeting the flood opening requirement must
either be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect or meet
or exceed the following criteria:
         (a)   The walls are designed to automatically equalize the hydrostatic
flood forces on the walls by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters;
and
         (b)   At least two openings are designed and maintained for the entry
and exit of floodwater; and these openings provide a total net area of at least
one square inch for every one square foot of enclosed area. The bottom of all
such openings shall be no higher than one foot above the exterior grade or the
interior grade immediately beneath each opening, whichever is higher. Doorways
and windows do not qualify as openings.
      (6)   The first floor of a building elevated on pilings or columns in a
coastal high hazard area (as that term is defined in 44 C.F.R. § 59.1 ), as
long as it meets the requirements of 44 C.F.R. § 60.3.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a “recreational vehicle.”
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MITIGATION. Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk to
people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of mitigation
is twofold: to protect people and structures, and to minimize the cost of
disaster response and recovery.
   NATURAL GRADE. For floodplain management purposes means the elevation of the
undisturbed natural surface of the ground. Fill placed prior to the date of the
initial identification of the flood hazard on a FEMA map is also considered
natural grade.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For floodplain management purposes means any structure for
which the “start of construction” commenced on or after the effective date of a
floodplain management regulations adopted by a community and includes any
subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of the community's first floodplain ordinance.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM OF 1988 (NAVD 88). As adopted in 1993 is a
vertical control datum used as a reference for establishing varying elevations
within the floodplain.
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, wharf,
embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, canalization,
bridge, conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill ,
structure, vegetation, or other material in, along, across or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water; or due to its location, its propensity to snare
or collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being
carried downstream.
   ONE-PERCENT ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD. Is the flood that has a 1% chance of being
equaled or exceeded in any given year. See “regulatory flood.”
   PHYSICAL MAP REVISION (PMR). An official republication of a community's FEMA
map to effect changes to base (1% annual chance) flood elevations, floodplain
boundary delineations, regulatory floodways, and planimetric features. These
changes typically occur as a result of structural works or improvements,
annexations resulting in additional flood hazard areas, or correction to base
flood elevations or SFHAs.
   PREFABRICATED BUILDING. A building that is manufactured and constructed
using prefabrication. It consists of factory-made components or units that are
transported and assembled on-site to form the complete building.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. That at least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure, less land value, is above ground.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal
projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year, as calculated by a method and procedure that is acceptable
to and approved by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources and the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The regulatory flood elevation at any location is
as defined in §
154.22. The REGULATORY FLOOD is also known by the term “base flood,” “one-
percent annual chance flood,” and “100-year flood.”
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event, on the average, equaled or exceeded 25% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, etc.
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY. Any facility involved in the storage or
disposal of non-liquid, non-soluble materials ranging from municipal garbage to
industrial wastes that contain complex and sometimes hazardous substances.
Solid waste also includes sewage sludge, agricultural refuse, demolition
wastes, mining wastes, and liquids and gases stored in containers.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). Synonymous with “areas of special flood
hazard” and floodplain, means those lands within the jurisdiction of the Ripley
County, Indiana and the towns of Holton, Milan, Napolean, Osgood, Sunman, and
Versailles are subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
Special flood hazard areas are designated by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency on flood insurance rate maps, flood insurance studies, flood boundary
and floodway maps and flood hazard boundary maps as Zones A, AE, AH, AO, Al-30,
A99, or VE. The SFHA includes areas that are flood prone and designated from
other federal, state or local sources of data including but not limited to best
available flood layer maps provided by or approved by the Indiana Department
ofNatural Resources, historical flood information reflecting high water marks,
previous flood inundation areas, and flood prone soils associated with a
watercourse.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date.
The actual start means either the first placement of permanent construction of
a structure on a site, such as the pouring of a slab or footings, the
installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers,
foundations, or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank, which is principally above ground. The term includes a manufactured home,
as well as a prefabricated building. It also includes recreational vehicles
installed on a site for more than 180 consecutive days.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the “start of construction” of the
improvement. This term includes structures that have incurred “repetitive loss”
or “substantial damage” regardless of the actual repair work performed. The
term does not include improvements of structures to correct existing violations
of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code requirements which have been
identified by the local code enforcement official and which are the minimum
necessary to assure safe living conditions.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter consistent
with the variance conditions herein.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter.
   WALLED AND ROOFED. A building that has two or more exterior rigid walls and
a fully secured roof and is affixed to a permanent site.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel, or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
(Ord. 2024-03, passed 2-16-2024)
§ 154.21 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard (SFHAs) within
the jurisdiction of Ripley County, Indiana and the towns of Holton, Milan,
Napolean, Osgood, Sunman, and Versailles, Indiana as identified in §
154.22, including any additional areas of special flood hazard annexed by
Ripley County, Indiana and the towns of Holton, Milan, Napolean, Osgood,
Sunman, and Versailles, Indiana.
(Ord. 2024-03, passed 2-16-2024)
§ 154.22 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   (A)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for the
studied SFHAs within the jurisdiction of Ripley County, Indiana and the towns
of Holton, Milan, Napolean, Osgood, Sunman, and Versailles delineated as an “AE
Zone” on the Ripley County, Indiana and Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance Rate
Map dated November 2, 2012 shall be determined from the 1% annual chance flood
profiles in the Flood Insurance Study of Ripley County, Indiana and
Incorporated Areas and the corresponding flood insurance rate maps (FIRM) dated
November 2, 2012 as well as any subsequent updates, amendments, or revisions,
prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency with the most recent date.
Should the floodway limits not be delineated on the flood insurance rate map
for a studied SFHA designated as an “AE Zone,” the limits of the floodway will
be according to the best available flood layer as provided by the Indiana
Department of Natural Resources.
   (B)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for each
of the SFHAs within the jurisdiction of Ripley County, Indiana and the towns of
Holton, Milan, Napolean, Osgood, Sunman, and Versailles delineated as an “A
Zone” on the Ripley County, Indiana and Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance Rate
Map, dated November 2, 2012 as well as any subsequent updates, amendments, or
revisions, prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency with the most
recent date, shall be according to the best available flood layer provided by
the Indiana Department of Natural Resources, provided the upstream drainage
area from the subject site is greater than one square mile. Whenever a party
disagrees with the best available flood layer data, the party needs to replace
existing data with better data that meets current engineering standards. To be
considered, this data must be submitted to the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources for review and subsequently approved.
   (C)   In the absence of a published FEMA map, or absence of identification
on a FEMA map, the regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits of
any watercourse in the community's known flood prone areas shall be according
to the best available flood layer as provided by the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources, provided the upstream drainage area from the subject site is
greater than one square mile.
   (D)   Upon issuance of a letter of final determination (LFD), any more
restrictive data in the new (not yet effective) mapping/study shall be utilized
for permitting and construction (development) purposes, replacing all
previously effective less restrictive flood hazard data provided by FEMA.
(Ord. 2024-03, passed 2-16-2024)
§ 154.23 ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities in areas of special flood hazard.
(Ord. 2024-03, passed 2-16-2024)
§ 154.24 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   No structure shall hereafter be located, extended, converted, or
structurally altered within the SFHA without full compliance with the terms of
this chapter and other applicable regulations.
   (B)   Where an existing or proposed structure or other development is
affected by multiple flood zones, by multiple base flood elevations, or both,
the development activity must comply with the provisions of this chapter
applicable to the most restrictive flood zone and the most conservative
(highest) base flood elevation affecting any part of the existing or proposed
structure; or for other developments, affecting any part of the area of the
development.
   (C)   No land or stream within the SFHA shall hereafter be altered without
full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other applicable
regulations.
(Ord. 2024-03, passed 2-16-2024)
§ 154.25 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(Ord. 2024-03, passed 2-16-2024)
§ 154.26 DISCREPANCY BETWEEN MAPPED FLOODPLAIN AND ACTUAL GROUND ELEVATIONS.
   (A)   In cases where there is a discrepancy between the mapped floodplain
(SFHA) with base flood elevations provided (riverine or lacustrine Zone AE) on
the FIRM and the actual ground elevations, the elevation provided on the
profiles or table of still water elevations shall govern.
   (B)   If the elevation of the site in question is below the base flood
elevation, that site shall be included in the SFHA and regulated accordingly.
   (C)   If the natural grade elevation of the site in question is at or above
the base flood elevation and a LOMA or LOMR-FW is obtained, the floodplain
regulations will not be applied provided the LOMA or LOMR-FW is not
subsequently superseded or invalidated.
(Ord. 2024-03, passed 2-16-2024)
§ 154.27 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 2024-03, passed 2-16-2024)
§ 154.28 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods can and
will occur on rare occasions. Therefore, this chapter does not create any
liability on the part of Ripley County, Indiana and the towns of Holton, Milan,
Napolean, Osgood, Sunman, and Versailles, the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources, or the State of Indiana, for any flood damage that results from
reliance on this chapter, or any administrative decision made lawfully
thereunder.
(Ord. 2024-03, passed 2-16-2024)
§ 154.29 PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION.
   Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit in the SFHA or failure to
comply with the requirements of a floodplain development permit or conditions
of a variance shall be deemed to be a violation of this chapter. All violations
shall be considered a common nuisance and be treated as such in accordance with
the provisions of the zoning code.
   (A)   A separate offense shall be deemed to occur for each day the violation
continues to exist.
   (B)   The County Area Plan Commission shall inform the owner that any such
violation is considered a willful act to increase flood damages and therefore
may cause coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
   (C)   Nothing herein shall prevent Ripley County, Indiana and the towns of
Holton, Milan, Napolean, Osgood, Sunman, and Versailles from taking such other
lawful action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected
therewith shall accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 2024-03, passed 2-16-2024)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 154.40 DESIGNATION OF ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Executive Director of the County Area Plan Commission shall implement
the provisions of this chapter and is herein referred to as the Floodplain
Administrator.
(Ord. 2024-03, passed 2-16-2024)
§ 154.41 FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT AND CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   An application for a floodplain development permit shall be made to the
Floodplain Administrator for all development activities located wholly within,
partially within, or in contact with an identified special flood hazard area.
Such application shall be made by the owner of the property or his/her
authorized agent, herein referred to as the applicant, prior to the actual
commencement of such construction on a form furnished for that purpose. Such
applications shall include, but not be limited to plans drawn to scale showing
the nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area in question,
existing or proposed structures, earthen fill, storage of materials or
equipment, drainage facilities, and the location of the foregoing.
Specifically, the following information is required:
   (A)   Application stage.
      (1)   A description of the proposed development.
      (2)   Location of the proposed development sufficient to accurately
locate property and structure(s) in relation to existing roads and streams.
      (3)   A legal description of the property site.
      (4)   For the reconstruction, rehabilitation, or improvement of an
existing structure, or an addition to an existing building, a detailed quote
and description of the total work to be completed including but not limited to
interior work, exterior work, and labor as well as a certified valuation of the
existing (pre-improved or pre-damaged) structure.
      (5)   A site development plan showing existing and proposed development
locations and existing and proposed land grades.
      (6)   A letter from a licensed professional surveyor or engineer noting
that an elevation reference benchmark has been established or confirmed for
those projects requiring elevations to be met.
      (7)   Verification that connection to either a public sewer system or to
an approved on-site septic system is available and approved by the respective
regulatory agency for proposed structures to be equipped with a restroom,
kitchen or other facilities requiring disposal of wastewater.
      (8)   Plans showing elevation of the top of the planned lowest floor
(including basement) of all proposed structures in Zones A, AH, and AE.
Elevation should be in NAVD 88.
      (9)   Plans showing elevation (in NAVD 88) to which any non-residential
structure will be floodproofed.
      (10)   Plans showing location and specifications for flood openings for
any proposed structure with enclosed areas below the flood protection grade.
      (11)   Plans showing materials to be used below the flood protection
grade for any proposed structure are flood resistant.
      (12)   Plans showing how any proposed structure will be anchored to
resist flotation or collapse.
      (13)   Plans showing how any electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing,
air conditioning equipment and other service facilities are designed and/or
located. Elevation should be in NAVD 88.
      (14)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development. A hydrologic and hydraulic
engineering analysis is required, and any watercourse changes submitted to DNR
for approval. Once DNR approval is obtained, a FEMA conditional letter of map
revision must be obtained prior to construction. (See §§
154.42(H) and
154.44.)
      (15)   Any additional information, as requested by the Floodplain
Administrator, which may be necessary to determine the disposition of a
proposed development or structure with respect to the requirements of this
chapter.
   (B)   Construction stage. Upon establishment of the lowest floor of an
elevated structure or structure constructed on fill, it shall be the duty of
the applicant to submit to the Floodplain Administrator an elevation
certificate for the building under construction. The Floodplain Administrator
shall review the elevation certificate. Any deficiencies detected during the
review shall be corrected by the applicant before work is allowed to continue.
Failure to submit the survey or failure to make said corrections required
hereby shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the project.
   (C)   Finished construction.
      (1)   Upon completion of construction of any structure requiring
certification of elevation, an elevation ce1tificate which depicts the “as-
built” lowest floor elevation and other applicable elevation data is required
to be submitted by the applicant to the Floodplain Administrator. The elevation
certificate shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
registered land surveyor and certified by the same.
      (2)   Upon completion of construction of an elevated structure
constructed on fill, a fill report is required to be submitted to the
Floodplain Administrator to verify the required standards were met, including
compaction.
      (3)   Upon completion of construction of a floodproofing measure, a
floodproofing certificate is required to be submitted by the applicant to the
Floodplain Administrator. The floodproofing certificate shall be prepared by or
under the direct supervision of a registered professional engineer or architect
and certified by same.
(Ord. 2024-03, passed 2-16-2024)
§ 154.42 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator and/or designated staff is hereby
authorized and directed to enforce the provisions of this chapter. The
Administrator is further authorized to render interpretations of this chapter,
which are consistent with its spirit and purpose.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Enforce the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   Evaluate application for permits to develop in special flood hazard
areas to assure that the permit requirements of this chapter have been
satisfied;
      (3)   Interpret floodplain boundaries and provide flood hazard and flood
protection elevation information;
      (4)   Issue permits to develop in special flood hazard areas when the
provisions of these regulations have been met or refuse to issue the same in
the event of noncompliance;
      (5)   Advise permittee that additional federal, state and/or local
permits may be required. If specific federal, state and/or local permits are
known, require that copies of such permits be provided and maintained on file
with the floodplain development permit;
      (6)   Conduct substantial damage determinations to determine whether
existing structures, damaged from any source and in special flood hazard areas,
must meet the development standards of these regulations;
      (7)   For applications to improve structures, including alterations,
movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, change of occupancy, additions,
rehabilitations, renovations, substantial improvements, repairs of substantial
damage, and any other improvement of or work on such buildings and structures,
the Floodplain Administrator shall:
         (a)   Verify and document the market value of the pre-damaged or pre-
improved structure;
         (b)   Compare the cost to perform the improvement; or the cost to
repair a damaged building to its pre-damaged condition; or, the combined costs
of improvements and repair, if applicable, to the market value of the pre-
damaged or pre-improved structure. The cost of all work must be included in the
project costs, including work that might otherwise be considered routine
maintenance. Items/activities that must be included in the cost shall be in
keeping with guidance published by FEMA to ensure compliance with the NFIP and
to avoid any conflict with future flood insurance claims of policyholders
within the community;
         (c)   Determine and document whether the proposed work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage; the determination
requires evaluation of previous permits issued for improvements and repairs as
specified in the definition of “substantial improvement” for proposed work to
repair damage caused by flood, the determination requires evaluation of
previous permits issued to repair flood-related damage as specified in the
definition of substantial damage; and
         (d)   Notify the applicant if it is determined that the work
constitutes substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage and that
compliance with the applicable general and specific standards in §§
154.60-
154.64 are required.
      (8)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Floodplain Coordinator
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse and submit copies of
such notifications to FEMA;
      (9)   Ensure that construction authorization has been granted by the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources for all development projects subject to
§§
154.60(A), (C)(1) and (D). Maintain a record of such authorization (either copy
of actual permit/authorization or floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment);
      (10)   Verify the upstream drainage area of any proposed development site
near any watercourse not identified on a FEMA map to determine if §
154.42(I) is applicable;
      (11)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is
not diminished;
      (12)   Verify and record the actual elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new or substantially improved structures, in
accordance with §
154.41;
      (13)   Verify and record the actual elevation to which any new or
substantially improved structures have been floodproofed in accordance with §
154.41;
      (14)   Make on-site inspections of projects in accordance with §
154.43;
      (15)   Coordinate with insurance adjusters prior to permitting any
proposed work to bring any flood-damaged structure covered by a standard flood
insurance policy into compliance (either a substantially damaged structure or a
repetitive loss structure) to ensure eligibility for ICC funds;
      (16)   Ensure that an approved connection to a public sewer system or an
approved on-site septic system is planned for any structures (residential or
non-residential) to be equipped with a restroom, kitchen or other facilities
requiring disposal of wastewater;
      (17)   Provide information, testimony, or other evidence as needed during
variance hearings;
      (18)   Serve notices of violations, issue stop-work orders, revoke
permits and take corrective actions in accordance with §
154.43;
      (19)   Maintain for public inspection and furnish upon request local
permit documents, damaged structure inventories, substantial damage
determinations, regulatory flood data, SFHA maps, letters of map change (LOMC),
copies of DNR permits, letters of authorization, and floodplain analysis and
regulatory assessments (letters of recommendation), federal permit documents,
and “as-built” elevation and floodproofing data for all buildings constructed
subject to this chapter in accordance with §
154.43;
      (20)   Coordinate map maintenance activities and associated FEMA follow-
up in accordance with §
154.44;
      (21)   Utilize and enforce all letters of map change (LOMC) or physical
map revisions (PMR) issued by FEMA for the currently effective SFHA maps of the
community; and
      (22)   Request any additional information which may be necessary to
determine the disposition of a proposed development or structure with respect
to the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 2024-03, passed 2-16-2024)
§ 154.43 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant to a permit
progresses, the Floodplain Administrator shall make as many inspections of the
work as may be necessary to ensure that the work is being done according to the
provisions of the local ordinance and terms of the permit. In exercising this
power, the Administrator has a right, upon presentation of proper credential,
to enter on any premises within the territorial jurisdiction at any reasonable
hour for the purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
   (B)   Stop work orders.
      (1)   Upon notice from the Floodplain Administrator, work on any
building, structure or premises that is being done contrary to the provisions
of this chapter shall immediately cease.
      (2)   Such notice shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner of
the property, or to his agent, or to the person doing the work, and shall state
the conditions under which work may be resumed.
   (C)   Revocation of permits.
      (1)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit or approval,
issued under the provisions of the chapter, in cases where there has been any
false statement or misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application
or plans on which the permit or approval was based.
      (2)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit upon determination
by the Floodplain Administrator that the construction, erection, alteration,
repair, moving, demolition, installation, or replacement of the structure for
which the permit was issued is in violation of, or not in conformity with, the
provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Floodplain management records.
      (1)   Regardless of any limitation on the period required for retention
of public records, records of actions associated with the administration of
this chapter shall be kept on file and maintained under the direction of the
Floodplain Administrator in perpetuity. These records include permit
applications, plans, certifications, flood insurance rate maps; letter of map
change; records of issuance of permits and denial of permits; determinations of
whether proposed work constitutes substantial improvement or repair of
substantial damage; required design certifications and documentation of
elevations required by this chapter; notifications to adjacent communities,
FEMA, and the state related to alterations of watercourses; assurances that the
flood carrying capacity of altered watercourses will be maintained;
documentation related to appeals and variances, including justification for
issuance or denial; and records of enforcement actions taken pursuant to this
chapter.
      (2)   These records shall be available for public inspection at the
County Planning Commission located at 102 West l51 North Street, Versailles,
Indiana 47042.
   (E)   Periodic inspection. Once a project is completed, periodic inspections
may be conducted by the Floodplain Administrator to ensure compliance. The
Floodplain Administrator shall have a right, upon presentation of proper
credential, to enter on any premises within the territorial jurisdiction of the
department at any reasonable hour for the purposes of inspection or other
enforcement action.
(Ord. 2024-03, passed 2-16-2024)
§ 154.44 MAP MAINTENANCE ACTIVITIES.
   To meet NFIP minimum requirements to have flood data reviewed and approved
by FEMA, and to ensure that Ripley County, Indiana and the incorporated areas
flood maps, studies and other data identified in §
154.22 accurately represent flooding conditions so appropriate floodplain
management criteria are based on current data, the following map maintenance
activities are identified:
   (A)   Requirement to submit new technical data.
      (1)   For all development proposals that impact floodway delineations or
base flood elevations, the community shall ensure that technical data
reflecting such changes be submitted to FEMA within six months of the date such
information becomes available. These development proposals include:
         (a)   Floodway encroachments that increase or decrease base flood
elevations or alter floodway boundaries;
         (b)   Fill sites to be used for the placement of proposed structures
where the applicant desires to remove the site from the special flood hazard
area; and
         (c)   Alteration of watercourses that result in a relocation or
elimination of the special flood hazard area, including the placement of
culverts; and subdivision or large-scale development proposals requiring the
establishment of base flood elevations.
      (2)   It is the responsibility of the applicant to have required
technical data for a conditional letter of map revision or letter of map
revision and submitted to FEMA. The Indiana Department of Natural Resources
will review the submittals as part of a partnership with FEMA. The submittal
should be mailed to the Indiana Department of Natural Resources at the address
provided on the FEMA form (MT-2) or submitted through the online letter of map
change website. Submittal and processing fees for these map revisions shall be
the responsibility of the applicant.
      (3)   The Floodplain Administrator shall require a conditional letter of
map revision prior to the issuance of a floodplain development permit for
proposed floodway encroachments that increase the base flood elevation.
      (4)   Floodplain development permits issued by the Floodplain
Administrator shall be conditioned upon the applicant obtaining a letter of map
revision from FEMA for any development proposal subject to this section.
   (B)   Right to submit new technical data. The Floodplain Administrator may
request changes to any of the information shown on an effective map that does
not impact floodplain or floodway delineations or base flood elevations, such
as labeling or planimetric details. Such a submission shall include appropriate
supporting documentation made in writing by the President of the County Board
of Commissioners and may be submitted to FEMA at any time.
   (C)   Annexation/ detachment. Upon occurrence, the Floodplain Administrator
shall notify FEMA in writing whenever the boundaries of Ripley County, Indiana
and the towns of Holton, Milan, Napolean, Osgood, Sunman, and Versailles have
been modified by annexation or the community has assumed authority over an
area, or no longer has authority to adopt and enforce floodplain management
regulations for a particular area. In order that the Ripley County, Indiana and
Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance Rate Map accurately represent the Ripley
County, Indiana and the towns of Holton, Milan,
Napolean, Osgood, Sunman, and Versailles boundaries, include within such
notification a copy of a map of Ripley County, Indiana and the towns of Holton,
Milan, Napolean, Osgood, Sunman, and Versailles suitable for reproduction,
clearly showing the new corporate limits or the new area for which Ripley
County, Indiana and the towns of Holton, Milan, Napolean, Osgood, Sunman, and
Versailles has assumed or relinquished floodplain management regulatory
authority.
(Ord. 2024-03, passed 2-16-2024)
§ 154.45 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall hear and decide appeals and requests
for variances from requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The Board shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged an error in
any requirement, decision, or determination is made by the Floodplain
Administrator in the enforcement or administration of this chapter. Any person
aggrieved by the decision of the Board may appeal such decision to the County
Circuit Court.
   (C)   In considering such applications, the Board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (2)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (6)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (7)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use
which are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
      (8)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (9)   The expected height, velocity, duration, rate ofrise, and sediment
of transport of the floodwaters at the site; and
      (10)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and
bridges;
   (D)   A written report addressing each of the above factors shall be
submitted with the application for a variance.
   (E)   Variances from the provisions of this chapter shall only be granted
when the Board can make positive findings of fact based on evidence submitted
at the hearing for the following:
      (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
      (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship as defined in §
154.20; and
      (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud or victimization of the public,
or conflict with existing laws or ordinances.
   (F)   No variance for a residential use within a floodway subject to §§
154.61(A),(C)(1) or (D) may be granted.
   (G)   Any variance granted in a floodway subject to §§
154.61(A),(C)(1) or (D) will require a permit from the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources. Variances shall not be issued within any designated
regulatory floodway if any increase in flood levels during the base flood
discharge would result.
   (H)   Variances to the provisions for flood hazard reduction of §§
154.60 through
154.64 may be granted only when a new structure is to be located on a lot of
one-half acre or less in size, contiguous to and surrounded by lots with
existing structures constructed below the flood protection grade.
   (I)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic structure and
the variance is the minimum to preserve the historic character and design of
the structure.
   (J)   Variances may be issued for new construction, substantial
improvements, and other development necessary for the conduct of a functionally
dependent use.
   (K)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (L)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of
this chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of this chapter.
   (M)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the flood protection grade and the
elevation to which the lowest floor is to be built and stating that the cost of
the flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from
the reduced lowest floor elevation.
   (N)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency or
the Indiana Department of Natural Resources upon request.
(Ord. 2024-03, passed 2-16-2024)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 154.60 FLOODPLAIN STATUS STANDARDS.
   (A)   Floodways (riverine). Located within SFHAs, established in §
154.22, are areas designated as floodways. The floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters, which carry debris,
potential projectiles, and has erosion potential. Under the provisions of the
Flood Control Act (IC 14-28-1) a permit for construction in a floodway from the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources is required prior to the issuance of a
local building permit for any excavation, deposit, construction, or obstruction
activity located in the floodway. This includes land preparation activities
such as filling, grading, clearing, and paving undertaken before the actual
start of construction of the structure. General licenses and exemptions to the
requirements of the Flood Control Act (I.C. 14-28-1 and 312 I.A.C. 10) may
apply to qualified additions/improvements to existing lawful residential
structures, rural bridges, logjam removals, wetland restoration, utility line
crossings, outfall projects, creek rock removal, and prospecting.
      (1)   If the site is in a regulatory floodway as established in §
154.22, the Floodplain Administrator shall require the applicant to forward the
application, along with all pertinent plans and specifications, to the Indiana
Department of Natural Resources and apply for approval for construction in a
floodway, provided the activity does not qualify for a general license or
exemption (see I.C. 14-28-1 or 312 I.A.C. 10).
      (2)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
approval has been granted by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources for
construction in the floodway, or evidence provided by an applicant that the
development meets specified criteria to qualify for a general license or
exemption to the requirement of the Flood Control Act. The floodplain
development permit shall meet the provisions contained in this subchapter.
      (3)   The floodplain development permit cannot be less restrictive than
an approval issued for construction in a floodway issued by the Indiana
Department of Natural Resources, or the specified criteria used to qualify for
a general license or exemption to the Flood Control Act for a specific site/
project. However, a community's more restrictive regulations (if any) shall
take precedence.
      (4)   In floodway areas identified on the FIRM, development shall cause
no increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood discharge
without first obtaining a conditional letter of map revision and meeting
requirements of §
154.44(A). A conditional letter of map revision cannot be issued for
development that would cause an increase in flood levels affecting a structure
and such development should not be permitted.
      (5)   In floodway areas identified by the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources through detailed or approximate studies but not yet identified on the
effective FIRM as floodway areas, the total cumulative effect of the proposed
development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated development,
shall not adversely affect the efficiency of, or unduly restrict the capacity
of the floodway. This adverse effect is defined as an increase in the elevation
of the regulatory flood of at least 0.15 of a foot as determined by comparing
the regulatory flood elevation under the project condition to that under the
natural or pre-floodway condition as proven with hydraulic analyses.
      (6)   For all projects involving channel modifications or fill (including
levees) the Floodplain Administrator shall submit the data and request that the
Federal Emergency Management Agency revise the regulatory flood data per
mapping standard regulations found at 44 C.F.R. § 65.12.
   (B)   Fringe (riverine). If the site is in the fringe (either identified on
the FIRM or identified by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources through
detailed or approximate studies and not identified on a FIRM), the Floodplain
Administrator may issue the local floodplain development permit provided the
provisions contained in this subchapter have been met.
   (C)   SFHAs without established base flood elevation and/or floodways/
fringes (riverine).
      (1)   Drainage area upstream of the site is greater than one square mile:
         (a)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of
the floodway and fringe have not yet been determined, and the drainage area
upstream of the site is greater than one square mile, the Floodplain
Administrator shall require the applicant to forward the application, along
with all pertinent plans and specifications, to the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources for review and comment.
         (b)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
written approval from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources (approval for
construction in a floodway, letter of authorization, or evidence of general
license qualification) or a floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment citing
the 1% annual chance flood elevation and the recommended flood protection grade
has been received from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources.
         (c)   Once the Floodplain Administrator has received the proper
written approval, evidence of general license qualification, or floodplain
analysis/regulatory assessment approving the proposed development from the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources, a floodplain development permit may be
issued, provided the conditions of the floodplain development permit are not
less restrictive than the conditions received from the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources and the provisions contained in this section have been met.
      (2)   Drainage area upstream of the site is less than one square mile:
         (a)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of
the floodway and fringe have not yet been determined and the drainage area
upstream of the site is less than one square mile, the Floodplain Administrator
shall require the applicant to provide an engineering analysis showing the
limits of the floodplain and 1% annual chance flood elevation for the site.
         (b)   Upon receipt, the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local
floodplain development permit, provided the provisions contained in this
subchapter have been met.
   (D)   SFHAs not identified on a map.
      (1)   If a proposed development site is near a waterway with no SFHA
identified on a map, the Floodplain Administrator shall verify the drainage
area upstream of the site. If the drainage area upstream of the site is
verified as being greater than one square mile, the Floodplain Administrator
shall require the applicant to forward the application, along with all
pertinent plans and specifications, to the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources for review and comment.
      (2)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
written approval from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources (approval for
construction in a floodway, letter of authorization, or evidence of general
license qualification) or a floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment citing
the 1% annual chance flood elevation and the recommended flood protection grade
has been received from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources.
      (3)   Once the Floodplain Administrator has received the proper written
approval, evidence of general license qualification, or floodplain analysis/
regulatory assessment approving the proposed development from the Indiana
Department of Natural Resources, a floodplain development permit may be issued,
provided the conditions of the floodplain development permit are not less
restrictive than the conditions received from the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources and the provisions contained in this subchapter have been met.
(Ord. 2024-03, passed 2-16-2024)
§ 154.61 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazard, the following provisions are required:
   (A)   All new construction, reconstruction or repairs made to a repetitive
loss structure, and substantial improvements shall be anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage below the FPG.
   (C)   New construction and substantial improvements must incorporate methods
and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (D)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plum bing, air conditioning
equipment, and other service facilities shall be located at/above the FPG for
residential structures. Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air
conditioning equipment, and other service facilities shall be located at/above
the FPG or designed so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within
the components below the FPG for non-residential structures. Water and sewer
pipes, electrical and telephone lines, submersible pumps, and other
waterproofed service facilities may be located below the FPG.
   (E)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   (F)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (H)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a structure
that is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall meet the
requirements of “new construction” as contained in this chapter.
   (I)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development (including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions), which is greater than 50 lots or five acres, whichever is less.
   (J)   Where an existing or proposed structure or other development is
affected by multiple flood zones, by multiple base flood elevations, or both,
the development activity must comply with the provisions of this chapter
applicable to the most restrictive flood zone and the highest base flood
elevation affecting any part of the existing or proposed structure; or for
other developments, affecting any part of the area of the development.
   (K)   Fill projects that do not involve a structure must be protected
against erosion and scour during flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or bulk
heading. If vegetative cover is used, the slopes shall be no steeper than three
feet horizontal to one foot vertical.
   (L)   Non-conversion agreements shall be required for all new or
substantially improved elevated structures with an enclosure beneath the
elevated floor, accessory structures, and open-sided shelters.
   (M)   Construction of new solid waste disposal facilities, hazard waste
management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage facilities shall not
be permitted in areas of special flood hazard.
(Ord. 2024-03, passed 2-16-2024)
§ 154.62 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data or
flood depths have been provided, as set forth in §
154.22, the following provisions are required:
   (A)   Building protection requirement. In addition to the general standards
described in §
154.61, structures to be located in the SFHA shall be protected from flood
damage below the FPG. This building protection requirement applies to the
following situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of a residential structure.
      (2)   Construction or placement of a non-residential structure.
      (3)   Addition or improvement made to an existing structure where the
cost of the addition or improvement equals or exceeds 50% of the value of the
existing structure (excluding the value of the land). An addition and/or
improvement project that is continuous in scope or time is considered as one
project for permitting purposes.
      (4)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a damaged structure where the
costs of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure (excluding the value of the
land) before damage occurred (the costs of any proposed additions or
improvements beyond restoring the damaged structure to its before damaged
condition must be included in the cost).
      (5)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site.
      (6)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than 180 days.
      (7)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a repetitive loss structure.
      (8)   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure with a
previous repair, addition or improvement constructed since the community's
first floodplain ordinance.
   (B)   Residential construction.
      (1)   New construction or substantial improvement of any residential
structures shall meet provisions described in §
154.60 and applicable general standards described in §
154.22.
      (2)   In Zone A and Zone AE, new construction or substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor; including basement,
at or above the FPG. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate
a structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of
floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of §
154.62(B)(3). Should fill be used to elevate a structure, the standards of §
154.63(B)(4) must be met.
      (3)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior walls
below the flood protection grade shall meet the following requirement:
         (a)   Designed to preclude finished living space and designed to allow
for the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters to equalize hydrostatic flood
forces on exterior walls. Flood openings must be designed and installed in
compliance with criteria set out in FEMA Technical Bulletin 1. Engineered flood
openings must be designed and certified by a registered design professional
(requires supporting engineering certification or make/model specific ICC-ES
Report), or meet the following criteria for non-engineered flood openings:
            1.   Provide a minimum of two openings on different sides of an
enclosure. If there are multiple enclosed areas, each is required to meet the
requirements for enclosures, including the requirement for flood openings in
exterior walls (having a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area).
            2.   The bottom of all openings shall be no more than one foot
above the higher of the final interior grade (or floor) and the finished
exterior grade immediately under each opening.
            3.   If the floor of the enclosure is below the BFE, the openings
must be located wholly below the BFE.
            4.   If the floor of the enclosure is at or above the BFE, but
below the FPG, the openings must be located wholly below the FPG.
            5.   Doors and windows do not qualify as openings.
            6.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or
other coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of
floodwaters in both directions.
            7.   Openings are to be not less than three inches in any direction
in the plane of the wall. This requirement applies to the hole in the wall,
excluding any device that may be inserted such as typical foundation air vent
device.
         (b)   The floor of such enclosed area must be at or above grade on at
least one side.
      (4)   A residential structure may be constructed on a fill in accordance
with the following:
         (a)   Fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot deep
before compacting to 95% of the maximum density obtainable with either the
standard or modified proctor test method. The results of the test showing
compliance shall be retained in the permit file.
         (b)   Fill shall extend ten feet beyond the foundation of the
structure before sloping below the BFE.
         (c)   Fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or bulk heading. If vegetative cover is
used, the slopes shall be no steeper than three feet horizontal to one foot
vertical.
         (d)   Fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties.
         (e)   Fill shall be composed of clean granular or earthen material.
      (5)   A residential structure may be constructed using a stem wall
foundation (also called chain wall, raised-slab-on-grade, and slab-on-stem-
wall-with-fill). Any backfilled stem wall foundation (also called chain wall,
raised-slab-on-grade, and slab-on-stem-wall-with-fill) must be backfilled with
compacted structural fill, concrete, or gravel that supports the floor slab. No
flood openings are required for this type of construction.
   (C)   Non-residential construction.
      (1)   New construction or substantial improvement of any non-residential
structures (excludes accessory structures) shall meet provisions described in §
154.60 and applicable general standards described in §
154.61.
      (2)   In Zone A and Zone AE, new construction, or substantial improvement
of any commercial, industrial, or nonresidential structure (excludes accessory
structures) shall either have the lowest floor, including basement and,
elevated to or above the FPG or be floodproofed to or above the FPG. Should
solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a structure, openings
sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of floodwaters shall be
provided in accordance with the standards of §
154.62(C)(3). Should fill be used to elevate a structure, the standards of §
154.62(C)(4) must be met.
      (3)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior walls
below the flood protection grade shall meet the following requirement:
         (a)   Designed to preclude finished living space and designed to allow
for the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters to equalize hydrostatic flood
forces on exterior walls. Flood openings must be designed and installed in
compliance with criteria set out in FEMA Technical Bulletin 1. Engineered flood
openings must be designed and certified by a registered design professional
(requires supporting engineering certification or make/model specific ICC-ES
Report), or meet the following criteria for non-engineered flood openings:
            1.   Provide a minimum of two openings on different sides of an
enclosure. If more than one enclosed area is present, each must have openings
on exterior walls (having a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area).
            2.   The bottom of all openings shall be no more than one foot
above the higher of the final interior grade (or floor) and the finished
exterior grade immediately under each opening.
            3.   If the floor of the enclosure is below the BFE, the openings
must be located wholly below the BFE.
            4.   If the floor of the enclosure is at or above the BFE, but
below the FPG, the openings must be located wholly below the FPG.
            5.   Doors and windows do not qualify as openings.
            6.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or
other coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of
floodwaters in both directions.
            7.   Openings are to be not less than three inches in any direction
in the plane of the wall. This requirement applies to the hole in the wall,
excluding any device that may be inserted such as typical foundation air vent
device.
         (b)   The floor of such enclosed area must be at or above grade on at
least one side.
      (4)   A nonresidential structure may be constructed on fill in accordance
with the following:
         (a)   Shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot deep before
compacting to 95% of the maximum density obtainable with either the standard or
modified proctor test method. The results of the test showing compliance shall
be retained in the permit file.
         (b)   Shall extend ten feet beyond the foundation of the structure
before sloping below the BFE.
         (c)   Shall be protected against erosion and scour during flooding by
vegetative cover, riprap, or bulk heading. If vegetative cover is used, the
slopes shall be no steeper than three feet horizontal to one foot vertical.
         (d)   Shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage from or
onto neighboring properties.
         (e)   Shall be composed of clean granular or earthen material.
      (5)   A nonresidential structure may be floodproofed in accordance with
the following:
         (a)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify
that the structure has been designed so that below the FPG, the structure and
attendant utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the
effects of the regulatory flood. The structure design shall take into account
flood velocities, duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic pressures, and impacts
from debris or ice. Such certification shall be provided to the Floodplain
Administrator.
         (b)   Floodproofing measures shall be operable without human
intervention and without an outside source of electricity.
      (6)   A nonresidential structure may be constructed using a stem wall
foundation (also called chain wall, raised-slab-on-grade, and slab-on-stem-
wall-with-fill). Any backfilled stem wall foundation must be backfilled with
compacted structural fill, concrete, or gravel that supports the floor slab. No
flood openings are required for this type of construction.
   (D)   Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
      (1)   These requirements apply to all manufactured homes to be placed on
a site in the SFHA:
         (a)   The manufactured home shall be elevated on a permanent
foundation such that the lowest floor shall be at or above the FPG and securely
anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement.
         (b)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior
walls below the FPG shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required for elevated
structures in §
154.62(B)(3).
         (c)   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame
or foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings.
      (2)   Recreational vehicles placed on a site in the SFHA shall either:
         (a)   Be on site for less than 180 days and be fully licensed and
ready for use on a public highway (defined as being on its wheels or jacking
system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and
security devices, and has no permanently attached additions); or
         (b)   Meet the requirements for manufactured homes as stated earlier
in this section.
   (E)   Accessory structures. Within SFHAs, new construction or placement of
an accessory structure must meet the following standards:
      (1)   Shall have a floor area of 400 square feet or less.
      (2)   Use shall be limited to parking of vehicles and limited storage.
      (3)   Shall not be used for human habitation.
      (4)   Shall be constructed of flood resistant materials.
      (5)   Shall be constructed and placed on the lot to offer the minimum
resistance to the flow of floodwaters.
      (6)   Shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation.
      (7)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment shall
be elevated or floodproofed to or above the FPG.
      (8)   Shall be designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required
for elevated structures in §
154.62(C)(3).
      (9)   Shall not have subsequent additions or improvements that would
preclude the structure from its continued designation as an accessory
structure.
   (F)   Free-standing pavilions, gazebos, decks, carports, and similar
development. Within SFHAs, new construction or placement of free-standing
pavilions, gazebos, decks, carports, and similar development must meet the
following standards:
      (1)   Shall have open sides (having not more than one rigid wall);
      (2)   Shall be anchored to prevent flotation or lateral movement;
      (3)   Shall be constructed of flood resistant materials below the FPG;
      (4)   Any electrical, heating, plumbing and other service facilities
shall be located at/above the FPG; and
      (5)   Shall not have subsequent additions or improvements that would
preclude the development from its continued designation as a free-standing
pavilion, gazebo, carport, or similar open-sided development.
   (G)   Above ground gas or liquid storage tanks. Within SFHAs, all newly
placed aboveground gas or liquid storage tanks shall meet the req9irements for
a nonresidential structure as required in §
154.62(C).
(Ord. 2024-03, passed 2-16-2024)
§ 154.63 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION AND OTHER NEW DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals and all other proposed new development shall
be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals and all other proposed new development shall
have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water
systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals and all other proposed new development shall
have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (D)   In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data
are not available, the applicant shall provide a hydrologic and hydraulic
engineering analysis that generates base flood elevations for all subdivision
proposals and all other proposed new development (including manufactured home
parks and subdivisions), which is greater than 50 lots or five acres, whichever
is less.
   (E)   All subdivision proposals shall minimize development in the SFHA and/
or limit density of development permitted in the SFHA.
   (F)   All subdivision proposals shall ensure safe access into/out of SFHA
for pedestrians and vehicles (especially emergency responders).
   (G)   Streets, blocks lots, parks and other public grounds shall be located
and laid out in such a manner as to preserve and utilize natural streams and
channels. Wherever possible the floodplains shall be included within parks or
other public grounds.
(Ord. 2024-03, passed 2-16-2024)
§ 154.64 STANDARDS FOR CRITICAL FACILITIES.
   Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent possible,
located outside the limits of the SFHA. Construction of new critical facilities
shall be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site is
available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the
lowest floor elevated to or above the FPG at the site. Floodproofing and
sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic substances will not be
displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access routes elevated to or above
the FPG shall be provided to all critical facilities to the extent possible.
(Ord. 2024-03, passed 2-16-2024)
CHAPTER 155: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
155.001   Short title
   
155.002   Establishment of control
   
155.003   Definitions
   
155.004   Procedure
   
155.005   Variances
   
155.006   Specifications
   
155.007   Exempted divisions
   
155.008   Amendments
   
155.009   Validity
   
155.010   Effective date
Design Principles and Standards
   
155.025   General
   
155.026   Streets
   
155.027   Blocks
   
155.028   Lots
   
155.029   Easements
   
155.030   Building setback lines
   
155.031   Detention ponds
   
155.032   Public open spaces
Standards for Surveys
   
155.045   General
   
155.046   Drafting
   
155.047   Surveys
Improvement Standards
   
155.060   General
   
155.061   Monuments and markers and subdivision benchmarks
   
155.062   Streets
   
155.063   Drainage facilities
   
155.064   Sewers
   
155.065   Water
   
155.066   Gas
   
155.067   Improvement credit procedure
   
155.068   Curb and gutter
   
155.069   Sidewalks
   
155.070   Street signs
   
155.071   Driveways entrances
   
155.072   Fencing
Plat Certificates and Deed of Dedication
   
155.085   Commission certificate for primary approval
   
155.086   Commission certificate for secondary approval
   
155.087   Surveyor’s certificate
   
155.088   Plan Commission staff certificate
   
155.089   Soil and Water Conservation District certificate
   
155.090   Deed of dedication
   
155.091   Covenant requirement
Forms
   
155.105   Sample agreement form for development of subdivision
   
155.106   Sample surety bond
   
155.107   Sample maintenance agreement form
   
155.108   Sample maintenance bond form
   
155.109   Completion affidavit
 
   
155.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter, as amended, or the code of ordinances of the participating
towns shall hereafter be referred to as the “Area Subdivision Control Code of
Ripley County, Indiana, 2006”.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 155.002 ESTABLISHMENT OF CONTROL.
   No plat or re-plat of a subdivision of land located within the jurisdiction
of the Commission shall be filed with the County Auditor and recorded by the
County Recorder unless it has first been granted secondary approval by the
County Area Plan Commission, and such approval shall have been signed and
certified on the plat by the President of the Commission.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 155.003 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESS DRIVE. A strip of land not less than 50 feet in width designed to
connect one, two or three lots with a street, thereby providing equal access to
each lot. (See SUBDIVISION.)
   ALLEY. A permanent public service way or right-of-way, dedicated to public
use, other than a street, place, road, crosswalk or easement, designed to
provide a secondary means of access for the special accommodation of abutting
property.
   BLOCK. A unit of property entirely surrounded by public highways, streets,
railroad rights-of-way, waterways or other barriers, or a combination thereof.
   BLOCK FRONTAGE. Property abutting on one side of a street, and lying between
the two nearest intersecting or intercepting streets, or between the nearest
intersecting or intercepting street and railroad right-of-way, waterway or
other definite barrier.
   BOARD. The Board of Commissioners of the county.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE - BUILDING LINE. The line nearest the front or side of
and across a lot establishing the minimum yard to be provided between the
principal building or structure and the lot line.
   CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY. A certificate signed by the Building Inspector and
the Executive Director if an application therefore has been granted for an
improvement location permit, stating that the occupancy and use of land or a
building or structure referred to therein complies with the provisions of this
code, if the structure or use is located within the unincorporated territory of
the county; or in the case of the Towns of Holton, Milan, Napoleon, Osgood,
Sunman and Versailles.
   COMMISSION or PLAN COMMISSION. The County Area Plan Commission.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. A composite of all materials prepared and approved under
the 500 series of I.C. 36-7-4 or under prior law. It includes a master plan
adopted under any prior law.
   COUNTY. Ripley County, Indiana.
   CUL-DE-SAC (COURT OF DEAD END STREET). A short residential street having one
end open to traffic and being permanently terminated by a vehicle turn-around.
   EASEMENT. A grant by the property owner of the use of a strip of land by the
public or a person for specified purposes.
   EXISTING TRACT. Any tract of land that has been described as a single tract
of land meeting County Subdivision and Zone Code requirements at the time of
platting as has been transferred and recorded by deed or land contract for over
one year (365 days).
   HEALTH OFFICER. The County Sanitarian.
   JURISDICTION OF THE COMMISSION. The jurisdiction of the County Area Plan
Commission, which includes all of the area over which this chapter of the code
is effective; specifically, the Towns of Napoleon, Osgood, Sunman, Holton,
Milan and Versailles, Indiana, and all of the unincorporated territory in the
county.
   LOT. A portion of a subdivision, or other parcel of land intended as a unit
for transfer of ownership or development.
   PARENT PARCEL. Any tract of land that has been in existence, by recorded
deed or recorded land contract for over one year (365 days).
   PERSON. A corporation, firm, partnership, association, organization or any
other group acting as a unit, as well as a natural person.
   PLACE. An open, unoccupied, officially designated space, other than a street
or alley, permanently reserved for use as the principal means of access to
abutting property.
   PLAN COMMISSION STAFF. The staff of the County Area Plan Commission,
specifically, the Executive Director, Building Inspector and any other persons
employed by the Area Plan Commission, under the supervision of the Executive
Director who have regular duties in the Area Plan Commission office.
   PLAT. A map or chart indicating the subdivision or re-subdivision of land
intended to be filed for record. Also PLAT OF A SUBDIVISION or PLAT OF THE
SUBDIVISION.
   PRIMARY APPROVAL. An approval that may be granted by the Plan Commission and
signed and certified by the President of the Plan Commission on a plat of a
subdivision in which the procedures, standards of improvement and conditions
have been met by the applicant as required by this chapter. A PRIMARY APPROVAL
is a final decision of the Plan Commission inasmuch as it may be reviewed by
the courts.
   RE-PLAT. A subdivision or plat, the site of which has heretofore been
platted or subdivided with lots or parcels of land, previous subdivision or
plat.
   SECONDARY APPROVAL. An approval that may be granted by the Plan Commission
and signed and certified by the President of the Plan Commission on a plat of a
subdivision which the Plan Commission has already given its primary approval
before it can be filed with the County Auditor and recorded by the County
Recorder, and the improvements and installation have been completed as required
by this chapter; or, if the improvements and installations have not been
completed as required, the applicant therefore has provided a bond or other
proof of financial responsibility in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter.
   STREET. A right-of-way, other than an alley, dedicated or otherwise legally
established to the public use, usually affording the principal means of access
to abutting property, thoroughfare, parkway, boulevard, road, avenue, lane,
drive or other appropriate name.
   STREET, ARTERIAL. A street (or road) designated for large volumes of traffic
movement. Certain ARTERIAL STREETS may be classed as limited access highways to
which entrances and exits are provided only at controlled intersections and
access is denied to abutting properties. Also MAJOR STREET.
   STREET, FEEDER. A street (or road) planned to facilitate the collection of
traffic from residential streets and to provide circulation within neighborhood
areas and convenient ways for traffic to reach arterial streets.
   STREET, RESIDENTIAL. A street designated primarily to provide access to
abutting properties, usually residential. Certain RESIDENTIAL STREETS may be
marginal access streets parallel to arterial streets, which provide access to
abutting property and ways for traffic to reach access points on arterial
streets. Also LOCAL STREET.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person responsibly engaged in developing or improving a
tract of land, which complies, with the definition of a subdivision as defined
in this chapter.
   SUBDIVISION.
      (1)   The division of any parcel of land, separately described in a deed
on record in the office of the County Recorder, into two or more contiguous
parcels, sites or lots fronting on an existing street and each of which
comprises less than acres in an area, for the purpose of immediate or future
transfer of ownership;
      (2)   Whenever a new street or streets are included to provide access to
lots which are laid out for the purpose of immediate or future transfer of
ownership, but which do not front on an existing street, such interior lots
shall be considered as parts of the subdivision, even though they may equal ten
or more acres in area;
      (3)   The improvement of one or more parcels of land for residential,
commercial or industrial structures or groups of structures involving the
subdivision and allocation of land as streets or other open spaces for common
use by owners, occupants or lease holders or as easements for the extension and
maintenance of public sewer, water, storm drainage or other public utilities
and facilities; or
      (4)   In an agriculture district shown on the Zone Map, the improvement
of one, two or three parcels of land not adjoining another subdivision and each
having not less than three acres in area with a rectangular or near rectangular
configuration with a depth of not more than three times the minimum lot width
of 300 feet for lots of less than ten acres in area, and four times the minimum
lot width of 300 feet for lots having an area of ten acres or more, and an
access strip of at least 50 feet in uniform width, except where topographical
features, drainage ways or structures necessitate additional width (in which
case additional curvature may be required), and extending from a street to each
of the parcels; provided that, the owner of each lot shall have one-third, one-
half or full interest, as the case may be, in fee simple of the entire access
strip; and, provided further that, none of the area contained in the access
strip shall be counted toward the minimum three acres area requirement for the
parcel(s). The subdivider may add one or two additional lots (complying with
the area, width and yard requirements of Ch. 156 of this code of ordinances) to
the above described subdivision, with one lot on either side of the access
strip at its intersection with the street, or with two lots to the right of the
access strip or with two lots to the left of the access strip; thereby creating
a subdivision with a maximum of five lots, as long as not more than three of
the lots share an interest in or use the access strip. If the subdivider
proposes an rural subdivision plat that leaves one or two parcels of land less
than ten acres in area, each, adjoining the rural subdivision, with road
frontage for each parcel, the subdivider must draft the subdivision plat
showing the one or two lots that adjoin the rural subdivision and incorporate
said lots into the rural subdivision. All standards, covenants and certificates
are required for this type of subdivision. The primary purpose of this division
(4) is to provide for limited subdivision of land in areas which may be distant
from the existing frontal street or which are unsuitable for farming because
they contain woods, ridges or unusual topography, but which are suitable for
residential development.
      *NOTE 1: See Figure 3 (§
155.006 of this chapter) for typical subdivision of land for one, two and three
lot subdivisions.
      *NOTE 2: Subdivisions defined in divisions (1) and (2) above may be
permitted in the A-1 Prime Agriculture District and the A-2 Agriculture
District.
      (5)   Exempted divisions set forth below.
         (a)   These divisions are exempt from most of the requirements of this
code:
            1.   A division of land into two or more tracts of which all tracts
are least ten acres in area;
            2.   A division of land for the transfer of a tract or tracts to
correct errors in an existing legal description, provided that no additional
building sites other than for accessory buildings are created by the division;
            3.   A division of land pursuant to an allocation of land in the
settlement of decedent’s estate or a court decree for the distribution or
property;
            4.   A division of land for federal, state or local government to
acquire street right-of-way;
            5.   A division of land for the transfer of a tract or tracts
between adjoining lots; provided that, no additional principal building sites
are created by the division. The lots so created hereunder shall have only one
principal building site each. (See §
156.007 of this code of ordinances.);
            6.   A division of land into cemetery plots for the sole purpose of
burial of corpses; and
            7.   A division of land less than ten acres in size that is not
contiguous to another parcel of land less than ten acres divided from the same
parent parcel, regardless of the size of other adjoining existing tracts of
land.
         (b)   Exempted divisions listed herein are subject only to the
provisions of §
155.007 of this chapter and shall be exempt from other provisions of this code
not specified or referred to in that section.
   SUBDIVISION, RURAL. Has the same requirements and procedures as a
subdivision set forth in divisions (1), (2) and (3) above of the definition of
“subdivision”, except as follows:
      (1)   All or any part of the tract of land contained within the area to
be subdivided shall be located in the unincorporated territory at least one
mile distance from the corporate limit of any town or a city; and
      (2)   The minimum lot area per dwelling unit minimum lot width shall be
one acre and 150 feet, respectively.
   TECHNICAL REVIEW COMMITTEE. A committee of persons designated to review
applications and plats consisting of the following members:
      (1)   Plan Commission President;
      (2)   County Surveyor;
      (3)   A.N.R. Educator;
      (4)   Plan Commission Attorney; and
      (5)   Executive Director.
   THOROUGHFARE PLAN. The part of the Comprehensive Plan, now or hereafter
adopted, which includes a thoroughfare plan and sets forth the location,
alignment, dimensions, identification and classification of existing and
proposed streets, highways and other thoroughfares. Also MAJOR STREET AND
HIGHWAY PLAN or THOROUGHFARE PLAN CODE.
   TOWN. The incorporated towns of Osgood, Versailles, Holton, Napoleon, Milan
or Sunman, Indiana.
   TOWN COUNCIL. The Town Councils of Napoleon, Milan, Osgood, Holton,
Versailles or Sunman.
   ZONING ORDINANCE.  An ordinance now or hereafter adopted under the 600
Series of I.C. 36-7-4, including a zone map which divides the jurisdiction of
the Commission into districts, with regulations and requirements and procedures
for the establishment of land use controls, and which indicates where
subdivision of land may occur. Also AREA ZONING CODE OF RIPLEY COUNTY, INDIANA
1991  or CHAPTER 156 OF THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991; Ord. 2006-08, passed 3-13-2006; Ord. 2007-12, passed 11-
19-2007; Ord. 2015-01, passed 3-16-2015)
§ 155.004 PROCEDURE.
   A subdivider desiring approval of a plat of a subdivision of any land lying
within the jurisdiction of the Commission shall submit a written application
therefore to the Plan Commission staff. Such application shall be accompanied
by the information, requirements and plans set forth in Figure 1, all in
accordance with the requirements set forth in this code.
   (A)   Subdivision must be fit. The application shall show the manner in
which the plat of the subdivision is coordinated with the Comprehensive Plan
and it provisions, specifically, with relation to the requirements of the
Thoroughfare Plan, school and recreational sites, shopping centers, community
facilities, sanitation, water supply and drainage and other developments
existing and proposed in the vicinity.
   (B)   Fee required. The application shall be accompanied by a personal
check, cash, certified check or money order made payable to the Ripley County
Area Planning, in the amount of an amount according to the type of subdivision
indicated:
      (1)   Subdivisions            $125 plus $25 per lot
      (2)   High density subdivisions      $500 plus $25 per lot
      (3)   Unit development district plan   $300 plus $5 per acre, plus $100
per phase
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8ad6320a70e9a210f98ada35a226745d19de27b8/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1390.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8ad6320a70e9a210f98ada35a226745d19de27b8/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1392.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8ad6320a70e9a210f98ada35a226745d19de27b8/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1394.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8ad6320a70e9a210f98ada35a226745d19de27b8/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1396.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8ad6320a70e9a210f98ada35a226745d19de27b8/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1398.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8ad6320a70e9a210f98ada35a226745d19de27b8/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1400.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8ad6320a70e9a210f98ada35a226745d19de27b8/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1402.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8ad6320a70e9a210f98ada35a226745d19de27b8/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1404.png]
 
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991; Ord. 1995-1, passed 6-5-1995; Ord. 2001-9, passed 7-9-
2001; Ord. 2006-07, passed 3-13-2006; Ord. 18, passed 7-17-2006; Ord. 2015-09,
passed 12-21-2015; Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-22-2019; Ord. 2022-10, passed 10-17-
2022; Ord. 2024-02, passed 1-5-2024; Ord. 2024-09, passed 7-19-2024)
§ 155.005 VARIANCES.
   Where the subdivider can show that a provision of this chapter would cause
unnecessary hardship if strictly adhered to, and where, in the opinion of the
Commission, because of topographical or other conditions peculiar to the site,
a departure may be made without destroying the intent of such provision, the
Commission may authorize a variance. Any variance thus authorized is required
to be entered in writing in the minutes of the Commission and the reasoning on
which the departure was justified shall be set forth.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 155.006 SPECIFICATIONS.
   The following specifications are hereby declared to be a part of this
chapter by reference:
   (A)   Figure 1. Figure 1, shows the steps, procedures and requirements for
obtaining primary and secondary approval of a plot of a subdivision;
   (B)   Figure 2. Figure 2, curb and gutter detail - types A, B and C;
   (C)   Figure 3. Figure 3, typical subdivisions of land for one-, two- and
three-lot subdivisions set forth in §
155.003 of this chapter;
   (D)   Figure 4. Figure 4, typical subdivisions and other divisions of land,
sheet 1 and 2, as set forth in §
155.003 of this chapter. (Figure 4 is attached to the ordinance codified herein
and made a part of this chapter.);
   (E)   Standard Specifications for the Indiana Department of Highways;
   (F)   County Area Recommended Standards for Sewage Works; and
   (G)   County Area Recommended Standards for Water Works.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 155.007 EXEMPTED DIVISIONS.
   (A)   General. Exempted divisions are not subject to the requirements of
this chapter beyond the determination by the Plan Commission staff that they
meet all the requirements for exempted divisions set forth in this section.
However, lots created by exempted divisions (exempt exemption (6)) shall be ten
or more acres in area to be eligible as principal building site (exemption in
the definition of “subdivision” in §
155.003 of this chapter), unless such lots have been created by order of a
court (exemption (3)). No principal building site created through exemption in
division (C)(1) below shall be reduced below ten acres unless through
subdivision or by order of a court (exemption (3)). For purposes of this
division (A), a lot is “created” on the date of its recording.
   (B)   Application and approval procedure. In order for a land division to be
considered an exempted division the information prescribed for the applicable
type of division under division (C) below shall be submitted to the Plan
Commission staff so that they can determine whether the division meets the
provisions of the definition set forth in §
155.003 of this chapter and this section, for this classification, and
therefore can issue to the subdivider a statement of compliance to the
applicable provisions of this code. Both the subdivider and the Executive
Director shall hold copies of the statement of compliance. When the parcel so
exempted by this statement is conveyed to another party the copy of the
instrument of such conveyance shall be recorded with the County Recorder
bearing a stamp of approval signed by the Executive Director indicating that
such statement of compliance has been obtained as ascertained by the copy(s) of
the statement which have been issued for this purpose.
   (C)   Specifications and documentation to be submitted. The information that
must be provided in order for the decision to be made that a division is an
exempted division varies as follows according to the definition of subdivision
in §
155.003 of this chapter; accordingly:
      (1)   For type “(1)” divisions, a land survey by a land surveyor in
accordance with the requirements of I.C. 36-2-19 of the exempted division and
the land from which it is being divided must be provided; the divisions must
have at least 300 feet of frontage on a street, and have a depth of not more
than four times the narrowest width;
      (2)   For type “(2)” divisions, the old legal and new legal descriptions
must be provided;
      (3)   For type “(3)” divisions, a copy of the court decree showing by
legal description how the land is to be divided must be provided;
      (4)   For type “(4)” divisions, a legal description and plot plan showing
the parcel and the location of the street right-of-way must be provided;
      (5)   For type “(5)” divisions, a land survey by a land surveyor in
accordance with the requirements of I.C. 36-2-19 and plot plan showing the
tract to be divided and the tract(s) to be added must be provided; and
      (6)   For type “(6)” divisions, a plat of the cemetery showing the layout
of the private drives, parking areas and size of burial lots must be provided.
   (D)   Exempted division review process. Within five working days of the land
divider’s complete submission of the required information in the case of
exempted divisions above, the Plan Commission staff shall review the submission
and notify the land subdivider that his or her proposed land division either
qualifies as an exempted division and is thus exempt from all other provisions
of this code, or does not qualify as an exempted division and is thus subject
to the relevant subdivision processes in this code.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 155.008 AMENDMENTS.
   All amendments to this chapter of the code shall be in conformance with I.C.
36-7-4.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 155.009 VALIDITY.
   Should any section, provision or amendments thereto of this chapter be
declared invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, such judgments shall not
affect any other sections, provisions or amendments thereto, not specifically
included in said judgment.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 155.010 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be in full effect after its passage, as provided by law.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
DESIGN PRINCIPLES AND STANDARDS
§ 155.025 GENERAL.
   (A)   The plat of the subdivision shall conform to the following principles
and standards of design in this subchapter.
   (B)   The subdivision plan shall conform to the principles and standards,
which are generally exhibited in the Comprehensive Plan.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 155.026 STREETS.
   (A)   The street and alley layout shall provide access to all lots and
parcels of land within the subdivision, and where streets cross other streets,
jogs shall not be created. Cul-de-sacs shall not exceed 2,640 feet.
   (B)   Proposed streets shall be adjusted to the contour of the land so as to
produce useable lots and streets of reasonable gradient.
   (C)   Certain proposed streets, where appropriate, shall be extended to the
boundary of the tract to be subdivided so as to provide for normal circulation
of traffic within the vicinity.
   (D)   Wherever there exists a dedicated or platted portion of a street or
alley adjacent to the proposed subdivision, the remainder of the street or
alley to the prescribed width shall be platted within the proposed subdivision.
   (E)   Widths of arterial and feeder streets shall conform to the widths
specified in the Thoroughfare Plan.
   (F)   The minimum right-of-way of residential streets, including marginal
access streets or cul-de-sacs, shall be 60 feet. All cul-de-sacs shall
terminate in a circular right-of-way, with a minimum diameter of 76 feet, or
other arrangement for the turning of all vehicles conveniently within the
right-of-way.
   (G)   Alleys shall not be permitted in residential areas, but shall be
included in commercial and industrial areas where needed for loading and
unloading or access purposes and, where platted, shall be at least 20 feet in
width.
   (H)   The centerlines of streets should intersect as nearly at right angles
as possible.
   (I)   At intersections of street and alleys, property line corners shall be
rounded by arcs of at least 20 feet radii or by chords of such arcs.
   (J)   At intersection of streets, the property line corners shall be rounded
by arcs with radii of not less than 15 feet or by chords of such arcs.
   (K)   If the smaller angle of intersection of two streets is less than 60
degrees, the radius of the arc at the intersection of property lines shall be
increased as deemed advisable by the Commission.
   (L)   Intersections of more than two streets at one point shall be avoided.
   (M)   Where parkways or special types of streets are involved, the
Commission may apply special standards to be followed in the design of such
parkways or streets.
   (N)   Whenever the proposed subdivision contains or is adjacent to a
railroad right-of-way or a highway designated as a “limited access highway” by
the appropriate highway authorities, provision shall be made for a marginal
access street or a parallel street at a distance acceptable for the appropriate
use of the land between the highway or railroad and such streets.
   (O)   Horizontal visibility on curved streets and vertical visibility on all
streets must be maintained along the centerlines as follows:
      (1)   Arterial streets: 500 feet;
      (2)   Feeder streets and parkways: 300 feet; and
      (3)   Residential streets: 150 feet.
   (P)   Curvature measured along the centerline shall have a minimum radius as
follows:
      (1)   Arterial streets: 500 feet;
      (2)   Feeder streets and parkways: 300 feet; and
      (3)   Residential streets: 150 feet.
   (Q)   Between reversed curves on arterial streets, there shall be a tangent
of not less than 100 feet, and on feeder and residential streets such tangent
shall not be less than 40 feet.
   (R)   Maximum grades for streets shall be as follows:
      (1)   Arterial streets: not greater than 6%; and
      (2)   Feeder and residential streets and alleys: not greater than 10%.
   (S)   The minimum grade of any street gutter shall not be less than 0.5%.
   (T)   Proposed streets that are extensions of or in alignment with existing
streets shall bear the same name as that borne by the existing street.
   (U)   (1)   Normally, only one street, driveway or point of vehicle access
shall be permitted from a subdivision onto an arterial or feeder street;
provided, however, that, any such street, driveway or point of vehicle access
shall not be allowed if unreasonably harmful to the health, safety and general
welfare of the public.
      (2)   Two or more streets, driveways or points of vehicle access may be
permitted by the Commission, if they do not impair the public health, safety
and general welfare.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 155.027 BLOCKS.
   (A)   Blocks should not normally exceed 1,250 feet in length, unless unusual
circumstances justify greater length. Blocks in rural subdivisions should not
normally exceed 2,640 feet in length.
   (B)   Blocks shall be of sufficient width to permit two tiers of lots of
appropriate depth, except where an interior street parallels a limited access
highway or an arterial street or a railroad right-of-way.
   (C)   In blocks of over 700 feet in length, the Commission may require at or
near the middle of the block a public walk connecting adjacent streets or other
public areas. Such walks shall be at least four feet in width of right-of-way
and shall be intended for use of pedestrians only.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991; Ord. 1995-1, passed 6-5-1995)
§ 155.028 LOTS.
   (A)   (1)    All lots shall abut on a street or place. Generally, the depth
of the lot (see definition “lot, depth of” in §
156.020) shall not exceed four times the lot frontage (see definition of “lot
frontage” in §
156.020); except as provided in division (e) of the definition of “subdivision”
in §
155.003.
      (2)   Some deviation from this provision may be permissible for
topographical and drainage purposes, but not for the purpose of splitting a
large tract into deeper than normal lots so that the provision of streets for
proper access to lots can be avoided.
      (3)   Unusually deep lots or numerous “pipe stem” lots (lots with minimal
lot frontage adjacent to one another) shall be discouraged in subdivisions.
   (B)   Sidelines of lots shall be at approximately right angles to straight
streets and approximately on radial lines on curved streets. Some variation
from this rule is permissible, but pointed or very irregular lots should be
avoided.
   (C)   Double frontage lots should not be platted; except that, where desired
along arterial streets, lots may face on an interior street and back on such
thoroughfares. In that event a planting strip, or a planting screen, at least
ten feet in width, shall be provided along the back of the lot.
   (D)   Widths and areas of lots shall not be less than that provided in
Ch. 156 of this code of ordinances for single-family dwellings for the district
in which the subdivision is located (except for a subdivision defined in §
155.003 of this chapter); except that, when a water main supply system or a
sanitary sewer system is not available, the larger lot area necessary to
install a private water supply or private sewage disposal on the lot in
accordance with the State Board of Health regulations shall become the required
minimum lot area.
   (E)   Wherever possible, unit shopping centers, based upon sound development
standards, should be designed in contrast to the platting of lots for
individual commercial use.
   (F)   Corner residential lots shall be wider than normal in order to permit
appropriate setbacks from both streets. Interior residential lots abutting a
corner lot shall be wider than the average interior lot in order to permit a
wider side yard adjacent to the corner lot.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991; Ord. 2022-09, passed 10-17-2022)
§ 155.029 EASEMENTS.
   Where alleys are not provided, easements for utilities shall be provided.
Such easements shall have minimum widths of 12 feet, and where located along
lot lines, one-half the width shall be taken from each lot. Before determining
the location of easements, the plan shall be discussed with the local public
utility companies to assure their proper placing for the installation of
services.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 155.030 BUILDING SETBACK LINES.
   Shall be as provided in
Ch. 156 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 155.031 DETENTION PONDS.
   Shall not be located on any building lot. See §
156.441 of this code of ordinances for certain requirements for detention
ponds.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 155.032 PUBLIC OPEN SPACES.
   Where sites for parks, schools, playgrounds or other public uses are located
within the subdivision area as shown in the Comprehensive Plan, the Commission
may request their dedication for such purposes or their reservation for a
period of one year following the date of secondary approval of the plat of the
subdivision. In the event a governmental agency concerned passes a resolution
expressing its intent to acquire the land so reserved, the reservation period
shall be extended for an additional six months.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
STANDARDS FOR SURVEYS
§ 155.045 GENERAL.
   All surveys shall be conducted and plats prepared in accordance with the
state’s survey standards adopted by the State Society of Professional Land
Surveyors, and any amendments thereto. In the event of any difference between
the state’s survey standards and this chapter, the stricter requirement shall
apply.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 155.046 DRAFTING.
   (A)   General. All plats submitted for approval shall be prepared by or
under the supervision of a registered land surveyor in good standing with the
state and in compliance with the laws of the state. All drawings shall be neat,
legible, reproducible, reducible and drawn on a quality paper capable of being
scanned into the records in the office of the Recorder of the county.
   (B)   Size and signatures. All plats of subdivisions and surveys shall be
drawn on a quality paper as described in division (A) above and shall be a
minimum of 18 inches by 24 inches in size and shall bear original signatures.
   (C)   Lettering, symbols and drafting. Letter identifying surveying points
or labeling items displayed graphically shall be done using a Leroy or
equivalent lettering system, or freehand using plastic lead (E1 to E3).
Lettering shall be no smaller than 14-point or one-eighths inch in height and
shall be legible when the drawing is reduced 65%. Symbols shall be drawn using
appropriate templates. Certificates and notations shall be typewritten or drawn
using a Leroy or equivalent lettering system. Drafting may be done with pen and
ink or plastic lead as specified above.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991; Ord. 2006-14, passed 10-6-2006)
§ 155.047 SURVEYS.
   All surveys conducted and graphically represented under the terms of this
chapter shall comply with the minimum standards contained herein.
   (A)   Positional tolerance. The relative precision of the survey shall meet
or exceed the following: the true horizontal distance between any two points
whose positions are stated relative to each other, whether directly or
indirectly by calculations, shall not differ from the reported distance by more
than one part in 5,000, plus 0.20 feet.
   (B)   Point of beginning. The point of beginning shall be called out in the
description and on the drawing.
   (C)   Source of bearing system. The source of the bearing system shall be
stated (i.e., assumed, magnetic, astronomic) in the description by the bearing
on the face of the plat.
   (D)   Area of tract. The calculated area of the tract in square feet or
acres shall be included in the description.
   (E)   Ties. All surveys of un-platted ground shall show ties to at least two
section corners. Surveys of platted ground shall be tied to previously platted
and monumented points.
   (F)   Conformance. All surveys shall conform to the requirements of all
state and local laws and shall also include the requirements set forth in §
155.004 of this chapter (Figure 1, Step 1 (B), (2), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8),
(10), (14), (15), (16), (19), (22), (23), (24), (25), (26), (27), (28), (29),
(30), (31) and (32)).
   (G)   Acreage. Acreage for each section shall be on the plat.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991; Ord. 15, passed 11-7-2005)
IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS
§ 155.060 GENERAL.
   Before secondary approval may be granted, the plat of the subdivision shall
conform to the following standards of improvements which shall be installed
under the supervision of an inspector whose qualifications meet the approval of
the Executive Director, and the cost of such inspection shall be borne by the
subdivider.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 155.061 MONUMENTS AND MARKERS AND SUBDIVISION BENCHMARKS.
   Monuments and markers shall be placed so that the center of the bar or
marked point shall coincide exactly with the intersection of lines to be marked
and shall be set so that the top of the monument or market is level with the
finished grade.
   (A)   Monuments shall be set:
      (1)   At the intersection of all lines forming angles in the boundary of
the subdivision;
      (2)   At the beginning and ending of all curves along street right-of-way
lines;
      (3)   At the intersection of street right-of-way lines; and
      (4)   Those points falling in a paved roadway may be represented by road
nails or railroad spikes provided a witness monument is set.
   (B)   Markers shall be set:
      (1)   At the intersection of street right-of way lines;
      (2)   At all section corners;
      (3)   At all points where lot lines intersect curved property lines,
either front or rear;
      (4)   At all angles in property lines of lots;
      (5)   At all lot corners not otherwise described herein;
      (6)   At the beginning and ending of all curves along right-of-way lines;
and
      (7)   Those points falling in paved roadway may be represented by road
nails or railroad spikes provided a witness market is set.
   (C)   Monuments shall be of stone or concrete (which may be poured in
place), with minimum dimensions of four inches by four inches by 30 inches, set
vertically in place. They shall be marked on top with a brass plug, or iron or
copper dowel, at least three-eights inch thick, set flush with the top of the
monument, deeply scored on top, with a cross. Markets shall consist of iron
pipes or steel bars at least 24 inches long, and not less than five-eights inch
in diameter, and shall be identified by a cap or permanent label carrying the
surveyor’s registration number.
   (D)   One benchmark shall be set in each major subdivision containing 100
lots or fewer. One additional benchmark shall be set for each additional 100
lots or fraction thereof. The locations of benchmarks shall be approved by the
County Surveyor.
      (1)   The applicant’s land surveyor shall establish subdivision benchmark
elevations by a closed level circuit from the nearest U.S.G.S. benchmark.
      (2)   Each subdivision benchmark shall be installed behind the curb line
at an intersection so that the top of the benchmark is level with the top of
the curb, unless otherwise permitted by the County Surveyor.
      (3)   Each benchmark shall be precast or poured-in-place concrete with a
28-day compressive strength of 4000 psi and 6% air entrainment. Benchmarks
shall be at least 12 inches square by 36 inches deep and shall be marked on top
with a three-inch diameter curved-head brass marker set flush with the top of
the concrete.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 155.062 STREETS.
   Streets (and alleys, where provided) shall be completed to grades shown on
plans, profiles and cross-sections provided by the subdivider and prepared by a
registered professional engineer and approved by the Commission.
   (A)   The streets shall be graded, surfaced and improved to the dimensions
required by the cross-sections and the work shall be performed in the manner
prescribed in Standard Specifications for the Indiana Department of Highways,
latest issue (hereinafter referred to as the “standard specifications”). A copy
of the current standard specifications is on file in the office of the County
Area Planning Department.
   (B)   Residential streets shall be surfaced to a minimum width of 26 feet
(unless otherwise noted) measured back to back of curb. Streets classified as
“arterial” or “feeder” in the Thoroughfare Plan, as set forth in the
Thoroughfare Plan Code, shall be surfaced to a minimum width of 36 feet. (Curb
and gutter is added to the minimum surface; see §
155.068 of this chapter.) Residential streets in rural subdivisions shall be
surfaced to a minimum width of 20 feet, and the surface shall match the type of
surface of the connecting or intersecting public street. The Commission may
require the subdivider to provide street surfacing on streets which are
proposed to be extensions of existing paved streets, and which exceed the
minimum dimensions set forth above, to the full width of the existing paved
street. Alleys shall be surfaced to their full width. Cul-de-sac turn-around
shall be paved to a diameter of 76 feet.
   (C)   The sub-grade shall be prepared in compliance with § 207 of the
standard specifications.
   (D)   The sub-base, where required, shall be prepared in compliance with §
304 of the standard specifications. Special subbase drainage in areas of cuts,
swales and fills shall be as set out in the approved plans and specifications.
   (E)   The street surface shall be of portland cement concrete materials and
construction shall be in accordance with § 501 of the standard specifications
and division (E)(1) below. Hot asphalt concrete materials and construction
shall be in accordance with § 403 of the standard specifications and division
(E)(2) below. In the case of a proposed alternative method, discrepancy,
omission or duplication in the required specification standards, the decision
of the County Highway Supervisor or respective town council shall be sought and
considered final.
      (1)   Rigid type pavement (portland cement concrete).
         (a)   Minimum design characteristics of street pavement shall be as
follows:
            1.   Six percent air-entrained;
            2.   Twenty-eight day compressive strength = 4,000 p.s.i., 28-day
flexural strength = 550 p.s.i.; and
            3.   Thickness to conform to the following schedule:
 
Thickness
          Residential                             Collector/Feeder Arterial
Aggregate Subject to review by the County Highway 4"               4"
          Supervisor or respective town council
Concrete  6"                                      7"               8"
 
         (b)   Portland cement concrete pavement shall be in accordance with §
501 of the standard specifications. In addition, the following shall govern and
be met.
            1.   The subgrade shall conform to §§ 501.05 and 207 of the
standard specifications. Subgrade shall be moist but not muddy at the time the
concrete is placed. If required, it shall be sprinkled, but the method of
sprinkling shall be such that mud or pools of water will not be formed.
            2.   Subbase, if required, shall meet the above minimum thickness
requirements and conform to § 304 of the standard specifications.
            3.   Weakened plane or dummy transverse contraction joints shall be
placed not to exceed 20-foot spacing. A transverse contraction joint shall be
placed at every catch basin and manhole in line of pavement. The location of
manholes and the like in the pavement shall determine the exact location of
joints. All joints must extend throughout side strips to full width of
pavements. Transverse contraction joints will be a groove and conform to §
501.04 of the standard specifications.
            4.   Whenever the width between forms of the pavement under
construction is greater than 13 feet, longitudinal joints shall be constructed
so as to divide the pavement into strips not to exceed 13 feet each. Work shall
conform to § 501.14 of the standard specifications.
            5.   Expansion joints, with approved dowel bar assembly, shall be
placed at intersections where shown on the plans and shall conform to § 501.15.
            6.   Concrete shall be machine finished except on widened portions,
intersections or other places where hand finishing will be permitted if
authorized. Finishing machines or vibrating strike-boards of design other than
as specified in the standard specifications will be permitted only if work of
equal quality as set out in these specifications is obtained. Authorization
prior to construction is required. Work shall conform to § 50.1.15 of the
standard specifications.
            7.   Curing with approved impervious membrane or sealing compounds
shall be required, conforming to § 501.17 of the standard specifications.
      (2)   Hot asphalt concrete pavement.
         (a)   Minimum design characteristics of street pavement shall be as
follows; thickness to conform to the following schedule:
 
Thickness
                  Residential                      Collector/Feeder Arterial
                  Subject to review by the County
Aggregate subbase Highway Supervisor or respective 4"               4"
                  town council
Base              4"                               6"               8"
Binder            2"                               2"               2"
Surface           1"                               1"               1"
Total asphalt     7"                               9"               11"
 
         (b)   Asphalt pavement shall be in accordance with § 403 of the
standard specifications. In addition, the following shall be met.
            1.   The subgrade shall conform to § 403 of the standard
specifications.
            2.   Subbase, if required, shall meet the above minimum thickness
requirements and conform to § 403 of the standard specifications.
            3.   Base, binder and surface coarses shall meet the above minimum
thickness requirements and conform to § 403 of the standard specifications.
            4.   Seal costs, prime costs and tack costs shall conform to §§ 403
and 407, 408 and 409 (as applicable) of the standard specifications.
   (F)   Samples for testing purposes shall be taken as required by the
appropriate section of the standard specifications. All tests shall be
performed in accordance with the appropriate section of the standard
specifications. All testing shall be performed by a certified agency approved
by the respective town council if the plat of the subdivision is proposed to be
located in a town, or the County Highway Supervisor if the plat is proposed to
be located in the unincorporated territory. All testing costs shall be paid by
the developer. A complete certified copy of all records shall be provided to
the town council or the County Highway Supervisor, as the case may be. The town
council or County Highway Supervisor reserves the right to core the pavement
before acceptance.
   (G)   Prior to placing the street and alley surfaces, adequate subsurface
drainage pipe, when required, shall be coated corrugated pipe or a similar type
not less than 12 inches in diameter approved by the Commission. Upon the
completion of the street and alley improvements, plans and profiles as built
shall be filed with the Commission.
   (H)   No streets will be accepted until after the plat of the subdivision
has been recorded in the County Recorder’s office.
   (I)   All unsightly and objectionable materials shall be removed from the
right-of-way before acceptance. All trees, brush and stumps shall be removed
from the edge of pavement to the back of the side ditch slope. In no case will
trees be permitted closer than six feet to the edge of the road surface. The
entire right-of-way shall be in neat and presentable condition.
   (J)   All work must be acceptable to and meet all the requirements of the
town council or County Highway Supervisor, as the case may be, prior to
acceptance by the town council or Board of County Commissioners. Upon the
completion of all improvements and installations as required by this chapter,
the developer shall furnish the respective town council if the plat is proposed
to be located in a town, or the Board of County Commissioners if the plat is
proposed to be located in the unincorporated territory, with the proper bonds
and an engineer’s certification that said improvements and installations have
been constructed, installed, and completed in compliance with the requirements
of this code. In addition, a letter signed by the County Highway Supervisor
shall be presented to the Board of County Commissioners, stating they find the
improvements to have been constructed, installed and completed in compliance
with the requirements of this chapter, if such is the case.
   (K)   Upon completion of the streets, a minimum of two sets of as-builts
plans and profiles shall be filed with the Commission.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991; Ord. 1995-1, passed 6-5-1995; Ord. 2001-9, passed 7-9-
2001)
§ 155.063 DRAINAGE FACILITIES.
   (A)   Prior to the construction of street or alley surfaces and pavements,
adequate drainage facilities shall be installed by the subdivider, according to
plans furnished by the subdivider prepared by a registered professional
engineer or a registered land surveyor and approved by the Commission. A storm
drainage analysis based upon a five-year, one-hour rainfall shall be used as
the basis for the drainage system. A copy of the analysis is to be submitted to
the Commission with the drainage facility plans. Pipe used for drainage shall
be of coated corrugated metal, concrete or vitrified clay of an approved
design, size and strength to meet the requirements of the specific conditions,
which may be encountered. Minimum diameters of pipe to be used shall be as
follows:
   (B)   Where curbs and gutters are not provided in the street, shallow swales
with low points at least three inches below the subgrade of the pavement may be
required by the Commission.
   (C)   Upon completion of the street improvements, a minimum of two sets of
as-built plan and profiles shall be filed with the Commission.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 155.064 SEWERS.
   (A)   The subdivider shall provide the subdivision with sanitary sewage
facilities in accordance with one of the three following procedures.
      (1)   Public collection system. In all cases where such is possible, the
developer shall construct a sanitary sewer system connected to a town sewer.
         (a)   The plans for the system shall be approved by the respective
town council if the plat of the subdivision is proposed to be located in a
town, the County Highway Supervisor if the plat is proposed to be located in
the unincorporated territory, and shall be designed and constructed in
accordance with the Ripley County Area Sanitary Sewer Design and Construction
Specifications.
         (b)   Service laterals shall be installed between the street main and
the property line before the street is paved.
      (2)   Local treatment system. Where it is not possible to connect the
subdivision sanitary sewer system to a town sewer, as determined by the
Commission, the subdivider shall construct a local treatment system consisting
of the necessary house laterals, service mains and interceptors required to
conduct the subdivision’s sanitary sewage to a single treatment facility. All
aspects of such system, including the treatment facility, shall be designed
with the requirements of the Ripley County Area Sanitary Sewer Design and
Construction Specifications and the Ripley County Area Recommended Standards
for Sewage Works, and constructed by the subdivider in accordance with the
requirements of the respective town council or the County Sanitarian, as the
case may be.
         (a)   Roadway cross drains: 12 inches;
         (b)   Entrance culverts: 12 inches; and
         (c)   Perforated under-drains: eight inches.
      (3)   Private disposal system. Where alternatives in divisions (A)(1) and
(A)(2) above are not practical, the Commission may permit the subdivider to
install on each lot an individual sewage disposal system consisting of a septic
tank and tile absorption field or other approved disposal system. Such systems
shall be designed and constructed by the subdivider in accordance with the
Recommended Standards for Individual Sewage Systems and the requirements of the
County Sanitarian and the State Department of Environmental Management. In no
case, however, shall private disposal systems be permitted where soil
conditions exist which would prevent percolation or effluent.
   (B)   The plans for the installation of the sanitary sewage facilities shall
be provided by the subdivider, prepared by a registered professional engineer
and approved by the State Department of Environmental Management and the County
Environmental Management and the County Sanitarian. Upon the completion of
sanitary sewer installations, two sets of the as-builts plans for such system
shall be filed with the Commission.
   (C)   In this section and §
155.065 of this chapter, the phrase THE SUBDIVIDER SHALL PROVIDE shall be
interpreted to mean that the subdivider shall install the facility referred to,
or whenever a private sewage disposal system or an individual water supply is
to be provided, that the subdivider shall require, as a condition of the sale
of each lot or parcel in the subdivision, that the facilities referred to in
these sections shall be installed by the developer of the lots in accordance
with these regulations.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 155.065 WATER.
   (A)   The subdivider shall provide the subdivision with a complete water
main supply system, which shall be connected to a municipal water utility
system; except that, when such water supply is not available as determined by
the Commission, the subdivider shall provide an individual water supply on each
lot in the subdivision in accordance with the requirements of the County
Sanitarian. The water supply system shall be designed and constructed in
accordance with the Ripley County Area Recommended Standards for Water Works.
   (B)   The plans for the installation of a water main supply system shall be
provided by the subdivider and approved by the respective municipal water
department and the County Sanitarian. Construction of water mains and house
services to be placed within the improved portion of the street right-of-way
shall be completed prior to the placement of the surface improvements. Upon the
completion of the water supply installation, two sets of the plans for such
system as built shall be filed with the Commission.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 155.066 GAS.
   The installation of gas lines shall be as provided by the respective gas
utility.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 155.067 IMPROVEMENT CREDIT PROCEDURE.
   Improvements required in this subchapter to be installed by the subdivider,
which are of a public utility nature (specifically §§
155.063,
155.064 and
155.065 of this chapter) may provide benefits to other properties in the
vicinity of land to be subdivided. Upon the installation of such improvements
which cross or adjoin other properties and can be used by such properties, the
subdivider and the respective town council if the plat of the subdivision is
proposed to be located in a town, or the Board of County Commissioners if the
plat is proposed to be located in the unincorporated territory, may, by
contact, agree that upon the connection or use of the installation made by the
subdivider by others, within a period of ten years following their
installation, the new user or users shall pay to the town or county, as the
case may be, a fee in an amount agreed upon by the subdivider and the town or
county, the amount of such fee to be credited and paid to the subdivider.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 155.068 CURB AND GUTTER.
   (A)   Wherever a proposed subdivision lies adjacent to or between other
subdivisions which have been provided with curb and gutter, or whenever the
proposed subdivision will average more than two lots per gross acre included in
the subdivision, the Commission shall required curb and gutter to be installed
on each side of the street surface. Gutters may also be required along the
boundaries of parking bays as necessary for drainage control or public safety.
Plans for the installation of the curb and gutter shall be approved by the
respective town council or by the County Highway Supervisor, as the case may
be.
   (B)   The curb and gutter shall be of one of the construction types shown in
Figure 2 and shall be constructed according to the following specifications.
      (1)   The base for the curb and gutter shall be well-compacted on the
existing base or grade.
      (2)   The minimum specifications shall be as shown for the three types of
cross-section in Figure 2.
      (3)   All concrete used in the curb and gutter shall meet the standard
specifications.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8ad6320a70e9a210f98ada35a226745d19de27b8/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1164.jpg]
 
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991; Ord. 2001-9, passed 7-9-2001)
§ 155.069 SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Wherever a proposed subdivision lies adjacent to or between other
subdivisions which have been provided with sidewalks, or whenever the proposed
subdivision will average more than two lots per gross acre included in the
subdivision, the Commission shall required sidewalks to be installed on each
side of the street. On streets in the vicinity of schools or other public
buildings, which, in the Commission’s judgment, would be necessary for the
safety and welfare of pedestrians, the Commission may require sidewalks.
   (B)   If sidewalks are provided, they shall be constructed of portland
cement concrete, at least four inches thick and four feet wide, and the edge of
walks adjacent to the property line of the street shall be placed at least one
foot from the property line.
   (C)   If sidewalks are not provided, the street grade shall be completed so
that additional grading would not be necessary for any future provision of
sidewalks.
   (D)   Crosswalks within blocks, as required in §
155.027 of this chapter, shall be improved with at least a four-foot walk of
portland cement of asphalt concrete four inches thick.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991; Ord. 2001-9, passed 7-9-2001)
§ 155.070 STREET SIGNS.
   In a subdivision, the subdivider shall provide the subdivision with
acceptable standard town or county street signs, as the case may be, at the
intersection of all streets.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 155.071 DRIVEWAYS ENTRANCES.
   (A)   The subdivider shall install approaches for each driveway connection
to a street, with a hard surface between the street roadway surface and when
the street is provided with curb and gutter the subdivider shall install curb
returns on the driveways.
   (B)   Driveways shall be constructed so as not to impede the surface
drainage system and, where curbs are not required, the subdivider shall provide
one of the following types of improvement:
      (1)   A corrugated iron pipe at least 12 inches in diameter and at least
14 feet in length to be placed for each driveway approach; and
      (2)   A properly dipped or swaled concrete pavement 14 feet in length, at
least six feet in width and six inches thick at the entrance to each driveway,
designed so as not to create a hazard to the under parts of automobiles.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 155.072 FENCING.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever a proposed subdivision will average more than two lots
per gross acre, included in the subdivision, the Commission shall require the
subdivider/developer to install a chain link fence at a minimum height of six
feet and slatted for opacity.
      (2)   Wherever a proposed subdivision lies adjacent to or between other
subdivisions or existing residential uses of similar size and/or density, or if
any adjoining landowner can demonstrate that the erection of said fence will
adversely affect the use, enjoyment or value of his or her property, the
Commission shall have the authority to waive said requirement.
   (B)   (1)   The subdivider/developer shall draft and record a covenant
running with the land separately or in the subdivision plat stating that:
“Following installation of the fence, (as set forth in §
155.072), the individual subdivision lot owner/s of the  (Name)  Subdivision
shall be physically and financially responsible for ordinary maintenance and
necessary replacement of the fence for the entire length of said fence on his/
her/their/its lot and/or property.”
      (2)   The enforceability of this covenant, through legal action, shall
inure to the benefit of the subdivider, the purchasers of lots in the
subdivision and any owner of real property that adjoins said subdivision.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991; Ord. 2001-9, passed 7-9-2001)
PLAT CERTIFICATES AND DEED OF DEDICATION
§ 155.085 COMMISSION CERTIFICATE FOR PRIMARY APPROVAL.
 
UNDER AUTHORITY PROVIDED BY THE INDIANA AREA PLANNING LAW, I.C. 36-7-4, ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF THE STATE OF INDIANA, AND ALL ACTS AMENDATORY THERETO, AND AN
ORDINANCE ADOPTED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL OF                                         , INDIANA, (if the plat of the subdivision is located in a Town), or THE BOARD OF COUNTY
COMMISSIONERS OF RIPLEY COUNTY, INDIANA (if the plat is located in the unincorporated territory), THIS PLAT WAS GIVEN PRIMARY APPROVAL BY THE RIPLEY COUNTY AREA PLAN
COMMISSION AS FOLLOWS:
Approved by the Ripley County Area Plan Commission at a meeting held                                , 20__.
 
RIPLEY COUNTY AREA PLAN COMMISSION
 
(Seal)                                                                                  
President
 
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 155.086 COMMISSION CERTIFICATE FOR SECONDARY APPROVAL.
 
UNDER AUTHORITY PROVIDED BY THE INDIANA AREA PLANNING LAW, I.C. 36-7-4, ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF THE STATE OF INDIANA, AND ALL ACTS AMENDATORY THERETO, AND AN
ORDINANCE ADOPTED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL OF                                                  , INDIANA, (if the plat of the subdivision is located in a Town), or the BOARD
OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF RIPLEY COUNTY, INDIANA, (if the plat is located in the unincorporated territory), THIS PLAT WAS GIVEN SECONDARY APPROVAL BY THE RIPLEY COUNTY
AREA PLAN COMMISSION AS FOLLOWS:
 
Approved by the Ripley County Area Plan Commission at a meeting held                               , 20      .
 
RIPLEY COUNTY AREA PLAN COMMISSION
 
(Seal)                                                                                  
President
 
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 155.087 SURVEYOR’S CERTIFICATE.
   A certificate shall also be provided for any work on a plat prepared by a
registered professional engineer.
 
I,  (name)  , HEREBY CERTIFY THAT I AM A REGISTERED LAND SURVEYOR, LICENSED IN COMPLIANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF INDIANA:
 
THAT THIS PLAT CORRECTLY REPRESENTS A SURVEY COMPLETED BY ME ON  (date)  ; THAT ALL THE MONUMENTS SHOWS THEREON ACTUALLY EXIST; AND THAT ALL OTHER REQUIREMENTS SPECIFIED
HEREIN, DONE BY ME, HAVE BEEN MET.
                                                                                     
(Signature)
(Seal)                              Date                                  , 20           .
 
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 155.088 PLAN COMMISSION STAFF CERTIFICATE.
 
THE RIPLEY COUNTY AREA PLAN COMMISSION STAFF HAS REVIEWED THE APPLICATION FOR THIS PLAT FOR TECHNICAL CONFORMITY WITH THE STANDARDS FIXED IN THE
SUBDIVISION CONTROL CODE, IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF THE INDIANA AREA PLANNING LAW, I.C. 36-7-4-706, AND HEREBY CERTIFIES THAT THIS PLAT
MEETS ALL OF THE MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS IN THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF THE TOWN OF                                                    , INDIANA (if the
plat of the subdivision is located in a Town) or THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF RIPLEY COUNTY, (if the plat of the subdivision is located in
the unincorporated territory).
 
RIPLEY COUNTY AREA PLAN COMMISSION STAFF
                                                                          
Executive Director
Date:                                       , 20             .
 
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 155.089 SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATION DISTRICT CERTIFICATE.
 
AS PROVIDED IN THE LOCAL SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATION DISTRICT PROGRAM AND AUTHORIZED UNDER STATE OF INDIANA ENABLING LEGISLATION, THE BOARD OF
SUPERVISORS HAVE REVIEWED THAT PLAT AND PLANS FOR  (development)  .
IT HAS BEEN DETERMINED THAT THE PLAT AND PLANS HAVE INCORPORATED ADEQUATE MEASURES FOR WATER DISPOSAL AND/OR EROSION CONTROL FOR THE SOIL
CONDITIONS PRESENT.
CERTIFIED AT A MEETING HELD ON THE                      DAY OF                                   , 20      .
                                                                         (Chairman)
                                                                         (Secretary)
 
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 155.090 DEED OF DEDICATION.
   Each plat of a subdivision submitted to the Commission for approval shall
carry a deed of dedication in substantially the following form:
 
We, the undersigned  (names)  owners of the real estate shown and described herein, do hereby certify that we have laid off, platted and subdivided,
and do hereby lay off, plat and subdivide, said real estate in accordance with the within plat.
This subdivision shall be known and designated as  (name) , a subdivision of or an addition to                     , Indiana. All streets and alleys
shown and not heretofore dedicated are hereby dedicated to the public.
Front and side yard building setback lines are hereby established as shown on this plat, between which lines and the property lines of the street
there shall be erected or maintained no building or structure.
There are strips of ground (number)  feet in width as shown on this plat and marked “Easement,” reserved for the use of public utilities for the
installation of water and sewer mains, poles, ducts, lines and wires, subject at all times to the proper authorities and to the easement herein
reserved.
No permanent or other structures are to be erected or maintained upon said strips of land, but owners of lots in this subdivision shall take their
titles subject to the rights of the public utilities.
(Additional dedications and protective covenants, or private restrictions, would be inserted here upon the subdivider’s initiating or the
recommendations of the Commission; important provisions are those specifying the use to be made of the property and, in the case of residential use,
the minimum habitable floor area.)
The foregoing covenants (or restrictions) are to run with the land and shall be binding on all parties and all persons claiming under them until
January 1, 20        , (a 25-year period is suggested), at which time said covenants (or restrictions) shall be automatically extended for successive
periods of ten years unless changed by vote of a majority of the then owners of the building sites covered by these covenants, or restrictions, in
whole or in part. Invalidation of any one of the foregoing covenants, or restrictions, by judgment or court order, shall in no way affect any of the
other covenants, or restrictions, which shall remain in full force and effect.
Witness our hands and seals this                  day of                          , 20              .
                                                                           (Signature)
                                                                           (Signature)
State of Indiana   )
)SS:
County of Ripley   )
 
Before me, the undersigned Notary Public, in and for said County and State personally appeared  (names)  and each separately and severally acknowledge
the execution of the foregoing instrument as his or her voluntary act and deed, for the purposes therein expressed.
Witness my hand and notarial seal this day of                       , 20            .
                                                                           (Notary Public)
County of Residence:                                                   
My Commission Expires:                                              
 
 
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 155.091 COVENANT REQUIREMENT.
   Subdivisions located in or adjacent to the A-l Prime Agriculture District
and the A-2 Agriculture District shall include the following covenant on the
plat of the subdivision:
 
 
The owner of the herein described real estate platted as                                                     , a
subdivision, for himself or herself, and for all future owners and occupants of said real estate, or any parcel or
subdivision thereof, for and in consideration of the right to develop the real estate for other than agricultural uses,
hereby:
 
First, acknowledges and agrees that this subdivision is in or adjacent to an area zoned for agricultural uses, which uses
include, but are not limited to, production of crops, animal husbandry, land application of animal waste, the raising,
breeding, and sale of livestock and poultry, including confinement feeding operations, use of farm machinery, and sale of
farm products;
 
Second, waives any and all objections to any such agricultural uses on any real estate zoned for such uses within two miles
of any boundary of this subdivision, whether such uses currently exist, are enlarged, or changed in use in the future to
another agricultural use;
 
Third, agrees that such agricultural uses, whether currently existing, or hereafter established, enlarged, or changed, do
not constitute a nuisance so long as they are not negligently maintained, do not cause bodily injury to their parties, or
directly endanger human health; and
 
Fourth, agrees that this covenant is for the benefit of the Ripley County Area Plan Commission and all persons engaged in
agricultural uses within two miles of any boundary of this subdivision and is enforceable by any of the foregoing, together
with such other covenants as may be required by Chapter 155 of the code of ordinances.
 
 
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991; Ord. 1997-7, passed 9-8-1997)
FORMS
§ 155.105 SAMPLE AGREEMENT FORM FOR DEVELOPMENT OF SUBDIVISION.
 
State of Indiana:
County of Ripley:
This AGREEMENT, made and entered into this                  day of                                  , 20          , by and between (name of
subdivider)  , hereinafter designated as OWNER, and the Town of                                         , Indiana, herein represented by the Town
Council (if the plat of the subdivision is located in a town), or the County of Ripley, Indiana, herein represented by the Board of County
Commissioners (if the plat of the subdivision is located in the unincorporated territory).
WITNESSETH:
WHEREAS, the Owner owns and designs to develop lots        through          ,  (Subdivision)  located in              , Indiana; and,
WHEREAS, the Plat of lot s        through          , inclusive,  (Subdivision)  , will be given secondary approval by the Ripley County Area Plan
Commission Staff upon the Owner posting a surety bond insuring the satisfactory installation and construction of the following improvements:
(DESCRIBE IMPROVEMENTS)  as shown on the Plat prepared by                 , (Land Surveyor), attached hereto and made a part hereof, according to the
terms and conditions of this Agreement; and,
WHEREAS, the Owner now desires secondary approval of the Plat of                    Subdivision prior to the installation and construction of the
above described improvements, which improvements will be installed and constructed at Owner’s sole cost and expense:
NOW, THEREFORE, it is hereby agreed by and between the Owner and the Town of             , Indiana, (if the plat of the subdivision is located in a
Town), or Ripley County, Indiana, (if the plat of the subdivision is located in unincorporated territory), that for and in consideration of the
approval of lots        through        , inclusive, of              Subdivision, and the sale of lots therein without the above described
improvements more particularly shown on the attached plan profile, having been first completed and approved, Owner binds and obligates himself within
months from date prepared by                                       Land Surveyor, which plans meets the requirements of the Code of Ordinances of the
Town of                 , Indiana, or Ripley County, Indiana (as the case may be) as amended, and have been approved by a registered professional
engineer or a registered land surveyor (as the case may be), said plans being attached hereto and made a part hereof.
The Owner, in order to further ensure faithful performance of said obligation, has executed a                        (surety bond, cashier’s check or
certified check) in the amount of $      , which bond is attached hereto and made a part hereof, to guarantee the installation and construction of
the following improvements: (Describe Improvements same as above)
According to plans and specifications therefore. Said bond or check may be cancelled only after said work has been completed, inspected and approved
by written acceptance of the said Engineer or Land Surveyor.
The above described improvement shall be constructed under the provision of (Engineer or Surveyor)  in full compliance with the specifications and
requirements of the Town of                  , (or Ripley County) shall have and is hereby granted the right, without putting the said Owner in
default, to ispo facto call upon the said surety to complete the improvements hereinabove described, and in default of the surety promptly causing
such improvements to be constructed according to the plans and specifications therefore, the Town of                      (or Ripley County) shall
have the right to cause the improvements to be made and to call upon said surety for payment of all costs and expenses incurred in the construction
thereof.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, these presents have been signed in the presence of the undersigned competent witnesses, at         on this                day of
                  , 20        .
WITNESS: (Name of Subdivider or Development Company) by                     Town of                         , Indiana, herein represented by the Town
Council (if the plat of the subdivision is located in a town), or the County of Ripley, Indiana, herein represented by the Board of County
Commissioners (if the plat of the subdivision is located in the unincorporated territory).
BY:                                                                         
ATTEST:                                                                 
Clerk-Treasurer of the Town of                                   , Indiana (or Auditor of Ripley County)(as the case may be).
 
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 155.106 SAMPLE SURETY BOND.
 
State of Indiana:
County of Ripley:
KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, That                                 of                      as Surety are held and firmly bound unto the Town of
                                   , Indiana herein represented by the Town Council (if the plat of the subdivision is located in a town), or the County of
Ripley, Indiana, herein represented by the Board County Commissioners (if the plat of the subdivision is located in the unincorporated territory), and to
all contractors, subcontractors, journeymen, cart men, truck men, workmen, laborers, mechanics, and furnishers of materials jointly as their interest occur,
in the sum of $                  , in lawful current money of the United States, for which payment will and truly be made, we bind ourselves, our heirs,
successors and assigns, in solido, by these presents.
Dated and signed at                      , this                               day of                  , 20               .
THE CONDITIONS of this obligation are such that whereas, the above named principal did on the              day of                   , 20        , enter into
a certain contract with the Town of                                  , Indiana, herein represented by the Town Council (if the plat of the subdivision is
located in a town), or the County of Ripley, Indiana, herein represented by the Board of County Commissioners (if the plat of the subdivision is located in
the unincorporated territory), to build or construct streets, sidewalks, curb and gutters, drainage and sewage facilities in accordance with the plans and
specifications prepared by                                          and approved by the Professional Engineer or Land Surveyor and approved by the Executive
Director of the Commission.
NOW THEREFORE, if the aforesaid principal shall well and truly and faithfully perform said contract and comply with all of its tenor and discharge all of
said principal’s obligations thereunder, and shall fully pay and discharge all of said principal’s obligations thereunder, to contractors, subcontractors,
journeymen, cart men, workmen, laborers, mechanics, and furnishers of materials employed and furnished in the execution of said contract, then this
obligation shall be null and void; otherwise to be and remain in full force, effect and virtue.
IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF, we have hereunto set our hands, in the presence of the two undersigned competent witnesses, this day, month and year above written.
BY:                                                                (Attorney-in-Fact)
                                                  (Signature of Subdivider)
Witness:                                                                              
                                                                           
 
 
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 155.107 SAMPLE MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT FORM.
 
State of Indiana:
County of Ripley:
THIS AGREEMENT made and entered into this                  day of                            , 20        , by and between                   
(name of subdivider) hereinafter designated as Owner, and the Town of                                    , Indiana, herein represented by the
Town Council (if the plat of the subdivision is located in a town), or the County of Ripley, Indiana, herein represented by the Board of County
Commissioners (if the plat of the subdivision is located in the unincorporated territory).
WITNESSETH:
WHEREAS, the Owner has subdivided lots                  through                  ,                               Subdivision, and has received
approval and acceptance from the Town Council (or the County Commissioners) for subdivision improvements constructed herein; and
WHEREAS, under the provisions of the Area Subdivision Control Code of Ripley County, Indiana, 1991, the Owner is required to maintain certain
improvements for a period of three (3) years;
NOW THEREFORE, it is hereby agreed by and between the Owner and the Town Council (or the County Commissioners) that the Owner hereby agrees
that he will keep all filled trenches, pipes, manholes, structures, and paved or unpaved surfaces constructed by him in
                         Subdivision in good condition and will make such repairs to any defect in materials or workmanship as may develop or
be discovered when called upon to do so by the Town Council (or County Commissioners).
It is agreed that this Agreement shall be in full force and effect for a period of three (3) years from                      , 20             
.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, these presents have been signed in the presence of the undersigned competent witnesses, at                              on
this                      day of                         , 20            .
WITNESS: (NAME OF SUBDIVIDER OR DEVELOPMENT COMPANY)
By:                                                                      
Town Council,                                                       , Indiana
 
ATTEST: ___________________________________________   (Clerk Treasurer)
Or Board of County Commissioners Ripley County, Indiana
__________________________________________________   (President)
__________________________________________________
__________________________________________________
Attest:
___________________________ (Auditor of Ripley County)
 
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 155.108 SAMPLE MAINTENANCE BOND FORM.
 
State of Indiana:
County of Ripley:
KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that,                        , as Principal, and                   ($___________________ )
dollars, in lawful current money of the successors, and assigns, in solido by these presents.
Date and signed at _____________________ , Indiana, this __________________day of  , 20 .
The conditions of this obligation are such, that whereas, the above named principal did on the _____________day of
________________________ , 20   , enter into a certain contract with the Town of                   , Indiana, herein
represented by the Town Council (if the plat of the subdivision is located in a town), or the County of Ripley, Indiana,
herein represented by the Board of the County Commissioners (if the plat of the subdivision is located in the unincorporated
territory), to maintain for a period of                     year(s) from                 , 20       , the improvements in
                                Subdivision, and keep all filled trenches, pipes, manholes, structures, and paved or unpaved
surfaces constructed by him in good condition, and shall make such repairs to any defects in materials or workmanship as may
develop or be discovered when called upon to do so by the Town Board (or the County Commissioners, as the case may be).
Now therefore, if the aforesaid principal shall well and truly and faithfully perform said contract and comply with all its
terms, covenants and conditions, according to its tenor and discharge all of said principal’s obligations to
                                                          , then this obligation shall be null and void; otherwise to be and
remain in full force, effect, and virtue.
In testimony whereof, we have hereunto set our hands, in the presence of the two undersigned competent witnesses this day,
month and year above written.
BY:    ___________________________ (Attorney-in-Fact)
___________________________ (Signature of Subdivider)
Witness:
_________________________________________
_________________________________________
_________________________________________
 
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 155.109 COMPLETION AFFIDAVIT.
 
This is to certify:
(a) That the following improvements as designed and engineered for Subdivision are complete and that inspection reports attested to by a Professional Engineer or Land Surveyor approved by
showing them to be in accordance with the specifications and requirements of the Area Subdivision Code of Ripley County, Indiana, 1991;
(b) That surety has been posted to guarantee all materials and workmanship and to guarantee repair of any damage that may be inflicted upon the improvements listed in the course of completion
of the subdivision; and
(c) That the Town Council, or (County Commissioners, as the case may be), has accepted these improvements and will henceforth be responsible for all maintenance on them subject to the terms of
the maintenance agreement with the subdivider.
(List Improvements)
                                                                                                (Town Council)
                                                                                   , Indiana
Date:                                                , 20                .
(Or) Board of County Commissioners Ripley County, Indiana
                                                                                    President
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
Attest:
                                                                                     Auditor of Ripley County
 
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 155.999 PENALTY.
   Any person in violation of this chapter may be punished subject to the
provisions of I.C. 36-1-3-8, specifically: “...a fine not more than Two
Thousand Five Hundred Dollars ($2,500.00) for an Ordinance violation”.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
CHAPTER 156: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
156.001   Short title
   
156.002   Establishment of districts and zone map
   
156.003   Interpretation of district boundaries
   
156.004   Application of district regulations
   
156.005   Procedure relating to area which may become subject to zoning
   
156.006   Access and frontage
   
156.007   One primary building per lot
   
156.008   Interpretation
   
156.009   Non-interference with greater restrictions otherwise imposed
   
156.010   Use
   
156.011   Height
   
156.012   Yard, lot area and size of building
   
156.013   Parking space; loading and unloading berths
   
156.014   Building relocated
   
156.015   Farms exempt
   
156.016   Public utility installations exempt
   
156.017   Mineral extraction
   
156.018   Invalidity of portions
   
156.019   Amendments
   
156.020   Definitions
   
156.021   Effective date
Administration
   
156.035   Enforcement Officer
   
156.036   Improvement location permits
   
156.037   Application for improvement location permit
   
156.038   Basic duties of Executive Director
   
156.039   Responsibility of Executive Director
   
156.040   Relocation of proposed building, structure or exit
   
156.041   Certificate of compliance for industrial uses
   
156.042   Site plans must be filed for record
   
156.043   Special exception
   
156.044   Certificate of occupancy
   
156.045   Completion of improvements
   
156.046   Temporary certificates
   
156.047   Change of use
   
156.048   Coincidental application
   
156.049   Certificates of occupancy filed for record
   
156.050   Excavations
   
156.051   Health and safety
   
156.052   Time limit
   
156.053   Proper compliance
   
156.054   Soil and drainage conditions met
   
156.055   Temporary improvement location permit
   
156.056   Issuance of permits
   
156.057   Certain requirements regarding real estate transfers
   
156.058   Erroneously issued permits; restrictive covenants
   
156.059   Criteria and standards for surveys and divisions of land
   
156.060   Exempt divisions included
   
156.061   Building permit required; persons responsible
   
156.062   Complaints
Board of Zoning Appeals
   
156.075   Establishment
   
156.076   Organization
   
156.077   Rules
   
156.078   Meetings open to public
   
156.079   Appeals jurisdiction
   
156.080   Exceptions and uses
   
156.081   Variances from development standards of Zoning Code
   
156.082   Variances from use district or classification not granted
   
156.083   Variances in FP District
   
156.084   Appeals to Board; grounds; transmission of record; disposition
   
156.085   Writ of certiorari
Filing Fees and Forms
   
156.100   Application forms
   
156.101   Improvement location permit fee
   
156.102   Certificate of occupancy fee
   
156.103   Fees for amendments, appeals and requests
   
156.104   Fees must be paid
   
156.105   Fees not returnable
   
156.106   Publication costs
   
156.107   Coincidental applications
A-1 Prime Agriculture District
   
156.120   General
   
156.121   Permitted uses
   
156.122   Other requirements for the A-1 District
A-2 Agriculture District
   
156.135   General
   
156.136   Permitted uses
   
156.137   Other requirements for the A-2 District
FR Forest Recreation District
   
156.150   General
   
156.151   Permitted uses
   
156.152   Other requirements for the FR District
R-1 Single-Family Residence District
   
156.165   General
   
156.166   Permitted uses
   
156.167   Other requirements for the R-1 District
R-2 Two-Family Residence District
   
156.180   General
   
156.181   Permitted uses
   
156.182   Other requirements for the R-2 District
R-3 Multi-Family Residence District
   
156.195   General
   
156.196   Permitted uses
   
156.197   Other requirements for the R-3 District
LB Local Business District
   
156.210   General
   
156.211   Permitted uses
   
156.212   Other requirements for the LB District
RB Roadside Business District
   
156.225   General
   
156.226   Permitted uses
   
156.227   Other requirements for the RB District
GB General Business District
   
156.240   General
   
156.241   Permitted uses
   
156.242   Other requirements for the GB District
IB Interchange Business District
   
156.255   General
   
156.256   Permitted uses
   
156.257   Other requirements for the IB District
I-1 Enclosed Industrial District
   
156.270   General
   
156.271   Permitted uses
   
156.272   Other requirements for the I-1 District
   
156.273   Performance standards for enclosed industrial uses
I-2 Open Industrial District
   
156.285   General
   
156.286   Permitted uses
   
156.287   Other requirements for the I-2 District
   
156.288   Performance standards for open industrial uses
FP Floodplain District
   
156.300   Statement of purpose
   
156.301   Definitions
   
156.302   Duties of the Administrator
   
156.303   Regulatory flood elevation
   
156.304   Improvement location permit
   
156.305   Preventing increased damages
   
156.306   Protecting buildings
   
156.307   Other development requirements
   
156.308   Variances
   
156.309   Disclaimer of liability
UD Unit Development Plan District
   
156.320   General
   
156.321   Statement of purpose
   
156.322   Applicability
   
156.323   Procedure
   
156.324   Abandonment or expiration
   
156.325   Recording
   
156.326   Permit
   
156.327   Covenants and maintenance
   
156.328   Limitation on rezoning
General Performance Standards
   
156.340   General
   
156.341   Fire protection
   
156.342   Electrical disturbance
   
156.343   Noise
   
156.344   Vibration
   
156.345   Odor
   
156.346   Air pollution
   
156.347   Heat and glare
   
156.348   Water pollution
   
156.349   Waste matter
Non-Conforming Buildings and Uses
   
156.360   General
   
156.361   May be extended
   
156.362   May be changed
   
156.363   Use cannot be changed to non-conforming use
   
156.364   No building erected on non-conforming use premises
   
156.365   Temporary non-conforming use
   
156.366   Discontinuance of non-conforming use
   
156.367   Damage to non-conforming use
   
156.368   Honoring previous permits
   
156.369   Buildings may be made safe
   
156.370   Non-conforming use resulting from amendment
   
156.371   Non-conforming use in Floodplain District
   
156.372   Non-conforming lot areas and widths
Contingent Uses
   
156.385   General
   
156.386   Contingent uses permitted
   
156.387   Other requirements for contingent uses
   
156.388   Development disabilities residential facilities permitted
Special Exceptions
   
156.400   Definition and basis of approval
   
156.401   Procedure for approval
   
156.402   Existing use may be a conforming use
   
156.403   Temporary certificates
   
156.404   Special exceptions and districts where they may be permitted
   
156.405   Other requirements for special exceptions
Building Setback Lines
   
156.420   General
   
156.421   Front yard
   
156.422   Conflict; setback requirements
   
156.423   Exceptions
Yard Exceptions
   
156.435   Application
   
156.436   Yard encroachments
   
156.437   Projections
   
156.438   Alley abutting rear or side yard
   
156.439   Side yards
   
156.440   Tapered yard formula (for accessory building)
   
156.441   Fences
   
156.442   Screening and minor accessory uses
   
156.443   Intersection visibility
   
156.444   Storage
Conversions
   
156.455   Certain conversions discouraged
   
156.456   Consistent with purposes
   
156.457   Appearance and repair
   
156.458   Exception
Heights
   
156.470   Normal maximum building heights
   
156.471   Height exceptions
Supplementary Business Standards
   
156.485   General
   
156.486   General standards
   
156.487   Traffic congestion
   
156.488   Open-air business
Accessory Uses
   
156.500   Intent
   
156.501   Interpretation
   
156.502   Application of accessory uses
Temporary Uses
   
156.515   Intent
   
156.516   General provisions
   
156.517   Uses which may be permitted by the Board
   
156.518   Standards
Off-Street Parking and Loading; Storage
   
156.530   Intent
   
156.531   Scope
   
156.532   General provisions
   
156.533   Minimum parking requirements
   
156.534   Off-site parking facilities
   
156.535   Development standards
   
156.536   Loading requirements
   
156.537   Parking and storage of certain vehicles
Signs
   
156.550   Definitions
   
156.551   Application
   
156.552   Advertising signs or billboards
   
156.553   Business signs
   
156.554   Certain identification signs
   
156.555   Accessory signs and sign structures
   
156.556   Maintenance and removal
   
156.557   General provisions
Soil Survey, Drainage, Erosion and Sediment Control
   
156.570   General
   
156.571   Definitions
   
156.572   Plan for minimizing erosion
   
156.573   Measures to minimize erosion and sedimentation
   
156.574   Making sites more suitable
   
156.575   Excavations and fills
   
156.576   General provisions
   
156.577   Responsibility of applicant
   
156.578   Design standards
   
156.579   Plan approval
Specifications
   
156.590   Figure 1, lot and yard requirements
   
156.591   Flood insurance criteria and maps
   
156.592   State Drainage Code requirements
Manufactured Home and Mobile Home Permitted
   
156.605   Manufactured homes
   
156.606   Mobile homes
   
156.607   Mobile homes permitted according to certain conditions
   
156.608   Classification of mobile homes
Home Occupations and Rural Homes Occupations
   
156.620   Purpose
   
156.621   Intent
   
156.622   Levels
   
156.623   Permit required
   
156.624   Signs
   
156.625   Home occupations
   
156.626   Rural home occupations
Cellular/Wireless/Personal Communication Facilities and Towers
   
156.640   General provisions
   
156.641   Definitions
   
156.642   Wireless communication facility application procedure and approval
process
   
156.643   General wireless communication facility performance standards
   
156.644   Zoning specific, cellular/wireless/personal communication facility
performance standards
   
156.645   Construction of cellular/wireless/personal communications and towers
Solar Energy Systems (SES)
   
156.660   Intent
   
156.661   Applicability
   
156.662   Purpose
   
156.663   Accessory SES general standards
   
156.664   Primary solar energy systems (SES)
   
156.665   Definitions
 
   
156.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall hereafter be referred to as the “Area Zoning Code of
Ripley County, Indiana, 1991”.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.01)
§ 156.002 ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS AND ZONE MAP.
   (A)   Districts and designations. For zoning purposes, the territory within
the jurisdiction of the County Plan Commission is hereby classified and divided
into 14 districts with the following names and designations:
District Designation Type of District
District Designation Type of District
A-1                  Prime Agriculture
A-2                  Agricultural
FP                   Floodplain
FR                   Forest Recreation
GB                   General Business
I-1                  Enclosed Industrial
I-2                  Open Industrial
IB                   Interchange Business
LB                   Local Business
R-1                  Single-Family Residence
R-2                  Two-Family Residence
R-3                  Multi-Family Residence
RB                   Roadside Business
UD                   Unit Development Plan
 
   (B)   Zone Map. The Zone Map, which accompanies and is hereby declared to be
a part of this chapter, shows the boundaries of the area covered by the
districts. Notations, references, indications and other matters shown on the
Zone Map are as much a part of this chapter as if they were fully described
herein. The map, dated 11-7-2005, is hereby incorporated by reference into the
“Area Zoning Code, Ripley County, Indiana, 1991”, as amended, and consists of
the following sheets: a separate sheet for each individual township in the
county, with the participating town(s) being listed and shown on back of the
township map where each such town is situated. (The City of Batesville,
Indiana, is not shown, as it does not participate in the Area Plan Commission
or Zoning Code of the county.)
   (C)   Floodplain district. The floodplain districts (areas subject to
inundation of the regulatory flood) as identified by the Federal Insurance
Administration on the County Flood Insurance Rate Map dated 9-1-1987 (or
applicable town map), along with any subsequent revisions to the text of the
federal criteria or maps and adopted by reference and made a part of this
chapter as if fully described herein, is established, and the boundaries
thereof shall supersede the boundaries of any other district shown on the Zone
Map. (See §§
156.285 through
156.288 and
156.590 through
156.592 of this chapter.)
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.02)
§ 156.003 INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of districts as shown on the
Zone Map, the following rules shall apply.
   (A)   Centerlines of streets and boundaries. Unless otherwise indicated, the
district boundary lines are the centerlines of streets, parkways, alleys or
railroad right-of-way or such lines extended.
   (B)   Existing lines. Boundaries indicated as approximately following
section lines, half-section and quarter-sections lines, town corporate limit
lines, planning jurisdictional areas or platted lot lines shall be construed as
follow such lines.
   (C)   Railroad lines. Boundaries indicated as following railroad lines shall
be construed to be midway between the main tracks.
   (D)   Shore lines and waterways. Boundaries indicated as following
shorelines shall be construed to follow such shorelines, and in the event of
change in the shorelines shall be construed as moving with the actual
shorelines. Boundaries indicated, as approximately following the centerlines of
streams, creeks, lakes or other bodies of water shall be construed to follow
such centerlines.
   (E)   Use of scale on zone map. Boundaries indicated as parallel to or
extensions of features indicated in divisions (A) through (D) above shall be so
construed. Distances not specifically indicated on the Zone Map shall be
determined by the scale of the Map.
   (F)   Board may determine. Where physical or cultural features existing on
the ground are at variance with those shown on the Zone Map, or in other
circumstances not covered by divisions (A) through (E) above, the Board of
Zoning Appeals shall interpret the district boundaries.
   (G)   Vacations and relocations. The vacation or relocation of rights-of-way
and lot lines shall not affect the location of district boundaries; provided,
however, whenever any right-of-way is vacated by proper authority, the
districts adjoining each side of such vacation shall be extended automatically
to the center of such vacation.
   (H)   Lines splitting lots. Where a district boundary line divides a lot
which was in single ownership at the time of passage of the ordinance
comprising this chapter, the Board of Zoning Appeals, upon appeal, shall
interpret the applicable regulations for either portion of the lot not to
exceed 50 feet beyond the district boundary line into the remaining portion of
the lot.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.03)
§ 156.004 APPLICATION OF DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   The regulations set forth in this chapter within each district shall be
minimum regulations, and they shall apply uniformly to each class or kind of
structure or land, except as hereinafter provided.
   (A)   Regulations apply. No building, structure or land shall hereafter be
used or occupied, and no building or structure or part thereof shall hereafter
be erected, constructed, moved or structurally altered, except in conformity
with all of the regulations herein specified for the district in which it is
located.
   (B)   Lot areas and yards may not be encroached upon. No building shall be
erected, reconstructed or structurally altered in any manner which will
encroach upon, or reduce in any manner, the yards, lot area per family, ground
floor area of dwellings or lot coverage provisions established and specified
for the use and the district in which such building is located, or in any other
manner contrary to the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Yards are separate. No part of a yard, or other open space, or off-
street parking or loading space required about or in connection with any
building for the purpose of complying with this chapter, shall be included as
part of a yard, open space or off-street parking or loading space similarly
required for any other building.
   (D)   No reduction in yards. No yard or lot existing at the time of passage
of the ordinance comprising this chapter shall be reduced in dimension or area
below the minimum requirements set forth herein. Yards or lots created after
the effective date of the said ordinance shall meet at least the minimum
requirements established by this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.04)
§ 156.005 PROCEDURE RELATING TO AREAS WHICH MAY BECOME SUBJECT TO ZONING.
   Any additional territory which becomes subject to the rules and regulations
of the County Area Plan Commission shall be automatically zoned A-1 Prime
Agriculture District unless otherwise changed by amendments to this chapter;
provided that, in the event of annexation of lands to a town which is already
within the jurisdiction of the Commission, the zoning classification existing
at the time of annexation shall remain until changed by amendment procedures.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.05)
§ 156.006 ACCESS AND FRONTAGE.
   Every building hereafter erected or moved shall be located on a lot with
frontage and access on a public street, and all buildings shall be so located
on lots so as to provide for safe and convenient access, fire protection and
required off-street parking.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.27)
§ 156.007 ONE PRIMARY BUILDING PER LOT.
   Every building hereafter erected shall be located on a lot unless otherwise
specified for planned developments. In no case shall there be more than one
principal building used for residential purposes, and its accessory buildings,
located on one lot, except as otherwise provided in this chapter for a mobile
home park or unit development plan.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.28)
§ 156.008 INTERPRETATION.
   In interviewing and applying the provisions of this chapter, they shall be
held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public health,
safety, comfort, morals, convenience and general welfare. The County Area Plan
Commission has given consideration to the existing and future probable use of
land in the territory affected by this chapter, and has prepared a
comprehensive plan showing the future development of this area, which has
served as a guide in the preparation of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.41(A))
§ 156.009 NON-INTERFERENCE WITH GREATER RESTRICTIONS OTHERWISE IMPOSED.
   It is not intended by this chapter to interfere with, abrogate or annul any
easements, covenants or other agreements between parties, nor any ordinances,
rules, regulations or permits previously adopted or issued and which are not in
conflict with any of the provisions of this chapter; except that, where this
chapter imposes a greater restriction upon the use of buildings or land, or
upon the height of buildings, or requires larger open spaces or greater lot
area per family, than are required or imposed by such easements, covenants or
agreements between parties, or by such ordinance rules, regulations or permits,
the provisions of this chapter shall control.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.41(B))
§ 156.010 USE.
   No building or land shall be used and shall be erected, reconstructed or
structurally altered, which is arranged, intended or designed to be used for
any purpose other than a use which is permitted and specified in district in
which such building or land is located.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.41(C))
§ 156.011 HEIGHT.
   No building shall be erected, reconstructed or structurally altered to
exceed in height the limits established and specified for the use and the
district in which such building is located. (See §§
156.470 and
156.471 of this chapter.)
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.41(D))
§ 156.012 YARD, LOT AREA AND SIZE OF BUILDING.
   No building shall be erected, reconstructed or structurally altered in any
manner which will encroach upon, or reduce in any manner, the yards, lot area
per family, ground floor area of dwellings, or lot coverage provisions
established and specified for the use and the district in which such building
is located.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.41(E))
§ 156.013 PARKING SPACE; LOADING AND UNLOADING BERTHS.
   For each building hereafter erected and for certain other uses of land,
parking spaces for motor vehicles and loading and unloading berths as specified
for the use to which such building or land is to be devoted shall be provided,
except that parking spaces may not be required for business or industrial uses
in accordance with the provision of §
156.531(M) of this chapter, but it is the intent of this chapter to encourage
the establishment of adequate parking spaces wherever normally required by this
chapter.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.41(F))
§ 156.014 BUILDING RELOCATED.
   No building or structure shall be moved from one lot or premises to another
unless such building and lot shall thereupon conform to all the regulations of
the zone district to which such building be moved.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.41(G)) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.015 FARMS EXEMPT.
   Except for farm houses or farm dwellings, which include dwellings for the
farm owner, operator or farm assistants, classified as a contingent use (see §§
156.385 through
156.388 of this chapter), and grain elevators and related uses, produce stands,
sales barn for livestock and restricted commercial farm enterprises (including
confined feeding operations) (see §§
156.008 through
156.019 of this chapter), which are all farm related activities set forth as
special exceptions (see §§
156.400 through
156.405 of this chapter); land, farm barns, farm outbuildings or other
buildings, structures or erections which are adapted, be reason of nature and
area, for use for agricultural purposes as a primary means of livelihood, while
so used, shall not be affected by restrictions or regulations of this chapter,
except for structures proposed to be located in the FP Floodplain District.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.41(H))
§ 156.016 PUBLIC UTILITY INSTALLATIONS EXEMPT.
   (A)   Structures and land use for public utility installations so defined
herein, while so used, shall not be affected by restrictions or regulations of
this chapter; provided, however, terminal facilities and treatment or
processing plants for residential developments are contingent uses, but a
sewage treatment facility (primary use) or a major transmission line is a
special exception and is subject to the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   See §§
156.400 through
156.405 of this chapter for transmission lines.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.41(I))
§ 156.017 MINERAL EXTRACTION.
   Each Plan Commission legislative body and Board of Zoning Appeals in an
urbanized or urbanizing area (as defined in I.C. 14-4-9-18) shall comply with
the provisions of I.C. 14-4-9-19, before permitting a land use that would
threaten the potential extraction of aggregate in an area underlain by a
deposit of qualified mineral resources (as defined in I.C. 14-4-9-14).
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.41(J))
§ 156.018 INVALIDITY OF PORTIONS.
   Should any section or provision of this chapter be declared, by a court of
competent jurisdiction, to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the
validity of the chapter as a whole, or any portion thereof, other than the
portion so declared to be invalid.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.41(K))
§ 156.019 AMENDMENTS.
   All amendments to or repealers of this chapter shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of the 600 Series of the Area Planning Law, I.C. 36-7-4, as
amended. Included in all petitions for rezoning property a statement indicating
what utilities and infrastructure are present. Also, at least six copies of
aerial photographs shall be presented showing the location of the area proposed
for rezoning and a site (map), plus a legal description. In addition to these
items, a development plan shall be included in all petitions if the rezoning is
located in an RB Roadside Business District.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.41(L))
§ 156.020 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words in the present
tense include the future and vice-versa; words in the singular number include
the plural number and vice-versa; the word “building” includes the word
“structure” and vice-versa; the word “shall” is mandatory and not a directory.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. The following:
      (1)   A vehicle located on public property legally;
      (2)   A vehicle left on public property without being moved for three
days;
      (3)   A vehicle located on public property in such a manner as to
constitute a hazard or obstruction to the movement of pedestrian or vehicular
traffic on a public right-of-way;
      (4)   A vehicle that has remained on a private property without the
consent of the owner or person in control of the property for more than 48
hours;
      (5)   A vehicle from which the engine, transmission or differential has
been removed or that is otherwise partially dismantle or inoperable and left on
public property;
      (6)   A vehicle that has been removed by a towing service or public
agency upon request of an officer enforcing a statute or an ordinance other
that this chapter if the impounded vehicle is not claimed or redeemed by the
owner or the owner’s agent within 20 days after the vehicle’s removal; and
      (7)   A vehicle that is at least three model years old, is mechanically
inoperable and is left on private property continuously in location visible
from public property for more than 20 days.
   ABUTTING. Bordering.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING AND USE. A building or use subordinate to another
structure or use located on the same lot and which does not change or alter the
character of the premises and which is not used for human occupancy; such as
public utility installations, electric distribution and secondary power lines,
gas, water and sewer lines, their supports and poles, guy wires, small
transformers, wire or cable, and incidental equipment, and public telephone
booths.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT/SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. A business or use that is
primarily used for or advertised as an arcade, bar, bookstore, cabaret, club,
novelty store, theater, tavern or video store where human adults appear in the
nude or in a state of nudity, materials depicting human adults appearing in the
nude or in a state of nudity or novelty items, including, but not limited to,
instruments, devices or paraphernalia advertised for, designed for and/or sold
for the fondling or other erotic touching of the human genitals, human genital
region, pubic region, buttocks, anus or female breasts.
   AGRICULTURE. The art or science of cultivating the ground, and raising and
harvesting crops, often including feeding, breeding and management of
livestock; tillage; husbandry; farming; in a broader sense, the science and art
of the production of plants and animals useful to humans, including to a
variable extent the preparation of these products for a human’s use and their
disposal by marketing or otherwise, In this broad use, it includes farming,
feedlots, animal waste areas, horticulture, forestry, dairying, sugar making
and the like.
   AIRPORT. Any runway, landing area or other facility designed, used or
intended to be used either publicly or privately by any person for the landing
and taking off of aircraft, including all necessary taxiways, aircraft storage
and tie-down areas, hangars and other necessary buildings and open spaces.
   ALLEY. A permanent public service way providing a secondary means of access
to abutting land, and which is less than 30 feet in width.
   ALLEY LINE. A lot line bordering on an alley.
   ANIMAL WASTE AREA. A holding area or lagoon used or intended to be used for
the storage or treatment of animal manure and other waste products associated
with an animal feedlot.
   APARTMENT. A building or portion thereof designed for or occupied by more
than two families. Also a MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING.
   AUCTION USE. A building or any specific open area where merchandise is
assembled and sold by a form of sales called an auction.
   AUTOMOBILE OR TRAILER SALES AREA. An open area, other than a street, used
for the display, sale or rental of new or used automobiles or trailers, and
where no repair work is done, except minor incidental repair of automobiles or
trailers to be displayed, sold or rented on the premises.
   AUTOMOBILE WRECKING YARD. Any place where two or more motor vehicles, not in
running condition, lacking current license plates and state inspection
stickers, including inoperable equipment and parts thereof, are stored in the
open and not being restored to operating condition; and including the
commercial salvaging of any other goods, articles or merchandise. (See JUNK
YARD.)
   BASEMENT. A story, wholly or partly underground, which, unless subdivided
into rooms and used for tenant purposes, shall not be included as a story for
the purpose of height measurement.
   BLOCK. A unit or property bounded by streets, or by streets and/or railroad
rights-of-way, waterways or other barriers.
   BLOCK FRONTAGE. Property having frontage on one side of a street and lying
between the two nearest intersecting or intercepting streets, or nearest
intersecting or intercepting street and railroad right-of-way, waterway or
other barrier
   BOARD or BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS. The County Area Board of Zoning Appeals.
   BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS. The Board of Commissioners of the county.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A building not open to transients, where lodging and/or
meals are provided for three or more persons, but not exceeding 12, persons
regularly, in contradistinction to hotels and restaurants open to transients; a
lodging house.
   BUILDING. A structure having a roof supported by columns or walls, for the
shelter, support, enclosure or protection of persons, animals, chattels or
property. When separated by party walls, without any opening through walls,
each portion of such a BUILDING shall be considered a separate structure.
   BUILDING, DETACHED. A building having no structural connection with another
building.
   BUILDING, FRONT LINE OF. The line of the face of the building nearest the
front lot line.
   BUILDING, HEIGHT OF. The vertical distance measured from the lot ground
level to the highest point of the roof for a flat roof, to the deck line of a
mansard roof, and to the mean height between eaves and ridges for gable, hip
and gambrel roofs.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building in which is conducted the main or principal
use of the lot on which said building is situated. Where a part of an accessory
building is attached to the PRINCIPAL BUILDING in a substantial manner, as by a
roof, such accessory building shall be considered a part of the PRINCIPAL
BUILDING.
   BUILDING INSPECTOR. The official designated by the Board of County
Commissioners and authorized to enforce the Building Code.
   BUILDING LINE, BUILDING SETBACK. The line nearest the front of and across a
lot establishing the minimum open space to be provided between the front line
of a building or structure and the front lot line. For the purpose of this
chapter, the proposed street and thoroughfare right-of-way lines according to
the Thoroughfare Plan of current adoption will be considered as the street
lines for lots bordering such streets and thoroughfares.
   BUILDING PERMIT. A permit signed by the Building Inspector stating that a
proposed improvement complies with the provisions of the Building Code.
   BUSINESS or COMMERCIAL. The engaging in the purchase, sale, barter or
exchange of goods, wares, merchandise or services; the maintenance or operation
of offices or recreational and amusement enterprises for profit.
   CAMP, PUBLIC. Any area or tract of land used or designed to accommodate two
or more camping parties, including cabins, tents or other camping outfits.
   CAR WASH. A structure, or portion thereof, containing commercial facilities
for washing automobiles, using production line methods with a chain conveyor,
blower, steam cleaning device or other mechanical devices. This term includes a
manually operated care wash facility when the operation is equivalent in
intensity to a mechanized car wash.
   CEMETERY. Land use for the burial of the dead and dedicated for cemetery
purposes, including in conjunction with and within the boundary of such
cemetery.
   CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY. A certificate signed by the Building Inspector and
the Executive Director stating that the occupancy and use of land or a building
or structure referred to therein complies with the provisions of the county’s
code of ordinances, if the structure or use is located within the
unincorporated territory of the county; or this chapter in the case of the
Towns of Holton, Milan, Napoleon, Osgood, Sunman and Versailles.
   CLINIC. A facility that offers care, diagnosis and treatment of sick or
injured persons. A clinic may provide out patient surgical attention but does
not include accommodations. Hospital, mental health facilities, facilities for
the insane, substance abuse and related facilities.
   CLUB. Private buildings and facilities owned or operated by a person for a
social, educational or recreational purpose, but not primarily for profit or to
render a service, which is customarily carried on as a business.
   COMMISSION or PLAN COMMISSION. The County Area Plan Commission.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. A composite of all plans of land use, of thoroughfares,
of sanitation, of recreation and other related matters according to the
requirements of the 500 Series of the Area Planning Law, I.C. 36-7-4.
   CONFINED FEEDING OPERATION. See RESTRICTED COMMERCIAL FARM ENTERPRISE.
   COUNTY. Ripley County, Indiana.
   DAY CARE CENTER or CHILD DEVELOPMENT CENTER. A building or part thereof
including the lot devoted to the care and/or education and training of infants
(younger than two years of age) and/or children (two to 15 years) at a location
away from home for less than 24 hours per day during weekday working hours, and
not including overnight accommodation or overnight sleeping. This definition
encompasses facilities generally known as childcare center, pre-school,
kindergarten, nursery school and similar programs and facilities for infants
and children, but does not include an educational institution. (See definition
of FAMILY DAY CARE HOME.)
   DECIBEL. A unit of measurement of the intensity of loudness of sound. Sound
level meters are used to measure such intensities and are calibrated in
DECIBELS.
   DENSITY. The number of dwelling units developed per acre of land.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings and other structures, mining,
dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavating or drilling operations.
   DEVELOPMENT PLAN. Specific plans for the residential, commercial or
industrial development or other development of property setting forth certain
information and data required by the Plan Commission. This information and data
may include:
      (1)   The proposed name of the development;
      (2)   The name and address of developers;
      (3)   The location by public way, township and section;
      (4)   The legal description;
      (5)   A map including date, scale and point north, location, size,
capacity and use of all buildings and structures existing or to be placed in
the development;
      (6)   The nature or intensity of the operations involved in or conducted
in connection with the development;
      (7)   The site layout of the development including the location, size,
arrangement and capacity of area to be used for vehicular access, parking,
loading and unloading;
      (8)   The name of public ways giving access to the development and
location, width and names of platted public ways, railroads, parks, utility
easements and other public open spaces;
      (9)   The layout of proposed public ways, their names and widths and the
widths of alleys, walkways, paths, lanes and easements;
      (10)   A description of the use and adjacent property and an
identification of that property;
      (11)   The location, size and arrangement of areas to be devoted to
planting lawns, trees and other site-screening activities;
      (12)   The proposals for sewer, water, gas, electricity and storm
drainage;
      (13)   The contours with spot elevations of the finished grade and the
directions of storm runoff;
      (14)   The layout of proposed lots with their numbers and dimensions; and
      (15)   The land use density factors.
   DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES RESIDENTIAL FACILITY. A facility:
      (1)   That provides room and board services only, which are paid for
exclusively out of private funds; or
      (2)   That provides only those services which are minimally required,
based on each recipient’s needs, for federal financial participation under
Title XIX of the Federal Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. §§ 1396 et seq.); for
at least four, but not more than eight, developmentally disabled individuals
who are not related to the individual owning or leasing the facility; however,
the term does not apply to a boarding house which is approved by the Department
of Mental Health under I.C. 16-41.
   DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITY. A disability of a person which:
      (1)   Is attributable to mental retardation, cerebral palsy, epilepsy or
autism; or is attributable to any other condition found to be closely related
to mental retardation because this condition results in similar impairment of
general intellectual functioning or adaptive behavior, or requires similar
treatment and services; or is attributable to dyslexia resulting from a
disability described in this clause;
      (2)   Originates before the person is age 18; and
      (3)   Has continued or is expected to continue indefinitely and
constitutes a substantial handicap to the person’s ability to function normally
in society.
   DISTRICT. A section of the territory within the jurisdiction of the County
Area Plan Commission for which uniform regulations governing the use, height,
area, size and intensity of use of buildings and land, and open spaces about
buildings are herein established.
   DRIVE-IN ESTABLISHMENT. Any place or premises used for sale, dispensing or
serving of food, refreshments, beverages or services in automobiles, including
those establishments where customers may serve themselves and may carry out or
consume the above on or off the premises.
   DWELLING. A building or portion thereof, used primarily as a place of abode
for one or more human beings, but not including hotels or motels, lodging or
boarding houses or tourist homes.
      (1)   MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING. A building designed for or occupied by three
or more families, exclusively. Minimum square foot living area: see Figure 1
chart.
      (2)   SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING. A detached building designed for or
occupied by one family, exclusively; minimum 950 square foot living area on
ground floor.
      (3)   TWO-FAMILY DWELLING. A detached building designed for or occupied
by two families, exclusively; minimum square foot living area: see Figure 1
chart.
   DWELLING UNIT. One room or rooms connected together, constituting a
separate, independent housekeeping establishment for owner occupancy, or rental
or lease on a weekly, monthly or longer basis, and physically separated from
any other rooms or dwelling units which may be in the same structure, and
containing independent cooking and sleeping facilities.
   EASEMENT. A right of the owner on one parcel of land, by reason of such
ownership, or a right of the public, to use the land of another for a special
purpose as designated; a strip of land to be used by the general public, a
corporation, a utility company or a certain person for a specific reason, for
purposes of providing services to property.
   EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION. Public or parochial pre-primary, primary, grade,
high, preparatory school or academy; junior college; college or university, if
public or founded or conducted by or under the sponsorship of a religious or
charitable organization.
   EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR. The official employed by the County Area Plan Commission
and authorized to enforce the Planning and Zoning Codes of the county.
   FAMILY. An individual or two or more persons related by blood, marriage or
adoption, including foster children and bona fide domestic servants employed on
a full-time basis by the family in the dwelling unit, living together as a
single housekeeping unit in a dwelling unit and also including roomers;
provided that, the FAMILY, plus the roomers, shall not exceed a total of five
persons; provided further that, the limit of five persons shall not apply where
the entire group living in the dwelling unit consists of persons related by
blood, marriage or adoption, including foster children and domestic servants.
   FAMILY DAY CARE HOME. An occupied dwelling in which a person provides day
care for children other than his or her own family and the children of close
relatives. Such care in a FAMILY DAY CARE HOME is limited to that care given to
12 or fewer children, including children living in the home and children or
close relatives cared for in the home for less than 24 hours per day during
weekday working hours. A small FAMILY DAY CARE HOME is limited to six or fewer
children and a large FAMILY DAY CARE HOME is limited to 12 or fewer children.
(See definition of DAY CARE.)
   FARM. A tract of land comprising an area which is devoted to agricultural
operations, such as forestry; the growing of crops, pasturage; the production
of livestock and poultry; the growing of trees, shrubs and plants; and other
recognized agricultural pursuits and including accessory buildings essential to
the operation of the FARM. Accessory buildings may include barns; equipment and
animal sheds; roadside sales structure for the sale of products of the farm;
and signs displaying subject matter directly related to the name or the
products of the particular FARM; but not including industrial or commercial
operations or structures.
   FARM HOUSE or FARM DWELLING. The principle dwelling or residence of the
owner or operator of the farm.
   FARMSTEAD LOT. A tract of land located in the A-1 Prime Agriculture District
or A-2 Agricultural District, comprising a farm house or farm dwelling built
prior to 6-5-1991, and/or including accessory buildings essential to the
operation of the farm.
   FEEDLOT. A lot or building or combination of contiguous lots and buildings
intended for the confined feeding, breeding, raising or holding animals and
specifically designed as a confinement area where manure may accumulate, or
where the concentration of animals is such that vegetative cover cannot be
maintained within the enclosure. Open lots for the feeding and rearing of
poultry (poultry ranges) shall be considered animal feedlots, but pastures will
not be considered animal feedlots.
   FILLING STATION/SERVICE STATION. Buildings and premises where gasoline, oil,
grease, batteries, tires and automobile accessories may be supplied and
dispensed at retail and where, in addition, the following services may be
rendered and sales made, limited to the following:
      (1)   Sale and servicing of spark plugs, batteries and distributors and
distributor parts;
      (2)   Tire servicing and repair, but not recapping or regrooving;
      (3)   Replacement of mufflers and tailpipes, water hoses, fan belts,
brake fluid, light bulbs, fuses, floor mats, seat covers, windshield wipers and
wiper blades, grease retainers, wheel bearings, mirrors and the like;
      (4)   Radiator cleaning and flushing;
      (5)   Washing and polishing, and sale of automobile washing and polishing
materials;
      (6)   Greasing and lubrication;
      (7)   Providing and repairing fuel pumps, oil pumps and lines;
      (8)   Minor servicing and repair of carburetors;
      (9)   Adjusting and repairing brakes;
      (10)   Emergency wiring repairs;
      (11)   Minor motor adjustments not including removal of the head or
crankcase or racing the motor;
      (12)   Sales of cold drinks, packaged foods, ice, tobacco, similar
convenience goods for service station customers, as accessory and incidental to
principal operation;
      (13)   Rental of hauling vehicles for the moving of household goods, but
not including the sale or rental of automobiles, mobile homes or recreational
vehicles, as accessory and incidental to principal operation;
      (14)   Provision of road maps and other informational materials to
customers; provision of restroom facilities;
      (15)   Uses permissible at a service station do not include major
mechanical and body work, straightening of frames or body parts, painting,
welding, storage of automobiles not in operating condition, or other work
involving noise, glare, fumes, smoke or other characteristics to an extent
greater than normally found in service stations.
   FLASH POINT. The lowest temperature at which a combustible liquid under
prescribed conditions will give off a flammable vapor, which will burn
momentarily using the closed cup method.
   FLOODPLAIN. The area adjoining the river or stream, which has been or may
hereafter be covered by flood waters.
   FLOOR AREA, GROSS. The total area, computed on a horizontal plane, within
the outside dimension of a building. (See §§
156.530 through
156.537 of this chapter for application to off-street parking under §
156.533 of this chapter.)
   FLOOR AREA, NET. The total area, computed on a horizontal plane, used for a
particular business category; exclusive of entrances, hallways, stairs and
other accessory areas used for ingress or egress.
   FREE BURNING. A rate of combustion described by a material, which burns
actively and easily supports combustion.
   FRONTAGE. All the property on one side of a street between two intersecting
streets (crossing or terminating) measured along the line of the street, or, if
the street is dead-ended, then all of the property abutting on one side between
an intersecting street and the dead end of the street.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building or a portion of the principal
building used only for the storage or private passenger automobiles, private
boats, recreational vehicle and private auto trailers and/or not more than one
truck of a rated capacity not exceeding one and one-half ton on any lot; when
the storage space on the lot does not exceed that normally required for the use
of person occupying the principal building; and in which no business, service
or industry connected directly or indirectly with motor vehicles, boats and
trailers is carried on; provided that, not more than one-half of the parking
spaces therein may be rented for the storage of motor vehicles, boats and
trailers of persons not resident on the premises; except that, all the parking
spaces in a garage of one- or two-car capacity may be so rented.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. Any building, except those defined herein as a “private
garage”, used for storage or care of motor vehicles, or where such vehicles are
equipped for operation, repaired or kept for remuneration, hire or sale.
   GRADE. Also LOT GROUND LEVEL.
      (1)   For buildings having walls adjoining one street only, the elevation
of the sidewalk at the center of the wall adjoining the street;
      (2)   For building having walls adjoining more than one street, the
coverage of the elevation of the sidewalk at the center of all walls adjoining
the streets; and
      (3)   For buildings having no wall adjoining the street, the average
level of the ground adjacent to the exterior walls of the building. Any wall
approximately parallel to and not more than five feet from a street line is to
be considered as adjoining the street.
   GROUND FLOOR AREA. The square foot area of a residential building within its
largest outside dimensions building within its largest outside dimensions
computed on a horizontal plan at the ground floor level, exclusive of porches,
breezeways, terraces, garages and exterior stairways or other devices. A ground
floor may have split levels; provided, there is not more than a five-foot
difference in elevations between the different levels of the floor. See
OCCUPIED SPACE for manufactured dwellings.
   HEALTH FACILITY. Any building, structure, institution or other place, for
the reception, accommodation, board, care or treatment extending beyond a
continuous 24-hour period in any week of more than two unrelated individuals
requiring, in apparent need of or desiring such services or combination of
them, by reason of age, senility, physical or mental illness, infirmity,
injury, incompetency, deformity or any physical, mental or emotional
disability, or other impairment, illness or infirmity, not specifically
mentioned hereinabove, including institutions or places or institutions
commonly known as nursing homes, homes for the aged, retirement homes, boarding
homes for the aged, sanitariums, convalescent homes, homes for the chronically
ill, homes for the indigent. The reception, accommodation, board, care or
treatment in a household or family, for compensation, of a person related by
blood to the head of such household or family, or to his or her spouse, within
the degree of consanguinity of first cousins, shall not be deemed to constitute
the premises in which the person is received, boarded, accommodated, cared for
or treated, a health facility. Any state institution or any municipal
corporation may specifically request such licensure and upon compliance with
all sections of this chapter and upon compliance with all existing rules and
regulations, the petitioning facility may then be so licensed under the
provisions of I.C. 16-10-2; provided that, the term HEALTH FACILITY does not
include hotels, motels or mobile homes when used as such; hospital, mental
hospitals, institutions operated by the federal government; boarding homes for
children; schools for the deaf or blind; day schools for the retarded; day
nurseries; children’s homes; child placement agencies; offices of practitioners
of the healing arts; offices of Christian Science practitioners; industrial
clinic providing only emergency medical services or first-aid for employees; a
residential facility, as defined in I.C. 16-10-2.1-1; and any hospital,
sanatorium, nursing home, rest home or other institution wherein any health
care services and private duty nursing services are rendered in accordance with
the practice and tenants of the religious denomination known as the Church of
Christ, Scientist.
   HEALTH OFFICER. Any officer of authority, County Health Department and the
State Board of Health. Same as COUNTY HEALTH OFFICER and includes County
Sanitarian.
   HOME OCCUPATION. An accessory use conducted entirely within a dwelling,
which is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling for
dwelling purposes and does not change the character or appearance thereof.
   HOSPITAL. An institution licensed by the State Board of Health and providing
health services primarily for in-patient medical or surgical care of the sick
or injured and including related facilities such as laboratories, out-patient
departments, training facilities, central service facilities and staff offices
which are an integral part of the facility; provided, such institution is
operated by, or treatment is given under direct supervision of a licensed
physician. Types of HOSPITALS include general, mental, chronic disease and
allied special hospitals such as cardiac, contagious disease, maternity,
orthopedic, cancer and the like.
   HOTEL. A building in which lodging is provided and offered to the public for
compensation and which is open to transient guests, in contradistinction to a
boarding or lodging house.
   HOUSEHOLD PETS. Animals kept within a home. HOUSEHOLD PETS include, but are
not limited to, dogs.
   IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMIT. A permit (which may be combined with a building
permit) signed by the Executive Director stating that a proposed improvement or
use complies with the provisions of this chapter. A TEMPORARY IMPROVEMENT
LOCATION PERMIT is an improvement location permit authorized by the County Area
Board of Zoning Appeals with a definite time limit attached thereto.
   INDUSTRIAL PARK. A single or group of structures for industrial operations
forming a comprehensive arrangement of buildings, grounds and access ways
planned in accordance with harmonious principles or architectural and landscape
architectural design, and industrial management.
   INSTITUTION. A facility designed and used to aid individuals in need of
mental, therapeutic, rehabilitation counseling, or other correctional services.
This includes methadone or controlled substance abuse facilities, where persons
who are addicted to opioid-based drugs, such as heroin or prescription
painkillers; or any other form of controlled substances receive in patient
counseling and/or therapy; or where persons receive medication-based therapy
such as methadone, Dolophine, or any variation thereof, on an outpatient or as
need basis.
   INTENSE BURNING. A rate of combustion described by a material that burns
with a high degree of activity and is consumed rapidly.
   JUNK YARD. Any place at which personal property is or may be salvaged for
reuse, resale or reduction or similar disposition and is owned, possessed,
collected, accumulated, dismantled or assorted, including, but not limited to,
used or salvaged base metal or metals, their compounds or combinations, used or
salvaged rope, bags, paper, rags, glass, rubber, lumber, millwork, brick and
similar property, except animal matter; and used motor vehicles, machinery or
equipment which is used, owned or possessed for the purpose of wrecking or
salvaging parts therefrom.
   JURISDICTION OF THE COMMISSION. The unincorporated territory of the county
and the territory within the Towns of Versailles, Osgood, Milan, Sunman, Holton
and Napoleon, Indiana, the boundaries of which are shown on the Zone Map, dated
1991; as amended, which includes all of the area over which this chapter is
effective.
   KENNEL. Any lot or use on which or where four or more dogs, cats or other
small animals, more than four months of age, are kept.
   LIVESTOCK. Any animal which has been domestic primarily for agricultural
purposes, but not including house pets such as dogs, cats, canaries or any
other similar animal or fowl usually considered a house pet.
   LOADING AND UNLOADING BERTHS. The off-street area required for the receipt
or distribution by vehicles of material or merchandise.
   LODGING HOUSE. A building where lodging only is provided for compensation to
three or more, but not exceeding 12 persons, not open to transients, in
contradistinction to a hotel or lodge which is open to transients.
   LOT. A parcel, tract or area of land accessible by means of a street or
place, and for residential uses as set forth in this chapter, abutting upon a
street or place for at least 50% of the lot width prescribed for the district
in which the lot is located. It may be single parcel separately described in a
deed or plan which is recorded in the office of the County Recorder or it may
include parts of, or a combination of, such parcels when adjacent to one
another and used as one. In determining lot area and boundary lines, no part
thereof within the limits of a street or a place shall be included.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot at the junction of and having frontage on two or more
intersecting streets.
   LOT, DEPTH OF. The mean horizontal distance between the front lot line and
the rear lot line of a lot, measured in the general direction of the side lot
line.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot or through lot.
   LOT, REVERSE INTERIOR. An interior lot, the front lot line of which is
formed by a street, which street also forms the side lot line of an abutting
corner lot. The corner lot is considered abutting even though separated from
the interior lot line by an alley.
   LOT, THROUGH. A lot having frontage on two parallel, or approximately
parallel, streets. Also DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOT.
   LOT, WIDTH. The dimension of a lot, measured between side lot lines on the
building line.
   LOT, AREA. The horizontally projected area of a lot computed exclusive of
any portion of a street, existing or proposed.
   LOT COVERAGE. The total ground area of a lot usually expressed as a
percentage of the lot area that is covered occupied or enclosed by principal
and accessory buildings and structures.
   LOT FRONTAGE. The linear distance of a lot measured at the front line where
said lot abuts a street, measured between side lot lines.
   LOT LINE. The property line between two established parcels of land or one
parcel and a public right-of-way or place.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. In the case of an interior lot, a line separating the lot
from the street or place; and in the case of a corner lot, a line separating
the lot from the street, except in cases where deed restrictions in effect
specify another street right-of-way line as the front lot line.
   LOT LINE, REAR. A lot line which is opposite and most distance from the
front lot line and, in the case of an irregular or triangular shaped lot, a
line ten feet in length within the lot, parallel to and at the maximum distance
from the front lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any lot boundary line not a front line or a rear lot line.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision, the map of which has
been recorded in the office of the County Recorder, or a parcel of land, the
deed to which has been recorded in the office of the County Recorder.
   MANUFACTURED DWELLING. A dwelling unit, built in a factory and bearing a
seal of compliance with the Federal Manufactured Housing Construction and
Safety Standards Law or State Pub. Law No. 360, Acts of 1971, and constructed
prior to January 1, 2003, and although it is not actually a mobile home, for
the purposes of this chapter, it is a mobile home.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A dwelling unit, designed and built in a factory, which
bears a seal certifying that it was built in compliance with the Federal
Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Law (1974 U.S.C. §§ 5401
et seq., as amended) and/or Indiana Public Law No. 360, Acts of 1971,as amended
(I.C.22-12–1-16), constructed after January 1, 2003, and exceeds 950 square
feet of occupied space.
   MINI-WAREHOUSE. A structure or group of structures for the dead storage of a
customer’s goods and wares where individual stalls or lockers are rented out to
different tenants for storage and where one or more stalls or lockers has less
than 500 square feet of floor area.
   MOBILE HOME. A transportable vehicle, which is greater than eight feet in
body width and longer than 36 feet in body length and designed and constructed
as a detached single-family dwelling unit with all of the following
characteristics:
      (1)   Designed for long-term occupancy, and containing sleeping
accommodations, a flush toilet, a tub or shower bath and kitchen facilities,
with plumbing and electrical connections provided for attachment to outside
systems;
      (2)   Designed to be transported after fabrication on its own wheels, or
on flatbed or other trailers or detachable wheels; and
      (3)   Arriving at the site where it is to be occupied as a dwelling
complete, including major appliances and furniture, and ready for occupancy
except for minor and incidental unpacking and assembly operations, location on
foundation supports, connection to utilities and the like.
   MOBILE HOME LOT. A designated site within a mobile home park or subdivision
for the exclusive use of the occupants of a single mobile home, including a
mobile home slab, lawn, driveway and parking area for said occupants.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. A tract of land which has been developed with all
necessary facilities and services in accordance with a development plan meeting
all legal requirements and which is intended or the purpose of providing a site
for five or more manufactured homes, manufactured dwellings or mobile homes for
human habitation, either free of charge or for revenue purposes, including any
building, vehicle or enclosure used or intended for use as a part of the
equipment of such MOBILE HOME PARK.
   MOBILE HOME SLAB OR FOUNDATION. The solid material upon which the mobile
home rests, consisting of a continuous concrete slab or a permanent foundation.
   MOBILE HOME STAND. The part of the mobile home park which has been reserved
for the placement of one mobile home unit, including the mobile home slab, lawn
area, driveway area and parking area for the unit.
   MODERATE BURNING. A rate of combustion described by a material, which
supports combustion and is consumed slowly as it burns.
   MOTEL. A building or detached building used as dwelling units containing
bedroom, bathroom and closet space, and each unit having convenient access to a
parking space for the use of the unit’s occupants. The units, with the
exception of the apartment of the manager or caretaker, are devoted to the use
of automobile transients and more than 50% of the lodging rooms are for rent to
transient automobile tourists for a continuous period of less than 30 days.
   NATURAL RESOURCES. The State Natural Resources Commission.
   NON-CONFORMING USE. A building or premises which does not conform in its use
or otherwise with all of the regulations of the district in which the building
or premises is located.
   NUDITY/STATE OF NUDITY. The showing of the human male or female genitals,
public area, vulva, anus, anal cleft or cleavage with less than fully opaque
covering, the showing of the female breast with less than a fully opaque
covering of any part of the nipple, or the showing of the covered male genitals
in a discernibly turgid state.
   NURSING HOME. Same as HEALTH FACILITY.
   NURSING HOME CONVERSIONS. A dwelling, which is converted for the use of a
nursing home and licensed by the State Board of Health. See HEALTH FACILITY.
   OCCUPIED SPACE. The total area of earth horizontally covered by the
structure, excluding accessory structures such as, but not limited to, garage,
patios and porches.
   OCTAVE BAND. A narrow range of sound frequencies which classify sounds
according to pitch. In the octave band analyzer, the audible sound spectrum is
divided into eight OCTAVE BANDS.
   OPACITY.
      (1)   A condition, which renders material partially or wholly impervious
to transmittance of light and causes obstruction of an observer’s view. For the
purposes of these regulations, the following equivalence between OPACITY and
Ringelmann shall be employed.
Opacity Percent Ringelmann
Opacity Percent Ringelmann
10              0.5
20              1
30              1.5
40              2
60              3
80              4
100             5
 
      (2)   See the definition of RINGELMANN NUMBER.
   OPEN SPACE. The total horizontal area of a lot excluding the building area,
but including parking areas and recreational area; provided, however, in the
residential districts, said open space may include the useable roof area within
the project which has been improved for outdoor use of occupants, plus one-half
of that space, such as balconies, which may be open on its sides but not open
above to the sky.
   OUTDOOR RECREATION. Includes one or more of the following uses: riding
clubs, polo fields, horse shows, hunter trails and other equestrian sports;
conversation clubs, Girl Scout and Boy Scout lodges or clubhouses, private
parks or playgrounds, archery ranges and other outdoor recreation uses approved
by the Board of Zoning Appeals; and accessory uses, buildings and structures
such as off-street parking and loading facilities, administration, maintenance
and clubhouse building. OUTDOOR RECREATION may be private recreational
developments or outdoor commercial enterprises. (See BUSINESS.)
   PARK MANAGEMENT. The person who owns or has charge, care or control of a
mobile home park.
   PARKING AREA. An area paved with a hard surface in accordance with city
specifications set forth in this chapter, other than a street or alley,
designed for use or used for temporary parking of more than four motor vehicles
when available for public use, whether free or for compensation, or as an
accommodation for clients or customers.
   PARKING SPACE. A space other than on a street or alley designed for use or
used for the temporary parking of a motor vehicle, and being not less than nine
feet wide and 20 feet long exclusive of passageways. For computing purposes,
the average area of passageways shall be at least 70 square feet per space.
Accordingly, the minimum total average area for a PARKING SPACE is 250 square
feet.
   PARTICULATE MATTER. Finely divided liquid or solid material, which is
discharged and carried along in the air. This shall not include water droplets,
commonly called steam.
   PASTURE. Areas where grass or other growing plants are used for grazing and
where the concentration of animals is such that vegetation cover is maintained
during the growing season except in the immediate vicinity of temporary
supplemental feeding or watering devices.
   PERFORMANCE STANDARD. Criterion established to control noise, odor, smoke,
toxic or noxious matter, vibration, fire and explosive hazards, and glare or
heat generated by or inherent in uses of land or buildings.
   PERMANENT FOUNDATION. Any structural system transposing loads from a
structure to the earth at a depth below the established frost line without
exceeding the safe bearing capacity of the supporting soil. (See I.C. 22-11-1-
1.5.)
   PERMANENT PERIMETER WALL. An approved non-load-bearing perimeter structural
system composed of a continuous solid or mortared masonry wall having the
appearance of a permanent load-bearing foundation characteristic of site-
constructed homes, designed to support the loads imposed and extending below
the established frost line.
   PERSON. A corporation, firm, partnership, association, organization or any
other group acting as a unit, as well as a natural person or persons.
   PLACE. An open, unoccupied, officially designated space other than a street
or alley, permanently reserved for use as the principal means of access to
abutting property.
   PLAN COMMISSION or COMMISSION or AREA PLAN COMMISSION. The County Area Plan
Commission.
   PLAN COMMISSION STAFF. The staff of the County Area Plan Commission
specifically, the Executive Director and Building Inspector, and any other
persons employed by the Area Plan Commission, under the supervision of the
Executive Director who have regular duties in the Area Plan Commission office.
   PLAT. A map or chart indicating the subdivision or re-subdivision of land
either filed or intended to be filed for record.
   PREMISES. A lot, tract or plat including buildings thereon, if any.
   PRIVATE SCHOOL. Private, primary, grade, high or preparatory school or
academy.
   PROFESSIONAL OFFICE. Office of a member or members of a recognized
profession as defined by the United State Bureau of the Census.
   PUBLIC UTILITY INSTALLATIONS. The erection, construction, alteration or
maintenance by public utilities, municipal departments, commissions or common
carriers of underground, surface or overhead gas, oil, electrical, steam,
pipes, conduits, cables, fire alarm boxes, poles, wires, mains, drains, sewers,
police call boxes, traffic signals, hydrants, towers and other similar
equipment and accessories in connection therewith, reasonably necessary for the
furnishing of adequate service by such public utility or municipal departments
or commissions or for the public health or safety or general welfare.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A portable vehicular structure designed as a temporary
dwelling for travel, vacation and recreational uses which is either a structure
mounted on an automobile or truck and designed to be used for human habitation,
including sleeping or identified on the unit by the manufacturer as a travel
trailer or recreational vehicle, and is not more than eight feet in width, and
not more than 36 feet in length.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK. A tract of land which has been developed with all
necessary facilities in accordance with a site development plan meeting all
legal requirements and which is for short term occupancy by recreational
vehicles only. It shall include, but not be limited to, travel trailers, pick-
up coaches, motor homes, camping trailers and tents.
   REGULATORY FLOOD. Any flood having a peak discharge which can be expected to
be equaled or exceeded on the average of once in a 100-year period as
calculated by a method and procedure which is acceptable to and approved by the
State Natural Resources Commission. This flood is equivalent to a flood having
the probability of occurrence of 1% in any given year.
   RESTRICTED COMMERCIAL FARM ENTERPRISE. An operation or use which is inherent
to or closely associated with a farm or agriculture, but not including
industrial grain elevators, industrial mills, abattoirs, the manufacture of
commercial fertilizer and similar operations which are of an industrial nature.
Also, a RESTRICTED COMMERCIAL ENTERPRISE is any similar operation, which may:
      (1)   Cause stream pollution by the disposal of wastes discharged into
streams thus endangering water supply and health;
      (2)   Release odors to the atmosphere beyond the boundary of the
property, which may be strong and beyond the normal expectancy of a farm
operation;
      (3)   Create any unusual or loud noises audible beyond the normal
expectancy of a farm operation;
      (4)   Emit poisonous and injurious fumes and gases beyond the boundaries
of the property;
      (5)   Cause the emission of smoke or particulate matter or cause any
undue vibration or excessive glare or heat beyond the boundaries of the
property;
      (6)   Because of the location of its facilities influence adversely the
uses of adjacent properties, either existing or proposed;
      (7)   Animal feeding operation (AFO), see 372 IAC 19-2-3 or as revised
(latest amendment); or
      (8)   Confined feeding operation and concentrated animal feeding
operation (CFO and CAFO), see 327 IAC 19-2-6 or as revised (latest amendment).
   RETIREMENT HOME or HOME FOR THE AGED. Same as HEALTH FACILITY.
   RINGELMANN NUMBER. The number of the area on the Ringlemann Chart that most
nearly matches the light-obscuring capacity of smoke. The Ringelmann Chart is
described in the U.S. Bureau of Mines, U.S. Department of Interior, Information
Circular 8333 (Revision of I.C. 7718), 5-1-1967, or any adoption thereof which
has been approved. The Chart illustrates graduated shades of gray for use in
estimating smoke density. See the definition of OPACITY.
   SERVICE DRIVE, COMMERCIAL. A street other than a frontage street that runs
parallel or generally parallel to the frontal street and mainly located in the
space to the rear of the building(s).
   SHOPPING CENTER. An architectural and functional grouping of retail stores,
generally oriented around a supermarket or department store, and appropriate
associated and accessory uses, which is the central feature of a site plan or
development plan composed of building areas, parking areas, access streets and
circulatory ways for vehicles and pedestrians, landscape reservations and
plantations and other land features appropriate for its operation as a business
enterprise, designed to serve residential neighborhoods or communities and
which conforms to the requirements of this chapter.
   SIGN. See §
156.550 of this chapter.
   SLAUGHTER HOUSE. A building or place where animals are butchered for food.
   SLOW BURNING or INCOMBUSTIBLE. Materials, which do not in themselves,
constitute an active fuel for the spread of combustion. A material, which will
not ignite, nor actively support, combustion during an exposure for five
minutes to temperate of 1,200°F.
   SMOKE. Small gas-borne particles resulting from incomplete combustion,
consisting predominantly but not exclusively of carbon, ash and other
combustible material that form a visible plume in the air.
   SMOKE UNIT. The number obtained when the smoke density in Ringelmann number
is multiplied by the time of emission in minutes. For the purpose of this
calculation, a Ringelmann density reading shall be made at least once a minute
during the period of observation. Each reading is then multiplied by the time
in minutes during which it is observed. The various products are then added
together to give the total number of SMOKE UNITS observed during the entire
observation periods.
   SPECIAL SCHOOL. Any school, which has, as its primary purpose, the
instruction, care and rehabilitation of atypical or exceptional children or
adults such that the usual statutory education requirements expressly or
implicitly do not apply.
   STORY. The portion of a building, included between the surface on any floor
and surface of the floor next above it. If there is no floor above it, then the
space between such floor and the ceiling next above it shall be the STORY.
   STORY, HALF. The portion of a building under a sloping, gable, hip or
gambrel roof, the wall plates on at least two opposite exterior walls of which
are not more than three feet above the floor level of such HALF-STORY.
   STREET. A right-of-way or thoroughfare, other than an alley or place
dedicated or otherwise legally established for public use, usually affording
the principal means of access to abutting property.
   STREET, FRONTAGE. A street that runs parallel to the frontal street and
located within the space between the building(s) and the frontal street.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION. Any change in the supporting members of a building,
such as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams or girders, or any
substantial change in the exterior walls or the roof.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected on the ground or attached to the
ground.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of land parcels, as defined in Ch. 155 of this
code of ordinances or the applicable participating town codes.
   SWIMMING POOL, PRIVATE. A swimming pool used only by the owner of the pool
and friends as an accessory use at a private residence and not for monetary
gain.
   THOROUGHFARE, ARTERIAL. A street designated for large volumes of traffic
movement. Certain ARTERIAL STREETS may be classed as limited access highways to
which entrances and exits are provided only at controlled intersections and
access is denied to abutting properties.
   TOURIST HOME. A building in which one, but not more than five, guest rooms
are used to provide or offer overnight accommodations to transients for
compensation.
   TOWN. The incorporated Towns of Versailles, Osgood, Milan, Sunman, Holton
and Napoleon, Indiana.
   TOWNHOUSE. A two or two and one-half story dwelling, which may include a
basement, and which is normally an integral part of an apartment or multi-
family use as set forth in this chapter.
   TRADE OR BUSINESS SCHOOL. Secretarial or business school or college when not
publicly owned or not owned or conducted by or under the sponsorship of a
religious, charitable or non-profit organization; or a school conducted as a
business enterprise for teaching instrumental music, dancing, barbering or hair
dressing, drafting or for the teaching of industrial or technical arts.
   USE. The employment or occupation of a building, structure or land for
service, benefit or enjoyment to a person.
   USE, NON-CONFORMING. See NON-CONFORMING USE.
   VARIANCE. A modification of the specific requirements of this chapter
granted by the County Area Board of Zoning Appeals, in accordance with the
terms of this chapter for the purpose of assuring that no property, because of
special circumstances applicable to it, shall be deprived of privileges
commonly enjoyed by other properties in the same vicinity and district.
   VIBRATION. Oscillatory motion transmitted through the ground.
   VISION CLEARANCE ON CORNER LOTS. Also INTERSECTION VISIBILITY. A triangular
space at the street corner of a corner lot, free from any kind of obstruction
to vision between the heights of three and 12 feet above the established street
grade. The street grade is measured at the intersection of the centerlines of
the intersecting street pavements, and the triangular space is determined by a
diagonal line connecting two points measured 15 feet equidistant from the
intersection of the property lines or the property lines extended at the corner
of the lot using each of the street right-of-way lines.
   YARD. A space on the same lot with a building, which is open, unoccupied and
unobstructed by structures, except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the full width of the lot or in the
case of a corner lot extending also along the length of the lot abutting the
side street, unoccupied other than by steps, walks, terraces, driveways, lamp
posts and similar appurtenances, the depth of which is the least distance
between the front lot line and the building line.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the full width of the lot between the
rear of the principal building and the rear lot line unoccupied other than by
accessory buildings which do not occupy more than 30% of the required space,
and steps, walks, terraces, driveways, lamp posts and similar structures, the
depth of which is the least distance between the rear lot line and the rear of
such principal building.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard between the building and side lot line, extending from
the front yard or from the front lot line where no front yard is required, to
the rear yard, unoccupied other than by architectural appurtenances projecting
not more than 24 inches from the building, or open or lattice-enclosed fire
escapes or fireproof outside stairways, projecting not more than four feet, and
certain accessory uses in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The
width of the required SIDE YARD is measured horizontally at 90 degrees with the
side lot line from the nearest point of the building.
   ZONE MAP.* The Area Zone Map of the county, as amended, consists of 11
sheets, each identified by the name of the township represented thereon, and
participating towns may be found on the back of the applicable sheet. The Area
Zone Map defined herein, with an effective date being the date of its adoption,
shows the districts that appeared on the Zone Map dated 12-14-1998, as amended.
   *NOTE #1: In accordance with the authority conferred by I.C. 36-7-4-602(c)
and the requirements of §
156.002(B) and (C) of “The Area Zoning Code of Ripley County, Indiana, 1991”,
as amended, the previous Zone Map consisting of six sheets, was replaced with
an “Area Zone Map of Ripley County, Indiana, effective December 14, 1998”,
consisting of six sheets with corrections and all known and recorded changes
enacted since 9-3-1991 for the unincorporated territory of the county; since 7-
2-1991 for Napoleon; since 6-12-1991 for Holton; since 7-2-1991 for Osgood;
since 9-4-1991 for Versailles; and since 9-5-1991 for Sunman and Milan. The
existing zone map will be replaced with an updated zone map consisting of the
11 townships with participating towns located thereon with corrections and all
known and recorded changes enacted since 12-14-1998.
      *NOTE #2:
      (a)   The original Zone Map was part of the “Unified Zoning Ordinance of
Ripley County, Indiana”, passed by the County Board of Commissioners and the
Town Boards of Versailles, Osgood, Sunman, Milan and Napoleon in 1970 and 1971.
      (b)   In 1991 the “Unified Zoning Ordinance of Ripley County, Indiana,
passed in 1970 and 1971, was repealed by enactment of the “Area Zoning Code of
Ripley County, Indiana, 1991”; accordingly, the original Zone Map was replaced
by another Zone Map, entitled: “Area Zone Map, Ripley County, Indiana,” Sheets
1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 of 6 dated 1991.
      (c)   The “Area Zone Map” of 1991 was intended to include the original
zoning patterns established in 1970 and 1971, plus all of the amended zones,
which were passed up to 1991. The Town of Holton became a member of the Area
Planning Department and their zoning was “new” in 1991. The Town of Sunman
requested numerous changes in their zone districts, which were included and
passed in 1991. Also changes were made to types of districts or zones and their
designations in the “Area Zoning Code of Ripley County, Indiana, 1991”. The
“MH” Mobile Home District, “AB” Accommodation Business District and “SC”
Shopping Center District were eliminated, and the “RB” Roadside Business
District, “IB” Interchange Business District, and the “UD” Unit Development
Plan District were created.
      (d)   The new “Area Zone Map of 1998" incorporated new town maps with up-
to-date lot divisions from Ripley County records, which in some instances may
vary somewhat from the town maps which are a part of the “Area Zone Map of
1991”. It was noticed that the “MH” Mobile Home District appeared in Sunman in
two areas, which are now classified in the “R-3" Multi-Family Residence
District. Also, the “FP” Floodplain District has been shown on each sheet of
the “Area Zone Map of 1998" by photogrammetrical methods, assuring accuracy and
compatibility with the actual Federal Flood Maps. All of the above have
necessitated making minor adjustments in some districts, but every effort has
been made to follow the spirit of the existing zoning patterns and to avoid
establishing “creative” or “new” zones wherever possible.
      (e)   The “Area Zone Map of 2005” incorporated new town maps with up-to-
date lot division from Ripley County records, which in some instances may vary
somewhat from the town maps which are a part of the “Area Zone Map of 1998”.
The “Area Zone Map of 2005” takes into account the known and recorded changes
that have taken place since 12-14-1998 and the Comprehensive Plan of the county
adopted by Ord. 2002-13 on 6-10-2002 by the Board of Commissioners of the
county. All of the above has necessitated making minor adjustments in some
districts, but every effort has been made to follow the spirit of the existing
zoning patterns and to avoid establishing “creative” or “new” zones wherever
possible.
      (f)   In the event a property owner can produce factual information to
the Executive Director indicating that his or her parcel has been improperly
classified, after this chapter goes into effect, the Area Plan Commission may,
on its own motion, petition the respective legislative body to correct the
“Area Zone Map of 2005”, accordingly, and at no expense to the property owner.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.43; Ord. 2015-10, passed 12-21-2015; Ord. 2016-07,
passed 9-12-2016; Ord. 2019-07, passed 10-7-2019)
§ 156.021 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be in full effect from after its passage, as provided by
law.
(Ord. passed - -2006)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 156.035 ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   The Executive Director is hereby designated and authorized to enforce this
chapter.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.39(A))
§ 156.036 IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMITS.
   (A)   General. Within the jurisdiction of the County Area Plan Commission,
no structure, improvement or use of land may be altered, changed, placed,
erected or located on platted or unplatted lands, unless the structure,
improvement or use, and its location, conform with this chapter and an
improvement location permit for such structure, improvement or use has been
obtained from the Executive Director by the owner(s) of the property or his or
her agent.
   (B)   Compliance with zoning codes. The Executive Director shall issue an
improvement location permit, upon written application, when the proposed
structure, improvement or use and its location conform in all respects to this
chapter.
   (C)   Building permits. The Executive Director may issue an improvement
location permit, which may include a building permit authorization by the
County Building Inspector.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.39(B))
§ 156.037 APPLICATION FOR IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person, who shall make application for an improvement location
permit, shall, at the time of making such application, furnish a site plan or
development plan of the real estate upon which said application for an
improvement location permit is made at least five days prior to the issuance of
said improvement location permit, which five-day period may be waived.
   (B)   Said site plan shall be labeled “site plan” and shall include the
parcel number (to be obtained by the applicant) and shall be properly
dimensioned and drawn to scale showing the following items:
      (1)   Address of property and a legal or site description of the real
estate involved, including acreage;
      (2)   Location and size of all buildings and structures, existing and
proposed;
      (3)   Width and length of all entrances and exits to and from said real
estate;
      (4)   All adjacent and adjoining roads, alley or highways, and their
names;
      (5)   Lot number, area in square feet or acreage;
      (6)   Actual shape and dimensions of the lot to be built upon;
      (7)   Front, side and rear yard lines and their distance from the street
or lot lines;
      (8)   Number of families or housekeeping units the building is designed
to accommodate and such other information in regard to the lot and neighboring
lots and their use as may be necessary to determine and provide for the
enforcement of the provisions of this chapter;
      (9)   Show primary and secondary septic sites on every lot;
      (10)   A survey and deed must be made and recorded;
      (11)   The property comprising the lot shall be in the owner’s name at
the time of application;
      (12)   Basic standards for site plan drawings:
         (a)   Eight and one-half inch by 11-inch white paper, clean on both
sides;
         (b)   Plan shall be drawn with straight edge;
         (c)   Plan shall be drawn in ink; and
         (d)   All applications shall be clearly printed or typed, English
only.
      (13)   Centerline of driveway to either side property line shall be shown
to determine 911 addresses and to obtain culvert permit;
      (14)   Development plans (required for special exceptions, unit
development plans and commercial uses shall be completed by a licensed
engineer, surveyor or architect). Such plans shall include:
         (a)   Drainage system;
         (b)   Ingress and egress;
         (c)   Permit for septic system or receipt for sewer. If on septic
system, primary and secondary sites shall be shown; and
         (d)   If application is for accessory business, a permit from the
Health Department stating acceptance for accessory use (if applicable).
      (15)   Any other items required by this chapter. Applications including
site plans or development plans so furnished shall be filed and shall become a
permanent record of the Plan Commission.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.39(C))
§ 156.038 BASIC DUTIES OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR.
   (A)   Issue, in the name of the Board of Zoning Appeals, improvement
location permits and certificates of occupancy and maintain records thereof;
   (B)   Conduct inspections of buildings, structures and use of land to
determine compliance with the terms of this chapter, and report the findings
and violations to the Plan Commission and Board of Zoning Appeals for the
purpose of ordering compliance thereof;
   (C)   Provide interpretation of the Planning and Zoning Codes when necessary
and such technical and clerical assistance as the Commission and Board may
require;
   (D)   Provide and maintain a public information service relative to all
matters arising out of the planning and zoning codes;
   (E)   Maintain permanent and current records of the planning and zoning
codes, including, but not limited to, all maps, amendments, improvement
location permits, building permits, certificates of occupancy, variances,
special exceptions and appeals, and applications therefore, and records of
hearings thereon;
   (F)   Review all applications for improvement location permits and
subdivisions to ascertain as to whether the proposed use lies in a flood hazard
area as defined in this chapter. If the proposed use is found to lie in such an
area, the Executive Director will enforce the requirements set forth in §§
156.300 through
156.309 of this chapter in the event that any structures involved are not
directly covered by the Building Code regulations;
   (G)   The Executive Director, during his or her review of improvement
location permits and building permits, shall assure that all national flood
insurance program regulations pertaining to state and federal permits,
subdivision review, mobile home tie-down standards, utility construction,
record keeping (including lowest floor elevations) and watercourse alteration
and maintenance have been met; and
   (H)   The Executive Director shall review all surveys and plats of any
division of land, excepting re-tracement surveys of existing traces or
descriptions, and legal surveys to establish boundary lines. The Executive
Director shall within five working days from the date of submission to the
office of the Area Plan Commission review said surveys and plats. All surveys
and plats submitted for review to the Executive Director shall conform to the
minimum requirements of surveys as set forth by state law and §
156.342 of this chapter and corresponding ordinances within the Area Zoning
Code and Subdivision Control Code of the county. The Executive Director may, at
his or her discretion, reject a survey or plat that does not meet the minimum
requirements set forth herein or that does not contain necessary information.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.39(D); Ord. 10A, passed 7-17-2006)
§ 156.039 RESPONSIBILITY OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The official assigned to administer and enforce the provisions of this
chapter is designated the Executive Director. He or she shall be appointed in
accordance with the provisions of the code of ordinances of the county. The
authority to perform inspections, review applications and issue permits may be
delegated to such other officials by the Executive Director. In the performance
of these functions, the Executive Director and such other officials shall be
responsible to the County Area Plan Commission and the Area Board of Zoning
Appeals.
   (B)   If the Executive Director shall find that any of the provisions of
this chapter are being violated, he or she shall notify in writing the person
responsible for the violations, indicating the nature of the violation and
ordering the action necessary to correct it. He or she shall order
discontinuance of illegal use of land, buildings or structural changes;
discontinuance of any illegal work being done; or shall take any other action
authorized by law to ensure compliance with or to prevent violations of the
provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   It is the intent of this chapter that all questions of interpretation
of provisions of this chapter are first presented to the Executive Director.
Recourse from the decision of the Executive Director (on matters pertaining to
zoning) shall be only to the Board of Zoning Appeals, and recourse from the
decision of the Board shall be to the courts as provided by law.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.39(E))
§ 156.040 RELOCATION OF PROPOSED BUILDING, STRUCTURE OR EXIT.
   The Executive Director may require the relocation of any proposed building
or structure or exit or entrance shown on the site plan or the location of new
exits or entrances not shown on the site plan before issuing an improvement
location permit when such action is necessary to carry out the purpose and
intent of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.39(F))
§ 156.041 CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE FOR INDUSTRIAL USES.
   An application for an improvement location permit for any use subject to the
provisions of §§
156.270 through
156.273 and
156.285 through
156.288 of this chapter shall be accompanied by a certificate of compliance
subscribed by a registered professional engineer of the state, certifying that
the use intended will satisfy the performance standards of the open industrial
use or enclosed industrial use, as the case may be, and in the district in
which it is to be located. The Executive Director may take ten days in which to
study the application, during which time he or she may consult with appropriate
technical consultants. If, after the ten-day period, the Executive Director has
not required any additional information or stated any objection in writing, the
Executive Director shall issue the improvement location permit.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.39(G))
§ 156.042 SITE PLANS MUST BE FILED FOR RECORD.
   Site plans so furnished shall be filed and shall become a permanent public
record.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.39(H))
§ 156.043 SPECIAL EXCEPTION.
   The Executive Director shall issue an improvement location permit for a
special exception use only following receipt of notice from the Board that the
application therefor has been approved by the Board.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.39(I))
§ 156.044 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   No land shall be occupied or used and no building hereafter erected,
reconstructed or structurally altered shall be occupied or used, in whole or in
part, for any purpose whatsoever, until a certificate of occupancy shall have
been signed by the Building Inspector and the Executive Director, stating that
the building and use comply with all of the provisions of this chapter
applicable to the building or premises of the use in the district in which it
is to be located.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.39(J))
§ 156.045 COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   On completion of the improvement covered by the improvement location permit,
the Executive Director shall cause an inspection of the premises and, if this
inspection shall reveal that the improvement has been completed in substantial
conformity with the site plan or development plan, and certificate of
compliance when required, submitted in the application pursuant to §
156.037 of this chapter, a certificate of occupancy shall then be issued;
providing, the Building Code requirements have been met.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.39(K))
§ 156.046 TEMPORARY CERTIFICATE.
   A temporary certificate of occupancy may be issued by the Executive Director
after application has been made for completed portions of a development plan,
which has been approved as a special exception; provided that, a certificate of
occupancy is required upon completion of the total development plan.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.39(L))
§ 156.047 CHANGE OF USE.
   No change shall be made in the use of land or in the use of any building or
part thereof, now or hereafter erected, reconstructed or structurally altered,
without a certificate of occupancy having been issued, and no such certificate
shall be issued to make such change unless it is in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.39(M)) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.048 COINCIDENTAL APPLICATION.
   A certificate of occupancy shall be applied for coincidentally with the
application for an improvement location permit and shall be issued within ten
days after the lawful change of use, lawful erection, reconstruction or
structural alteration of such building or other improvement of the land shall
have been completed; provided, the Executive Director has been notified of such
completion by the applicant.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.39(N))
§ 156.049 CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY FILED FOR RECORD.
   A record of all certificates of occupancy shall be kept on file in the
office of the Plan Commission and copies shall be furnished upon request to any
person having a proprietary or tenancy interest in the building or land
affected.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.39(O))
§ 156.050 EXCAVATIONS.
   No improvement location permit shall be issued for excavation or for the
erection, reconstruction or structural alteration of any building, before
application has been made for a certificate of occupancy.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.39(P))
§ 156.051 HEALTH AND SAFETY.
   An application for an improvement location permit for any use shall not be
approved until it has been ascertained by the Executive Director that the
proposed use meets the minimum standards for a sewage disposal system and water
supply system as required by the County Health Officer. No certificate of
occupancy shall be issued for a commercial or industrial structure or for any
other applicable building until the plans for such structure shall have been
approved by the Department of Fire Prevention and Building Safety of the state.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.39(Q))
§ 156.052 TIME LIMIT.
   The work or use authorized by an improvement location permit, certificate of
occupancy or permit for a variance, contingent use or other permit, except for
a special exception, must be commenced within six months of the date of
issuance of such certificate or permit; otherwise, the same shall lapse and
become null and void. All work so authorized shall be completed within 12
months from the date of issuance of the building permit therefore, except for a
special exception; and, provided that, for good cause shown, the Executive
Director can extend the completion of time.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.39(R))
§ 156.053 PROPER COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   The Executive Director shall review all development (and subdivision)
proposals to assure compliance with the Floodplain District requirements of
this chapter. All development applications for uses located in the Floodplain
District which are not permitted by right (§§
156.300 through
156.309 of this chapter) will require the review and approval by Natural
Resources prior to the issuance of an improvement location permit. The
Executive Director shall forward all these specifications, along with plans and
specifications, to Natural Resources for review and comment.
   (B)   The Executive Director, during his or her review of improvement
location permits, shall assure that all National Flood Insurance Program
regulations pertaining to state and federal permits, (subdivision review),
mobile home tie-down standards, utility construction, record keeping (including
lowest floor elevations) and watercourse alteration and maintenance have been
met.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.39(S))
§ 156.054 SOIL AND DRAINAGE CONDITIONS MET.
   (A)   An application for an improvement location permit for any use shall
not be approved until it has been ascertained by the Executive Director that
the proposed use meets the applicable criteria of the County Soil and Water
Conservation District for the lot or tract of land concerning types of soils
involved and the conditions which are requisite to assure proper drainage.
   (B)   Also, the Executive Director must be satisfied that any State Drainage
Code requirements have been met before approving applications for improvement
location permits.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.39(T))
§ 156.055 TEMPORARY IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMIT.
   A temporary improvement location permit may be issued by the Executive
Director after application has been made for a temporary use authorized by this
chapter. (See §§
156.515 through
156.518 and
156.550 through
156.557 of this chapter.)
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.39(U))
§ 156.056 ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Any permits authorized by the Executive Director, including, but not
limited to, improvement location permits, permitting the erection, alteration
or relocation of structures and other improvements within the jurisdiction of
the County Area Plan Commission, shall be issued only if, in addition to
satisfying the requirements of the code of ordinances of the county, the
proposed street right-of-way as set forth in the Thoroughfare Plan, will be
protected from encroachment.
   (B)   In this instance, the proposed street right-of-way lines will be
protected from encroachment, and such proposed street right-of-way lines will
be considered as the front lines of lots and tracts bordering such street,
subject to building setback lines as set forth in §§
156.420 through
156.423 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.39(V))
§ 156.057 CERTAIN REQUIREMENTS REGARDING REAL ESTATE TRANSFERS.
   All offers and contracts for the sale of real estate shall be accompanied by
a written statement, signed by both the buyer and the seller, which informs the
buyer that the real estate is subject to zoning regulations. The statement
shall also inform the buyer that copies of the zoning regulations can be viewed
and obtained from the County Executive Director in the Area Plan Commission
office in the Courthouse at Versailles.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.39(W))
§ 156.058 ERRONEOUSLY ISSUED PERMITS; RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS.
   The issuance of an improvement location permit and/or a certificate of
occupancy in no way validates such a permit or certificate in the event that
the same is erroneously issued or does not comply with applicable laws and the
code of ordinances of the county. Furthermore, the issuance of an improvement
location permit and/or a certificate of occupancy in no way permits the
violation of any restrictive covenants relative to the real estate. (See §
156.009 of the chapter.)
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.39(X))
§ 156.059 CRITERIA AND STANDARDS FOR SURVEYS AND DIVISIONS OF LAND.
   All surveys of land, parcels, tracts and/or divisions of land, not defined
as a subdivision, shall conform to the requirements of state and local law,
including the standards and criteria set forth in §
155.004 of this code of ordinances, Figure 1, Step 1 (B)(2), (4), (5), (6),
(7), (8), (10), (14), (15), (16), (19), (22), (23), (24), (25), (26), (27),
(28) and (29) and §
155.006 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.39(Y))
§ 156.060 EXEMPT DIVISIONS INCLUDED.
   All surveys of land, parcels, tracts and/or divisions of land, not defined
as a subdivision, being ten acres or larger in size, shall conform to the
requirements of state and local law, including that standards and criteria set
forth in §
155.004 of this code of ordinances, Figure 1, Step 1 (B)(2), (4), (5), (6),
(7), (8), (10), (14), (15), (16), (19), (22), (23), (24), (25), (26), (27),
(28) and (29) and §
156.006 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.39(Z))
§ 156.061 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED; PERSONS RESPONSIBLE.
   Before any construction of a building (requiring a building permit) takes
place, the owner, builder, contractor or agent thereof shall obtain all proper
permits and a building permit. In the event that a building permit is not
obtained prior to construction, such construction and failure to obtain a
building permit shall be a violation of this chapter and Executive Director, or
the Building Inspector at the Executive Director’s direction, may issue a stop-
work order on said construction and require removal of said construction. The
owner or tenant of any building or structure, premises or part thereof, and any
building, contractor or agent thereof who commits, participates in, assists in
or maintains such violation may each be found guilty of a separate offense and
suffer the penalties set forth in §
156.999 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.39(AA))
§ 156.062 COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever a violation of this chapter of the code occurs, or is
alleged to have occurred, any person or agent/board member or clerk of a
participating town, may file a written complaint. Such complaint stating fully
the causes and basis thereof shall be filed with the Executive Director.
      (2)   The Executive Director shall properly record such complaint and
immediately investigate.
   (B)   If acts elicited by such investigation are sufficient to establish a
reasonable belief that a violation has occurred on the part of the party
investigated, the Executive Director shall file with the Plan Commission
attorney, or the Ripley County Attorney a complaint against such person
requesting action thereon for complaints filed in the unincorporated areas of
Ripley County. Where such violation may be located within the incorporated
boundaries of a participating town, the Executive Director shall file his/her
official findings with the Clerk/Treasurer of a participating town, for
enforcement by the participating town and/or its attorney. (See §
156.999 for violations and penalties).
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.47; Ord. 2020-2, passed 3-9-2020)
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS
§ 156.075 ESTABLISHMENT.
   A Board of Zoning Appeals is hereby established with membership and
appointment provided in accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-901 and 36-7-4-902 through
36-7-4-907 and all acts now or hereafter amendatory thereto.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.40)
§ 156.076 ORGANIZATION.
   At the first meeting of each year, the Board shall elect a Chairperson and a
Vice-Chairperson from among its members, and it may appoint and fix the
compensation of a Secretary and such employees as are necessary for the
discharge of its duties, all in conformity to and compliance with salaries and
compensation theretofore fixed by the legislative authority.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.40(A))
§ 156.077 RULES.
   The Board shall adopt rules and regulations, as it may deem necessary to
effectuate the provision of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.40(B))
§ 156.078 MEETINGS OPEN TO PUBLIC.
   All meetings of the Board shall be open to the public. The Board shall keep
minutes of its proceedings, keep records of its examinations and other official
actions, prepare findings and record the vote of each member voting upon each
question. All minutes and records shall be filed in the office of the Board and
shall be a public record, and a copy of which shall be filed with the Executive
Director following each Board meeting.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.40(C))
§ 156.079 APPEALS JURISDICTION.
   The Board shall hear and determine appeals from and review:
   (A)   Any order, requirement, decision or determination made by an
administrative official, including the Executive Director, or staff member
under this chapter;
   (B)   Any order, requirement, decision or determination made by an
administrative board or other body, except a plan commission in relation to the
enforcement of this chapter; or
   (C)   Any order, requirement, decision or determination made by an
administrative board or other body, except a plan commission in relation to the
enforcement of an ordinance adopted under this chapter requiring the
procurement of an improvement location permit or a certificate of occupancy.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.40(D))
§ 156.080 EXCEPTIONS AND USES.
   (A)   The Board shall approve or deny all:
      (1)   Special exceptions; and
      (2)   Variances.
   (B)   (1)   From the terms of this chapter, but only in the classes of cases
or in the particular situations specified in this chapter.
      (2)   The Board may impose reasonable conditions as a part of its
approval.
      (3)   The Board may permit or require the owner of a parcel of property
to make a written commitment concerning the use or development of special
exceptions and variances.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.40(E))
§ 156.081 VARIANCES FROM DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS OF ZONING CODE.
   (A)   The Board shall approve or deny variances from the development
standards (such as height, bulk or area) of this chapter.
   (B)   A variance may be approved under this section only upon a
determination in writing that:
      (1)   The approval will not be injurious to the public health, safety,
morals and general welfare of the community;
      (2)   The use and value of the area adjacent to the property included in
the variance will not be affected in a substantially adverse manner;
      (3)   The strict application of the terms of this chapter will result in
practical difficulties in the use of the property;
      (4)   There are exceptional or extraordinary circumstances or conditions
applicable to the property or to the intended use that do not apply generally
to the other property or class of use in the same vicinity and district;
      (5)   Such variances is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment of a
substantial property right possessed by other property in the same vicinity and
district, but which is denied to the property in question; and
      (6)   The granting of such variance will not alter the land use
characteristics of the vicinity and district or increase the congestion in the
streets.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.40(F))
§ 156.082 VARIANCES FROM USE DISTRICT OR CLASSIFICATION NOT GRANTED.
   Neither the County Area Board of Zoning Appeals nor any other Board of
Zoning Appeals continued in existence under the area planning law may grant a
variance from a use district or classification under the Area Planning Law.
(See I.C. 36-7-4-918.3.)
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.40(G))
§ 156.083 VARIANCES IN FP DISTRICT.
   Applications for variances to the provisions of this chapter concerning an
improvement location permit or building permit for a use located in the FP
District shall be forwarded to Natural Resources for review and comment. All
terms and conditions imposed by Natural Resources shall be incorporated into
the issuance of any such permits. All variances shall give the minimum relief
necessary and be such that the maximum practical flood protection will be given
to the proposed construction; and issue a written notice to the recipient of a
variance or exception that the proposed construction will be subject to
increased risks to life and property and could require payment of excessive
flood insurance premiums.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.40(H))
§ 156.084 APPEALS TO BOARD; GROUNDS; TRANSMISSION OF RECORD; DISPOSITION.
   (A)   An appeal filed with the Board must specify the grounds of the appeal
and must be filed within such time and in such form as may be prescribed by the
Board by rule.
   (B)   The Executive Director, or other person from whom the appeal is taken
shall, on the request of the Board of Zoning Appeals, transmit to it all
documents, plans and papers constituting the record of the action from which an
appeal was taken.
   (C)   Certified copies of the documents, plans and paper constituting the
record may be transmitted for purposes of division (B) above.
   (D)   Upon appeal, the Board may reverse, affirm or modify the order,
requirement, decision or determination appealed. For this purpose, the Board
has all the powers of the official, officer, board or body from which the
appeal is taken.
   (E)   The Board shall make a decision on any matter that it is required to
hear under the Zoning Code:
      (1)   At the meeting at which that matter is first presented; or
      (2)   At the conclusion of the hearing on that matter, if it is
continued.
   (F)   Within five days after making any decision under this chapter, the
Board of Zoning Appeals shall file in the office of the Board a copy of its
decision.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.40(I))
§ 156.085 WRIT OF CERTIORARI.
   Every decision of the Board shall be subject to review by certiorari.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.40(J))
FILING FEES AND FORMS
§ 156.100 APPLICATION FORMS.
   Applications and petitions shall be prepared on the forms provided by the
Executive Director (and Building Inspector), and accompanied by the filing fees
herein specified, to be paid to the Executive Director who shall forthwith pay
over to the Auditor of the county to the credit of the General Fund of the
county.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.44(A))
§ 156.101 IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMIT FEE.
   For each application for an improvement location permit or a temporary
improvement location permit, the sum of $10 shall be paid.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.44(B))
§ 156.102 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY FEE.
   For each application for a certificate of occupancy or temporary certificate
of occupancy, the sum of $5 shall be paid.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.44(C))
§ 156.103 FEES FOR AMENDMENTS, APPEALS AND REQUESTS.
   Applications for petitions to amend this chapter, appeals from the decision
of the Executive Director, requests for variances, special exceptions,
temporary uses, exceptions and other matters upon which the Board is required
to act, shall be accompanied by the following fees for each application:
 
Variance, special exceptions, temporary uses, appeals and any other $250
matters before the BZA
Re-zone, amendment to classifications, maps or text                 $250
Plat review (each)                                                  $30
 
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.44(D); Ord. 2015-08, passed 12-21-2015)
§ 156.104 FEES MUST BE PAID.
   Until all applicable fees have been paid in full, including any fees or
deposits for building permits, no application shall be processed by the
Executive Director. If an application for an improvement location permit is
made belatedly, and after notice of non-compliance from the Executive Director
has been made, a late-filing fee of $50 shall be assessed.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.44(E))
§ 156.105 FEES NOT RETURNABLE.
   No part of any filing fee paid pursuant to this section shall be returnable
to the applicant or petitioner.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.44(F))
§ 156.106 PUBLICATION COSTS.
   In addition to the fees set forth herein, the applicant, petitioner or
appellant shall meet the cost of publication notices and due notices to
interested parties, when required.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.44(G))
§ 156.107 COINCIDENTAL APPLICATIONS.
   An improvement location permit shall be applied for coincidentally with the
application for a building permit whenever a building permit is necessitated by
the proposed improvements. In such cases, the improvement location permit fee
is charged in addition to the building permit fees set forth in the Building
Code.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.44(H))
A-1 PRIME AGRICULTURE DISTRICT
§ 156.120 GENERAL.
   This district covers most of the county and is intended to protect and
encourage agricultural uses of land by controlling indiscriminate development
of urban-type uses. Residences are permitted on large lots with wide frontage.
Generally, the prime agriculture district is located where the soil types are
most conducive to agricultural operations. All types of agricultural use or
uses akin to agricultural operations are permitted, either outright or by
special exception, depending upon their impact to neighboring uses.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.09)
§ 156.121 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Agricultural use;
   (B)   Single-family dwelling;
   (C)   Manufactured home;
   (D)   Special exceptions set forth in §§
156.400 through
156.405 of this chapter;
   (E)   Contingent uses set forth in §§
156.385 through
156.388 of this chapter;
   (F)   Accessory uses set forth in §§
156.500 through
156.502 of this chapter; and
   (G)   Temporary uses set forth in §§
156.515 through
156.518 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.09(A))
§ 156.122 OTHER REQUIREMENTS FOR THE A-1 DISTRICT.
   (A)   Lot area, ground floor area, lot width, lot coverage and front, side
and rear yard requirements are set forth in Figure 1;
   (B)   See §§
156.420 through
156.423 of this chapter for front yard or setback and additional yard
requirements;
   (C)   Additional height requirements are set forth in §§
156.470 and
156.471 of this chapter;
   (D)   Off-street parking space requirements are set forth in §§
156.530 through
156.537 of this chapter;
   (E)   Sign requirements are set forth in §§
156.550 through
156.557 of this chapter; and
   (F)   See §§
156.435 through
156.444 of this chapter for fence requirements and yard exceptions.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.09(B))
A-2 AGRICULTURE DISTRICT
§ 156.135 GENERAL.
   This district is located generally in good agricultural areas where
residential subdivisions either have taken place or are anticipated to do so.
Residential subdivisions are permitted with large lots; however, all types of
agricultural uses or uses akin to agricultural operations may be permitted,
either outright or by special exception, depending upon the impact on
neighboring uses.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.10)
§ 156.136 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Agricultural use;
   (B)   Single-family dwelling;
   (C)   Manufactured home;
   (D)   Special exceptions set forth in §§
156.400 through
156.405 of this chapter;
   (E)   Contingent uses set forth in §§
156.385 through
156.388 of this chapter;
   (F)   Accessory uses set forth in §§
156.500 through
156.502 of this chapter; and
   (G)   Temporary uses set forth in §§
156.515 through
156.518 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.10(A))
§ 156.137 OTHER REQUIREMENTS FOR THE A-2 DISTRICT.
   (A)   Lot area, ground floor area, lot width, lot coverage and front, side
and rear yard requirements are set forth Figure 1;
   (B)   See §§
156.420 through
156.423 of this chapter for front yard or setback and additional yard
requirements;
   (C)   Additional height requirements are set forth in §§
156.470 and
156.471 of this chapter;
   (D)   Off-street parking space requirements are set forth in §§
156.530 through
156.537 of this chapter;
   (E)   Sign requirements are set forth in §§
156.550 through
156.557 of this chapter; and
   (F)   See §§
156.435 through
156.444 of this chapter for fence requirements and yard exceptions.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.10(B))
FR FOREST RECREATION DISTRICT
§ 156.150 GENERAL.
   This district is designed to include areas of rolling and rugged topography
and public and forest lands.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.11)
§ 156.151 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Agricultural use;
   (B)   Single-family dwelling;
   (C)   Manufactured home;
   (D)   Special exceptions set forth in §§
156.400 through
156.405 of this chapter;
   (E)   Contingent uses set forth in §§
156.385 through
156.388 of this chapter;
   (F)   Accessory uses set forth in §§
156.500 through
156.502 of this chapter; and
   (G)   Temporary uses set forth in §§
156.515 through
156.518 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.11(A))
§ 156.152 OTHER REQUIREMENTS FOR THE FR DISTRICT.
   (A)   Lot area, ground floor area, lot width, lot coverage and front, side
and rear yard requirements are set forth in Figure 1;
   (B)   See §§
156.420 through
156.423 of this chapter for front yard or setback and additional yard
requirements;
   (C)   Additional height requirements are set forth in §§
156.470 and
156.471 of this chapter;
   (D)   Off-street parking space requirements are set forth in §§
156.530 through
156.537 of this chapter;
   (E)   Sign requirements are set forth in §§
156.550 through
156.557 of this chapter; and
   (F)   See §§
156.435 through
156.444 of this chapter for fence requirements and yard exceptions.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.11(B))
R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT
§ 156.165 GENERAL.
   This district, although very suitable for agricultural uses in many
locations, is designed to also permit low-density single-family residential
development, and is adaptable to urban and suburban locations.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.12)
§ 156.166 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Agricultural use;
   (B)   Single-family dwelling;
   (C)   Manufactured home;
   (D)   Special exceptions set forth in §§
156.400 through
156.405 of this chapter;
   (E)   Contingent uses set forth in §§
156.385 through
156.388 of this chapter;
   (F)   Accessory uses set forth in §§
156.500 through
156.502 of this chapter; and
   (G)   Temporary uses set forth in §§
156.515 through
156.518 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.12(A))
§ 156.167 OTHER REQUIREMENTS FOR THE R-1 DISTRICT.
   (A)   Lot area, ground floor area, lot width, lot coverage and front, side
and rear yard requirements are set forth in Figure 1;
   (B)   See §§
156.420 through
156.423 of this chapter for front yard or setback and additional yard
requirements;
   (C)   Additional height requirements are set forth in §§
156.470 and
156.471 of this chapter;
   (D)   Off-street parking space requirements are set forth in §§
156.530 through
156.537 of this chapter;
   (E)   Sign requirements are set forth in §§
156.550 through
156.557 of this chapter; and
   (F)   See §§
156.435 through
156.444 of this chapter for fence requirements and yard exceptions.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.12(B))
R-2 TWO-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT
§ 156.180 GENERAL.
   This district is designed to accommodate two-family dwellings in areas where
other multi-family housing would not be desirable. This district may also be
used to provide a transition area between single-family residential areas and
more intensively used area.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.13)
§ 156.181 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Agricultural use;
   (B)   Single-family dwelling;
   (C)   Two-family dwelling;
   (D)   Manufactured home;
   (E)   Special exceptions set forth in §§
156.400 through
156.405 of this chapter;
   (F)   Contingent uses set forth in §§
156.385 through
156.388 of this chapter;
   (G)   Accessory uses set forth in §§
156.500 through
156.502 of this chapter; and
   (H)   Temporary uses set forth in §§
156.515 through
156.518 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.13(A))
§ 156.182 OTHER REQUIREMENTS FOR THE R-2 DISTRICT.
   (A)   Lot area, ground floor area, lot width, lot coverage and front, side
and rear yard requirements are set forth in Figure 1;
   (B)   See §§
156.420 through
156.423 of this chapter for front yard or setback and additional yard
requirements;
   (C)   Additional height requirements are set forth in §§
156.470 and
156.471 of this chapter;
   (D)   Off-street parking space requirements are set forth in §§
156.530 through
156.537 of this chapter;
   (E)   Sign requirements are set forth in §§
156.550 through
156.557 of this chapter;
   (F)   See §§
156.435 through
156.444 of this chapter for fence requirements and yard exceptions; and
   (G)   Prior to the issuance of an improvement location permit for the
conversion of an existing single-family dwelling to a two-family dwelling, all
provisions set forth herein for a two-family dwelling shall be met.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.13(B))
R-3 MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT
§ 156.195 GENERAL.
   (A)   The R-3 Multi-Family Residence District is intended to provide for
medium to high-density residential areas.
   (B)   This district may be used as a transitional area between residential
and non-residential areas while at the same time providing for multi-family
housing in a predominantly low-density rural area.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.14)
§ 156.196 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Agricultural use;
   (B)   Single-family dwelling;
   (C)   Two-family dwelling;
   (D)   Multi-family dwelling;
   (E)   Manufactured home;
   (F)   Special exceptions set forth in §§
156.400 through
156.405 of this chapter;
   (G)   Contingent uses set forth in §§
156.385 through
156.388 of this chapter;
   (H)   Accessory uses set forth in §§
156.500 through
156.502 of this chapter; and
   (I)   Temporary uses set forth in §§
156.515 through
156.518 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.14(A))
§ 156.197 OTHER REQUIREMENTS FOR THE R-3 DISTRICT.
   (A)   Lot area, ground floor area, lot width, lot coverage and front, side
and rear year requirements area set forth in Figure 1;
   (B)   See §§
156.420 through
156.423 of this chapter for front yard or setback and additional yard
requirements;
   (C)   Additional height requirements are set forth in §§
156.470 and
156.471 of this chapter;
   (D)   Off-street parking space requirements are set forth in §§
156.530 through
156.537 of this chapter;
   (E)   Sign requirements are set forth in §§
156.550 through
156.557 of this chapter;
   (F)   See §§
156.435 through
156.444 of this chapter for fence requirements and yard exceptions; and
   (G)   Prior to the issuance of an improvement location permit by the county,
written approval of the building plans must have been received from the Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission of the state, for all residential
structures of three or more units.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.14(B))
LB LOCAL BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 156.210 GENERAL.
   The local business district is designed to meet the day-to-day convenience
shopping and service needs of persons living in nearby residential areas. Uses
allowed in this district will, in general, be a less intense use than those
allowed in the RB or GB districts.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.15)
§ 156.211 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Agricultural use;
   (B)   Single-family dwelling;
   (C)   Two-family dwelling;
   (D)   Multi-family dwelling;
   (E)   Manufactured home; and
   (F)   Local business uses which are primarily of a retail or service nature
and specifically classified or implied in the following categories of uses: *
(see note below)
      (1)   Automobile service, including:
         (a)   Public garage, but not including major repair or bodywork;
         (b)   Sales room (including mobile home or trailer sales area); and
         (c)   Repair (all indoors).
      (2)   Business service, including:
         (a)   Bank;
         (b)   Office building;
         (c)   Postal station;
         (d)   Telegraph office;
         (e)   Telephone exchange or public utility substation; and
         (f)   Utility company business office.
      (3)   Clothing service, including:
         (a)   Laundry agency;
         (b)   Self-service laundry and dry cleaning;
         (c)   Dry cleaning establishment using not more than three clothes-
cleaning units, neither of which shall have a rated capacity of more than 40
pounds using cleaning fluid which is non-explosive and non-flammable;
         (d)   Dressmaking;
         (e)   Millinery;
         (f)   Tailor and pressing shop; and
         (g)   Shoe repair shop.
      (4)   Equipment service:
         (a)   Radio or television shop and sales;
         (b)   Electric appliance shop and sales; and
         (c)   Record shop and sales.
      (5)   Food service, including:
         (a)   Grocery;
         (b)   Meat market;
         (c)   Supermarket;
         (d)   Restaurant;
         (e)   Delicatessen;
         (f)   Cold storage lockers, for individual use; and
         (g)   Bakery; provided, floor area used for production shall not
exceed 750 square feet.
      (6)   Personal service, including:
         (a)   Barber shop;
         (b)   Beauty shop;
         (c)   Physical fitness facility; and
         (d)   Photographic studio.
      (7)   Retail service, retail stores, generally including:
         (a)   Drug store;
         (b)   Hardware or paint store;
         (c)   Stationer;
         (d)   Newsdealer;
         (e)   Show room and sales area for articles to be sold at retail;
         (f)   Apparel shop;
         (g)   Antique shop;
         (h)   Shoe store;
         (i)   Variety store;
         (j)   Toy store;
         (k)   Jewelry store;
         (l)   Flower or garden shop; and
         (m)   Gift shop.
      (8)   Business recreational uses, including:
         (a)   Billiard room;
         (b)   Dancing academy;
         (c)   Tavern or nightclub, only in conformity with requirements of
laws or ordinances governing such use; and
         (d)   Bait sales.
      (9)   Club or lodge;
      (10)   Clinic;
      (11)   Farm implement (machinery) (new or used) sales and service area or
building;
      (12)   Mortuary;
      (13)   Pet shop;
      (14)   Studio, business (art, interior decorating, music and the like);
and
      (15)   Accessory building or use customarily incident to the above uses
which may not have more than 40% of its floor area devoted to storage purposes;
and, provided that, not more than five persons are employed at one time or on
any one shift in connection with such incidental use.
   *NOTE: Local business uses, divisions (F)(1) through (F)(15) above shall be
conducted within buildings so constructed that no noise of any kind produced
therein shall be audible beyond the confines of the building.
   1.   Special exceptions set forth in §§
156.400 through
156.405 of this chapter;
   2.   Contingent uses set forth in §§
156.385 through
156.388 of this chapter;
   3.   Accessory uses set forth in §§
156.500 through
156.502 of this chapter; and
   4.   Temporary uses set forth in §§
156.515 through
156.518 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.15(A))
§ 156.212 OTHER REQUIREMENTS FOR THE LB DISTRICT.
   (A)   For local business uses, each lot shall have at least 50 feet of
frontage on a street;
   (B)   See Figure 1 for yard requirements. Also see §§
156.420 through
156.423 of this chapter for front yard or setback and additional yard
requirements;
   (C)   For residential uses the lot area, ground floor area, lot width, lot
coverage and front, side and rear yard requirements are set forth in Figure 1;
   (D)   Additional height requirements are set forth in §§
156.470 and
156.471 of this chapter;
   (E)   Off-street parking space requirements are set forth in §§
156.530 through
156.537 of this chapter;
   (F)   See §§
156.435 through
156.444 of this chapter;
   (G)   Sign requirements are set forth in §§
156.550 through
156.557 of this chapter; and
   (H)   See §§
156.485 through
156.488 of this chapter for supplementary business standards.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.15(B))
RB ROADSIDE BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 156.225 GENERAL.
   The RB Roadside Business District is intended to provide for business uses
normally requiring drive-in facilities related to a street or highway; however,
all business uses in the RB District require approval of the Board of Zoning
Appeals in accordance with the special exception procedure set forth in §§
156.400 through
156.405 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.16)
§ 156.226 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Agricultural use;
   (B)   Single-family dwelling;
   (C)   Two-family dwelling;
   (D)   Multi-family dwelling;
   (E)   Manufactured home;
   (F)   Local business uses;
   (G)   Roadside business uses specifically stated or implied in the following
categories:
      (1)   Local business uses;
      (2)   Filling station;
      (3)   Automobile, truck or trailer rental and sales area;
      (4)   Automobile and truck repair, entirely within enclosed buildings;
      (5)   Indoor theater;
      (6)   Bowling alley, roller rink or racket sports facility, entirely
within enclosed buildings;
      (7)   Department store;
      (8)   Hotel or motel;
      (9)   Veterinary hospital for small animals;
      (10)   Kennel;
      (11)   Newspaper publishing;
      (12)   Motor bus or railroad passenger station;
      (13)   Greenhouse not exceeding 1,000 square feet;
      (14)   Drive-in restaurant;
      (15)   Radio or television station or studio;
      (16)   Boat, sales, service, storage and rentals;
      (17)   Hospital;
      (18)   Laboratories for testing and research excluding the raising of
animals for research and excluding the testing of fissionable material; and
      (19)   Mini-warehouse in accordance with the requirements of this
section.
   (H)   Special exceptions set forth in §§
156.400 through
156.405 of this chapter;
   (I)   Contingent uses set forth in §§
156.385 through
156.388 of this chapter;
   (J)   Accessory uses set forth in §§
156.500 through
156.502 of this chapter; and
   (K)   Temporary uses set forth in §§
156.515 through
156.518 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.16(A))
§ 156.227 OTHER REQUIREMENTS FOR THE RB DISTRICT.
   (A)   For roadside business uses, each lot shall have at least 100 feet of
frontage on a street;
   (B)   See Figure 1 for yard requirements and see §§
156.420 through
156.423 of this chapter for front yard road setback and additional yard
requirements;
   (C)   For residential uses the lot area, ground floor area, lot width, lot
coverage and front, side and rear yard requirements are set forth in Figure 1.
The requirements for residential uses in the RB District are the same as those
in the R-2 District; except that, multi-family dwellings are the same as those
in the R-3 District;
   (D)   Additional height requirements are set forth in §§
156.470 and
156.471 of this chapter;
   (E)   Off-street parking space requirements are set forth in §§
156.530 through
156.537 of this chapter;
   (F)   See §§
156.435 through
156.444 of this chapter for fence requirements;
   (G)   Sign requirements are set forth in §§
156.550 through
156.557 of this chapter;
   (H)   See §§
156.485 through
156.488 of this chapter for supplementary business standards; and
   (I)   Mini-warehouse projects may be permitted in the RB District subject to
the following development standards.
      (1)   Off-street parking and driveway width.
         (a)   Parking shall be provided by parking/driving lanes adjacent to
the buildings. These lanes shall be at least 26 feet wide when cubicles open
onto one side of the lane only and at least 30 feet wide when cubicles open
onto both sides of the lane.
         (b)   Two covered parking spaces shall be provided adjacent to the
manager’s quarters, in the event a manager’s quarters is provided.
         (c)   One parking space for every 50 storage cubicles or fraction
thereof shall be located adjacent to the project office. A minimum of two such
spaces shall be provided.
         (d)   Required parking spaces may not be rented as, or used for,
vehicular storage. However, additional parking area may be provided for
recreational vehicle storage; provided that, it is adequately screened from
view of the frontal street.
      (2)   Landscaping. A landscaped strip 20 feet in width shall be provided
along all street frontages and a landscaped strip five feet in width shall be
provided where subject property abuts any residential district or existing
residential use. The five foot landscaped strip abutting residential property
shall be designed to provide screening of the mini-warehouse site from
residential properties, consisting of planting at least six feet in height and
six feet apart, effective at all times of the year.
      (3)   Site design. Buildings shall be so situated and/or screened that
overhead access doors are not visible from off the site.
      (4)   Use restrictions.
         (a)   No person, on premises occupied by a mini-warehouse, shall
conduct:
            1.   Any business activity (other than rental of storage units)
including miscellaneous or garage sales, and transfer/storage businesses that
utilize vehicles as part of said business; and/or
            2.   Servicing or repair of motor vehicles, boats, trailers,
lawnmowers or any similar equipment.
         (b)   All mini-warehouse rental contracts shall include clauses
prohibiting:
            1.   The storage of flammable liquids, highly combustible or
explosive materials or hazardous chemicals; and
            2.   The use of the property for uses other than dead storage.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.16(B))
GB GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 156.240 GENERAL.
   This district provides sites for heavier types of business and commercial
uses.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.17)
§ 156.241 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Agricultural uses;
   (B)   Single-family dwelling;
   (C)   Two-family dwelling;
   (D)   Multi-family dwelling;
   (E)   Manufactured home;
   (F)   Local business uses;
   (G)   Roadside business uses;
   (H)   General business uses specifically stated or applied in the following
categories:
      (1)   Local business uses;
      (2)   Roadside business uses;
      (3)   Storage warehouse;
      (4)   Wholesale establishment;
      (5)   Truck service center; and
      (6)   Any business use not specifically stated or implied elsewhere in
this chapter.
   (I)   Special exceptions set forth in §§
156.400 through
156.405 of this chapter;
   (J)   Contingent uses set forth in §§
156.385 through
156.388 of this chapter;
   (K)   Accessory uses set forth in §§
156.500 through
156.502 of this chapter; and
   (L)   Temporary uses set forth in §§
156.515 through
156.518 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.17(A))
§ 156.242 OTHER REQUIREMENTS FOR THE GB DISTRICT.
   (A)   For general business uses, each lot shall have at least 50 feet of
frontage on a street;
   (B)   See Figure 1 for yard requirements and §§
156.420 through
156.423 of this chapter for front yard or setback and additional yard
requirements;
   (C)   For residential uses the lot area, ground floor area, lot width, lot
coverage and front, side and rear yard requirements are set forth in Figure 1.
The requirements for residential uses in the GB District are the same as those
in the LB District;
   (D)   Additional height requirements are set forth in §§
156.470 and
156.471 of this chapter;
   (E)   Off-street parking space requirements are set forth in §§
156.530 through
156.537 of this chapter;
   (F)   See §§
156.435 through
156.444 of this chapter for fence requirements;
   (G)   See §§
156.550 through
156.557 of this chapter for sign requirements; and
   (H)   See §§
156.485 through
156.488 of this chapter for supplementary business standards.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.17(B))
IB INTERCHANGE BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 156.255 GENERAL.
   (A)   This district is intended to provide for business uses located
adjacent to interstate highway exchanges and which are primarily dependent on
the volumes of traffic generated at these points.
   (B)   Because these uses will be in areas of heavy traffic volumes and high
visibility, all uses in this district will be regulated in such a way as to
maintain good traffic circulation and appearance.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.18)
§ 156.256 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Agricultural uses;
   (B)   Single-family dwelling;
   (C)   Manufactured home;
   (D)   Interchange business uses as follows: *(see note below)
      (1)   Restaurants or other eating establishments;
      (2)   Hotels and motels;
      (3)   Filling stations;
      (4)   Establishments selling souvenirs or other items intended primarily
for tourists or through traffic; and
      (5)   Other uses oriented primarily to the traffic generated at
interchanges or other high-volume areas, as determined by the Board of Zoning
Appeals.
   (E)   Special exceptions set forth in §§
156.400 through
156.405 of this chapter;
   (F)   Contingent uses set forth in §§
156.385 through
156.388 of this chapter; and
   (G)   Accessory uses set forth in §§
156.500 through
156.502 of this chapter.
   * NOTE: Any of the interchange business uses may be permitted as a special
exception in the I-B District in accordance with the requirements of §§
156.400 through
156.405 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.18(A))
§ 156.257 OTHER REQUIREMENTS FOR THE IB DISTRICT.
   (A)   For interchange business uses, each lot shall have at least 100 feet
of frontage on a street or service road; provided that, lots may be combined
into a tract development with adequate access, in which case the frontage of
the tract shall be at least 200 feet;
   (B)   See Figure 1 for yard requirements and see §§
156.420 through
156.423 of this chapter for front yard or setback and additional yard
requirements;
   (C)   For residential uses the lot area, ground floor area, lot width, lot
coverage and front, side and rear yard requirements are set forth in Figure 1.
The requirements for residential uses in the IB District are the same as those
in the R-2 District;
   (D)   Additional height requirements are set forth in §§
156.470 and
156.471 of this chapter;
   (E)   Off-street parking space requirements are set forth in §§
156.530 through
156.537 of this chapter;
   (F)   Ground floor area requirements;
   (G)   See §§
156.435 through
156.444 of this chapter for fence requirements;
   (H)   Sign requirements are set forth in §§
156.550 through
156.557 of this chapter; and
   (I)   See §§
156.485 through
156.488 of this chapter for supplementary business standards.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.18(B))
I-1 ENCLOSED INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
§ 156.270 GENERAL.
   The I-1 Enclosed Industrial District is established to include most of the
existing industrial developments and provide for their expansion, and is one in
which manufacturing, fabricating, processing, extraction, repairing,
dismantling, storage or disposal of equipment, raw materials, manufactured
products or wastes is conducted entirely within enclosed buildings of any size;
provided that, such use shall conform to the requirements and performance
standards set forth herein. Screening of storage, parking and loading areas is
essential in this district as it is often located adjacent to residential areas
and may serve as a buffer between the I-2 Open Industrial District and business
or residential districts. Uses permitted in the General Business Zone District
(whether as a permitted use or by special exception) shall be permitted in this
district by special exception only. Material storage (open) may be permitted as
a special exception. Local business, roadside business and residential uses are
not permitted in this district.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.19)
§ 156.271 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Agricultural uses;
   (B)   Enclosed industrial uses specifically stated or implied in the
following categories:
      (1)   Enclosed industrial uses including processing, refining, repairing
of goods, materials or products;
      (2)   Engineering or research laboratories, vocational or industrial
training facilities, data processing or analysis;
      (3)   Railroad or other mass transportation rights-of-way and trackage,
including passenger stations, shelter stations and layover areas for transit
vehicles, and off-street parking facilities; provided, however, such uses,
except rights-of-way, shall not extend within 20 feet of a residential
district;
      (4)   Enclosed wholesaling, warehousing, packaging, storage or
distribution facilities (including commercial greenhouses);
      (5)   General offices associated with an industrial use, including
service facilities for employees or guests; provided, however, any service
facilities shall be entirely enclosed within a building;
      (6)   Printing, lithographing, publishing or photography establishments;
      (7)   Utility installations and facilities; and
      (8)   Public water wells, water stations, filtration plant, reservoirs
and storage tanks.
   (C)   Special exceptions set forth in §§
156.400 through
156.405 of this chapter;
   (D)   Contingent uses set forth in §§
156.385 through
156.388 of this chapter;
   (E)   Accessory uses set forth in §§
156.500 through
156.502 of this chapter; and
   (F)   Temporary uses set forth in §§
156.515 through
156.518 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.19(A))
§ 156.272 OTHER REQUIREMENTS FOR THE I-1 DISTRICT.
   (A)   For enclosed industrial uses, each lot shall have at least 100 feet of
frontage on a street or service road; provided that, lots may be combined into
a tract development with adequate access, in which case the frontage of the
tract shall be at least 200 feet.
   (B)   See Figure 1 for yard requirements and §§
156.400 through
156.405 of this chapter for front yard or setback and additional yard
requirements.
   (C)   Additional height requirements are set forth in §§
156.470 and
156.471 of this chapter.
   (D)   Off-street parking space requirements are set forth in §§
156.530 through
156.537 of this chapter.
   (E)   The total floor area of the enclosed industrial building or buildings
shall not exceed 60% of the lot area.
   (F)   Sign requirements are set forth in §§
156.550 through
156.557 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.19(B))
§ 156.273 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS FOR ENCLOSED INDUSTRIAL USES.
   (A)   Storage, utilization and the like. No activity involving the storage,
utilization or manufacture of materials or products which decompose by
detonation shall be permitted unless specifically approved by the County Board
of Commissioners if the activity is proposed to be located in the
unincorporated territory and the particular town council if the activity is
proposed to be located in a town. Such activity shall be conducted in
accordance with the rules promulgated by the State Fire Marshal. Such materials
shall include, but are not limited to, all primary explosives such as lead
azide, lead styphnate, fulminates and tetracene; all high explosives such as
TNT, TDX, HMX, PETN and picric acid; propellants and components thereof, such
as nitrocellulose, black powder, boron hydrides, hydrazine and its derivatives;
pyrotechnics and fireworks such as magnesium powder, potassium chlorate and
potassium nitrate; blast explosives such as dynamite and nitrogylcerine;
unstable organic compounds such as acetyrides, terazoles and ozonides; strong
oxidizing agents such as liquid oxygen, perchloric acid, perchlorates,
chlorates and hydrogen peroxide in concentrations greater than 35%; and nuclear
fuels, fissionable materials and products; and reactor elements such as Uranium
235 and Plutonium 239.
   (B)   Exemptions. The restrictions of this section shall not apply to:
      (1)   The activities of site preparation or construction, maintenance,
repair, alteration, modification or improvement of buildings, equipment or
other improvements on or within the lot line;
      (2)   The operation of motor vehicles or other facilities for the
transportation of personnel, materials or products;
      (3)   Conditions beyond the control of the user, such as fire, explosion,
accidents, failure or breakdown of equipment or facilities or emergencies; or
      (4)   Safety or emergency warning signals or alarms necessary for the
protection of life, limb or property.
   (C)   Outdoor storage. Outdoor storage which is used as an accessory use to
an enclosed industrial use in the I-1 District, may be permitted by the Board
of Zoning Appeals as an exception; provided, the said storage is located behind
the building line and in such a manner that it cannot be seen from the frontal
street or a side street. Screen planting or fence or wall not to exceed eight
feet in height may be employed to screen storage areas from view.
   (D)   Smoke. The emission of more than 70 smoke units per hour per stack and
emissions in excess of Ringelmann No. 2 are prohibited; except that, for a one-
hour period during any 24-hour period, this rate may be increased to 80 smoke
units per hour per stack up to and including Ringelmann No. 3 for the purposes
of process purging, soot blowing and fire cleaning.
   (E)   Particulate matter. The rate of particulate matter from an individual
process within the boundaries of any lot shall not exceed a figure of 0.06
pounds effluent gas. Not more than 50% by weight of particles larger that 44
microns (325 mesh) shall be allowed.
   (F)   Odor. Any activity or operation, which releases odors to the
atmosphere, shall be so controlled as to ensure that it will produce no public
nuisance or hazard at or beyond the nearest residence or business district
boundary line.
   (G)   Poisonous and injurious fumes and gases. The emission of toxic or
injurious fumes and gases shall be controlled as to comply with the following:
the emission from any source shall not cause at or beyond any lot line,
concentrations of toxic and/or injurious fumes and gases in excess of 10% of
the threshold limit set for the fume or gas in question in the Threshold Limit
Values for Toxic Materials in Industry, issued by the State Board of Health,
from the American Conference of Governmental Hygienists, latest issue.
   (H)   Glare and heat. No operation, activity or structure shall cause heat
or glare in such a manner as to be a public nuisance at or beyond any residence
or business district boundary.
   (I)   Vibration. Any use creating intense earth-shaking vibrations such as
are created by a heavy drop forge shall be set back from a residence district
boundary at least 250 feet, or at least 150 feet from a business district
boundary.
   (J)   Noise. At no point 125 feet from the boundary on an I-1, I-2 or GB
District, which permits an enclosed industrial use, shall the sound pressure
level of any operation or plant (other than background noises produced by
sources not under the control of this chapter) exceed the decibel limits in the
octave bands designated as follows:
Enclosed Industrial Use
                       Maximum Permitted Sound Maximum Permitted Sound
Octave Band Frequency  Level (In Decibels) 125 Level (In Decibels) 125 Feet
(Cycles Per Second)    Feet From District      From District Adjoining
                       Adjoining Residence     Business District Boundaries
                       District Boundaries
Enclosed Industrial Use
                       Maximum Permitted Sound Maximum Permitted Sound
Octave Band Frequency  Level (In Decibels) 125 Level (In Decibels) 125 Feet
(Cycles Per Second)    Feet From District      From District Adjoining
                       Adjoining Residence     Business District Boundaries
                       District Boundaries
0 to 75                75                      80
75 to 150              70                      75
150 to 300             65                      70
300 to 600             59                      64
600 to 1,200           53                      58
1,200 to 2,400         48                      53
2,400 to 4,800         48                      49
Above 4,800            41                      46
 
   (K)   Fire hazards. The storage, utilization or manufacture of solid
materials or products shall conform to the provisions of this chapter and the
Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission of the state, whichever is more
restrictive.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.19(C))
I-2 OPEN INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
§ 156.285 GENERAL.
   The I-2 Open Industrial District is one which requires both buildings and
open area for manufacturing, fabricating, processing, extraction, heavy
repairing, dismantling, storage or disposal of equipment, raw materials,
manufactured products or wastes, and shall be used so as to comply with the
performance standards set forth herein. This district is established for
existing industries and the expansion of older industrial areas wherever
possible. In instances of close business or residential proximity, buffer
treatment is required.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.20)
§ 156.286 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Agricultural use;
   (B)   General business uses permitted in the GB District, but not including
local or roadside business uses or other business uses;
   (C)   Enclosed industrial uses permitted in the I-1 District;
   (D)   Open industrial uses specifically stated or implied in the following
categories; provided that, if they are located within 150 feet of a residence
or business district, they shall be contained wholly within an area enclosed on
all sides with a compact wall, compact evergreen planting screen or uniformly
painted board or metal fence not less than six feet in height, except for the
off-street parking and loading of delivery vehicles which are incidental
thereto (unless otherwise provided herein):
      (1)   Open industrial uses, including storage, processing, refining,
fabricating, extraction, repairing, dismantling, assembling, cleaning, testing
or repairing of goods, materials or products within buildings and/or open
areas;
      (2)   Engineering or research laboratories, vocational or industrial
training facilities, data processing or analysis;
      (3)   Railroad or other mass transportation rights-of-way and trackage,
including passenger stations, shelter stations and layover areas for transit
vehicles, and off-street parking facilities; provided, however, such uses,
except right-of-way, shall not extend within 20 feet of a residential district;
      (4)   Enclosed wholesaling, warehousing, packaging, storage or
distribution facilities (including commercial greenhouse);
      (5)   General offices associated with an industrial use, including
service facilities for employees or guests; provided, however, any service
facilities shall be entirely enclosed within a building;
      (6)   Printing, lithographing, publishing or photography establishments;
      (7)   Utility installations and facilities;
      (8)   Bakery, secondary food processing, milk processing, manufacture and
bottling of dairy products and beverages;
      (9)   Manufacture and assembly of glass, plastic and rubber products,
implements;
      (10)   Manufacture of colors, dye, paint and other coatings (excluding
tar products);
      (11)   Machine, welding, tool and die shops, electroplating operations;
      (12)   Manufacture of cloth, jewelry and leather products;
      (13)   Biological, medical and cosmetic manufacturing;
      (14)   Manufacture and assembly of optical goods, musical and recording
instruments, office machinery, electrical and mechanical;
      (15)   Manufacture and assembly of marine, office, household appliances,
furniture, communication and automobile equipment, air conditioning, heating
and refrigeration equipment;
      (16)   Can and container manufacture, processing and milling of forest
products;
      (17)   Dyeing and cleaning works, and services such as linen suppliers,
freight movers and communication and canteen operations;
      (18)   Upholstering and leather goods manufacture;
      (19)   Cannery, bottling, processing and packaging of food and beverages,
granaries, grain processing and starch manufacturing;
      (20)   Radio, facsimile and television towers, including broadcasting
studios and radio or television business offices;
      (21)   Asphalt plant (may be permitted as a special exception only);
      (22)   Foundries, smelting operations, metal forging, fabricating,
rolling and stamping operations;
      (23)   Boiler tank manufacturing and structural steel fabricating,
general manufacturing and assembly plants;
      (24)   Railroad equipment manufacturing, repair and service yards;
      (25)   Manufacture of detergents and soaps, pharmaceutical and paper
products;
      (26)   Manufacture of malt products, brewing, distillation of liquid and
spirits, poultry hatchery;
      (27)   Monument works and stone cutting;
      (28)   Thermal, electric and steam power plants;
      (29)   Concrete mixing, production of concrete blocks and shapes, cinder
blocks and other similar building materials manufacture;
      (30)   Sand, gravel or aggregate washing, screening, or processing;
      (31)   Bulk fuel storage or petroleum tank farm (commercial); and
      (32)   Slaughterhouse.
   (E)   Special exceptions set forth in §§
156.400 through
156.405 of this chapter;
   (F)   Contingent uses set forth in §§
156.385 through
156.388 of this chapter;
   (G)   Accessory uses set forth in §§
156.500 through
156.502 of this chapter; and
   (H)   Temporary uses set forth in §§
156.515 through
156.518 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.20(A))
§ 156.287 OTHER REQUIREMENTS FOR THE I-2 DISTRICT.
   (A)   Each lot shall have at least 100 feet of frontage on a street or
service road; provided that, lots may be combined into a tract development with
adequate access, in which case the frontage of the tract shall be at least 200
feet;
   (B)   See §§
156.420 through
156.423 of this chapter for front yard or setback and additional yard
requirements;
   (C)   Additional height requirements are set forth in §§
156.470 and
156.471 of this chapter;
   (D)   Off-street parking space requirements are set forth in §§
156.530 through
156.537 of this chapter;
   (E)   See §§
156.435 through
156.444 of this chapter for additional front yard requirements;
   (F)   The total floor area of the building or buildings shall not exceed 80%
of the lot area; and
   (G)   Sign requirements set forth in §§
156.550 through
156.557 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.20(B))
§ 156.288 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS FOR OPEN INDUSTRIAL USES.
   (A)   General. No activity involving the storage, utilization or manufacture
of materials or products which decompose by detonation shall be permitted
unless specifically approved by the County Board of Commissioners if the
activity is proposed to be located in the unincorporated territory and the town
council if the activity is proposed to be located in a town. Such activity
shall be conducted in accordance with the rules promulgated by the State Fire
Marshal. Such materials shall include, but are not limited to, all primary
explosives such as lead azide, lead styphnate, fulminates and tetracene; all
high explosives such as TNT, TDX, HMX, PETN and picric acid; propellants and
components thereof, such as nitrocellulose, black powder, boron hydribes,
hydrazine and its derivaties; pyrotechnies and fireworks such as magnesium
powder, potassium chlorate and potassium nitrate; blasting explosives such as
dynamite and nitroglycerine; unstable organic compounds such as acetyrides,
terazoles and ozonides; strong oxidizing agents such as liquid oxygen,
perchloric acid, perchlorates, chlorates and hydrogen peroxide in
concentrations greater than 35%; and nuclear fuels, fissionable materials and
products; and reactors elements such as Uranium 235 and Plutonium 239.
   (B)   Exemptions. The restrictions of this section shall not apply to:
      (1)   The activities of site preparation or construction, maintenance,
repair, alteration, modification or improvement of buildings, equipment or
other improvements on or within the lot line;
      (2)   The operation of motor vehicles or other facilities for the
transportation of personnel, materials or products;
      (3)   Conditions beyond the control of the user, such as fire, explosion,
accidents, failure or breakdown of equipment or facilities or emergencies; and
      (4)   Safety or emergency warning signals or alarms necessary for the
protection of life, limb or property.
   (C)   Smoke. The emission of more than 90 smoke units per hour per stack and
emissions in excess of Ringelmann No. 3 are prohibited; except that, for one-
hour period during the 24, this rate may be increased to 120 smoke units per
hour per stack, still at Ringelmann No. 3, for the purposes of process purging,
soot blowing and fire cleaning.
   (D)   Particulate matter. The rate of emission of particulate matter from an
individual process within the boundaries of any lot shall not exceed a figure
of 0.2 pounds per 1,000 pounds effluent gas. For open industrial use, not more
than 50% by weight of particles larger than 44 microns (325 mesh) shall be
allowed.
   (E)   Odor. Any activity or operation, which releases odors to the
atmosphere, shall be so controlled as to ensure that it will produce no public
nuisance or hazard at or beyond the nearest residence district boundary line.
   (F)   Poisonous and injurious fumes and gases. The emission of toxic or
injurious fumes and gases shall be controlled so as to comply with the
following.
      (1)   The emission from any source shall not cause at or beyond any lot
line concentrations of toxic and/or injurious fumes and gases in excess of 25%
of an open industrial use of the threshold limit as set for the fume or gas in
question in the Threshold Limit Values for Toxic Materials in Industry issued
by the State Board of Health, from the American Conference of Governmental
Hygienists, latest issue.
      (2)   The emission of any gas or fumes across lot lines in such
concentrations as to be detrimental to or endanger public health, safety,
comfort and welfare or shall cause injury or damage to property or business is
prohibited.
   (G)   Glare and heat. No operation, activity or structure shall cause heat
or glare in such a manner as to be a public nuisance at or beyond any residence
or business district boundary.
   (H)   Vibration.
      (1)   Any use creating intense earth-shaking vibrations such as are
created by a heavy drop forge shall be set back from a residence district
boundary at least 250 feet, or at least 150 feet from a business district
boundary.
      (2)   Earth-shaking vibrations at the industrial property line shall not
be in violation of this chapter as long as the vibration is not perceptible
without the aid of instruments.
   (I)   Noise.
      (1)   At no point 125 feet from the boundary of a I-2 District shall the
sound pressure level of any operation or plant (other than background noises
produced by sources not under the control of this chapter) exceed the decibel
limits in the octave bands designated below:
Open Industrial Use
                       Maximum Permitted Sound Maximum Permitted Sound
Octave Band Frequency  Level (In Decibels) 125 Level (In Decibels) 125 Feet
(Cycles per Second)    Feet From District      From District Adjoining
                       Adjoining Residence     Business District Boundaries
                       District Boundaries
Open Industrial Use
                       Maximum Permitted Sound Maximum Permitted Sound
Octave Band Frequency  Level (In Decibels) 125 Level (In Decibels) 125 Feet
(Cycles per Second)    Feet From District      From District Adjoining
                       Adjoining Residence     Business District Boundaries
                       District Boundaries
0 to 75                75                      81
75 to 150              70                      76
150 to 300             66                      72
300 to 600             62                      68
600 to 1,200           57                      63
1,200 to 2,400         53                      59
2,400 to 4,800         49                      55
Above 4,800            45                      51
 
      (2)   Sound levels shall be measured with a sound level meter and
associated octave band analyzer or filter, manufactured in compliance with
standards prescribed by the American Standards Association.
   (J)   Fire hazards. The storage, utilization or manufacture of solid
materials or products shall conform to the provisions of this chapter and the
Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission of the state, whichever is more
restrictive.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.20(C))
FP FLOODPLAIN DISTRICT
§ 156.300 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this district is to guide development in the flood hazard
areas in order to reduce potential for loss of life and property, reduce the
potential for health and safety hazards and to reduce the potential for
extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief and to
accomplish the following:
   (A)   To prevent unwise developments from increasing flood or drainage
hazards to others;
   (B)   To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from
flood damage;
   (C)   To protect human life and health from the hazards of flooding;
   (D)   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control projects,
repairs to flood-damaged public facilities and utilities and flood rescue and
relief operations;
   (E)   To maintain property values and a stable tax base by minimizing the
potential for creating flood blighted areas; and
   (F)   To make federally subsidized flood insurance available for structures
and their contents in the jurisdiction of the Area Plan Commission by
fulfilling the requirements of the National Flood Insurance Program.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.21(A))
§ 156.301 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate
including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Construction, reconstruction or placement of a building or any
addition to a building;
         (b)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home or installing a recreational vehicle on a site for more than
180 days;
         (c)   Installing utilities, erection of walls and fences, construction
of roads or similar projects;
         (d)   Construction of flood control structures such as levees, dikes,
dams, channel improvements and the like;
         (e)   Mining, dredging, filling, grading, excavation or drilling
operations;
         (f)   Construction and/or reconstruction of bridges or culverts;
         (g)   Storage of materials; or
         (h)   Any other activity that might change the direction, height or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include activities such as the maintenance of
existing buildings and facilities such as painting, re-roofing; resurfacing
roads; or gardening, plowing and similar agricultural practices that do not
involve filling, grading, excavation or the construction of permanent
buildings.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of this chapter.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FBFM. Flood Boundary and Floodway Map.
   FEMA. Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FHBM. Flood Hazard Boundary Map.
   FIRM. Flood Insurance Rate Map.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOODPLAIN. The channel proper and the areas adjoining any wetland, lake or
watercourse, which have been, or hereafter may be covered by the regulatory
flood. The FLOODPLAIN includes both the Floodway and the Floodway Fringe
Districts.
   FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE or the FPG. The elevation of the regulatory flood,
plus two feet at any given location in the SFHA.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the
floodplains adjoining the channel, which are reasonably required to efficiently
carry, and discharge the peak flood flow of the regulatory flood of any river
of stream.
   FLOODWAY FRINGE. Those portions of the floodplain lying outside the
floodway.
   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). An amendment to the currently effective FEMA
map that establishes that a property is not located in a special flood hazard
area (SFHA). A LOMA is only issued by FEMA.
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). An official revision to the currently
effective FEMA map. It is issued by FEMA and changes flood zone, delineations
and elevations.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest of the following:
      (1)   The top of the basement floor;
      (2)   The top of the garage floor, if the garage is lowest level of the
building;
      (3)   The top of the first floor or of buildings elevated on pilings or
constructed on a crawl space with permanent openings; or
      (4)   The top of the floor level of any enclosure below an elevated
building where the walls of the enclosure provide any resistance to the flow of
flood waters unless:
         (a)   The walls are designed to automatically equalize the hydrostatic
flood forces on the walls by allowing for the entry and exit of flood waters,
by providing a minimum of two openings (in addition to doorways and windows)
having a total area of one square foot for every two square feet of enclosed
area subject to flooding. The bottom of all such openings shall be no higher
than one foot above grade.
         (b)   Such enclosed space shall be usable for the parking of vehicles
and building access.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a “recreational vehicle”.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the time of
passage of the ordinance comprising this chapter.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
quarters for recreational camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOOD. The flood having a 1% probability of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year, as calculated by a method and procedure, which is
acceptable to and approved by the State Natural Resources Commission and the
Federal Emergency Management Agency. The REGULATORY FLOOD elevation at any
location is as defined in §
156.303 of this chapter. The REGULATORY FLOOD is also known by the term BASE
FLOOD.
   SFHA or SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. Those lands within the jurisdiction of
the Area Plan Commission that are subject to inundation by the regulatory
flood. The SFHAs of the county are generally identified as such on the Flood
Insurance Rate Map of the county prepared by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency and dated 9-1-1987.
   STRUCTURE. A structure that is principally above ground and is enclosed by
walls and a roof. The term includes a gas or liquid storage tank, a
manufactured home or a prefabricated building. The term also includes
recreational vehicles to be installed on a site for more than 180 days.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures, which have incurred substantial
damage regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not
include improvements of structures to correct existing violations of state or
local health, sanitary or safety code requirements or any alteration of a
historic structure; provided that, the alteration will not preclude the
structures continued designation as a historic structure.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.21(B))
§ 156.302 DUTIES OF THE ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Executive Director shall implement the provision of this
subchapter.
   (B)   The Executive Director shall review all development and subdivision
proposals to ensure compliance with this subchapter, including, but not limited
to, the following duties:
      (1)   Ensure that all development activities with the SFHAs of the
jurisdiction of the Area Plan Commission meet the requirements herein;
      (2)   Provide information and assistance to citizens upon request about
permit procedures and floodplain construction techniques;
      (3)   Ensure that construction authorization has been granted by the
State Natural Resources Commission for all development projects subject to §
156.305 of this chapter and maintain a record of such authorization (either
copy of actual permit or letter of recommendation);
      (4)   Maintain a record of the as-built elevation of the top of the
lowest floor (including basement) of all new and/or substantially improved
buildings constructed in the SFHA. Inspect before, during and after
construction;
      (5)   Maintain a record of the engineer’s certificate and the as-built
flood-proofed elevation of all buildings subject to §
156.306 of this chapter;
      (6)   Cooperate with state and federal floodplain management agencies to
improve base flood and floodway data and to improve the administration of this
subchapter. Submit reports as required for the National Flood Insurance
Program; and
      (7)   Maintain for public inspection and furnish upon request regulatory
flood data, SFHA maps, Letters of Map Amendment (LOMA), Letters of Map Revision
(LOMR), copies of DNR permits and letters of recommendation, federal permit
documents and as-built elevation and flood-proofing data for all buildings
constructed subject to this subchapter.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.21(C))
§ 156.303 REGULATORY FLOOD ELEVATION.
   (A)   This FP District’s protection standard is the regulatory flood. The
best available regulatory flood data is listed below. Whenever a party
disagrees with the best available data, the party submitting the detailed
engineering study needs to replace existing data with better data and submit it
to the Department of Natural Resources for review and approval.
   (B)   The regulatory flood elevation and floodway limits for the SFHAs
designated as “Zone A” on the Flood Insurance Rate Map of the county and
participating towns shall be according to the best data available as provided
by the Department of Natural Resources.
   (C)   The regulatory flood elevation for each SFHA delineated as an “AH
Zone” or “AO Zone” shall be that elevation (or depth) delineated on the Flood
Insurance Rate Map of the county and participating towns.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.21(D))
§ 156.304 IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMIT.
   (A)   No person, firm, corporation or governmental body not exempted by
state law shall commence any development in the SFHA without first obtaining an
improvement location permit from the Executive Director. The Executive Director
shall not issue an improvement location permit if the proposed development does
not meet the requirements of this district.
   (B)   The application for an improvement location permit shall be
accompanied by the following:
      (1)   A description of the proposed development;
      (2)   Location of the proposed development sufficient to accurately
locate property and structure in relation to existing roads and streams;
      (3)   A legal description of the property site;
      (4)   A site development plan showing existing and proposed development
locations and existing and proposed land grades; and
      (5)   Elevation of the top of the lowest floor (including basement) of
all proposed development. Elevation should be in National Geodetic Vertical
Datum of 1929 (NGVD) or North American Vertical Datum (NAVD). In either case,
the conversion formula should be included.
   (C)   Upon receipt of an application for an improvement location permit, the
Executive Director shall determine if the site is located within an identified
floodway, floodway fringe or within the floodplain where the limits of the
floodway have not yet been determined.
      (1)   (a)   If the site is in an identified floodway, the Executive
Director shall require the applicant to forward the application, along with all
pertinent plans and specifications, to the Department of Natural Resources and
apply for a permit for construction in a floodway. Under the provisions of the
I.C. 14-28-1, a permit from the Natural Resources Commission is required prior
to the issuance of a local building permit for any excavation, deposit,
construction or obstruction activity located in the floodway. This includes
land preparation activities such as filling, grading, clearing and paving and
the like undertaken before the actual start of construction of the building.
         (b)   No action shall be taken by the Executive Director until a
permit has been issued by the Natural Resources Commission granting approval
for construction in the floodway. Once a permit has been issued by the Natural
Resources Commission, the Executive Director may issue the improvement location
permit; provided, the provisions contained in §§
156.305 and
156.306 of this chapter have been met. The improvement location permit cannot
be less restrictive than the permit issued by the Natural Resources Commission.
      (2)   If the site is located in an identified floodway fringe, then the
Executive Director may issue the improvement location permit provided the
provisions contained in §§
156.305 and
156.306 of this chapter have been met. The key provision is that the top of the
lowest floor of any new or substantially improved structure shall be at or
above the flood protection grade (FPG).
      (3)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and floodway fringe have not yet been determined, and the drainage
area upstream of the site is greater than one square mile, the Executive
Director shall require the applicant to forward the application, along with all
pertinent plans and specifications, to the Department of Natural Resources for
review and comment.
      (4)   No action shall be taken by the Executive Director until either a
permit for construction in the floodway or a letter of recommendation citing
the 100-year flood elevation and the recommended flood protection grade has
been received from the Department of Natural Resources.
      (5)   Once the Executive Director has received the proper permit or
letter of recommendation approving the proposed development, an improvement
location permit may be issued provided the conditions of the improvement
location permit are not less restrictive than the conditions received from
Natural Resources and the provisions contained in §§
156.305 and
156.306 of this chapter have been met.
      (6)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and floodway fringe have not yet been determined and the drainage area
upstream of the site is less than one square mile, the Executive Director shall
require the applicant to provide an engineering analysis showing the limits of
the floodway, floodway fringe and 100-year elevation for the site.
      (7)   Upon receipt, the Executive Director may issue the improvement
location permit; provided, the provisions contained in §§
156.305 and
156.306 of this chapter have been met.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.21(E))
§ 156.305 PREVENTING INCREASED DAMAGES.
   (A)   No development in the SFHA shall create a damaging or potentially
damaging increase in flood heights or velocity or threat to public health and
safety.
   (B)   Within the floodway identified on the Flood Boundary and Floodway Map,
the Flood Insurance Rate Map or engineering analysis as provided in §
156.304, the following standards shall apply:
      (1)   No development shall be allowed which acting alone or in
combination with existing or future development, will cause any increase in the
elevation of the regulatory flood; and
      (2)   For all projects involving channel modifications or fill (including
levees), the county shall submit the data and request that the Federal
Emergency Management Agency revise the regulatory flood data.
   (C)   Within all SFHAs identified as A Zones (no 100-year flood elevation
and/or floodway/floodway fringe delineation has been provided), the following
standard shall apply: the total cumulative effect of the proposed development,
when combined with all other existing and anticipated development, will not
increase the regulatory flood elevation more than one-tenth of one foot and
will not increase flood damages or potential flood damages.
   (D)   (1)   No development in the SFHA shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, flammable liquids, pollutants or
other hazardous or toxic materials below the flood protection grade, unless
such materials are stored in a flood-proofed storage tank or building
constructed according to the requirements of §
156.306 of this chapter.
      (2)   New and replacement sanitary sewer lines and on-site waste disposal
systems may be permitted providing all manholes or other above ground openings
are located above the FPG, or those which are located below the FPG are water-
tight.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.21(F))
§ 156.306 PROTECTING BUILDINGS.
   In addition to the damage prevention requirements of §
156.305 of this chapter, all buildings to be located in the SFHA shall be
protected from flood damage below the FPG.
   (A)   This building protection requirement applies to the following
situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of any new building having a floor area
greater than 400 square feet;
      (2)   Structural alterations made to:
         (a)   An existing (previously unaltered) building, the cost of which
equals or exceeds 50% of the value of the pre-altered building (excluding the
value of the land); and
         (b)   Any previously altered building.
      (3)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a damaged building that are
valued at or more than 50% of the market value of the building (excluding the
value of the land) before damage occurred;
      (4)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. This chapter does not apply to returning the existing
manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it was removed
to avoid flood damage; and
      (5)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than 180 days.
   (B)   This building protection requirement may be met by one of the
following methods. The Executive Director shall maintain a record of compliance
with these building protection standards as required in §
156.302 of this chapter.
      (1)   A residential or non-residential building may be constructed on a
permanent landfill in accordance with the following.
         (a)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot deep
before compacting to 95% of the maximum density obtainable with the Standard
Proctor Test method.
         (b)   The fill should extend at least ten feet beyond the foundation
of the building before sloping below the FPG.
         (c)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap or bulk heading. If vegetative cover is
used, the slopes shall be no steeper than three horizontal to one vertical.
         (d)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties.
         (e)   The top of the lowest floor including basements (see definition
of “lowest floor” in § 156.301 of this chapter) shall be at or above the FPG.
      (2)   A residential or non-residential building may be elevated in
accordance with the following:
         (a)   The building or improvements shall be elevated on posts, piers,
columns, extended walls or other types of similar foundation; provided:
            1.   Walls of enclosure below the elevated floor shall be designed
to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on the walls by allowing for
the entry and exit of flood waters, through providing a minimum of two openings
(in addition to doorways and windows) having a total area of one square foot
for every two square feet of enclosed area subject to flooding. The bottom of
all such opening shall be no higher than one foot above grade; and
            2.   Any enclosure below the elevated floor is used for storage of
vehicles and building access.
         (b)   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored and
aligned in relation to flood flows and adjoining structures so as to minimize
exposure to known hydrodynamic forces such as buoyancy, current, waves, ice and
floating debris.
         (c)   All areas below the FPG shall be constructed of materials
resistant to flood damage. The top of the lowest floor (including basement) and
all electrical, heating, ventilating, plumbing and air conditioning equipment
and utility meters shall be located at or above the FPG. Water and sewer pipes,
electrical and telephone lines, submersible pumps and other water-proofed
service facilities may be located below the FPG.
      (3)   Manufactured homes and recreation vehicles to be installed or
substantially improved on a site for more than 180 days must meet one of the
following anchoring requirements.
         (a)   The manufactured home shall be elevated on a permanent
foundation such that the lowest floor shall be at or above the FPG and securely
anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist floating,
collapse and lateral movement. This requirement applies to all manufactured
homes to be placed on a site:
            1.   Outside a manufactured home park or subdivision;
            2.   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
            3.   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
            4.   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which
a manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage” as a result of a flood.
         (b)   This requirement applies to all manufactured homes to be placed
on a site in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision that has not
been substantially damaged by a flood. The manufactured home shall be elevated
so that the lowest floor of the manufactured home chassis is supported by
reinforced piers or other foundation elements that are not less than 36 inches
in height above grade and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored
foundation system to resist floatation, collapse and lateral movement.
      (4)   Recreational vehicles placed on a site shall either:
         (a)   Be on the site for less than 180 consecutive days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use (defined as being on
its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only be quick disconnect
type utilities and security devices and has no permanently attached additions);
or
         (c)   Meet the requirements for “manufactured homes” in division (B)
(3) above.
      (5)   A non-residential building may be flood-proofed to the FPG (in lieu
of elevating) if done in accordance with the following.
         (a)   A registered professional engineer shall certify that the
building has been designed so that below the FPG, the structure and attendant
utility facilities are water-tight and capable of resisting the effects of the
regulatory flood. The building design shall take into account flood velocities,
duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic pressures and impacts from debris or ice.
         (b)   Flood-proofing measures shall be operable without human
intervention and without an outside source of electricity.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.21(G))
§ 156.307 OTHER DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator shall review all proposed subdivisions to
determine whether the subdivision lies in a flood hazard area as defined
elsewhere by ordinance. If the Executive Director finds the subdivision to be
so located, the Executive Director shall forward plans and materials to the
State Department of Natural Resources for review and comment. The Executive
Director shall require appropriate changes and modifications in order to assure
that:
      (1)   It is consistent with the need to minimize flood damages;
      (2)   All public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical
and water systems are located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damage;
      (3)   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards; and
      (4)   On-site waste disposal systems, if provided, will be so located and
designed to avoid impairment of them or contamination from them during the
occurrence of the regulatory flood.
   (B)   Developers shall record the 100-year flood elevation on all
subdivision plats containing lands (identified elsewhere by section) within a
flood hazard area prior to submitting the plats for approval by the Plan
Commission.
   (C)   All owners of manufactured home parks of subdivisions located within
the SFHA identified as Zone A on the community’s FHBM or FIRM shall develop an
evacuation plan for those lots located in the SFHA and file it with the Plan
Commission and have it filed with and approved by the appropriate community
emergency management authorities.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.21(H)) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.308 VARIANCES.
   (A)   The Board of Zoning Appeals may consider issuing a variance to the
terms and provisions of this subchapter; provided, the applicant demonstrates
that:
      (1)   There exists a good and sufficient cause for the requested
variance;
      (2)   The strict application of the terms of this subchapter will
constitute an exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
      (3)   The granting of the requested variance will not increase flood
heights, create additional threats to public safety, cause additional public
expense, create nuisances, cause fraud or victimization of the public or
conflict with existing laws or ordinances.
   (B)   The Board of Zoning Appeals may issue a variance to the terms and
provisions of this subchapter subject to the following standards and
conditions.
      (1)   No variance or exception for a residential use within a floodway
subject to §
156.305 of this chapter may be granted.
      (2)   Any variance or exception granted in a floodway subject to §
156.305(A) or (B) of this chapter will require a permit from Natural Resources.
      (3)   Variances or exceptions to the building protection standards of §
156.306 of this chapter may be granted only when a new structure is to be
located on a lot of one-half acre or less in size, contiguous to and surrounded
by lots with existing structures constructed below the flood protection grade.
      (4)   Variance or exception may be granted for the reconstruction or
restoration of any structure individually listed on the Register of Historic
Places or the State Survey of Historic Architectural, Archaeological and
Cultural Sites, Structures, Districts and Objects.
      (5)   All variances shall give the minimum relief necessary and be such
that the maximum practical flood protection will be given to the proposed
construction.
      (6)   The Board on Zoning Appeals shall issue a written notice to the
recipient of a variance or exception that the proposed construction will be
subject to increased risks to life and property and could require payment of
increased flood insurance premiums.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.21(I))
§ 156.309 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by the provisions of the FP District
is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available
information derived from engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger
floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Therefore, these requirements do
not create any liability on the part of the community, Natural Resources or the
state for any flood damage that results from reliance on this subchapter or any
administrative decision made lawfully thereunder.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.21(J))
UD UNIT DEVELOPMENT PLAN DISTRICT
§ 156.320 GENERAL.
   This district is intended to provide more development flexibility than is
possible through the application of customary zoning regulations. In
recognition of both the rapid changes in design and technology in the building
industry and new demands in the housing market, it is deemed necessary to meet
those changes in a manner that will be consistent with the best interests of
the county and the incorporated towns.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.22)
§ 156.321 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   (A)   To encourage a more creative approach in land and building site
planning;
   (B)   To encourage an efficient, aesthetic and desirable use of open space;
   (C)   To promote variety in the physical development pattern of the
community;
   (D)   To achieve flexibility and incentives for residential development
which will produce a wider range of choice;
   (E)   To encourage renewal of older areas where new development and
restoration are needed to revitalize the areas;
   (F)   To permit special consideration of property with unique features, such
as historical significance, unusual topography, landscape amenities, size and
shape;
   (G)   To recapture by-passed land so poorly planned and developed as to be a
public liability; and
   (H)   To simplify processing of development proposals for developers and the
Commission by providing for concurrent review of land use, subdivision, public
improvements and siting considerations.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.22(A))
§ 156.322 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to a tract of land of at
least five acres in area for undeveloped areas within the jurisdiction of the
Commission; provided that, said provisions may apply to a proposed development
in which the primary or entire use is business or enclosed industrial use when
such proposal is deemed to be in the best interests of the county and the
incorporated towns.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall apply only to proposed new
developments and shall not apply to any part of an area contained within a
subdivision previously approved (and recorded) in accordance with the
requirements of
Ch. 155 of this code of ordinances, prior to the time of passage of the
ordinance comprising this chapter, or any unit development plan which is now
fully or partially developed, nor to any such development for a final
authorization has been granted pursuant to a previous ordinance; provided,
however, that, a petitioner may, upon application and approval of the
Commission, become subject to all the benefits and burdens of this section,
subject to such rights as shall have been vested in the owners of the area
affected by development under such ordinance; provided further that, any plat
shall first be vacated.
   (C)   Uses permitted in a residential unit development plan may include and
shall be limited to:
      (1)   Dwelling units in detached, semi-detached, attached or multi-
storied structures or any combination thereof;
      (2)   Non-residential uses of a religious, cultural, recreational and
business or enclosed industrial character, which uses are an integral part of a
residential development logically oriented to and coordinated with the total
planned unit. Such uses shall be planned and gauged primarily for the service
and convenience of the anticipated population of the unit development; and
      (3)   No business use, nor any building devoted primarily to a business
use or enclosed industrial use, shall be built or established prior to the
residential buildings or uses it is designated or intended to serve.
   (D)   The basic land unit of a unit development is the block, parcel, tract,
combination of lots or acreage, and not the lot; provided, however, divisible
geographic sections of the entire planned unit development may be designated.
      (1)   A proposed unit development plan shall be designed to produce an
environment of stable and desirable character in keeping with the principles of
good neighborhood design, and must provide standard of open space, efficiency
in street patterns and areas for parking adequate for the occupancy proposed,
or equal to the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   Before approval of a preliminary unit development plan, a detailed
determination of land use intensity shall be declared and the Commission shall
make a finding that said intensity is consistent with the Comprehensive
Development Plan of current adoption and the best interest of the county and
the incorporated towns.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.22(B))
§ 156.323 PROCEDURE.
   The authorization of a unit development plan shall be subject to the
procedures expressed herein.
   (A)   Upon a petition of the owners of property of 50% or more of the area
involved in the petition, or upon a petition initiated by the Commission, a
preliminary plan for any area proposed for development as a unit development
plan shall be first presented to the Executive Director. At such presentation,
three copies of a preliminary plan of the proposed development, containing the
following information, shall be submitted for advice:
      (1)   Proposed dimensioned layout to scale not to exceed 100 feet equals
one inch of any streets, buildings, open space, property divisions and other
elements basic to the proposed use in relationship to site conditions;
      (2)   Proposed locations, amounts and types of non-residential uses
within the area proposed to be developed;
      (3)   Proposed plan for handling vehicular traffic, parking, sewage
disposal, drainage, water supply, site perimeter treatment and other pertinent
development features;
      (4)   The preliminary plan may be an approximate drawing, but it shall
include any other graphic mediums, which will explain the features to be
contained within the development of engineering feasibility;
      (5)   If the unit development plan is to supersede an original plat or
subdivision being vacated, the original plat shall be shown by dotted lines in
relationship to the lines of the new plan, the new plan being clearly shown in
solid lines;
      (6)   The plan shall show the boundary lines of adjacent subdivided and
unsubdivided land and the existing zoning of the area proposed to be developed,
as well as the land adjacent thereto. In the case of a petition by owners, the
plan shall also show which property within the area proposed for development is
owned by such owners;
      (7)   An enumeration of covenants, in general terms, proposed to be made
a part of the unit development plan; and
      (8)   A statement expressing the order and estimated time of development.
   (B)   Within 15 days after such presentation, the Executive Director shall
consult with the petitioner regarding the preliminary plan. After such
consultation, the petitioner may make modifications to the petition, which are
deemed appropriate.
   (C)   Application for approval of the planned development shall then be
submitted to the Commission with a letter of recommendation from the Executive
Director, accompanied by six copies of the preliminary plan (with
modifications, if any) and any other desired supporting documents at a regular
meeting of the Commission as a petition for amendment of this chapter and
subject to the procedures applicable thereto. The Commission may approve the
plan as amended or disapprove the plan. The Commission may impose any
reasonable conditions upon its approval, including the recording of covenants.
If approved, the preliminary plan with amendments, if any, shall be stamped
“Approved Preliminary Unit Development Plan” and be signed by the President and
Secretary of the Commission, and one copy shall be permanently retained in the
office of the Commission.
   (D)   The approved preliminary unit development plan shall then be certified
to the Board of County Commissioners or the responsible town council, as the
case may be, for adoption as a “UD” Unit Development Plan District pursuant to
the laws governing amendment of this chapter.
   (E)   Upon adoption by the respective authority, the planned development
shall be returned to the Commission, which shall thereafter exercise continuing
jurisdiction. Before any development takes place, the Commission shall approve
a detailed site plan specifying the exact location, composition and general
engineering features of all lots, drainage, sewage, water supply facilities,
recreational facilities, site perimeter treatment and other pertinent site
development features including general locations and features of proposed
buildings. Such approval shall be conditional upon finding by the Commission
that the detailed site plan is consistent with the approved preliminary unit
development plan. The approved detailed site plan shall be stamped “Approved
Detailed Unit Development Plan” and be signed by the President and Secretary of
the Commission and one copy shall be permanently retained in the office of the
Commission.
      (1)   Approval of a detailed site plan shall be obtained within one year
after adoption by the Board of County Commissioners or respective town council,
unless the Commission, upon proper application, for good cause shown, grants an
extension of time for such period as it deems is in the public interest;
provided, however, only the approved detailed unit development plan shall be
required within the said one-year period, and platting for recording purposes
of all or an appropriate part of the unit development plan may be undertaken in
sections or phases at a later time.
      (2)   An approved detailed unit development plan may mean and be
designated the same as a plat which has been granted secondary approval in
accordance with the requirements of Ch. 155 of this code of ordinances.
      (3)   A refusal by the Commission to approve a detailed site plan shall
not be construed as a denial, and any such refusal shall not operate as a
limitation on the right of the petitioner to continue to seek approval nor
shall it impair the right of the petitioner to obtain an extension of time for
approval.
      (4)   In the event that approval of a detailed site plan is not obtained
with the one-year period or an approved extension of time, the Commission shall
initiate an amendment of this chapter so that the land will be zoned into the
category or categories it held before being reclassified as a “UD” Unit
Development Plan District.
   (F)   The Commission may allow the petitioner to develop the property
involved in phases. If such phasing is permitted, the Commission may allow the
petitioner to submit partial detailed site plans which correspond to the phases
involved. Such partial detailed site plans, when approved, shall be treated in
the same manner as approved detailed site plans for an entire unit development
plan.
   (G)   Where a platting, re-platting or vacation of streets within all or a
portion of the land involved is contemplated, the Commission shall handle such
matters in accordance with its regular procedures in accordance with law.
   (H)   No construction or installation work shall be done on any public
improvements until satisfactory plans and specifications therefore have been
submitted to the Commission in accordance with the provisions of
Ch. 155 of this code of ordinances, and the petitioner has, at least 24 hours
in advance, notified the Executive Director of his or her intention to begin
such work, in order that inspections may be made as the work progresses.
   (I)   In the exercise of its continuing jurisdiction, the Commission may
from time to time modify the approved detailed unit development plan in a
manner consistent with the approved preliminary unit development plan to allow
for changed circumstances and conditions unforeseen at the time of its original
approval.
   (J)   All development shall be in conformity with the approved detailed unit
development plan. In the exercise of its continuing jurisdiction, the
Commission shall take cognizance of any material deviations from the approved
detailed unit development plan and take appropriate enforcement action.
   (K)   Approval by the Commission shall expire after a period of five years
from the approval of a detailed unit development plan, unless the development
is 50% completed in terms of public improvements, including streets, parks,
walkways and utility installations, in which instance an extension of time may
be granted by the Commission not to exceed five successive periods of two years
each.
   (L)   All proceedings brought under this section shall be subject to the
rules of procedure of the Commission, where not inconsistent with the procedure
otherwise stated herein; except that, notice for proceedings related solely to
approval and modification of a detailed unit development plan.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.22(C))
§ 156.324 ABANDONMENT OR EXPIRATION.
   Under the abandonment of a development authorized under this subchapter
(abandonment shall be deemed to have occurred when no improvements have been
made pursuant to the approved detailed unit development plan for 24 consecutive
months, or under the expiration of five years from the approval by the
Commission of a detailed unit development plan for a development which has not
been completed or the expiration of an extension granted by the Commission),
the Commission shall initiate an amendment to this chapter so that the land
will be zoned (or reclassified) into a category or categories which most nearly
approximate its then existing use or such other zoning category or categories
which it deems appropriate.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.22(D))
§ 156.325 RECORDING.
   An approved detailed unit development plan and modifications thereof shall
be recorded in the appropriate plat books in the office of the County Recorder
within two years after approval by the Commission.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.22(E))
§ 156.326 PERMIT.
   No improvement location permit shall be used, for any use in the UD District
by the Executive Director unless all recording required by §
156.325 of this chapter has been effected, and no certificate of occupancy
shall be issued for a use in the UD District unless the approved detailed unit
development plan, with modifications, if any, is adhered to, all in compliance
with the purposes of this chapter or the applicable town code.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.22(F))
§ 156.327 COVENANTS AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   (1)   Covenants shall be required by the Commission as an ingredient
for stability and longevity of the unit development plan, and shall set forth,
in detail, provisions for the ownership and maintenance of facilities held in
common so as to reasonably ensure their continuity and conservation.
      (2)   Said covenant provisions shall include special remedies in the
event facilities held in common are permitted to deteriorate or are not
maintained in a condition consistent with the best interests of the county or
respective town, and in such event the county or respective town shall take
those remedial steps provided for in such provisions.
   (B)   (1)   The Commission may require the recording of covenants for any
reasonable public or semi-public purpose, including, but not limited to, the
allocation of land by the petitioner for public thoroughfares, parks, schools,
recreational facilities and other public and semi-public purposes whenever
necessary in conformity with the Comprehensive Plan of current adoption.
      (2)   Such covenants shall provide that if a governmental unit or agency
thereof does not proceed with acquisition of the allocated land within a
specified period of time, the covenants shall automatically terminate.
      (3)   If such termination occurs, the petitioner shall then submit for
approval by the Commission a modified detailed site plan for such land
consistent with the approved preliminary unit development plan.
      (4)   Such modified detailed site plans, when approved, shall be treated
in the same manner as approved detailed site plans for an entire unit
development plan.
   (C)   (1)   The Commission may require the recording of covenants for any
other reasonable purpose, including, but not limited to, imposing standards for
development of property in a unit development plan.
      (2)   Such development standards may include, but are not limited to,
requirements as to the following:
         (a)   Lot area;
         (b)   Floor area;
         (c)   Ratios of floor space to land area;
         (d)   Area in which structures may be built (building area), including
areas for cluster type residential development without lot lines;
         (e)   Open space;
         (f)   Setback lines and minimum yards;
         (g)   Building separations;
         (h)   Height of structures;
         (i)   Signs;
         (j)   Off-street parking and loading and unloading areas;
         (k)   Design standards; and
         (l)   Phasing of development.
   (D)   The petitioner shall provide financial assurance for the satisfactory
installation of all public facilities in the form of bonds or such other
assurances as are required in the normal procedures of platting pursuant to the
provisions of
Ch. 155 of this code of ordinances.
   (E)   Adequate provision shall be made for a private organization with
direct responsibility to, and controlled by, the property owners involved to
provide for the operation and maintenance of all common facilities including
private streets jointly shared by such property owners if such facilities are a
part of the unit development plan and, in such instance, legal assurance shall
be provided which shows that the private organization is self-perpetuating and
adequately funded to accomplish its purposes.
   (F)   (1)   Common facilities, which are not dedicated to the public, shall
be maintained to standards assuring continuous and adequate maintenance at a
reasonable and non-discriminatory rate of charge to the beneficiaries thereof.
      (2)   Common facilities not dedicated to the public shall be operated and
maintained at no expense to any governmental unit.
   (G)   (1)   All private streets shall be maintained by the aforesaid private
organization in such a manner that adequate access is provided at all times to
vehicular traffic, so that fire, police, health, sanitation and public utility
vehicles can serve the properties contiguous or adjacent thereto, and so that
said vehicles will have adequate turning area.
      (2)   Said private streets shall be developed in accordance with the
standards set forth in
Ch. 155 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.22(G))
§ 156.328 LIMITATION ON REZONING.
   The Commission shall not initiate any amendments to this chapter concerning
the property involved in the unit development plan before completion of the
development as long as development is in conformity with the approved detailed
unit development plan and proceeding in accordance with the time requirements
imposed herein.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.22(H))
GENERAL PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
§ 156.340 GENERAL.
   (A)   All uses established or placed into operation after the effective date
of the ordinance comprising this chapter shall comply with the following
performance standards, except as otherwise set forth in this chapter for open
and enclosed industrial uses, in the interest of protecting the public health,
safety and welfare, and to lessen injury to property.
   (B)   No use shall exhibit obnoxious characteristics to the extent that it
constitutes a public nuisance as further prescribed hereinafter.
   (C)   No use in existence on the effective date of the said ordinance shall
be so altered or modified to conflict with these standards.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.06) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.341 FIRE PROTECTION.
   Firefighting equipment and prevention measures acceptable to the applicable
fire department shall be readily available and apparent when any activity
involving the handling or storage of flammable or explosive materials is
conducted.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.06(A)) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.342 ELECTRICAL DISTURBANCE.
   No use shall cause electrical disturbance adversely affecting radios,
televisions or other equipment in the vicinity.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.06(B)) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.343 NOISE.
   (A)   No use shall produce noise in such a manner as to be objectionable
because of volume, frequency, intermittence, beat, shrillness or vibration.
   (B)   Said noise shall be muffled or otherwise controlled so as not to
become detrimental; provided, however, public safety sirens and related
apparatus used solely for public purposes shall be exempt from this standard.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.06(C)) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.344 VIBRATION.
   No use shall cause vibrations or concussions detectable beyond the lot lines
without the aid of instruments.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.06(D)) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.345 ODOR.
   No use shall emit across the lot lines malodorous gas or matter in such
quantity as to be readily detectable at any point along the lot lines.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.06(E)) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.346 AIR POLLUTION.
   No use shall discharge across the lot lines fly ash, dust, smoke, vapors,
noxious, toxic or corrosive matter, or other air pollutants in such
concentration as to be detrimental to health, animals, vegetation or property,
or conflict with public air quality standards.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.06(F)) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.347 HEAT AND GLARE.
   No use shall produce heat or glare in such a manner as to be a nuisance or
create a hazard perceptible from any point beyond the lot lines.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.06(G)) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.348 WATER POLLUTION.
   No use shall produce erosion or other pollutants in such quantity as to be
detrimental to adjacent properties or conflict with public water quality
standards.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.06(H)) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.349 WASTE MATTER.
   No use shall amass within the lot or discharge beyond the lot lines any
waste matter, whether liquid or solid, in conflict with applicable public
health, safety and welfare standards and regulations.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.06(I)) Penalty, see §
156.999
NON-CONFORMING BUILDINGS AND USES
§ 156.360 GENERAL.
   The lawful use of a building or premises, existing at the time of the
passage of the ordinance comprising this chapter, may be continued although
such use does not conform to all the provisions of this chapter, subject to the
following conditions.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.07)
§ 156.361 MAY BE EXTENDED.
   A non-conforming use may be extended throughout a building provided the size
of the structure is not increased.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.07(A))
§ 156.362 MAY BE CHANGED.
   A non-conforming use may be changed to another non-conforming use of the
same or greater restrictions, provided the size of the structure is not
increased.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.07(B))
§ 156.363 USE CANNOT BE CHANGED TO NON-CONFORMING USE.
   Whenever a non-conforming use has been changed to a conforming use or to a
use permitted in a district of greater restrictions, it shall not thereafter be
changed to a non-conforming use.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.07(C)) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.364 NO BUILDING ERECTED ON NON-CONFORMING USE PREMISES.
   No building shall be erected upon any premises devoted to a non-conforming
use, except in conformance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.07(D)) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.365 TEMPORARY NON-CONFORMING USE.
   The Board may authorize, by written permit, in a district permitting
residential use, for a period of not more than one year from the date of such
permit, a temporary building for business or industrial use incidental to the
residential construction and development of said district. (See §§
156.515 through
156.518 pf this chapter.)
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.07(E))
§ 156.366 DISCONTINUANCE OF NON-CONFORMING USE.
   In the event that a non-conforming use of any building or premises is
discontinued for a period of at least one year, the use of the same shall
thereafter conform to the uses permitted in the district in which it is
located, and provided further that any non-conforming dwelling which may be
removed from a lot, shall relocate on a lot in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.07(F))
§ 156.367 DAMAGE TO NON-CONFORMING USE.
   (A)   (1)   If a building or other structure containing a non-conforming use
is damaged or destroyed by any means to the extent of 50% or more of its
replacement value at that time, the building or other structure can be rebuilt
or used thereafter only for a conforming use and in compliance with the
provisions of the district in which it is located.
      (2)   In the event the damage or destruction is less than 50% of its
replacement value, based upon prevailing costs, the building may then be
restored to its original condition and the occupancy or use of such building
may be continued which existed at the time of such partial destruction.
      (3)   It shall be the decision of the Executive Director as to percentage
determinations.
   (B)   In either event, restoration or repair of the building or other
structure must be started within a period of six months from the date of damage
or destruction, and diligently prosecuted to completion.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.07(G))
§ 156.368 HONORING PREVIOUS PERMITS.
   (A)   Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the plans for the
construction or designated use of a building for which an improvement location
permit or a building permit has been heretofore issued, and the actual
construction of which has been diligently prosecuted within 90 days of the date
of such permit, and which entire building shall be completed according to such
plans filed within three years of such permit.
   (B)   Actual construction is hereby defined to include the erection of
construction materials in permanent position and fastened in a permanent
manner.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.07(H))
§ 156.369 BUILDINGS MAY BE MADE SAFE.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the strengthening or restoring to a
safe condition of any part of any building declared unsafe by proper authority.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.07(I))
§ 156.370 NON-CONFORMING USE RESULTING FROM AMENDMENT.
   These provisions apply in the same manner to a use, which may become a non-
conforming use as a result of an amendment to this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.07(J))
§ 156.371 NON-CONFORMING USE IN FLOODPLAIN DISTRICT.
   (A)   Any building, structure or use of land in the (FP) Floodplain District
which is not in conformance with this chapter constitutes a non-conforming use.
   (B)   All applications to repair, extend or enlarge a non-conforming use in
the FP District shall be forwarded to Natural Resources for review and comment.
   (C)   All terms and conditions imposed by Natural Resources shall be
incorporated into the issuance of any resulting improvement location permit
issued by the Executive Director (or building permit issued by the Building
Inspector).
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.07(K))
§ 156.372 NON-CONFORMING LOT AREAS AND WIDTHS.
   (A)   A single-family dwelling may be located on any lot in any district in
which single-family dwellings are permitted if the lot was a single parcel in
single ownership, or a single parcel included in a subdivision of record at the
time of passage of the ordinance comprising this chapter, even though the lot
does not have the minimum lot width or the minimum lot area specified for the
district.
   (B)   Provided that, the lot size and lot width shall meet the minimum
standards of the County Health Department.
   (C)   Provided further that, the width of the lot, as measured at the
building line, shall be at least 75% of that required by the terms of this
chapter.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.08)
CONTINGENT USES
§ 156.385 GENERAL.
   A contingent use is one which is likely or liable, but not certain, to occur
and which is not inappropriate to the principal uses of the district in which
it may be located.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.23)
§ 156.386 CONTINGENT USES PERMITTED.
   Contingent uses set forth below, including accessory buildings and uses, are
permitted in the districts indicated herein, subject to the provisions herein,
and in this chapter:
Type of Use Districts in Which Use Is Permitted*
Type of Use                                Districts in Which Use Is Permitted*
Church or temple                           All except I-1 and FP
Educational institution (except college or All except I-1, I-2 and FP
university building)
Farm house or farm dwelling                All except LB, GB, I-2 and FP
Fraternity, sorority and student co-cops   R-3, LB and GB
Lodge or private club, which is of a non-  All except A-1, A-2, FR and R-1
commercial character
Farm, general (subject to any restrictive  All
town ordinances governing livestock)
Farm seasonal worker housing, tenant       A-1, A-2, FR
Municipal, county or governmental building All
Plant nurseries, truck gardens             All except R-1, R-2, R-3 and FR
Public utility installation-terminal       I-1, I-2
facility
NOTE TO TABLE:
* All uses proposed to be located in the UD Development Plan District and the
FP Floodplain District are subject to the procedures and approvals set forth in
§§
156.320 through
156.328 and 156.300 through 156.309 of this chapter, respectively. Also see §§
156.400 through
156.405 of this chapter for specific uses with restrictive standards.
 
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.23(A))
§ 156.387 OTHER REQUIREMENTS FOR CONTINGENT USES.
   (A)   The front yard setback and side and rear yard requirements for
contingent uses shall be as follows.
      (1)   For contingent uses proposed to be located in the A-1, A-2, FR, R-
1, R-2 and R-3 Districts, the requirements shall be the same as those for a
single-family dwelling.
      (2)   For contingent uses proposed to be located in the LB and GB
Districts, the requirement shall be the same as those for a multi-family
dwelling.
      (3)   For contingent uses proposed to be located in the RB District, the
requirements shall be the same as those for a roadside business use in the RB
District; provided that, the special exception procedure shall not apply to a
contingent use.
      (4)   For contingent uses proposed to be located in the IB District, the
requirements shall be the same as those for an interchange business use in the
IB District; provided that, the special exception procedure shall not apply to
a contingent use.
      (5)   For contingent uses proposed to be located in the I-1 and I-
2 Districts, the requirements shall be the same as those for an enclosed
industrial use.
      (6)   For contingent uses proposed to be located in the FP District, the
Executive Director shall determine the adequacy of the setback distances.
   (B)   See Figure 1 for yard requirements.
   (C)   Additional height requirements are set forth in §§
156.470 and
156.471 of this chapter.
   (D)   Off-street parking space requirements are set forth in §§
156.530 through
156.537 of this chapter.
   (E)   Sign requirements are set forth in §§
156.550 through
156.557 of this chapter.
   (F)   Ground floor area for a farmhouse or farm dwelling shall be the same
as that required for a single-family dwelling.
   (G)   See §§
156.420 through
156.423 of this chapter for front yard or setback and additional yard
requirements.
   (H)   See §§
156.435 through
156.444 of this chapter for fence requirements and yard exceptions.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.23(B))
§ 156.388 DEVELOPMENT DISABILITIES RESIDENTIAL FACILITIES PERMITTED.
   Development disabilities residential facilities are permitted in any
district where dwellings are permitted; provided that, the licensing and
regulation of such facilities shall be accomplished through the Developmental
Disabilities Residential Facilities Council of the state, in accordance with
the requirements of I.C. 16-10-2.1 and I.C. 16-31.1.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.23(C))
SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS
§ 156.400 DEFINITION AND BASIS OF APPROVAL.
   (A)   Special exceptions are uses publicly or municipally operated and those
uses traditionally affected with a public interest and those uses entirely
private in character but of such an unusual nature that their operation may
give rise to unique problems with respect to their impact upon neighboring
property and public facilities.
   (B)   A special exception or any use not otherwise set forth in this chapter
that fits the definition set forth in division (A) above may be approved in
zones as specified in this section. The use approved shall be subject to any
regulations or requirements imposed as a part of the special exception, in
addition or in place of the other regulations or requirements of this chapter.
The provisions of a special exception shall replace and supersede the
provisions of the base zone, effective upon either construction of any
facilities approved as a part of the special exception or upon beginning of
operation of the use or uses specified, whichever occurs first. The provisions
shall remain in effect until such time as the special exception (use) ceases to
operate. Immediately prior to reuse of the structures or facilities used for
the special exception, the provisions of the special exception shall become
invalid and the regulations and requirements of the base zone shall again be in
effect.
   (C)   Any significant changes (as determined by the Board) in use of a
special exception or any construction of new facilities or structures, or major
additions to existing facilities or structures (as determined by the Board)
shall be subject to approval by the Board of Zoning Appeals, using the same
process as used for the original approval.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.24(A))
§ 156.401 PROCEDURE FOR APPROVAL.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application for a special exception, the Executive
Director shall refer the application to the Board of Zoning Appeals for public
hearing and approval or denial of the petition. Prior to a public hearing on
such petition, the petition shall be reviewed for technical completeness and
compliance with this chapter by a technical review committee comprised of the
Executive Director, at least one, but not more than three, Area Plan Commission
members, at least one, but not more than two, Board of Zoning Appeals members,
the County Surveyor and the Attorney for the Area Plan Commission/Board of
Zoning Appeals. Said technical review shall be conducted sufficiently in
advance to provide a reasonable time, opportunity for the applicant, petitioner
to submit any necessary documentation ten days prior to the meeting when the
petition is scheduled to be heard.
   (B)   Upon such hearings, if the Board of Zoning Appeals finds that:
      (1)   The establishment, maintenance or operation of the special
exception will not be detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety or
general welfare;
      (2)   The special exception will not be injurious to the use and
enjoyment of other property in the immediate vicinity for the purposes already
permitted, nor substantially diminish and impair property values within the
neighborhood;
      (3)   The establishment of the special exception will not impede the
normal and orderly development and improvement of surrounding property for uses
permitted in the district;
      (4)   Adequate utilities, access roads, drainage and other necessary
facilities have been or are being provided; and
      (5)   Adequate measures have been or will be taken to provide ingress or
egress so designed as to minimize traffic congestion in the public streets.
   (C)   The Board shall direct the Executive Director to issue an improvement
location permit for such special exception; otherwise, the Board shall direct
the Executive Director to reject the application. The findings of the Board and
its order to the Executive Director shall be in writing.
   (D)   The Board may impose additional conditions to assure that special
exceptions will conform to the intent of this chapter. These additional
conditions may include, but are not limited to, the provisions of the
following:
      (1)   Off-street parking and loading areas, with particular attention to
the economic, noise, glare or odor effects of the special exception on
adjoining properties and properties generally in the district;
      (2)   Refuse and service areas;
      (3)   Special screening and buffering with reference to type, dimensions
and character;
      (4)   Signs and proposed exterior lighting with reference to glare,
traffic, safety, economic effect and compatibility and harmony with properties
in the district;
      (5)   Additional setback distances, yards and other open space;
      (6)   General compatibility with adjoining properties, with reference to
site development standards designed for their mutual protection and the
environmental harmony of the district;
      (7)   A development plan in the event such a plan is not already required
for a particular special exception set forth in §
156.402 of this chapter, or for a use determined by the Board to be a special
exception which is not otherwise set forth in this chapter. (See §
156.400(A) of this chapter.)
   (E)   If the nature of the special exception involves more than one of those
listed in §
156.404 of this chapter, the applicant may apply for an improvement location
permit for the special exception, which most closely relates to the primary
use; provided that, the applicable requirements of the related uses will be
met.
   (F)   Any person, to whom is issued an improvement location permit for a
special exception, who fails to commence construction within 12 months after
such permit is issued, or who fails to carry to completion the total
development plan thereof within three years after such construction is begun,
whichever is later, or who fails to conform to the provisions of the
development plan and supporting data finally approved by the Board and upon the
basis of which such improvement location permit was issued, may be required by
the Board upon its own motion, and shall be required by the Board upon written
petition of any person deeming himself or herself aggrieved, to show cause why
such approval should not be withdrawn and such improvement location permit
revoked.
   (G)   The holder of an improvement location permit for a special exception
may apply to the Board at any time for an alteration, change, amendment or
extension of the application or development plan upon which such permit was
based.
      (1)   Upon receipt of such application, the Board shall proceed as in the
case of original applications for an improvement location permit for a special
exception.
      (2)   In the event the Board shall approve and order such application or
development plan changed, altered, amended or extended, it shall notify the
Executive Director who shall issue an amended improvement location permit
accordingly.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.24(B))
§ 156.402 EXISTING USE MAY BE A CONFORMING USE.
   An existing use which is listed herein as a special exception, and which is
located in a district in which such special exception may be permitted, is a
conforming use, provided such use meets the minimum lot area requirements set
forth herein. Any expansion of such special exception involving the enlargement
of a building, structure and land area devoted to such use, shall be subject to
the requirements and procedures described in this section.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.24(C))
§ 156.403 TEMPORARY CERTIFICATES.
   Whenever a special exception has been approved and is of such a nature that
the applicant desires to complete the structure and improvements shown in the
development plan by stages, the applicant may make application for a temporary
certificate of occupancy for any portion of the plan that has been completed.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.24(D))
§ 156.404 SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS AND DISTRICTS WHERE THEY MAY BE PERMITTED.
   The following uses shall require approval as special exceptions. They shall
be subject to the specific conditions imposed and approved by the Board of
Zoning Appeals: unless otherwise indicated or imposed by the Board of Zoning
Appeals, the front, side and rear setback lines shall be the same as those
required in the district in which the use is proposed to be located. Certain
uses listed herein as requiring approval as special exceptions in the districts
indicated may be allowed without the special exception procedure in certain
other districts not listed below, if such use is normally permitted in such
district.
Special Exception District(s) in Which Use May Be Permitted
Special Exception                        District(s) in Which Use May Be
                                         Permitted
Adult day care                           R-3, all business
Adult entertainment/sexually oriented    GB
business
Airport and private landing strip        A-1, A-2, RB, GB, IB and FP
Anhydrous ammonia or similar liquefied
fertilizers, storage and distribution    A-1
(commercial)
Arcade/billiard room                     All business
Artificial lake of 3 or more acres       All
Assembly halls and grounds               A-2, R-3, LB, RB, GB, IB, I-1 and I-2
Assisted living facility                 R-3, all business
Auction arena or sales yard (excluding   A-2, RB and GB
livestock)
Bed and breakfast operation              R-3, all business
Boarding house                           R-3, all business
Bottled gas storage and distribution     A-2 and I-2
yard
Building material supply yard (open)     I-1
Bulk fuel storage or petroleum tank farm I-1
(commercial)
Cemetery or crematory                    All, except FP
Charitable institutions                  A-2, R-3, LB, RB and GB
Clinic                                   R-2 and R-3
College or university building           A-2, FR, R-2, R-3, LB RB and GB
Commercial greenhouse                    A-1, A-2, FR, LB, RB and GB
Contractor’s storage yard              A-2 and GB
Day care center or child development     All except I-2, IB and FP
facility
(Large) family day care home             R-3, LB, RB and GB
(Small) family day care home             A-1, A-2, R-2, R-3, LB, RB and GB
Dry cleaners (more intensive use than    LB, GB, RB, IB
40#s required
Emergency shelter                        All except I-1 and I-2
Farm implement (machinery) sales and     A-1, A-2, LB, RB and GB
service area or building (new or used)
Filling station                          LB, RB, GB, I-1 and I-2
Game preserve                            A-1, A-2 and FR
Golf course or country club              All
Golf driving range                       RB
Grain elevators and related uses         A-1, A-2, FR, RB, I-1 and I-2
Health facility, including nursing homes R-3, LB, RB, GB and IB
and retirement homes
Heliport                                 All, except R-1 and R-2
Hospital and institution                 R-3, LB, RB, GB and IB
Hotel or motel in FR District            FR
Interchange business use in IB District  IB
Junk yard                                I-2
Kennel in A-1, A-2 and I-1 District      A-1, A-2 and I-1
Manufacture of malt products, brewing,
distillation of liquid and spirits,
aging/maturation, packaging, storage or
warehousing of distilled alcohol/ethanol Permitted by special exception only
that may result in volatile organic
compounds emissions or alcohol/ethanol
emissions capable of forming Baudoinia
compniacensis
Manufacturing, storage or use of         I-1 and I-2
explosives
Mining operation (i.e., sand or gravel
pit, borrow pit, topsoil removal and     A-1, A-2, FR, I-1, I-2 and FP
storage areas)
Mobile home park                         A-2, R-3, LB, RB and GB
Outdoor commercial recreational          A-2, FB, RB, GB, IB, I-1, I-2 and FP
enterprise
Outdoor theater                          A-2, RB and GB
Penal or correctional institution        A-2, FR, GB and I-1
Private club or lodge which is of a non- A-1, A-2, FR and R-3
commercial character
Private recreational development (i.e.,
picnic grounds, fraternal organizations  A-2, FR, R-2, R-3, LB, RB, GB and FP
and the like)
Produce stands, seasonal                 All
Produce stands, year round               A-1, FB, LB, RB and GB
Public camp                              A-1, RB, IB and FP
Public or commercial sanitary fill or    I-1 and I-2
garbage disposal plant
Public or employee parking area          All, except R-1
Public park or public recreational       All
facilities
Public water wells, water stations,
filtration plant, reservoirs and storage All, except I-1 and I-2
tanks
Railroad or other mass transportation
rights-of-way and trackage, including
passenger stations, shelter stations and All
layover areas for transit vehicles and
off-street parking facilities
Raising and breeding of non-fowl or      A-1, A-2, RB, GB, I-1 and I-2
animals (commercial)
Recreational vehicle park                A-2, FB, RB, GB and IB
Recycling center                         I-1 and I-2
Restricted commercial farm enterprises   A-1, A-2, FR, I-1 and I-2
(including confined feeding operations)
Riding stable                            A-1, A-2, FR, RB and GB
Roadside business use in the RB District -
Sales barn for livestock (resale)        A-1, A-2 and I-2
Seasonal hunting and fishing lodge       A-1, A-2, FR, I-1 and FP
Sewage treatment facility (primary use)  All, except R-1 and R-2
Shooting range, outdoor                  A-1, A-2, FB, RB, GB and I-2
Slaughterhouse                           I-1 and I-2
Special school                           R-3, LB, RB, GB, IB, I-1 and I-2
Stadium, coliseum, athletic field        All, except R-1, R-2 and FP
Storage of disabled vehicles             LB, RB and GB
Studio, business (art, interior          R-3
decorating, music and the like)
Telephone exchange or public utility     A-1, A-2, FB, IB, I-1 and I-2
substation
Temporary living quarters in barn prior  A-1, A-2 and FR
to building house
Transmission lines for gas, oil,
electricity or other utilities (major    All
lines)
Transmission (radio, TV and the like)    All, except R1, R2, R3 and FP
miscellaneous tower(s)
Veterinary hospital or veterinary clinic A-1, A-2 and FR
Wholesale produce terminal or truck      RB, IB, I-1 and I-2
freight terminal
Windmill farm, solar farm/field, or      A-1, A-2, I-1 and I-2
alternative energy form
 
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.24(E); Ord. 2019-03, passed 4-22-2019; Ord. 2019-05,
passed 5-20-2019; Ord. 2019-08, passed 10-7-2019)
§ 156.405 OTHER REQUIREMENTS FOR SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS.
   Following are specific requirements for special exceptions. (The special
exceptions are referred to by name and number indicated in §
156.404 of this chapter.)
   (A)   Adult day care. Same as those requirements for a health facility/
nursing home;
   (B)   Adult entertainment/sexually oriented business.
      (1)   Minimum lot area: one acre;
      (2)   Minimum yards:
         (a)   Front: 50 feet;
         (b)   Side: 50 feet; and
         (c)   Rear: 50 feet.
      (3)   Development plan: development/site plan to be submitted with
application and must depict accurate distances from adjoining properties for a
distance of 1,500 feet;
      (4)   Use permitted not closer than 1,500 feet from a church, synagogue,
school, residential district, or there are at least eight or more residential
homes within 1,500 feet of the proposed use;
      (5)   In all other cases, the use shall be permitted not closer than
1,320 feet from a residential home;
      (6)   Screen planting: six-foot height by four-foot width effective at
all times of the year;
      (7)   Fence: alternatively or in addition to screen planting, a fence six
feet high and slatted for opacity may be required at the discretion of the
Board of Zoning Appeals and the maintenance of said fence shall be the
responsibility of the applicant;
      (8)   Maximum building height: 20 feet;
      (9)   Adequacy of sewer: Approval by appropriate governing agency
required;
      (10)   Driveways/entrance: not more than one entrance from the street or
road, and shall not be located closer to adjoining property than the minimum
side yard setback (50 feet);
      (11)   Parking: one space per person of capacity of the proposed
establishment/business, plus ten additional spaces; and
      (12)   Signs and lighting: outdoor signs and lighting shall be approved
by the Board and shall be of such nature so as to minimize light being cast
upon adjoining property.
   (C)   Airport or private landing strip.
      (1)   Minimum lot area:
         (a)   Eighty acres for airport; and
         (b)   Actual acreage for private landing strip.
      (2)   Minimum distance from Residential District or use for airport is
one-half mile; for private landing strip, 200 feet;
      (3)   Fence: six-foot wire mesh where accessible to public;
      (4)   Screen planting: six feet height by six feet width where abutting
residential use; tight screen, effective at all times of the year;
      (5)   Parking: one per employee, plus one per three seats in waiting
room;
      (6)   Development plan: shall be submitted with application;
      (7)   Signs and lighting: outdoor advertising signs and outdoor
artificial lighting shall be approved by the Board;
      (8)   Height: 35 feet or as required by appropriate state or federal
agency;
      (9)   Prior F.A.A. and state approval; and
      (10)   Accessory buildings are not permitted for private landing strip,
except one hangar to house not more than two aircraft.
   (D)   Anhydrous ammonia or similar liquefied fertilizers, storage and
distribution (commercial).
      (1)   Minimum yards in A-1 District:
         (a)   Front: 300;
         (b)   Side (each): 300; and
         (c)   Rear: 300.
      (2)   Minimum distance of parking area or loading berth from residential
district or use: 300 feet;
      (3)   Fence: six-foot wire mesh fence where accessible to public;
      (4)   Drainage shall be controlled so that liquefied fertilizers shall
not drain off the premises; and
      (5)   Development plan: to be submitted with application.
   (E)   Arcade/billiard room.
      (1)   Development plan: to be submitted with application; and
      (2)   Parking: as determined by the Board. Determination shall be based
upon the expected number of parking spaces particular type of use would require
to satisfy estimated peak parking load requirements.
   (F)   Artificial lake of three or more acres.
      (1)   A six-foot wire mesh fence where accessible to public; and
      (2)   Development plan: to be submitted with application.
   (G)   Assembly halls and grounds.
      (1)   Minimum lot area: one acre;
      (2)   (a)   Minimum front yards: standard;
         (b)   Side: (each) 20; and
         (c)   Rear 15.
      (3)   Parking: as determined by the Board. Determination shall be based
upon the expected number of parking spaces the particular type of use would
require to satisfy estimated peak parking load requirements;
      (4)   Noise: noise should be confined to the premises;
      (5)   Development plan: to be submitted with application;
      (6)   Signs and lighting: outdoor advertising signs and outdoor
artificial lighting shall be approved by the Board;
      (7)   Security: security (whenever necessary) shall be furnished by
applicant; and
      (8)   Height, maximum height of structure: 35 feet.
   (H)   Assisted living facility. Same as those for health facility/nursing
home;
   (I)   Auction arena or sales yard (excluding livestock).
      (1)   Minimum lot area: two acres;
      (2)   Minimum yards:
         (a)   Front: 50 feet;
         (b)   Side (each): 40 feet; and
         (c)   Rear: 40 feet.
      (3)   Parking space: one per two employees, plus one per each 400 square
feet of display, sales and auction area;
      (4)   Noise: noise shall be confined to the premises;
      (5)   Entrance: not more than one entrance from street;
      (6)   Development plan: development plan to be submitted with
application;
      (7)   Signs and lighting: outdoor advertising signs and outdoor
artificial lighting shall be approved by the Board; and
      (8)   Height, maximum height of structure: 35 feet.
   (J)   Bed and breakfast operation.
      (1)   Development plan: development plan to be submitted with
application;
      (2)   Screen planting: six-foot height by six-foot wide where abutting
residential use; screening to be effective at all times of the year;
      (3)   Entrance: not more than one entrance from the street;
      (4)   Adequacy of sewers: approval required;
      (5)   Parking: one per three employees, plus one per each sleeping room;
and
      (6)   Maximum three guest sleeping rooms.
   (K)   Boarding house.
      (1)   Development plan: development plan to be submitted with
application;
      (2)   Screen planting: six-foot height by six-foot wide where abutting
residential use; screening to be effective at all times of the year;
      (3)   Entrance: not more than one entrance from the street;
      (4)   Adequacy of sewers: approval required; and
      (5)   Parking: one per three employees, plus one per each sleeping room.
   (L)   Bottled gas storage and distribution.
      (1)   Minimum yards:
         (a)   Front: 100;
         (b)   Side (each): 100; and
         (c)   Rear: 100.
      (2)   Development plan: development plan to be submitted with
application.
      (3)   Safety: all laws and care shall be observed by the applicant.
   (M)   Building material supply yard (open).
      (1)   Minimum yard:
         (a)   Front: 100;
         (b)   Side (each): 100; and
         (c)   Rear: 100.
      (2)   Minimum distance from residential district or use: 300 feet;
      (3)   Entrance: not more than one entrance from street;
      (4)   Development plan: development plan to be submitted with
application;
      (5)   Screening: building materials and vehicles shall be screened or
located in such a manner so that they will not be visible from the frontal
street or adjacent residentially used or zoned property;
      (6)   Parking: one per two employees, plus one per vehicle operated by
establishment, plus one per 800 square feet of storage area; and
      (7)   Height, maximum height of structure: 35 feet.
   (N)   Bulk fuel storage or petroleum tank farm (commercial).
      (1)   Minimum yards:
         (a)   Front: 300;
         (b)   Side (each): 300; and
         (c)   Rear: 300.
      (2)   Entrance: not more than one entrance from street;
      (3)   Development plan: development plan to be submitted with
application; and
      (4)   Safety: all laws and care shall be observed by applicant.
   (O)   Cemetery.
      (1)   Minimum area: ten acres;
      (2)   Minimum yards:
         (a)   Front: standard;
         (b)   Side (each): 40 feet; and
         (c)   Rear: 40 feet.
      (3)   Landscape plan: plan of landscape development to be submitted with
application (may be submitted with development plan);
      (4)   Screen planting: six-foot height by six-foot width, where abutting
residential use; effective at all times of year;
      (5)   Development plan: development plan to be submitted with
application;
      (6)   Signs and lighting: outdoor advertising signs and outdoor
artificial lighting shall be approved by the Board;
      (7)   Parking: one per each two employees, plus one per each five acres
of area; and
      (8)   Height, maximum height of structure: 35 feet.
   (P)   Charitable institution.
      (1)   Minimum lot area: one acre;
      (2)   Minimum yards:
         (a)   Front: standard;
         (b)   Side (each): 20; and
         (c)   Rear: 15.
      (3)   Development plan: development plan to be submitted with
application; and
      (4)   Parking: as determined by the Board. The determination shall be
based upon the expected number of parking spaces the particular type of use
would require to satisfy estimated peak parking load requirements.
   (Q)   Clinic.
      (1)   Minimum lot area: 15,000 square feet;
      (2)   Minimum yards:
         (a)   Front: standard;
         (b)   Side (each): ten; and
         (c)   Rear: 30.
      (3)   Screen planting: six-foot height by three-foot width where abutting
residential use; effective at all times of the year;
      (4)   Entrance: not more than one entrance from street (other than an
emergency entrance); and
      (5)   Parking: one per two employees, plus three per doctor.
   (R)   College or university building.
      (1)   Development plan: development plan to be submitted with
application; and
      (2)   Parking: one per three students or staff members.
   (S)   Commercial greenhouse.
      (1)   Minimum lot area: 25,000 square feet;
      (2)   Minimum yards:
         (a)   Front: 100;
         (b)   Side (each): 40 feet; and
         (c)   Rear: 40 feet.
      (3)   Parking areas and loading, berth minimum distance from residential
district or use: 50 feet; and
      (4)   Entrance: not more than one entrance from street. (NOTE: For
confined feeding operation, see division (BBB) below for restricted commercial
farm enterprise (including confined feeding operations).)
   (T)   Contractor’s storage yard.
      (1)   Parking areas and loading berth minimum distance from residential
district or use: 200 feet;
      (2)   Entrance: not more than one entrance from street; and
      (3)   Development plan: development plan to be submitted with
application.
   (U)   Day care center or child development facility.
      (1)   Minimum area: 100 square feet of play area provided on same lot as
use for each child in attendance. Thirty-five square feet of suitable indoor
space per session per child shall be provided, also;
      (2)   Open/recreational space:
         (a)   Outdoor play area shall be grassed and enclosed by a four-foot
high fence. Any entry gate shall be securely fastened; and
         (b)   Outdoor play areas shall be adequately separated from vehicular
circulation and parking safety.
      (3)   General safety:
         (a)   No portion of a day care center site may be located within 300
feet of gasoline pumps or underground gasoline storage tanks, or any other
storage tanks, or any other storage area for explosive materials; and
         (b)   Garages shall not be used as designated play areas.
      (4)   Parking: one space for each two adult attendants, plus two
additional spaces;
      (5)   General standards:
         (a)   No noise shall be audible beyond the lot lines; and
         (b)   Hours of operation may be restricted by the Board.
      (6)   Traffic standards:
         (a)   Day care centers shall create no unsafe conditions for picking
up and dropping off children; and
         (b)   Loading and unloading of children from vehicles shall only be
permitted on the driveway, approved parking area or directly in front of the
facility.
      (7)   License required: the applicant must obtain day care center license
from the State Department of Public Welfare.
   (V)   Day care homes.
      (1)   Large family day care home.
         (a)   Minimum area:
            1.   One hundred square feet of outdoor play area provided on same
lot as use for each child in attendance; and
            2.   Thirty-five square feet of suitable indoor space per session
per child shall be provided, also.
         (b)   Open/recreational space:
            1.   Outdoor play area shall be grassed and enclosed by a four-foot
high fence. Any entry gate shall be securely fastened; and
            2.   Outdoor play areas shall be adequately separated from
vehicular circulation and parking safety.
         (c)   General safety:
            1.   No portion of a day care center site may be located within 300
feet of gasoline pumps or underground gasoline storage tanks, or any other
storage area for explosive materials; and
            2.   Garages shall not be used as designated play areas.
         (d)   Parking: one space for each two adult attendants, plus two
additional spaces;
         (e)   General standards:
            1.   No noise shall be audible beyond the lot lines; and
            2.   Hours of operation may be restricted by the Board.
         (f)   Traffic standards:
            1.   Day care centers shall create no unsafe conditions for picking
up and dropping off children; and
            2.   Loading and unloading of children from vehicles shall only be
permitted on the driveway, approved parking area or directly in front of the
facility.
         (g)   Spacing requirements: no facility shall be located closer than
600 feet to another large family day care home;
         (h)   Signs: one sign, not exceeding four square feet and five feet in
height may be used to identify the center;
         (i)   No sales: no goods, chattel, wares or merchandise offered for
sale therein, except in the LB, RB and GB districts; and
         (j)   License required: applicant must obtain day care home license
from the State Department of Public Welfare.
      (2)   Small family day care home.
         (a)   Minimum area:
            1.   One hundred square feet of outdoor play area provided on same
lot as use for each child in attendance; and
            2.   Thirty-five square feet of suitable indoor space per session
per child shall be provided, also.
         (b)   Open/recreational space:
            1.   Outdoor play area shall be grassed and enclosed by a four-foot
high fence. Any entry gate shall be securely fastened; and
            2.   Outdoor play area cannot be closer than ten feet to any
adjoining property.
         (c)   General safety:
            1.   No portion of a day care center site may be located within 300
feet of gasoline pumps or underground gasoline storage tanks, or any other
storage area for explosive materials; and
            2.   Garages shall not be used as a designated play area.
         (d)   Parking: one space for each two adult attendants, plus two
additional spaces;
         (e)   General standards:
            1.   No noise shall be audible beyond the lot lines; and
            2.   Hours of operation may be restricted by the Board.
         (f)   Traffic standards:
            1.   Day care centers shall create no unsafe conditions for picking
up or dropping off children; and
            2.   Loading and unloading of children from vehicles shall only be
permitted on the driveway, approved parking area or directly in front of the
facility.
         (g)   Spacing requirements: no facility shall be located closer than
600 feet to another large family day care home;
         (h)   Signs: one sign, not exceeding four square feet and five feet in
height may be used to identify the center;
         (i)   No sales: no goods, chattel, wares or merchandise offered for
sale therein, except in the LB, RB, and GB districts; and
         (j)   License required: the applicant must obtain day care home
license from the State Department of Public Welfare.
   (W)   Dry cleaners (more intensive use than 40#s required in §
156.211 of this chapter. Board to determine additional requirements.
   (X)   Emergency shelter.
      (1)   Development plan: development plan to be submitted with
application; and
      (2)   Board to determine additional requirements.
   (Y)   Farm implement (machinery) sales and service area or building (new/
used).
      (1)   Development plan: development plan to be submitted with
application;
      (2)   Dead storage: no dead storage, repair work or dismantling on the
lot;
      (3)   Height, maximum height of structure: 35 feet;
      (4)   Adequacy of sewers: approval required;
      (5)   Special setback requirements: used machinery may be placed
temporarily in the rear of the building line in the sales lot; provided that,
new machinery may be placed temporarily in front of the building line in the RB
District, but not closer than 20 feet to the front lot line in the RB District;
and
      (6)   Parking: one per two employees, plus one per vehicle operated by
the establishment, plus one per 1,000 square feet of display and sales area.
   (Z)   Filling station, automobile car wash and roadside restaurant.
      (1)   Minimum lot area: one-half acre;
      (2)   Minimum yards: same as local business use in respective district;
      (3)   Landscape plan in which filling station is proposed to be located:
plan of landscape development to be submitted with application (may be combined
with development plan);
      (4)   Fence: four-foot wire mesh abutting residential use;
      (5)   Screen planting: six-foot height by six-foot width; where abutting
residential use: tight screen, effective at all times of the year;
      (6)   Parking spaces: as determined by the Board. The determination shall
be based on the expected number of parking spaces the particular type of use
would require to satisfy estimated peak parking load requirements;
      (7)   Development plan: development plan to be submitted with
application;
      (8)   Signs and lighting: outdoor advertising signs and outdoor
artificial lighting shall be approved by the Board;
      (9)   Dead storage: no sales, dead storage, repair work or dismantling on
the lot; and
      (10)   Adequacy of sewers: approved by Executive Director that sewers are
adequate.
   (AA)   Game preserve.
      (1)   Development plan: development plan to be submitted; and
      (2)   Fence: adequate wire mesh fence where accessible to public.
   (BB)   Golf course or country club.
      (1)   Minimum yards:
         (a)   Front: standard;
         (b)   Side (each): 40; and
         (c)   Rear: 40.
      (2)   Minimum distance of parking area from residential district of use:
20 feet;
      (3)   Screen planting: six-foot height by six-foot width, where abutting
residential use; effective at all times of the year;
      (4)   Entrance: not more than one entrance from street;
      (5)   Setback from interior drives: 40 feet;
      (6)   Parking spaces: 30;
      (7)   Development plan: development plan to be submitted with
application;
      (8)   Signs and lighting: outdoor advertising signs and outdoor
artificial lighting shall be approved by the Board;
      (9)   Adequacy of sewers: approval required; and
      (10)   Height, maximum height of structure: 35 feet.
   (CC)   Golf driving range. Same as division (BB) above, except number of
parking spaces shall be 20.
   (DD)   Grain elevators and related uses.
      (1)   Development plan: development plan to be submitted with
application;
      (2)   Noise: noise shall be confined to the limits set forth in §
156.273 of this chapter; and
      (3)   Height, maximum height of structure: 135 feet.
   (EE)   Health facility, including nursing homes and retirement homes.
      (1)   Minimum lot area: 40,000 square feet, but not less than 1,000
square feet per person cared-for occupant;
      (2)   Minimum yards:
         (a)   In the RB and IB Districts:
            1.   Front: 80 feet;
            2.   Side: 40 feet; and
            3.   Rear: 40 feet.
         (b)   In other districts: same as requirements for single-family
dwelling.
      (3)   Landscape plan: plan to landscape development to be submitted with
application (may be combined with development plan);
      (4)   Screen planting: six-foot height by six-foot width where abutting
residential use; tight screen, effective at all times;
      (5)   Parking spaces: one per each five patients or occupants, plus one
per each staff member or supervisor doctor, plus one per each three employees;
      (6)   Development plan: development plan to be submitted with
application;
      (7)   Height, maximum height of structure: 35 feet;
      (8)   State approval required: facility must be licensed by the State
Board of Health in accordance with I.C. 16-10-2 (some types of facilities do
not require licensure);
      (9)   Adequacy of sewers: approval required; and
      (10)   Height, maximum height of structure: 45 feet.
   (FF)   Heliport.
      (1)   Spacing: use permitted not closer than 200 feet to a residential
use;
      (2)   Fence: four-foot wire mesh abutting residential use;
      (3)   Parking spaces: one per employee plus one per three seats in
waiting room;
      (4)   Development plan: development plan to be submitted with
application;
      (5)   Signs and lighting: outdoor advertising signs and outdoor
artificial lighting shall be approved by the Board; and
      (6)   Height: as required by appropriate state or federal agency.
   (GG)   Hospital and institution.
      (1)   Minimum lot area: Hospital: three acres; Institution: determined by
zone;
      (2)   Minimum yards (abutting residential use):
         (a)   Front: 50;
         (b)   Side (each): 40; and
         (c)   Rear: 40.
      (3)   Minimum distance of parking area from residential district or use:
25 feet;
      (4)   Minimum distance of loading berth: from residence district or use.
Determined by division and §§
156.401(D)(2),
156.535, and
156.536;
      (5)   Screen planting: six-foot height by three-foot width where abutting
residential use; effective at all times of the year;
      (6)   Parking spaces: one per four beds, one per examination, treatment,
or consultation room, plus one per doctor, plus one per two employees on
largest shift, plus one emergency response vehicle;
      (7)   Development plan: development plan to be submitted with
application;
      (8)   Height: 70 feet; and
      (9)   Adequacy of sewer and water: sanitary sewer, and regional/municipal
water approval required.
   (HH)   Hotel or motel in FR District.
      (1)   Minimum lot area: one acre;
      (2)   Minimum yard:
         (a)   Front: standard;
         (b)   Side (each): 25; and
         (c)   Rear: 25.
      (3)   Screen planting: six-foot height by six-foot width where abutting
residential use; tight screen effective at all times of the year;
      (4)   Entrance: not more than two entrances from street;
      (5)   Parking: one per three employees, plus one per one and one-half
sleeping rooms;
      (6)   Development plan: development plan to be submitted with
application;
      (7)   Height: 35 feet; and
      (8)   Adequacy of sewers: approval required.
   (II)   Interchange business use in the IB District.
      (1)   Development plan. Development plan to be submitted with
application.
      (2)   Greenbelt. A greenbelt or lawn area at least 20 feet in width and
abutting the property line on the lot in the IB District shall be provided on
the particular side(s) or rear of a lot where a IB District use adjoins an A-1,
R-1, R-2 or R-3 District or land being used for residential purposes. A
planting screen consisting of suitable shrubbery shall be provided and
maintained within such greenbelt or lawn area so as to provide a tight screen,
effective at all times of the year. The locations and name(s) of the shrubbery
planting shall be indicated on the development plan or on a separate landscape
plan, which shall become a part of the application. The shrubbery may be
planted informally or in a row and may include several varieties and sizes
provided that the Board shall be satisfied that the shrubbery shall screen any
parking areas and expected ground activity from the view of said abutting
property, and also that vision clearance at access points shall be provided for
safety purposes.
      (3)   Location of accessory uses. Off-street parking spaces and accessory
uses such as filling station pumps and islands, signs and light standards and
access drives may be located in the required front yard, but not within 20 feet
of the front line, provided that the access drives may connect with the frontal
street; and, provided also that, said strip of land shall be maintained as a
lawn area with occasional tree and shrub plantings.
      (4)   Front yard. The front yard shall be at least 80 feet. On through
lots, front yards shall be provided on each street, and on corner lots that
side yard dimension shall be at least 40 feet along the side street line.
      (5)   Driveways. Entrances and exits shall be located so as to minimize
any adverse effect on adjacent properties. Access driveways shall not be wider
than 40 feet at their point of intersection with a street.
      (6)   Side or rear yard. No structure or building, driveway or accessory
use shall be located closer than ten feet to any side of rear lot line.
      (7)   Easements and utilities. Locations of easements and proposed
utility lines and structures for storm drainage, sanitary sewers, electric
power, water mains and the like, including a statement or indications
concerning the approximate size or capacity and the proposed operation of
utilities to be installed shall be included in the application.
      (8)   Parking. The number of off-street parking spaces required shall be
determined in accordance with the requirements set forth in §§
156.530 through
156.537 of this chapter.
      (9)   Height. Buildings may be erected to any height, provided the
applicant can demonstrate that safety will be provided from the danger of fire
or other damages which could result from excessive height.
      (10)   Sales displays. Except for the sales of gasoline or oil at filling
stations, all sales or displays outside of buildings shall be approved by the
Board.
      (11)   No outside storage. Outside storage is not a permitted use in the
IB District.
      (12)   Principal buildings. Except for residential uses, more than one
principal building and its accessory building(s) or use(s) shall be permitted
on one lot in the IB District.
      (13)   Sewers. Approval required.
   (JJ)   Junk yard.
      (1)   Minimum lot area: five acres;
      (2)   Minimum yards:
         (a)   Front: 50;
         (b)   Side: 40; and
         (c)   Rear: 40.
      (3)   Spacing: use permitted not closer than 200 feet to a residential
use;
      (4)   Entrance: not more than one entrance from street;
      (5)   Fence: solid wall or solid painted fence eight feet high except
along railroad right-of-way or eight-foot wire mesh fence covered and
maintained with thick ivy growth;
      (6)   Parking spaces: one per two employees;
      (7)   Signs and lighting: outdoor advertising signs and outdoor
artificial lighting shall be approved by the Board; and
      (8)   Height, maximum height of structure: 25 feet.
   (KK)   Kennel in A-1, A-2 and I-1 Districts.
      (1)   Minimum lot area: two acres;
      (2)   Minimum yards:
         (a)   Front: 100;
         (b)   Side (each): 100; and
         (c)   Rear: 100.
      (3)   Screen planting: six-foot height by six-foot width, where abutting
residential use; effective at all times of the year;
      (4)   Entrance: not more than one entrance from street;
      (5)   Development plan: development plan to be submitted with
application;
      (6)   Noise: noise shall be confined to the premises;
      (7)   Parking: one per two employees, plus one per 500 square feet of
front area used in a waiting room; plus one per five boarder animals, based
upon maximum number of animals; and
      (8)   Height, maximum height of structure: 25 feet.
   (LL)   Manufacture of malt products, brewing, distillation of liquid and
spirits, aging/maturation, packaging, storage or warehousing of distilled
alcohol/ethanol that may result in Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) emissions
or alcohol/ethanol emissions capable of forming Baudoinia compniacensis,
permitted by special exception only.
      (1)   Development plan to be submitted with application providing an
accurate identification of all residential zones and uses, and existing non-
residential structures, within 1,320 feet of any such proposed structure to be
utilized that may result in VOC emissions.
      (2)   A mitigation plan, covering the residential zones and uses, and
existing non-residential structures within 1,320 feet of any such proposed
activities that may result in VOC emissions, must meet the approval of, and be
adopted by the Board of Zoning Appeals. The mitigation plan shall be prepared
in a recordable format, and it shall be a covenant running with the land and
inuring to the benefit of the heirs, successors and assigns of such affected
land. The mitigation plan shall be submitted to the Executive Director of the
Area Plan Commission prior to a hearing before the Board of Zoning Appeals, and
recorded prior to the issuance of the special exception permit-documentation,
and/or building permit.
      (3)   Comply with all state and Federal air and water quality regulations
and permitting.
      (4)   Submit “as-built” plans certified by the professional engineer
confirming the residential zones and uses and existing non-residential
structures within 1,320 feet of any such proposed structure to be utilized that
may result in VOC emissions.
      (5)   This division (LL) shall not apply to any permit applications
approved by IDEM (Indiana Department of Environmental Management), for the
storage of distilled alcohol/ethanol on the premises, prior to May 20, 2019,
provided that said permitted use does not exceed the storage or warehousing of
320,000 barrels of distilled alcohol/ethanol in any combination of warehouses
thereof, on said premises.
   (MM)   Manufacturing, storage or use of explosives.
      (1)   Development plan: development plan to be submitted with application
if use involves manufacturing or storage of explosives; and
      (2)   Approval of Board of County Commissioners or applicable town
council required.
   (NN)   Mining operation (i.e., sand or gravel pit, quarry, borrow pit,
topsoil, removal and storage areas).
      (1)   Minimum yards:
         (a)   Front: 150;
         (b)   Side (each): 150; and
         (c)   Rear: 150.
      (2)   Minimum distance from residence district or use: 200 feet;
      (3)   Fence: six-foot woven wire, fence where accessible to public;
      (4)   Screen planting: six-foot height by three-foot width, where
abutting residential use; effective at all times of the year;
      (5)   Entrance: no more than one entrance from street;
      (6)   Development plan: development plan to be submitted with
application;
      (7)   Miscellaneous provision: use and alienation of mineral resources
and forests outside of urban areas. For the purposes of this division (MM),
urban areas include all lands and lots within the corporate boundaries of a
town, and any other lands or lots used for residential purposes where there are
at least eight residences within any quarter mile square area, and other land
or lots that have been planned for residential areas contiguous to the town.
I.C. 36-7-4-1103 does not authorize an ordinance or action of the Plan
Commission that would prevent, outside or urban areas, the complete use and
alienation of any mineral resources or forests by the owner or a lienee of
them; and
      (8)   An earthen berm constructed to a height of eight feet with screen
planning (effective at all times of the year) at a height of at least six feet
shall surround the entire area to be mined.
   (OO)   Mobile home park.
      (1)   Development plan. Development plan to be submitted with
application.
      (2)   Area. A mobile home park shall have an area of not less than five
acres.
      (3)   Soil. The condition of the soil and ground water level of the
proposed park site shall meet the criteria promulgated by the United States
Department of Agriculture Soil Conservation Service. (See §§
156.570 through
156.579 of this chapter.) The site shall not be subject to unpredictable or
sudden flooding, subsidence or erosion. Exposed ground surfaces shall be paved,
covered with stone, screenings or other solid material, or protected with a
vegetative growth that is capable of preventing soil erosion and of eliminating
objectionable dust. Exposed ground surfaces shall be graded and equipped to
drain all surface water in a safe, efficient manner.
      (4)   Smoke, noise and odor. The proposed site shall not be exposed to
objectionable smoke, noise, odor or other adverse influences.
      (5)   Screening. A dense planting screen not less than 12 feet high and
six feet wide shall be located and effectively maintained at all times along
all boundary lines, except at established entrances and exits serving the park.
A basket weave or similar type fence or brick or stonewall may be permitted by
the Board instead of a planting screen. The Board may waive any part of these
screening requirements temporarily or permanently if adequate screening already
exists or if the topography or other conditions so warrant.
      (6)   Use. No part of any park shall be used for non-residential
purposes, except such uses that may be for the benefit of and well-being of
park residents and for the management and maintenance of the park; provided,
however, that, this shall not prohibit the sale of a mobile home located on a
mobile home slab on a mobile home lot and connected to the appropriate
utilities; provided further, however, that, a mobile home sales business may be
allowed in the mobile home park upon a showing that said business, and its
location, is in the best interest of the public health, safety, morals and
general welfare, as determined by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
      (7)   Side, rear and front yards. The tract of land for the proposed park
shall have two side yards, each having a minimum of 30 feet in width, a rear
yard having a minimum of 30 feet in depth and a front yard having a minimum of
60 feet in depth.
      (8)   Separation. Mobile homes shall be separated from each other and
from all other buildings and structures by at least 20 feet. An accessory
structure such as an awning, cabana, storage cabinets, carport, windbreak and
porch having a floor area exceeding 25 square feet and an opaque roof or top,
shall be considered to be part of the mobile home.
      (9)   Mobile home lot area and width. Each mobile home lot shall contain
a minimum of 4,000 square feet in area, and shall be at least 40 feet in width.
      (10)   Parking. Each mobile home lot shall contain two automobile parking
areas, each of which has minimum dimensions of ten feet in width by 20 feet in
length.
      (11)   Mobile home slab. Each mobile home lot shall contain a mobile home
slab. The area of the slab shall be improved to provide adequate support for
the placement and tie-down of the mobile home so that it is secure against
uplift, sliding, rotation and overturning. The slab shall be constructed so
that it will not heave, shift or settle unevenly under the weight of the mobile
home due to frost action, inadequate drainage, vibration or other forces. The
slab shall be provided with anchors and tie-downs such as cast-in place
concrete “dead men”, eyelets imbedded in concrete foundation or runways, screw
augers, arrowhead anchors or other devices securing the stability of the mobile
home. Anchors and tie-downs shall be placed at least at each corner of the slab
and each shall be able to sustain a minimum tensile strength of 2,800 pounds.
      (12)   Distance between slab and interior drive. There shall be a minimum
distance of 15 feet between the mobile home slab and an abutting interior park
drive.
      (13)   Recreation area. Each park shall provide a recreational area or
areas equal in size to at least 8% of the area of the park. Streets, parking
areas and park service facility areas shall not be included in the required
recreational area.
      (14)   Street and drives. A mobile home park shall be provided with safe
and convenient vehicular access from abutting streets or roads to each mobile
home lot. Such access shall be provided by interior private streets or
driveways or other means approved by the Board. No direct access from a front
or side street to a mobile home lot shall be permitted, except by approved
entrances and exits. The park entrance shall be designed to minimize congestion
and hazards and allow free movement of traffic on adjacent streets. No parking
shall be allowed on the park entrance driveway for a distance of 100 feet from
its point of beginning, unless the park entrance drive has a minimum width of
36 feet. Interior driveways, except minor driveways, shall have a minimum width
of 26 feet, measured from back to back of curb if provided. Minor driveways
shall have a minimum width of 20 feet. Minor driveways having mobile homes
abutting on both sides are not acceptable unless the said minor driveways are
less than 500 feet long. Minor driveways serving more than 15 mobile homes are
unacceptable. Dead-end driveways shall not exceed 1,000 feet in length, and
shall be terminated at the closed end with a turnaround having an outside
roadway diameter of at least 60 feet.
      (15)   Interior driveway construction and design standards.
         (a)   Pavements. All driveways shall be provided with a smooth, hard
and dense surface, which shall be durable and well drained under normal use and
weather conditions. Pavements edges shall be protected to prevent raveling of
the wearing surface and shifting of the pavement base. Driveway surfaces shall
be maintained so as to be free of cracks, holes and other hazards.
         (b)   Grades. Grades of all driveways shall be sufficient to ensure
adequate surface drainage, but shall not have a grade in excess of 8%;
provided, however, that, short runs having a maximum grade of 12% may be
permitted if traffic safety is assured by appropriate paving, adequate leveling
areas and avoidance of lateral curves.
         (c)   Intersections. Within 100 feet of an intersection, streets shall
be at approximately right angles. A distance of at least 150 feet shall be
maintained between centerlines to offset intersecting streets. Intersections of
more than two streets at one point shall be avoided.
      (16)   Illumination. Parks shall be furnished with lighting units so
spaced and equipped with luminaries at such mounting heights that all parts of
the interior driveway system will have an average level of illumination of 0.3
foot candle and that potentially hazardous locations such as major driveway
intersections, steps and stepped ramps will have an average level of
illumination of 0.6 foot candle. All exterior park lights shall be so located
and shielded as to prevent direct illumination of any areas outside the park.
      (17)   Walks. Mobile home parks shall be provided with safe, convenient,
all-season pedestrian access of adequate width for intended use, durable,
convenient to maintain, between individual mobile homes, the interior driveways
and all community facilities provided for park residents. Sudden changes in
alignment and gradient shall be avoided. A common walk system shall be provided
and maintained between locations where pedestrian traffic is concentrated. Such
common walks shall have a minimum width of two feet.
      (18)   Services. Service buildings, recreation buildings and other
community service facilities, such as management offices, repair shops, storage
areas, laundry facilities, indoor recreation areas and commercial uses
supplying essential goods or services for the exclusive use of the mobile home
park occupants, are permitted in the mobile home park; provided that:
         (a)   They are subordinate to the residential character of the park;
and
         (b)   The establishments and the parking areas related to their use
shall not occupy more than 10% of the total area of the park.
      (19)   Barbecue pits, fireplaces, stoves and incinerators. Cooking
shelters, barbecue pits, fireplaces, wood-burning stoves and incinerators shall
be so located, constructed, maintained and used as to minimize fire hazards and
smoke nuisance, both on the property on which used and on neighboring property.
No open fire shall be permitted, except in facilities provided. No open fire
shall be left unattended. No fuel shall be used and no material burned which
emits dense smoke or objectionable odors.
      (20)   Refuse handling. The storage, collection and disposal of refuse in
the mobile home park shall be so conducted as to create no health hazards,
rodent harborage, insect breeding areas, accident or fire hazards or air
pollution. All refuse shall be stored in fly-tight, water-tight, rodent-proof
containers, which shall be located not more than 150 feet from any mobile home
lot. Containers shall be provided in sufficient number and capacity to properly
store all refuse. Refuse collection stands shall be provided for all refuse
containers. Such container stands shall be so designed as to prevent containers
from being tipped, minimize spillage and container deterioration, and
facilitate cleaning around them. All refuse containing garbage shall be
collected at least once weekly. Where suitable collection service is not
available from municipal or private agencies, the mobile home park operator
shall provide this service. All refuse shall be collected and transported in
covered vehicles or covered containers. Where municipal or private disposal
service is not available, the mobile home park operator shall dispose of the
refuse by incineration or transporting to a disposal site approved by the
Health Officer. Refuse incinerators, if provided, shall be constructed in
accordance with engineering plans and specifications which shall be reviewed
and approved by the Health Officer or other authority having jurisdiction.
Incinerators shall be operated only when attended by some person specifically
authorized by the owner or operator of the mobile home park.
      (21)   Electrical distribution system. Every park shall contain an
electrical wiring system consisting of wiring, fixtures, equipment and
appurtenances that shall be installed and maintained in accordance with
applicable codes and regulations governing such systems. Main power lines not
located underground shall be suspended at least 18 feet above the ground. There
shall be a minimum horizontal clearance of three feet between overhead wiring
and any mobile home, service building or other structure. All direct burial
conductors or cables shall be insulated and specially designed for this
purpose. Such conductors shall be located not less than one-foot radial
distance from water, sewer, gas or communication lines. Each mobile home lot
shall be provided with an approved disconnecting device and over-current
protective equipment. The minimum service per outlet shall be 120/240 volt AC,
100 amperes. Outlets (receptacles or pressure connectors) shall be housed in a
weather-proof outlet box, and shall be located not more than 25 feet from the
over-current protective device in the mobile home. A three-pole, four-wire
grounding type shall be used. Receptacles, if provided, shall be in accordance
with American Standard Outlet Receptacle C-73.1, as amended. Connectors, if not
substituted by more than one receptacle, shall be provided where the calculated
load of the mobile home is more than 100 amperes. The mobile home shall be
connected to the outlet box by an approved type of flexible supply cord with a
male attachment plug or with pressure connectors. All exposed non-current
carrying metal parts of mobile homes and all other equipment shall be grounded
by means of an approved grounding conductor with branch circuit conductors or
other approved method of grounded metallic wiring. The neutral conductor shall
be not used as an equipment ground for mobile homes or other equipment.
      (22)   Insect and rodent control. Grounds, buildings and structures shall
be maintained free of insect and rodent harborage and infestation.
Extermination methods and other measures to control insects and rodents shall
conform with the requirements of the Health Officer. Parks shall be maintained
free of accumulations of debris, which may provide rodent harborage or breeding
places for flies, mosquitoes and other pests. Storage areas shall be so
maintained as to prevent rodent harborage; lumber, pipe and other building
material shall be stored at least one foot above the ground. Where the
potential for insect and rodent infestation exists, all exterior openings in or
beneath any structure shall be appropriately screened with wire mesh or other
suitable materials. The growth of brush, weeds and grass shall be controlled to
prevent harborage of ticks, chiggers and other noxious insects. Parks shall be
so maintained as to prevent the growth of ragweed, poison ivy, poison oak,
poison sumac and other noxious weeds considered detrimental to health. Open
areas shall be maintained free of heavy undergrowth of any description.
      (23)   Fuel supply and storage.
         (a)   Natural gas system. Natural gas piping systems shall be
installed and maintained in accordance with applicable codes and regulations
governing such systems. Each mobile home lot provided with piped gas shall have
an approved manual shutoff valve installed upstream of the gas outlet. The
outlet shall be equipped with an approved cap to prevent accidental discharge
of gas when the outlet is not in use.
         (b)   Liquefied petroleum gas systems. Liquefied petroleum gas systems
shall be installed and maintained in accordance with applicable codes and
regulations governing such systems. Systems shall be provided with safety
devices to relieve excessive pressures and shall be arranged so that the
discharge terminates at a safe location. Systems shall have at least one
accessible means for shutting off gas. Such means shall be located outside the
mobile home and shall be maintained in effective operating condition. All LPG
piping outside of the mobile homes shall be well supported and protected
against mechanical injury. Undiluted, liquefied petroleum gas in liquid form
shall not be conveyed through piping equipment and systems in mobile homes.
Liquefied petroleum gas containers installed on a mobile home lot shall be
securely, but not permanently, fastened to prevent accidental overturning. Such
containers shall not be less than 12, nor more than 60, U.S. gallons gross
capacity. No liquefied petroleum gas vessel shall be stored or located inside
or beneath any storage cabinet, carport, mobile home or any other structure,
unless such installations are approved by the Health Officer.
         (c)   Fuel oil systems. All fuel oil supply systems shall be installed
and maintained in accordance with applicable codes and regulations governing
such systems. All piping from outside fuel storage tanks or cylinders to mobile
homes shall be permanently installed and securely fastened in place. All fuel
oil storage tanks or cylinders shall be securely fastened in place and shall be
located inside or beneath any mobile home or less than five feet from any
mobile home exit. Storage tanks located in areas subject to traffic shall be
protected against physical damage.
      (24)   Fire protection. Mobile home parks shall be kept free of litter,
rubbish and other flammable materials. Portable fire extinguishers rated for
Class B and C fires shall be kept in service buildings and at other locations
conveniently and readily accessible for use by all occupants and shall be
maintained in good operating condition. Their capacity shall not be less than
20 pounds. Fires shall be made only in stoves, incinerators and other equipment
intended for such purposes.
         (a)   Mandatory fire hydrants shall be installed if the park water
supply system is capable to serve them in accordance with the following
requirements.
            1.   The water supply system shall permit the operation of a
minimum of two and one- half inch hose streams.
            2.   Each of two nozzles, held four feet above the ground, shall
deliver at least 75 gallons of water per minute at a flowing pressure of at
least 30 pounds per square inch at the highest elevation point of the park.
         (b)   Fire hydrants, if provided, shall be located within 500 feet of
any mobile home, service building or other structure in the park.
      (25)   Water and sewage. The water supply and sewage disposal shall meet
the minimum requirements of the State Department of Environmental Management.
      (26)   State requirements. All state requirements shall be observed. (See
I.C. 13-1-7.)
   (PP)   Outdoor commercial recreational enterprise.
      (1)   Minimum yards:
         (a)   Front: standard;
         (b)   Side: 40 feet; and
         (c)   Rear: 40 feet.
      (2)   Minimum distance: between parking area and residential district or
use;
      (3)   Entrance: not more than two entrances from street;
      (4)   Noise: noise shall be confined to the premises;
      (5)   Landscape plan: landscape plan to be submitted with application
(may be combined with the development plan);
      (6)   Fence: six-foot wire mesh where accessible to public;
      (7)   Screen planting: six-foot height by six-foot width where abutting
residential use; tight screen, effective at all times;
      (8)   Setback from interior drives: 40 feet;
      (9)   Parking spaces: one per three employees, plus one per 500 square
feet of use area;
      (10)   Development plan: development plan to be submitted with
application;
      (11)   Signs and lighting: outdoor advertising signs and outdoor
artificial lighting shall be approved by the Board;
      (12)   Height, maximum height of structure: 60 feet; and
      (13)   Adequacy of sewers: approval required.
   (QQ)   Outdoor theater.
      (1)   Minimum yards (abutting residential use):
         (a)   Front: 100 feet;
         (b)   Side: 75 feet; and
         (c)   Rear: 40 feet.
      (2)   Fence: four-foot wire mesh abutting residential use;
      (3)   Development plan: development plan to be submitted with
application;
      (4)   Signs and lighting: outdoor advertising signs and outdoor
artificial lighting shall be approved by the Board;
      (5)   Height, maximum height of structure: 65 feet; and
      (6)   Adequate sewer: approval required.
   (RR)   Penal or correctional institutions.
      (1)   Minimum lot area:
         (a)   Two hundred acres; and
         (b)   Medium security facility: 12 acres.
      (2)   Minimum yards:
         (a)   Front: 100 feet;
         (b)   Side (each) 100 feet; and
         (c)   Rear: 100 feet.
      (3)   Minimum distance from residential use: 300 feet;
      (4)   Parking spaces: as determined by the Board. The determination shall
be based upon the expected number of parking spaces the particular type of use
would require to satisfy estimated peak parking load requirements;
      (5)   Development plan: development plan to be submitted with
application;
      (6)   Height, maximum height of structure: 65 feet; and
      (7)   Adequacy of sewers: approval required.
   (SS)   Private club or lodge, which is of a non-commercial character.
      (1)   Minimum lot area: one acre;
      (2)   Minimum yards:
         (a)   Front: standard;
         (b)   Side (each): 25; and
         (c)   Rear: 25.
      (3)   Parking spaces: one per six active members;
      (4)   Development plan: development plan to be submitted with
application; and
      (5)   Height, maximum height of structure: 35 feet.
   (TT)   Private recreational development (i.e., picnic grounds, fraternal
organizations and the like).
      (1)   Minimum yards:
         (a)   Front: standard;
         (b)   Side (each): 40 feet; and
         (c)   Rear: 40 feet.
      (2)   Minimum distance between parking area and residential district or
use: 25 feet;
      (3)   Entrance: not more than one entrance from street;
      (4)   Landscape plan: plan of landscape development to be submitted with
application (may be combined with development plan);
      (5)   Screen planting: six-foot height by three-foot width when abutting
residential use; tight screen, effective at all times;
      (6)   Parking spaces: one per each six members, or as determined by the
Board. The determination shall be based upon the expected number of parking
spaces the particular type of use would require to satisfy estimated, peak
parking load requirements;
      (7)   Development plan: development plan to be submitted with
application;
      (8)   Signs and lighting: outdoor advertising signs and outdoor
artificial lighting shall be approved by the Board;
      (9)   Height, maximum height of structure: 25 feet; and
      (10)   Noise: noise shall be confined to the premises.
   (UU)   Produce stands, seasonal.
      (1)   Development plan: development plan to be submitted with
application; and
      (2)   Signs and lighting: outdoor advertising sign and outdoor artificial
lighting shall be approved by the Board.
   (VV)   Produce stands, year round.
      (1)   Development plan: development plan to be submitted with
application;
      (2)   Signs and lighting: outdoor advertising sign and outdoor artificial
lighting shall be approved by the Board; and
      (3)   Adequacy of sewers: approval required.
   (WW)   Public camp.
      (1)   Minimum lot area: ten acres;
      (2)   Minimum yards:
         (a)   Front: 100;
         (b)   Side (each): 40; and
         (c)   Rear: 40.
      (3)   Minimum distance between parking area and residential district or
use: 50 feet;
      (4)   Screen planting: six-foot height by three-foot width effective at
all times of the year;
      (5)   Entrance: not more than one entrance from street;
      (6)   Parking: one per campsite, plus one per cabin;
      (7)   Development plan: development plan to be submitted with
application;
      (8)   Maximum height of structure: 35 feet; and
      (9)   Adequacy of sewers: approval required.
   (XX)   Public or commercial sanitary fill or garbage disposal plant.
      (1)   Minimum lot area: ten acres;
      (2)   Minimum yards:
         (a)   Front: 300; and
         (b)   Side (each): 300.
      (3)   Fence: six-foot wire mesh;
      (4)   Season planting: six-foot width abutting residential use;
      (5)   Entrance: not more than one entrance from street;
      (6)   Development plan: development plan to be submitted with
application; and
      (7)   State requirements: all state requirements for solid waste disposal
shall be met.
   (YY)   Public or employee parking.
      (1)   Masonry wall along front line and such other boundaries the Board
considers necessary to protect residential property, except an approved
entrance and exit;
      (2)   Entrance: not more than one entrance from street; and
      (3)   Development plan: development plan to be submitted with
application.
   (ZZ)   Public park or public recreational facility.
      (1)   Landscape plan: plan of landscape development to be submitted with
application (may be combined with development plan);
      (2)   Development plan: development plan to be submitted with
application;
      (3)   Signs and lighting: outdoor advertising signs and outdoor
artificial lighting shall be approved by the Board; and
      (4)   Adequacy of sewers: approval required.
   (AAA)   Public water wells, water stations, filtration plants, reservoirs
and storage tanks.
      (1)   Storage tanks: proximity to residence district or use 100 feet;
      (2)   Development plan: development plan to be submitted with
application; and
      (3)   Health laws: all applicable health laws and standard shall be
adhered to.
   (BBB)   Railroad or other mass transportation rights-of-way and trackage,
including public transportation terminal, passenger stations, shelter stations
and layover areas for transit vehicles and off-street parking facilities.
      (1)   Entrance: not more than one entrance from street;
      (2)   Parking for passenger station: one per ten seats in waiting room,
plus one per two employees of connected retail use (if any);
      (3)   Development plan: development plan to be submitted with
application;
      (4)   Adequacy of sewers: approval required; and
      (5)   Height, maximum height of structure: 45 feet.
   (CCC)   Raising and breeding of non-farm fowl and animals, except kennel.
      (1)   Minimum lot area: three acres;
      (2)   Minimum yards:
         (a)   Front: 100;
         (b)   Side (each): 100; and
         (c)   Rear: 100.
      (3)   Development plan: development plan to be submitted with
application;
      (4)   Screen planting: six-foot height by three-foot width when abutting
residential use, effective at all times of the year;
      (5)   Entrance: not more than one entrance from street;
      (6)   Height, minimum height of structure: 45 feet; and
      (7)   Adequacy of sewers: approval required.
   (DDD)   Recreation vehicle park.
      (1)   Development plan. Development plan to be submitted with
application.
      (2)   Minimum lot area. Ten acres.
      (3)   Density. Each recreational vehicle park shall have not more than 25
recreational vehicle spaces per acre of gross site area.
      (4)   Separation. Recreational vehicles shall be separated from each
other and from all other buildings and structures by at least five feet. An
accessory structure, such as an awning, cabana, storage cabinet and porch,
shall be considered to be a portion of the recreational vehicle.
      (5)   Parking. One automobile parking space shall be provided for each
recreational vehicle. No parking shall be permitted in the front yard of the
park tract of land.
      (6)   Accessory uses. Management offices and storage, playground and
picnic equipment, sanitation and laundry facilities, information signs and
other structures customarily incidental to a recreational vehicle park shall be
permitted as accessory uses.
      (7)   Term of stay in park and limitation of use. Except as otherwise
provided herein, each recreational vehicle shall not be used for habitation in
the same recreational vehicle park for longer than 180 days in any one calendar
year, and shall not be used as a permanent residence.
      (8)   Access. Recreational vehicle parks shall have direct access to an
arterial or major thoroughfare with sufficient frontage thereon for the proper
construction of entrances and exits. Such entrances and exits shall be designed
for the safe movement of recreational vehicles into and out of the park. Only
one principal entrance from a major thoroughfare may be provided.
      (9)   Condominium parks permitted. The sale of individual lots to
individual lot owners (condominium recreational vehicle park) shall be allowed
in a recreational vehicle park. Accordingly, an affirmative statement as to
whether or not the sale of individual lots to individual lot owners
(condominium recreational vehicle park) shall be allowed and shall be included
in the application. If the sale of individual lots to individual lot owners
(condominium recreational vehicle park) shall be allowed, then the development
plan shall additionally include the number of individual lots to be sold, and
the rights and responsibilities of the individual lot owners and the park
developers in the park and its management. If the sale of individual lots to
individual lot owners (condominium recreational vehicle park) shall be allowed,
then a plat of the recreational vehicle park must accompany the development
plan. (Condominiums regulated by I.C. 32-25 may not be regulated by Ch. 155 of
this code of ordinances.)
      (10)   Soil and water. The condition of the soil and ground water level
of the proposed park site shall meet the criteria promulgated by the United
States Department of Agriculture Soil Conservation Service. (See §
156.004 of this chapter.)
      (11)   Smoke, noise and odor. The proposed site shall not be exposed to
objectionable smoke, noise, odors or other adverse influences.
      (12)   Screening. A dense planting screen not less than six feet high
after five full growing seasons and which at maturity is not less than 12 feet
high and six feet wide shall be located and effectively maintained at all times
along all boundary lines, except at established entrances and exits serving the
park. A basket weave or similar type of fence or brick or stone wall may be
permitted by the Board instead of a planting screen. The Board may waive any
part of these screening requirements temporarily or permanently if adequate
screening already exists or if the topography or other conditions so warrant.
      (13)   Side, rear and front yards. The tract of land for the proposed
park shall have two side yards, each having a minimum of 30 feet in width, a
rear yard having a minimum of 30 feet in depth, and a front yard having a
minimum of 60 feet in depth.
      (14)   Illumination. Parks shall be furnished with lighting units so
spaced and equipped with luminaries at such mounting heights that all parts of
the interior driveway system will have an average level of illumination of 0.3
foot candle and that potentially hazardous locations, steps and stepped ramps,
will have an average level of illumination of 0.6 foot candle. All exterior
park lights shall be so located and shielded as to prevent direct illumination
of any areas outside the park.
      (15)   Barbecue pits, fireplaces, stoves and incinerators. Cooking
shelters, barbecue pits, fireplaces, wood-burning stoves and incinerators shall
be so located, constructed, maintained and used as to minimize fire hazards and
smoke nuisance, both on the property on which used and on neighboring property.
No open fire shall be permitted except in facilities provided. No open fire
shall be left unattended. No fuel shall be used and no material burned which
emits dense smoke or objectionable odors.
      (16)   Refuse handling. The storage, collection and disposal of refuse in
the park shall be so conducted as to create no health hazards, rodent
harborage, insect breeding areas, accident or fire hazards or air pollution.
All refuse shall be stored in fly-tight, water-tight, rodent-proof containers,
which shall be located no more than 150 feet from any mobile home lot.
Containers shall be provided in sufficient number and capacity to properly
store all refuse. Refuse collection stands shall be provided for all refuse
containers. Such container stands shall be so designed as to prevent containers
from being tipped, minimize spillage and container deterioration, and
facilitate cleaning around them. All refuse containing garbage shall be
collected at least once weekly. Where suitable collection service is not
available from municipal or private agencies, the mobile home park owner shall
provide this service. All refuse shall be collected and transported in covered
vehicles or covered containers. Where municipal or private disposal service is
not available, the park operator shall dispose of the refuse by incineration or
transporting to a disposal site approved by the Health Officer. Refuse
incinerators, if provided, shall be constructed in accordance with engineering
plans and specifications which shall be reviewed and approved by the Health
Officer or other authority having jurisdiction. Incinerators shall be operated
only when attended by some person specifically authorized by the owner or
operator of the park.
      (17)   Electrical distribution system. Every park shall contain an
electrical wiring system consisting of wiring, fixtures, equipment and
appurtenances which shall be installed and maintained in accordance with
applicable codes and regulations governing such systems. Main power lines not
located underground shall be suspended at least 18 feet above the ground. There
shall be a minimum horizontal clearance of three feet between overhead wiring
and any mobile home, service building or other structure. All direct burial
conductors or cables shall be insulated and specially designed for the purpose.
Such conductors shall be located not less than one-foot radial distance from
water, sewer, gas or communication lines. Each mobile home lot shall be
provided with an approved disconnecting device and over current protective
equipment. The minimum service per outlet shall be 120/240 volt AC, 100
amperes. Outlets (receptacles or pressure connectors) shall be housed in a
weather-proof outlet box, and shall be located not more than 25 feet from the
over-current protective device in the mobile home. A three-pole, four-wire
grounding type shall be used. Receptacles, if provided, shall be in accordance
with American Standard Outlet Receptacle C-73.1, as amended. Connectors, if not
substituted by more than one receptacle, shall be provided where the calculated
load of the mobile home is more than 100 amperes. The recreational vehicle
shall be connected to the outlet box by an approved type of flexible supply
cord with a male attachment plug or with pressure connectors. All exposed non-
current carrying metal parts of vehicles and all other equipment shall be
grounded by means of an approved grounding conductor with branch circuit
conductors or other approved method of grounded metallic wiring. The neutral
conductor shall not be used as an equipment ground for recreational vehicles or
other equipment.
      (18)   Insect and rodent control. Grounds, buildings and structures shall
be maintained free of insect and rodent harborage and infestation.
Extermination methods and other measures to control insects and rodents shall
conform to the requirements of the Health Officer. Parks shall be maintained
free of accumulations of debris, which may provide rodent harborage or breeding
places for flies, mosquitoes and other pests. Storage areas shall be so
maintained as to prevent rodent harborage; lumber, pipe and other building
material shall be stored at least one foot above the ground. Where the
potential for insect and rodent infestation exists, all exterior openings in or
beneath any structure shall be appropriately screened with wire mesh or other
suitable materials. The growth of brush, weeds and grass shall be controlled to
prevent harborage of ticks, chiggers and other noxious insects. Parks shall be
so maintained as to prevent the growth of ragweed, poison ivy, poison oak,
poison sumac and other noxious weeds considered detrimental to health. Open
areas shall be maintained free of heavy undergrowth of any description.
      (19)   Water and sewage. The water supply and sewage disposal shall meet
the minimum requirements of the State Board of Health.
      (20)   State requirements. All state requirements shall be observed.
   (EEE)   Recycling center.
      (1)   Development plan: Development plan to be submitted with
application;
      (2)   Minimum yards:
         (a)   Front: 50;
         (b)   Side: 40; and
         (c)   Rear: 40.
      (3)   Spacing: use permitted not closer than 200 feet to a residential
use;
      (4)   Entrance: not more than one entrance from the street;
      (5)   Fence: solid wall or solid fence eight feet high, except along
railroad right-of-way or eight- foot wire fence slatted for opacity;
      (6)   Parking spaces: one space per every two employees; additional
spaces to be determined by Board;
      (7)   Signs and lighting: advertising signs and outdoor artificial
lighting shall be approved by the Board; and
      (8)   Height, maximum height of structure: 25 feet.
   (FFF)   Restricted commercial farm enterprise, an animal feeding operation
(AFO), confined feeding operations (CFO) and concentrated feeding operations
(CAFO).
      (1)   AFO. If the number exceeds: 75 cattle; 7,500 fowl; 235 horses; 150
sheep; 150 swine; or a feeding operation that causes a violation of water
pollution or any confined feeding statute (under I.C. 13-18-10, as amended).
Development plan: development plan shall be submitted with application;
      (2)   AFO setbacks:
         (a)   1, 000 feet from a public water supply well or public water
supply intake structure;
         (b)   300 feet from the following: surface water, drainage inlet,
including sediment basins, sinkholes, as measured from the surficial opening or
the lowest point of the feature, off- site water wells;
         (c)   400 feet from the following: on-site water wells, existing off-
site residential and public buildings, property lines and public roads;
      (3)   Dead storage: no sales, dead storage, repair work or dismantling on
the lot (vehicles and/or farm machinery, i.e. junkyard);
      (4)   Parking spaces: as determined by the Board. The determination shall
be based upon the expected number of parking spaces the particular type of use
would require to satisfy estimated, peak parking load requirements;
      (5)   Signs and lighting: signs and artificial lighting require Board
approval;
      (6)   Maximum height of structure: 35 feet;
      (7)   Confined feeding operation (CFO and CAFOO setbacks: minimum
distance from the boundary of any pre-existing residence or business district,
or a residential subdivision of land, or building used for residential purposes
(other than the residence of the owner, his or her tenant(s) or operator(s) of
the operation), or school or church use: 1,320 feet;
      (8)   Confined feeding operation, health approval required: approval by
Indiana Department of Environmental Management (IDEM), is required for confined
feeding operations in accordance with 327 IAC 19, as amended;
      (9)   Those noises and odors normal to the storage, feeding, handling and
production of farm animals shall be deemed acceptable; and
      (10)   AFO, CFO and CAFO - waste handling. The recommended applicable
guidelines promulgated by the Indiana State Chemist's Rule (355 IAC 8, as
amended) shall be required by the Board concerning methods of waste handling
and disposal guidelines for:
         (a)   Beef and swine producers;
         (b)   Dairy and poultrymen.
   (GGG)   Riding stable.
      (1)   Minimum lot area: two acres, plus additional 5,000 square feet per
horse over four horses;
      (2)   Minimum yards: Front, each side and rear yards, 100 feet each;
      (3)   Screen planting: six-foot height by three-foot width when abutting
residential use;
      (4)   Entrance: not more than one entrance from street;
      (5)   Parking: one per two employees, plus one per two horses;
      (6)   Signs and lighting: outdoor advertising signs and outdoor
artificial lighting shall be approved by the Board;
      (7)   Waste disposal: disposal of wastes shall meet that approval of the
State Board of Health;
      (8)   Development plan: development plan shall be submitted with
application; and
      (9)   Height, maximum height of structure: 35 feet.
   (HHH)   Roadside business in the RB District.
      (1)   Development plan: development plan shall be submitted with
application; and
      (2)   Other requirements: see §§
156.225 through
156.227 of this chapter and Figure 1 for other requirements.
   (III)   Sales barn of livestock (resale).
      (1)   Minimum yards: front, each side and rear yards; 300 feet each;
      (2)   Minimum distance from residential district or use: 300 feet;
      (3)   Minimum distance between parking area and residential district or
use;
      (4)   Entrance: not more than one entrance from street;
      (5)   Parking: one per two employees, plus one per each 400 square feet
of display and sales area;
      (6)   Development plan: development plan shall be submitted with
application;
      (7)   Height, maximum height of structure: 45 feet; and
      (8)   Waste disposal: disposal of waste shall meet the approval of the
State Board of Health.
   (JJJ)   Seasonal hunting and fishing lodge.
      (1)   Parking spaces: one per member or as determined by the Board. The
determination shall be based upon the expected number of parking spaces the
particular type of use would require to satisfy estimated, peak parking
requirements; and
      (2)   Development plan: development plan shall be submitted with
application.
   (KKK)   Sewage treatment facility (primary use).
      (1)   Development plan: development plan shall be submitted with
application; and
      (2)   Health approval required: approval by the State Board of Health
required.
   (LLL)   Shooting range.
      (1)   Minimum yards: front, each side and rear yards: 300 feet each;
      (2)   Screen planting: six-foot height by six-foot width;
      (3)   Entrances: not more than one entrance from street; and
      (4)   Development plan: development plan to be submitted with
application.
   (MMM)   Slaughterhouse.
      (1)   Minimum lot areas: two acres;
      (2)   Minimum yards: front, each side and rear yards: 50 feet each;
      (3)   Minimum distance from residential district or use: 300 feet;
      (4)   Minimum distance of parking area from residential district: 50
feet;
      (5)   Fence requirements: six-foot solid painted fence;
      (6)   Screen planting: six-foot height by six-foot width (from abutting
street);
      (7)   Entrance: not more than one entrance from street;
      (8)   Development plan: development plan shall be submitted with
application;
      (9)   Adequacy of sewers: approval required;
      (10)   Adequate disposal methods: dead animals and offal shall be
disposed of in a manner satisfactory to the Board;
      (11)   Parking: one per two employees, plus four additional spaces; and
      (12)   Height, maximum height of structure: 35 feet.
   (NNN)   Special school.
      (1)   Minimum lot area: 10,000 square feet;
      (2)   Minimum yards:
         (a)   Front: 25 feet;
         (b)   Each side: ten feet; and
         (c)   Rear: ten feet.
      (3)   Fence: four-foot wire mesh around play area;
      (4)   Parking spaces: one per three employees, plus one per six students;
      (5)   Height, maximum height of structure: 35 feet; and
      (6)   Adequacy of sewers: approval required.
   (OOO)   Stadium, coliseum, athletic field.
      (1)   Minimum lot area: five acres;
      (2)   Minimum yards:
         (a)   Front: standard;
         (b)   Each side: 50 feet; and
         (c)   Rear: 50 feet.
      (3)   Minimum distance of parking area from residential district or use:
25 feet;
      (4)   Screen planting: six-foot height by six-foot width;
      (5)   Entrances: not more than two from street;
      (6)   Parking: one space of each four seats in the grandstand, plus three
per four employees;
      (7)   Development plan: development plan to be submitted with
application;
      (8)   Height, maximum height of structure: 45 feet; and
      (9)   Adequacy of sewers: approval required.
   (PPP)   Storage of disabled vehicles, temporary.
      (1)   Minimum lot area: one acre;
      (2)   Minimum yards:
         (a)   Front: standard;
         (b)   Side (each): 20; and
         (c)   Rear: 20.
      (3)   Minimum distance from residential district or use: 100 feet;
      (4)   Minimum distance of parking area from residential district or use:
25 feet;
      (5)   Fence: six-foot solid painted fence;
      (6)   Screen planting: six-foot height by three-foot width where abutting
residential use;
      (7)   Entrance: not more than one from street; and
      (8)   Development plan: development plan shall be submitted with
application.
   (QQQ)   Studio business (art, interior decorating, music and the like).
      (1)   Parking spaces: as determined by the Board. The determination shall
be based upon the expected number of parking spaces the particular type of use
would require to satisfy estimated, plan parking load requirements; and
      (2)   Development plan: development plan shall be submitted with
application.
   (RRR)   Telephone exchange or public utility substation in the A-1, A-2, FR,
IB, I-2 District.
      (1)   Screen planting: adequate for purpose as determined by Board (also
along abutting street);
      (2)   Entrance: not more than one entrance from street;
      (3)   Parking space: one per employee at or working out of site;
      (4)   Development plan: development plan to be submitted with
application; and
      (5)   Adequacy of sewers: approval required.
   (SSS)   Temporary living quarters in barn prior to building house.
      (1)   Development plan; and
      (2)   Must vacate temporary living quarters within 90 days after
occupancy of house.
   (TTT)   Transmission lines for gas, oil, electricity or other utilities
(major lines). Development plan to be submitted with application.
   (UUU)   Transmission (radio, TV and the like), miscellaneous tower(s). (See
§§
156.640 through
156.645 of this chapter for cellular/wireless/personal communication facilities
and towers for performance standards.)
   (VVV)   Veterinary hospital for small animals.
      (1)   Parking: one space per two employees, plus one per doctor, plus two
per examining rooms;
      (2)   Development plan: development plan shall be submitted with
application; and
      (3)   Height, maximum height of structure: 35 feet.
   (WWW)   Wholesale produce terminal or truck terminal.
      (1)   Minimum lot area: ten acres;
      (2)   Minimum yards:
         (a)   Front: 100 feet;
         (b)   Side (each): 75 feet abutting residential use, otherwise 35
feet; and
         (c)   Rear: 40 feet.
      (3)   Minimum distance from residential district or use: 100 feet;
      (4)   Minimum distance from parking residential district: 100 feet;
      (5)   Fence: six-foot height wire mesh fence;
      (6)   Screen planting: six-foot height by three-foot width where abutting
residential use; tight screen, effective at all times;
      (7)   Entrance: not more than one entrance from street;
      (8)   Parking spaces: one per two employees on largest shift;
      (9)   Development plan: development plan shall be submitted with
application;
      (10)   Signs and lighting: outdoor advertising signs and outdoor
artificial lighting shall be approved by the Board;
      (11)   Height, maximum height of structure: 45 feet;
      (12)   Adequacy of sewers: approval required; and
      (13)   Thoroughfares: thoroughfares must be adequate.
   (XXX)   Windmill farm, solar farm/field, or alternative energy forms.
      (1)   Development plan to be submitted with application.
      (2)   “As-built” plans certified by the professional engineer who
prepared the development plan/design, must be submitted to the Plan Commission
within 30 days of completion.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.24(F); Ord. 2016-07, passed 9-12-2016; Ord. 2019-03,
passed 4-22-2019; Am. Ord. 2019-05, passed 6-17-2019; Ord. 2019-08, passed 10-
7-2019)
BUILDING SETBACK LINES
§ 156.420 GENERAL.
   Building setback lines shall be required along all public streets in
accordance with the specifications in Figure 1, Lot and Yard Requirements, and
as herein provided. Any yard abutting a street shall be deemed a front yard for
purpose of determining front building setback lines.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.25)
§ 156.421 FRONT YARD.
   (A)   For residential uses where 25% or more of the lots in the block
frontage are occupied by buildings, the average setback of such buildings
determine the dimension of the front yard in the block frontage, but the front
yard need not exceed 50 feet in any case; except, in the RB and IB Districts,
the front yard need not exceed 80 feet.
   (B)   In business and industrial districts where 25% or more of the lots in
a block frontage are occupied by buildings, the setback of such buildings shall
determine the location of the building line, except for the RB and IB
Districts.
   (C)   Building lines or building setback lines established in a recorded
subdivision shall establish the dimension of front yards in such subdivisions.
   (D)   On through lots, a front yard is required on each street.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.25(A))
§ 156.422 CONFLICT; SETBACK REQUIREMENTS.
   In case of conflict with the front setback requirements of the zoning
districts, special exceptions, contingent uses or other applicable provisions
of this chapter, the most restrictive requirement shall govern.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.25(B))
§ 156.423 EXCEPTIONS.
   The setback exceptions set forth in this subchapter apply to the requirement
of the Thoroughfare Plan of the county that establishes the proposed right-of-
way line as the front line of lots that front upon a street.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.25(C))
YARD EXCEPTIONS
§ 156.435 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Any yard or setback line so placed or oriented that none of the
specific terms in this chapter are applicable shall necessitate a determination
by the Executive Director of suitable dimensions generally required for a
similar situation in the district.
   (B)   Minimum required yards or building setback distances shall be
unobstructed and open to the sky, except for customary projections and
temporary storage as hereinafter provided, and signs in accordance with §§
156.550 through
156.557 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.26(A)) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.436 YARD ENCROACHMENTS.
   No structure or part thereof shall project into a required front yard,
except:
   (A)   An eave, cornice overhang, awning, balcony or bay window not exceeding
four feet; provided, however, that, in no event shall said encroachment
protrude closer than 20 feet to a frontal lot line;
   (B)   The ordinary projection of belt courses, sills, lintels, chimneys and
other similar ornamental and architectural features not exceeding two feet; and
   (C)   Unenclosed, uncovered steps, entrance platforms, terraces or landings
not over 18 inches above grade level and not to project a distance in excess of
ten feet.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.26(B)) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.437 PROJECTIONS.
   No structure or part thereof shall project into a required side or rear
yard, except:
   (A)   An eave, cornice, overhang, awning, balcony or bay window not
exceeding four feet; provided, however, that, said encroachment shall not
protrude closer than 80% of the required distance to any side or rear lot line;
   (B)   The ordinary projection of belt courses, sills, lintels, chimneys and
other similar ornamental and architectural features not exceeding two feet;
provided, however, that, said encroachment shall not protrude closer than 80%
of the required distance to any side or rear lot line;
   (C)   Unenclosed, uncovered steps, entrance platforms, terraces or landing
not over 18 inches above grade level; and
   (D)   Family swimming pools, see §§
156.500 through
156.502 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.26(C)) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.438 ALLEY ABUTTING REAR OR SIDE YARD.
   One-half of an alley abutting the rear or side of a lot may be included in
the rear yard or side yard, respectively, but such alley space shall not be
included for loading and unloading berths.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.26(D))
§ 156.439 SIDE YARDS.
   Where 60% or more of the lots in a block frontage are occupied by buildings
which provide side yards of less than the minimum required by this chapter, the
average side yard of such buildings may determine the required side yard;
provided, however, no side yard shall be reduced to less than three feet;
except, in the G-B District, a side yard is not required. Where an existing
building is deficient in side yards, any addition to such an existing building
shall maintain the existing side yards.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.26(E)) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.440 TAPERED YARD FORMULA (FOR ACCESSORY BUILDING).
   (A)   Where an interior lot fronts on a side street in the rear of the
corner lot by an alley, an accessory building located on the rear lot line of
the corner lot shall set back from the side street as far as the dwelling on
said interior lot.
   (B)   For each foot that such accessory building is placed from the rear lot
line toward the front lot line of the corner lot, the accessory building may be
set four inches closer to the front lot line along the side street required by
this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.26(F))
§ 156.441 FENCES.
   (A)   Fences used for agricultural purposes, recreation use or the public
safety shall not be regulated by this chapter.
   (B)   Fences used for residential purposes shall be allowed without the
issuance of any permit, subject to the following provisions.
      (1)   Fences shall be allowed in side and rear yards up to a height of
six feet and not less than four feet.
      (2)   No setback shall be required for fences in side and rear yards.
      (3)   Fences shall be allowed to extend along side property lines;
provided that, from the building setback line to the front lot line (road
right-of-way line) they shall be of an open or wire mesh type and shall not
exceed three and one-half feet in height.
      (4)   Fences shall not be permitted to block passage along existing
sidewalks.
      (5)   Front yard fences within (or to the rear of) the building setback
line shall not exceed six feet in height.
      (6)   Fencing intended for decorative purposes only, and which does not
include any area to be completely enclosed, may be allowed on any part of a
parcel, provided that it does not exceed three and one-half feet in height.
      (7)   The finished side of the fence shall face outward.
      (8)   The owner of the property upon which the fence is located upon,
shall maintain the fence.
   (C)   Fences in business (LB, RB, GB, IB) or industrial (I-1, I-2)
districts, where used for commercial or industrial uses, shall be allowed
subject to the following provisions.
      (1)   Fences intended for security purposes shall not exceed a maximum
height of eight feet, plus a maximum of three strands of barbed wire, and shall
be allowed within any side or rear yards; however, they shall not be allowed in
any green strip or buffer area.
      (2)   Fences within the front yard (to the front of the building setback
line) shall not exceed three and one-half feet in height.
      (3)   Fencing intended for decorative purposes only may be allowed
anywhere on a parcel; provided, it does not exceed three and one-half feet in
height.
      (4)   Fences in industrial and business districts shall be slatted for
opacity.
   (D)   (1)   Every outdoor swimming pool, which is more than 18 inches in
depth, shall be surrounded by a fence not less than five feet in height. Such
fence shall be either of chain link type and style or of a type of style
offering equivalent protection. All gates or doors opening through such
enclosure shall be designed to permit locking and shall be kept locked when the
pool is not in actual use, or left unattended. (See §
156.502(D)(3)(b) and (D)(3)(c) of this chapter.)
      (2)   Swimming pools in a town, subdivision (including subdivisions in an
agriculture districts and lots ten acres or less in lot area must be walled or
fenced to a minimum height of five feet, but not more than six feet. Swimming
pools located on tracts of land or more than ten acres may have a mechanical
cover (applicable to the current Building Code), or the same as above.
   (E)   Every fence shall be maintained in good structural aesthetic condition
at all times. Any unsafe or unsightly fence shall be renovated or removed
within 30 days upon written notice from the Executive Director. If the owner
fails to renovate or remove the fence within the required time period, the
county or respective town may remove such fence at the owner’s expense.
   (F)   Ponds which are less than three acres in area, whether dammed or
otherwise artificially formed shall be placed on the building setback line and
not closer than 20 feet from any side or rear lot line (including any part of
the water line or base of the dam). A pond is an accessory use. A detention
pond designed by an engineer, surveyor or architect and located in a
subdivision for storage of water (or any depression in the ground) that holds
water more than 48 hours shall be fenced and is an accessory use.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.26(G)) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.442 SCREENING AND MINOR ACCESSORY USES.
   (A)   Accessory uses such as public utility installations, walks, driveways,
curbs, retaining walls, mail boxes, name plates, lamp posts, bird baths and
structures of a like nature are permitted in any required front, side or rear
yard, without the issuance of any permit.
   (B)   Trees, shrubs, flowers or plants shall be permitted in any required
front, side or rear yard; except that, vision clearance on corner lots shall be
provided when required.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.26(H)) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.443 INTERSECTION VISIBILITY.
   (A)   In all districts, except the G-B District, a triangular space at the
street corner of a corner lot shall be maintained free from any kind of
obstruction to vision between the heights of three and 12 feet above the
established street grade. The street grade is measured at the intersection of
the centerlines of the intersecting street pavements, and the triangular space
is determined by a diagonal line connecting two points measured 15 feet along
each of the street property lines equidistant from the intersection of the
property lines or the property lines extended at the corner of the lot.
   (B)   In case of a rounded property corner, said triangular area shall be
measured from the intersection of the street right-of-way lines extended.
   (C)   In addition, the above vision sight lines shall apply to any lot
within ten feet from the intersection of a street right-of-way line with the
edge of a driveway pavement or alley line. No driveway shall be located within
40 feet of the intersection of two street lines. (See §
156.535 of this chapter.)
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.26(I)) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.444 STORAGE.
   (A)   (1)   No portion of any required yard shall be used for the permanent
storage of motor vehicles, recreational vehicles, mobile homes, trailers,
airplanes, boats or parts thereof, rubbish, garbage, junk, tent or building
materials, except during construction and in accordance with the terms of this
chapter. (See §§
156.502(M) and (N) and
156.537 of this chapter.)
      (2)   Recreational boats and trailers are to be considered as
recreational vehicles for the purpose of storage. See §
156.502(M) of this chapter.
   (B)   Permanent storage for purpose of this section shall be construed as
the presence of such storage for a period of 48 or more consecutive hours in
any one-week period. (See § 156.537 of this chapter.)
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.26(J)) Penalty, see §
156.999
CONVERSIONS
§ 156.455 CERTAIN CONVERSIONS DISCOURAGED.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to discourage the conversion of
existing dwellings originally designed for occupancy by two families or less to
occupancy by more than two families when such conversion is likely to lead to
overcrowding, to lack of privacy, to lack of sufficient light and air, to
unsafe or unsanitary living conditions or to inadequate provisions for off-
street parking and open space.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.29(A))
§ 156.456 CONSISTENT WITH PURPOSES.
   Such conversions shall be consistent with the purposes of other applicable
provision portions of this chapter, including housing and building codes and
fire safety and utility programs.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.29(B))
§ 156.457 APPEARANCE AND REPAIR.
   In connection with such conversions, there shall be no evidence of change in
the building to indicate the extra dwelling units, except as may be required by
the aforementioned codes and programs; all fire escapes or stairways leading to
a second or higher floor shall be completely enclosed within the converted
building; and no dwelling shall be so converted unless in connection therewith
it be placed in a reasonable state of repair.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.29(C)) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.458 EXCEPTION.
   In cases of question as to the applicability of these standards, such
proposed conversion shall be deemed an exception and placed before the Board in
accordance with the requirements in §§
156.075 through
156.085 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.29(D))
HEIGHTS
§ 156.470 NORMAL MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHTS.
   (A)   The normal maximum height of a dwelling is as follows in the districts
indicated: 35 feet or two and one-half stories in the A-1, A-2, FR, R-2, R-3,
LB, RB, GB, IB and I-1 Districts; 25 feet or two stories in the R-1 District;
and 40 feet or three and one-half stories in the UD District.
   (B)   The normal maximum height of business uses is as follows in the
districts indicated: 40 feet in the LB, RB and IB districts; 60 feet in the GB,
UD and I-2 Districts.
   (C)   The normal maximum height of enclosed industrial uses is 60 feet in
the GB and I-2 Districts; and, for open industrial uses, 60 feet in the I-
2 District.
   (D)   The normal maximum height of contingent uses is as follows in the
districts indicated: 35 feet in the A-1, A-2, FR, R-1, R-2 and R-3 Districts;
40 feet in the LB, RB and IB Districts; and 60 feet in the GB and I-
2 Districts.
   (E)   The normal maximum height of accessory buildings is as follows in the
districts indicated: 18 feet in the A-1, A-2, FR, R-1, R-2, R-3, LB and UD
Districts; and 24 feet in the GB, IB, I-1 and I-2 Districts; provided that, an
accessory building to a farm house or farm dwelling may be erected to a normal
maximum height of 40 feet.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.31(A))
§ 156.471 HEIGHT EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   In the districts limiting height to 25 feet, a dwelling may be
increased in height to 35 feet; provided, the required side yards are increased
an additional foot for each foot such structure exceeds 25 feet in height.
   (B)   Business and industrial buildings and structures may be erected higher
than the normal maximum if they are set back from front and rear property
lines, one foot for each two feet of additional height above the normal maximum
height; provided that, the Executive Director approves the increased height,
primarily upon the availability of adequate fire protection.
   (C)   Chimneys, cooling towers, elevator bulkheads, fire towers, penthouses,
stacks, tanks, water towers, transmission towers or essential mechanical
appurtenances may be erected to any height not prohibited by other laws or the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.31(B))
SUPPLEMENTARY BUSINESS STANDARDS
§ 156.485 GENERAL.
   In any district where applicable, the following standards shall supplement
the business use requirements of the district.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.32)
§ 156.486 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   No unusually loud amplification of radio music or other audio
advertising shall be permitted on the premises.
   (B)   No lights utilizing an attracting device or lights on stringers of
unshielded incandescent lamps or attention attracting lighting from apparatus
of a type used by emergency vehicles shall be permitted on the premises.
   (C)   There shall be no exterior displays which restrict visibility in any
way or which impede the movement of any vehicles. All such displays shall be
maintained in an orderly manner.
   (D)   Adequate indoor or outdoor trash containers shall be required;
provided, however, that, trash containers exceeding six cubic feet shall be
located within a solid, decorative stall behind or beside the primary
structure, away from the view of the frontal street.
   (E)   No vending machines shall be permitted on the exterior of any building
on the premises, except where contained in a shelter, stall or other area so
located as not to interfere materially with the use of adjoining property.
   (F)   No pennants or other similar attracting or advertising devices shall
be permitted on the premises; however, notwithstanding the provisions of this
subchapter, the use of pennants and other similar attracting devices in
connection with a special promotional program may be permitted by the Board
upon issuance of a temporary improvement location permit. (See §§
156.515 through
156.518 of this chapter.)
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.32(A)) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.487 TRAFFIC CONGESTION.
   (A)   The number of traffic access points for establishments with 100 feet
or less of frontage on a street shall not exceed one.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever practicable, for establishments with frontage of more
than 100 feet, a service road shall be provided, of not less than two lanes in
width or a combined service road and parking area, parallel with and adjacent
to the street upon which the establishments front.
      (2)   In the event the establishment fronts on more than one street, such
service roads may be required on more than one street frontage.
   (C)   The service road or roads required by this section shall be
effectively separated from the main roadway by a landscape strip or other
suitable delineation, and shall be designed and arranged so as to provide the
principal means of access to abutting business establishments.
   (D)   In general, the use of public improved alleys, interior access roads
or any other designed means to minimize the number of traffic access points and
business intersections therein are encouraged.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.32(B)) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.488 OPEN-AIR BUSINESS.
   Any establishment where the principal use is the drive-in type of business,
or is generally characterized by open-air business operations, shall be subject
to the following standards.
   (A)   A decorative fence or wall of not less than five feet in height shall
be constructed and maintained along the side and rear lot lines. Where such use
abuts a residential use, a buffer landscape strip at least 20 feet in width
shall be provided and maintained along the side and rear lot lines, within
which buffer, a landscape screen shall be provided not less than six feet in
height.
   (B)   Such business uses shall be limited to the characteristics customarily
associated with such use and no other.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.32(C)) Penalty, see §
156.999
ACCESSORY USES
§ 156.500 INTENT.
   (A)   Accessory uses shall be permitted in all zone districts in accordance
with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Accessory uses:
      (1)   Shall be incidental and subordinate to, and commonly associated
with, the operation of the principal use of the lot;
      (2)   Shall be operated and maintained under the same ownership and on
the same lot as the principal use;
      (3)   Shall be clearly subordinate in height, area, bulk, extent and
purpose to the principal use served;
      (4)   Shall not be located closer to any lot line than the minimum
setback line required, unless specified in this chapter; and
      (5)   Shall not be permitted prior to the erection and operation of the
principal use, unless on lots of five acres or more in the A-1, A-2 and FR
Districts, or a temporary improvement location permit is obtained in accordance
with §§
156.515 through
156.518 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.33(A); Ord. 3A, passed 2-22-2007)
§ 156.501 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Such appurtenant features as walks, driveways, curbs, drainage
installations, retaining walls, mailboxes, lamp posts, bird baths and
structures of a like nature are allowed without permits. (See §
156.442 of this chapter.)
   (B)   The growing of vegetation, provided it is not for profit, is allowed
without a permit.
   (C)   The keeping of domestic pets, provided it is not for profit and not
construed as a kennel, is allowed without permit.
   (D)   Fences, walls and structural screens are allowed without permit when
they do not impede intersection visibility. (See §
156.441 of this chapter.)
   (E)   Such buildings or structures as patios, outdoor fire places,
doghouses, children’s play equipment and also detached storage buildings, bath
houses and cabanas not exceeding 150 square feet in size are allowed without
permit when the yard requirements of this chapter are adhered to.
   (F)   Rummage or garage sales are allowed without permit in any district
provided there are not more than two such sales annually of not more than three
days duration each on the premises. Rummage or garage sales of more than three
days, but not more than ten days, require a temporary improvement location
permit.
   (G)   No school bus, box truck, semi-trailer or mobile home shall be used as
an accessory building.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.33(A)) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.502 APPLICATION OF ACCESSORY USES.
   (A)   Such buildings or structures as private garages, carports, canopies,
porticoes, small greenhouses and similar accessory buildings or structures;
   (B)   Off-street motor vehicle parking and loading areas, as set forth in §§
156.530 through
156.537 of this chapter; provided, however, for residential uses, not more than
one such space shall be provided for a commercial vehicle of not more than one
and one-half tons capacity (manufacturer’s rating). Notwithstanding the above
requirement, a school bus may be parked on a lot used for residential purposes;
   (C)   Signs, as set forth in §§
156.550 through
156.557 of this chapter;
   (D)   (1)   No person shall construct, remodel or alter any swimming pool
until a permit to do so is obtained from the Executive Director. An application
for such permit shall be filed with the Executive Director, on a form furnished
by him or her, together with the plans and specifications for such pool. The
Director shall examine such plans and specifications to determine whether or
not the pool will comply with the provisions of this chapter. If it appears
that the pool will comply therewith, he or she shall note his or her approval
on the plans and specifications and shall issue a permit authorizing the work
to proceed.
      (2)   The Executive Director is authorized to enter on any premises to
determine whether or not the owner has complied with the provisions of this
chapter.
      (3)   For the purposes of this division (D), the phrase FAMILY SWIMMING
POOL shall mean and include an artificial body of water, with a controlled
water supply, designed for wading and swimming and used, or intended to be
used, solely by the owner, or lessee thereof, and his or her family and by
friends invited to use it without payment of any fee. No family swimming pool
shall be constructed, except on the same lot as the owner’s dwelling or on a
vacant lot immediately contiguous thereto if it is under the same ownership as
the dwelling. The following conditions must be met if the pool is to be located
on the same building lot as the dwelling of the owner.
         (a)   The pool must be constructed in the rear yard, but not closer at
any point than ten feet from the building itself.
         (b)   The pool must be enclosed by a fence in the manner set forth
below and at no point may the fence be closer than ten feet to any property
line.
         (c)   A fence surrounding or partially surrounding a pool shall not be
closer than six feet to the edge of the pool at any point. (See §
156.441(D) of this chapter.)
         (d)   The surface area of the pool may not exceed 25% of the area of
the rear yard.
      (4)   When a pool is located on a lot contiguous to the lot on which the
owner’s house is located and under the same ownership as the dwelling, the
following conditions must be met.
         (a)   No part of the pool shall be located forward of the setback line
of the owner’s dwelling.
         (b)   No part of the pool shall be closer than ten feet from the
owner’s dwelling and no closer than 16 feet from any property line of any other
property owner.
            1.   No pool shall be built across any property line regardless of
the ownership thereof.
            2.   If the contiguous lot has frontage on a street other than that
on which the owner’s dwelling is located, no part of the pool shall be forward
of the minimum setback line.
      (5)   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue or cause to
be made or continued at any pool, any loud, unnecessary or unusual noise or any
noise which annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health,
peace or safety of others. In the operation of a pool, the use or permitting
the use or operation of any radio, receiving set, musical instrument,
phonograph or other machine or device for the producing or reproducing of sound
in such manner as to disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of the neighboring
inhabitants, or at any time with louder volume than is necessary for convenient
hearing of the person who is in the pool premises shall be unlawful.
      (6)   Lights to illuminate any pool shall be so arranged and shaded as to
reflect light away from adjoining premises and streets.
   (E)   Amateur radio-sending and receiving antennas; provided, the height
thereof, including masts, shall not exceed 75 feet measured from finished lot
grade; and, provided further that, such apparatus does not cause any
interference with radio or television receivers in the vicinity;
   (F)   Management office in multi-family dwelling or apartment use, and other
facilities normally associated with tenants’ conveniences, such as vending
machines and washing machines; provided, there is no exterior display;
   (G)   Fall-out shelter;
   (H)   Residential occupancy by domestic employees on the premises;
   (I)   Foster family case where children unrelated to the residents by blood
or adoption, are cared for; provided that, no sign shall be displayed;
   (J)   Animal pens, on residential lots of at lease two acres; provided,
however, structures, pens or corrals housing animals shall be 100 feet from an
adjoining property line, except where animals are kept in a sound-proof air
conditioned building, in which case the required setback line is 50 feet;
   (K)   Storage areas, as regulated in applicable section of this chapter;
   (L)   Private (residential) garages and carports for the storage of motor
vehicles, which are clearly accessory and not for commercial purposes;
   (M)   Storage or parking of recreational vehicles in the open subject to the
following conditions:
      (1)   In any district the wheels or any similar transporting devices of
any recreational vehicle shall not be removed except for repairs, nor shall
such vehicle be otherwise permanently fixed to the ground in a manner that
would prevent ready removal of said types of mobile structures;
      (2)   Recreational vehicles may be stored or parked by the owner thereof
behind or alongside the primary building in such a manner that no part of any
such vehicle shall project beyond the front or side setback lines of the lot;
      (3)   Not more than two recreational vehicles will be permitted to be
parked or stored in the open on residential property at any one time; provided,
however, that, one additional such vehicle be permitted for visitation for
seven consecutive days and not to exceed 14 days in any one year, in accordance
with §§
156.515 through
156.518 of this chapter;
      (4)   At no time shall such parked or stored recreational vehicle be
occupied or used for living, sleeping or housekeeping purposes, except as
provided for visitations in division (M)(3) above; and
      (5)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (M)(4) above,
recreational vehicles may be parked anywhere on the premises for loading or
unloading purposes, for not longer than a period of 48 consecutive hours in any
one-week period. (See §§
156.515 through
156.518  of this chapter.)
   (N)   Storage of a continually unoccupied mobile home is only permissible in
a business or industrial district at a location legally qualified to render
storage for said mobile home; and
   (O)   Satellite (earth) television antennas in accordance with the following
standards.
      (1)   There shall be one satellite television antenna permitted per
residential lot.
      (2)   In all districts, a satellite television antenna having a diameter
greater than four feet shall be located on the ground upon and within a poured
concrete foundation to the rear of the principal building on a lot, and within
the building area, and shall not exceed 13 feet in height or the height of the
main structure, whichever is less.
      (3)   In all districts, a satellite television antenna having a diameter
of four feet or less may be located on the principal building or an accessory
building on a lot, and shall not exceed a height of more than four feet above
the roof on which it is mounted, subject to the particular height requirements
of the district. When an antenna having a diameter of four feet or less is
located on the ground, all requirements contained in §
156.501 of this chapter shall apply.
      (4)   The satellite television antenna shall be screened from view by a
fence or natural plants and can be located in a side yard to the rear of the
building setback lines if, in the opinion of the Building Inspector, the
antenna can be adequately screened from view.
      (5)   No satellite television antenna shall be linked to a receiver,
which is not located on the same lot or parcel of real estate.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.33(C)) Penalty, see §
156.999
TEMPORARY USES
§ 156.515 INTENT.
   Temporary uses are permitted in applicable districts by the granting of a
temporary improvement location permit issued by the Board of Zoning Appeals in
accordance with the requirements of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.34(A))
§ 156.516 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The duration of the temporary period is stated hereinafter; provided,
however, renewal of such permit may be requested.
   (B)   Temporary uses shall be subject to all the regulations of the
applicable district.
   (C)   Mobile homes shall be removed from the lot at the time of expiration
of the time period.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.34(B)) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.517 USES WHICH MAY BE PERMITTED BY THE BOARD.
   (A)   Temporary office, model home or model apartment, and incidental signs
thereof, both incidental and necessary for the sale, rental or lease of real
property in the district: maximum 18 months;
   (B)   Non-commercial concrete batching plant, both incidental and necessary
to construction in the district: maximum 18 months;
   (C)   Temporary building or yard for construction materials and equipment,
both incidental and necessary to construction in the district: maximum 18
months;
   (D)   Parking lot designated for a special event in a district: maximum 30
days;
   (E)   Announcement signs necessary to explain the character of a building
enterprise: maximum 18 months;
   (F)   Bazaars, carnivals and similar temporary uses: maximum ten days;
   (G)   Sale of Christmas trees, outdoor tent theater, sales of seasonal
fruits and vegetables from roadside stands, tent sales: maximum 60 days;
   (H)   Parking of recreational vehicles for visitation: maximum seven days;
   (I)   Temporary mobile home living quarters as accessory use on same lot as
principal building used for residential purposes when situation necessitates
special health care for blood relative: maximum two years;
   (J)   Mobile home as a temporary office during the period of construction
and development: maximum 18 months;
   (K)   Mobile home as a temporary living place or dwelling for security
purposes: maximum 18 months;
   (L)   Subdivision or development signs, both incidental and necessary to
advertise the sale, rental or lease of real estate property in a district:
maximum 18 months;
   (M)   Portable signs, as defined in §§
156.550 through
156.557 of this chapter, in the LB and GB Districts in accordance with the
basic requirements herein, and the provisions and standards of this subchapter:
maximum of two months consecutively during a four-month period.
      (1)   Size: shall not exceed 32 square feet of sign area;
      (2)   Height: shall not exceed six feet;
      (3)   Location: in the LB Local Business Districts and the GB General
Business Districts, and never closer than three feet to a street right-of-way
line or within vision clearance on corner lots; and
      (4)   Other restrictions: notwithstanding any other provisions of this
section, an improvement location permit for a portable sign shall not be issued
unless it is in conformance with the Building Code. Under no circumstances
shall portable signs have flashing or intermittent lights, be animated, display
words such as “stop”, “slow”, “go”, “caution” or be shaped like a traffic sign.
All portable signs shall be anchored with chains attached to the ground.
   (N)   Portable signs, as defined in §§
156.550 through
156.557 of this chapter, in residence districts in accordance with the basic
requirements of division (M) above, other than anchoring requirements, and also
in accordance with the provisions and standards of this section: maximum ten
days;
   (O)   Temporary signs, which shall not exceed 32 square feet of sign area,
in connection with a special event in a district, except temporary political
signs or community activities signs, which do not require a permit: maximum ten
days;
   (P)   Display of pennants and other similar attracting devices in connection
with a special promotional program for an open-air business: (See §§
156.485 through
156.488 of this chapter.)
      (1)   During a seven consecutive day period related to a special event;
and
      (2)   For use twice during any 12-month period, in conjunction with a
promotional sales or service program, each period not to exceed three weeks in
duration, and to be separated from any other such period by not less than four
weeks.
   (Q)   Other similar uses deemed temporary by the Board and attached with
such time period, conditions and safeguards as the Board may deem necessary.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.34(C))
§ 156.518 STANDARDS.
   (A)   Adequate access and off-street parking facilities shall be provided
which shall not interfere with traffic movement on adjacent streets.
   (B)   No public address systems or other noise-producing devices shall be
permitted in a residential district.
   (C)   Any flood lights or other lighting shall be directed upon the premises
and shall not be detrimental to adjacent properties.
   (D)   No banners, pennants or unnecessary signs shall be permitted in a
residential district.
   (E)   The lot shall be put in clean condition devoid of temporary use
remnants upon termination of the temporary period.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.34(D))
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING; STORAGE
§ 156.530 INTENT.
   (A)   Accessory off-street parking and loading facilities shall be provided
and maintained for all buildings, structures or premises used in whole or in
part for purposes permitted by this chapter in accordance with the provisions
of this section, or as otherwise indicated in §§
156.400 through
156.405 of this chapter, or elsewhere in this chapter.
   (B)   The regulations of this section are designed to alleviate or prevent
congestion of the public streets by establishing minimum requirements for on-
site storage of motor vehicles in accordance with the use to which the property
is occupied.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.36(A))
§ 156.531 SCOPE.
   (A)   No use lawfully established prior to the effective date of the
ordinance establishing this chapter shall be required to provide and maintain
the parking and loading requirements herein; provided, however, that, off-
street parking and loading spaces required by any previous ordinances adopted
pursuant to the State Planning Statutes shall be continued and maintained.
   (B)   For any non-conforming use which is hereafter damaged or partially
destroyed, and which is lawfully reconstructed, re-established or repaired,
off-street parking and loading facilities equivalent to those maintained at the
time of such damage or partial destruction shall be restored and continued in
operation; provided, however, in no case shall it be necessary to restore or
maintain parking or loading facilities in excess of those required by this
chapter for equivalent new uses.
   (C)   When the intensity of use of any building, structure or premises shall
be increased through the addition of dwelling units, floor area, beds, seating
capacity or other unit of measurement, parking and loading facilities as
required herein shall be provided for such increase in intensity of use.
   (D)   Whenever the existing use of a building, structure or premises shall
hereinafter be changed or converted to a new use permitted by this chapter,
parking and loading facilities shall be provided as required for such new use.
   (E)   Accessory off-street parking or loading facilities in existence on the
effective date of the ordinance establishing this chapter shall not hereafter
be reduced below, or if already less than, shall not be further reduced below
the requirements for a similar new use under the provisions of this chapter.
   (F)   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prevent the voluntary
establishment of accessory off-street parking or loading facilities to serve
any existing use of land or buildings; provided that, all regulations herein
governing the location, design and operation of such facilities are adhered to.
   (G)   Accessory off-street parking and loading spaces shall be provided on
the same lot as the use served, except as otherwise provided in this chapter,
and may be situated as one or more individual areas.
   (H)   Accessory off-street parking facilities for separate uses may be
provided collectively if the total number of spaces so provided is not less
than the sum of the separate requirements for each such use; and, provided
that, all regulations governing location of accessory parking spaces in
relation to the use served are adhered. Further, no parking space or portion
thereof shall serve as a required space for more than one use unless otherwise
authorized by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   (I)   Accessory off-street parking and loading facilities provided to comply
with the provisions of this chapter shall not subsequently be reduced below the
requirements of this chapter.
   (J)   Accessory off-street parking facilities required herein shall be
utilized solely, for the parking of passenger automobiles or light trucks of
not more than one and one-half ton capacity, of patrons, occupants or employees
of specified uses. Said parking facilities shall not be used for the storage,
display, sale, repair, dismantling or wrecking of any vehicle, equipment or
material.
   (K)   Required off-street loading and unloading spaces shall not be
construed as being part of the required off-street parking spaces.
   (L)   Loading and unloading berths shall not be required for business uses
and industrial uses which demonstrably do not receive or transmit goods or
wares by truck delivery.
   (M)   Accessory off-street parking facilities are not required in a block
frontage contained in a GB or I-2 District in which the ground floor area of
business or industrial structures, including their accessory buildings,
existing at the time of passage of the ordinance establishing this chapter,
equaled 50% or more of the entire area of the block frontage.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.36(B))
§ 156.532 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Each required off-street parking space shall be at least nine
feet in width and at least 20 feet in length, exclusive of access drives or
aisles, ramps, columns or office or work areas. Such space shall have adequate
vertical clearance.
      (2)   For parallel parking, the length of the parking space shall be
increased to 24 feet.
   (B)   Each required off-street loading space shall be of a size not less
than that required for an off-street parking space but scaled larger to
delivery vehicles expected to be used, logically and conveniently located for
bulk pickups and deliveries, and accessible to such vehicles when required off-
street parking spaces are filled; provided that, for industrial uses, the off-
street area required for the receipt or distribution by vehicles of materials
or merchandise is held to be a 12-foot by 45-foot loading space with a 14-foot
height clearance; provided further that, if more than one berth is provided,
the minimum dimensions are held to be ten feet by 45 feet with a 14-foot height
clearance.
   (C)   (1)   Except on lots occupied by one-, two-family and multi-family
dwellings, each off-street parking space shall open directly upon an aisle or
driveway at least 12 feet wide or such additional width and design in
accordance with the following table, so as to provide safe and efficient means
of vehicular access to such parking space.
      (2)   Such aisle or driveway shall be unobstructed and allow for the
passage of emergency vehicles at all times.
      (3)   The angle shall be measured between centerline of parking space and
centerline of aisle.
   (D)   All off-street parking or loading facilities shall be designed with
appropriate means of vehicular access to a street or alley in a manner which
will least interfere with traffic movement.
   (E)   In determining the minimum required number of off-street parking or
loadings spaces, the following instructions shall be applicable in such
computations:
      (1)   If the unit of measurement is any fraction of the unit specified in
relation to the number of spaces to be provided, said fraction shall be
considered as being the next unit and shall be counted as requiring one space.
      (2)   In sports arenas, church and other places of assembly in which
patrons occupy benches, pews or other similar seating facilities, each 22
inches of such seating shall be counted as one seat for the purpose of
determining requirements hereunder.
 
Parking Angle (in degrees) Aisle Width (in feet)
45                         14
60                         18
90                         24
 
§ 156.533 MINIMUM PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
Type of Use Minimum Parking Space(s)
Type of Use                               Minimum Parking Space(s)
Amusement establishments, including       1 parking space for each 500 square
swimming pools, golf courses, bowling     feet of gross floor area, or 5
alleys, skating rinks and similar         parking spaces for each hole, alley
facilities                                or 100 square feet of water area,
                                          whichever is greater.
Automobile and truck repair               1 for each 200 square feet of net
                                          floor area.
Automobile service sales room business
services, clothing services, food         1 for each 125 square feet of net
services, personal services, retail       floor area.
service and retail storage generally, and
tavern or night club
                                          1 parking space for each employee per
Automobile service station uses           largest working shift, plus 2 spaces
                                          for each service stall.
Billiard room, dancing academy, sporting
activities, department store and          1 for each 200 square feet of net
automobile, truck or trailer rental and   floor area.
sales area
                                          1 parking space for each 6 students,
Boarding schools, vocational and trade    based on the maximum number of
schools, colleges, and similar            students attending classes on the
educational institutions                  premises at any one time during a 24-
                                          hour period.
Bowling alley or roller rink              3 for each lane, plus 1 for each 6
                                          spectator seats.
                                          1 parking space for each 5 seats in
Churches, theaters, auditoriums, assembly the main and similar places of
halls, undertaking                        congregation sanctuary or room, plus
                                          1 space for each employee per largest
                                          working shift.
                                          1 parking space for each 2 employees
Commercial, manufacturing and industrial  on the largest shift, plus an
establishments not catering to the retail adequate number of spaces for
trade                                     visitors and company vehicles
                                          operating from the premises.
Community centers, public buildings,      1 parking space for each 800 square
utilities and public service uses         feet of gross floor area, or 1 space
including libraries, museums, place of    for each 2 and similar employees per
assembly                                  largest shift, whichever is greater.
                                          2 parking spaces for each 100 square
Drive-in establishments                   feet of gross floor area, plus 1
                                          space for each employee per largest
                                          working shift.
                                          1 parking space for each 2 beds, or
Group housing, including rooming and      each 2 sleeping units, rooming units
boarding houses, dormitories, elderly     or dwelling units in the case of
housing, fraternities and sororities      elderly housing, plus 1 space for
                                          each employee per largest working
                                          shift.
Hotel or motel                            1 for each 3 employees, plus 1 for
                                          each sleeping unit.
Indoor theater                            1 for each 6 seats.
                                          1 for each 3 employees, plus 1 for
                                          each 10 seats in waiting room. Other
Motor bus or passenger station            retail uses in connection therewith
                                          shall provide one space for each 2
                                          employees.
Newspaper publishing                      1 per employee on largest shift.
Open-air type business uses, including    1 parking space for each employee per
auto and boat sales, kennels, plant       largest working shift, plus 2 spaces
nurseries and commercial amusement        for each service stall.
establishment
                                          1 parking space for each 2 employees
Philanthropic and charitable institutions per largest working shift, plus an
                                          adequate number of spaces to serve
                                          the public.
                                          Space to accommodate 50% of the
                                          active membership at 1 space per 3
                                          members, or as determined by the
Private (or commercial) club or lodge     Board. The determination shall be
                                          based upon the particular lodge
                                          required to satisfy estimated peak
                                          parking load requirements.
Radio and television studios              1 per employee, plus one for each 6
                                          seats in main auditorium.
Residential uses                          As required in the applicable
                                          sections of this chapter.
   Single-family dwelling              2
   Manufactured home                   2
   Farm house or farm dwelling         2
   Two-family dwelling                 2 for each unit
   Multi-family dwelling (or apartment 2 for each dwelling unit
building)
Schools, public and private (education institution)
   Elementary or junior high           At least 3 parking spaces shall be
   High school                         provided for each classroom. At least
                                          6 parking spaces shall be provided
                                          for each classroom. At least 1 space
                                          shall be provided for each 5 seats
                                          when the facility is of an
                                          independent nature. When such
                                          facility is utilized in conjunction
                                          with a school, either the parking
   Sports area                         requirement based on seating capacity
                                          of the largest single facility
                                          contained herein or the above
                                          requirement based on classroom number
                                          shall be applicable, whichever
                                          results in the greater number of
                                          spaces.

                                          1 for each 3 employees or occupants.
Storage warehouse or wholesale            The maximum number of employees or
establishment                             occupants to be used in determining
                                          spaces.
NOTES TO TABLE:
-For uses not specified in this section or in such instance when the
requirement for an adequate number of spaces is unclear or not specified in
another part of this chapter or for special exceptions or a unit development
plan and the like, the number of parking spaces shall be determined by the
Executive Director or the Board of Zoning Appeals, whatever the case may be, on
the basis of similar requirements, the number of persons served or employed,
and the capability of adequately serving the visiting public. Such
determination, if made by the Executive Director, may be appealed to the Board
of Zoning Appeals.
-In case of conflict between the provisions of this section, the higher
requirement shall govern.
-For purposes of determining off-street parking requirements under this
section, GROSS FLOOR AREA shall mean the total horizontal areas of the one or
several floors of the building or portion thereof devoted to such use,
including accessory storage areas located within selling or working space such
as counters, racks or closets, and any basement floor area devoted to retailing
activities, to the production or processing of goods or to offices; provided,
however, gross floor area shall not include that area devoted entirely and
permanently to storage purposes, parking and loading facilities or space used
for restrooms, utilities or elevator shafts.
 
(Ord. passed --2006, §80.36(D))
§ 156.534 OFF-SITE PARKING FACILITIES.
   (A)   Required off-street parking facilities shall be provided hereinafter.
   (B)   The Board of Zoning Appeals is hereby authorized to grant an off-site
parking facility as a special exception in accordance with the following
conditions (and the requirements of §§
156.400 through
156.405 of this chapter).
      (1)   A development plan for such off-site parking facility shall be
filed with the Board as a required exhibit accompanying the special exception
application and shall be made part of the conditions of any approval therefore.
Said development plan shall demonstrate compliance with all applicable
standards of this chapter, shall be amended and re-approved to indicate any
change or other modification of uses served, or number of parking spaces
provided therefore, and shall indicate:
         (a)   Adjacent streets, alleys and lots;
         (b)   All individual primary uses to be served, including the location
use and number of parking spaces for each such use;
         (c)   A layout drawn to scale of aisles and driveways, entrances,
exits and turn-off lanes, parking spaces, setbacks, drainage facilities and
landscaping and buffer screening; and
         (d)   Type of lighting and pavement proposed, and identification signs
including location, size and design thereof.
      (2)   Off-site parking facilities shall be provided with setback
distances equivalent to the requirements of the district, and ingress and
egress points shall be limited to protect the function of adjoining streets.
      (3)   Off-site parking facilities shall be encumbered by any instrument
duly executed and acknowledged, which subject said accessory off-street parking
facilities to parking use served. Said instrument shall specify and bind the
time period to the anticipated life of the building or use to which the parking
facilities are accessory. Said instrument shall be filed in the applicable
improvement location permit files of the Plan Commission office, and placed on
public record in the office of the County Recorder.
      (4)   Off-site parking facilities shall be developed in accordance with
the provisions of §
156.535 of this chapter.
   (C)   Further, said facilities shall be developed under such conditions
imposed by the Board of Zoning Appeal as to protect residential districts and
maintain at a minimum the disturbance to nearby residential uses.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.36(E))
§ 156.535 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   All off-street parking areas for four or more automobiles shall be
developed in accordance with the standards of this section, except in the case
of one-, two-family and multi-family dwellings, agricultural and rural uses,
and storage of vehicular merchandise not counting toward the minimum
requirements as set forth in this chapter.
   (B)   Required off-street parking spaces shall be so designed, arranged and
regulated, as to have individual spaces marked, be unobstructed and have access
to an aisle or driveway so that any automobile may be moved without moving
another, and so that no maneuvering directly incidental to entering or leaving
a parking space shall be on any public right-of-way or walkway.
   (C)   Off-street parking spaces may be open to the sky or enclosed in a
building. In any instance when a building is constructed or used for parking
facilities on the lot, said building shall be treated as any major structure
and subject to all requirements thereof.
   (D)   No repair work, sales or service of any kind shall be permitted in
association with accessory off-street parking facilities unless such facilities
are enclosed in a building and otherwise permitted in the district.
   (E)   All open off-street parking areas shall be surfaced with an all-
weather paving material capable of carrying a wheel load of 4,000 pounds, or
improved with concrete or a compacted macadam base and surfaced with an
asphaltic pavement, to adequately provide a durable and dust-free surface which
shall be maintained in good condition and free of weeds, dirt, trash and
debris; except that:
      (1)   A gravel surface may be used for a period not exceeding one year
after the date of granting the certificate of occupancy where ground conditions
are not immediately suitable for permanent surfacing as specified above; and
      (2)   A gravel surface in the area of storage or handling may be used
permanently in association with industries that handle liquids or chemicals
which create a potential hazard if containment should be lost and where
absorption into the ground through a loose surface material would eliminate or
alleviate such hazard.
   (F)   Driveway entrances or exits shall be no closer than 25 feet to any
adjoining residential property line or ten feet to an adjoining non-residential
property line or designed in such a manner as to least interfere with traffic
movement. No driveway across public property at the right-of-way line of the
street shall exceed a width of 30 feet; provided, however, two driveways not
exceeding 30 feet in width each may constitute a single entrance-exit divider
designed driveway; provided, further, that, such driveways shall conform to the
requirements of the County Highway Department.
   (G)   In any district, each use which is so located that it fronts upon and
provides access to an arterial thoroughfare shall provide a frontage land
paralleling and adjoining the improved part of the right-of-way at least 11
feet in width for turn traffic entering the lot. Such frontage lane shall be at
least 100 feet in length, exclusive of the entrance way and taper area;
provided, however, if the lot frontage is too small to meet such requirement,
the frontage lane shall extend the entire width of the lot.
   (H)   Any lighting facilities used to illuminate off-street parking areas
shall be so located, shielded and directed upon the parking area in such a
manner that they do not reflect or cause glare onto adjacent properties or
interfere with street traffic. In no instance shall bare un-shaded bulbs be
used for such illumination.
   (I)   Such parking areas shall be graded and properly drained in such a
manner that there will be no free flow or water onto either adjacent property
or public sidewalks. Further, any additional run-off generated by such improved
areas shall be disposed of in appropriate drainage facilities.
   (J)   Such parking areas shall be so lined or designated as to ensure the
most efficient use of the parking spaces, and provided with bumper guards or
wheel guards so located that no part of the parked vehicle will extend beyond
the boundary of the established parking area into any minimum required yard or
onto adjoining property.
   (K)   No business signs or advertisements shall be permitted in parking
areas; provided, however, directional and identification signs shall be
permitted in accordance with §§
156.550 through
156.557 of this chapter.
   (L)   Parking areas located in the business and industrial districts shall
be provided with a landscape screen not less than four feet in height whenever
the parking area is located within 100 feet of adjoining residential uses or
fronting upon any adjoining residential uses, except as otherwise provided in
this chapter.
   (M)   The ground area between the required off-street parking area setback
and any lot line shall be landscaped with appropriate material to adequately
indicate delineation.
   (N)   Parking areas may be provided with a one-story shelter building or
guard building which shall not exceed 100 square feet of gross floor area and
shall conform to all the structural requirements of the district.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.36(F)) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.536 LOADING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Uses and buildings with a gross floor area of 5,000 square feet or
more shall provide off-street loading spaces in accordance with the following
table; provided that, loading spaces shall not be required for uses which do
not receive or transmit goods or wares by truck delivery:
Use Description in Square Feet No. of Loading Spaces Required
Use                          Description in Square Feet No. of Loading Spaces
                                                        Required
Manufacturing, distribution, 5,000-25,000               1
wholesaling, storage and     25,0001-50,000             2
similar uses                 50,001 - 100,000           3
                             Each 50,000 above 100,000  1
Office buildings, hotels and 5,000 - 60,000             1
motels, retail sales,        60,001 - 100,000           2
hospitals, institutions and  Each 100,000 above 100,000 1
similar uses
 
   (B)   Off-street loading areas shall be developed in accordance with the
standards in §
156.535 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.36(G)) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.537 PARKING AND STORAGE OF CERTAIN VEHICLES.
   (A)   Automotive vehicles. An automotive or trailer of any type without
current license plates or in an inoperable condition so as to be deemed dead
storage or an abandoned vehicle shall not be permitted on a lot for a period of
30 days other than in completely enclosed buildings and shall not be parked or
stored in any district unless specifically authorized. See definition of
“abandoned vehicle” in §
156.020 of this chapter.
   (B)   Commercial vehicles. The parking of a commercial self-propelled
vehicle in residential districts shall be prohibited, except as set forth in §
156.621 of this chapter; and, provided further that, one commercial vehicle of
not more than one and one-half tons capacity may be parked on a lot on which
there is located a principal building; provided, such vehicle is parked in an
enclosed garage, accessory building or rear yard in a location where it is not
visible from public property (including) a street, and is used by a resident of
the premises. This requirement shall not be interpreted to prohibit commercial
vehicles from temporary loading and unloading in any residential district.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.38) Penalty, see §
156.999
SIGNS
§ 156.550 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADVERTISING SIGN or BILLBOARD. An off-site sign which directs attention to
an object as described herein; provided, however, such advertising sign shall
not be associated with the primary use, business, activity or service conducted
on the premises.
   BUSINESS SIGN. An on-site sign which identifies or directs attention to an
object as described herein associated or offered as the primary use, business,
activity or service on the premises; provided, however, that, window displays
relating to such items for sale or promoted on the premises shall not be
construed as BUSINESS SIGNS.
   FREESTANDING SIGN. Any sign attached to a self-supporting sign structure,
which is essentially unattached to any other structure.
   INCIDENTAL SIGN. A nameplate, temporary sign or sign relating to the lot or
use thereof and designating accessory uses, direction, identification,
information or real estate for sale, rent or lease.
   PORTABLE SIGN. Any sign that is not permanently affixed to a building,
structure or the ground, inclusive of signs on movable objects, except signs on
vehicles which are moving or parked only temporarily, incidental to their
principal use for transportation; a temporary sign designed to be moved from
place to place. A sign not permitted by this section, but may be permitted by
the Board in accordance with the requirements of §§
156.515 through
156.518 of this chapter.
   PROJECTING SIGN. Any sign suspended from or supported by a building, and
extending outward therefrom more than 18 inches.
   SIGN. Any identification, description, display or illustration which is
affixed to, or painted, or represented directly or indirectly upon a building
or other outdoor surface or parcel of land, and which directs attention to an
object, project, place, activity, business, person, service or interest.
   SIGN FACING. The surface of the sign upon, against or through which the
message of the sign is exhibited.
   SIGN STRUCTURE. The supports, uprights, bracing and framework for the sign.
In the case of a SIGN STRUCTURE consisting of two or more sides, where the
angle formed between any of the sides (or the projection thereof) exceeds 15
degrees, each side shall be considered a separate SIGN STRUCTURE.
   SIGN SURFACE. The entire area within a single continuous perimeter enclosing
all elements of the sign which form a integral part of the sign and which are
organized, related and composed to form a single unit. Where matter is
displayed in a random manner without organized relationship of elements, or
where there is reasonable doubt about the relationship of elements, each
element shall be considered to be a single sign.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.37(A))
§ 156.551 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Vision clearance on corner lots or intersection visibility shall be
observed at all sign locations at intersections of streets. No sign, billboard
or exterior graphic display will be permitted in any district until permits are
obtained therefore, except as specified otherwise in this section.
   (B)   The following incidental signs shall be exempted from the requirements
of this section, subject to the conditions specified:
      (1)   Signs not exceeding one square foot in area and bearing only
property numbers, address numbers, names of occupants of premises or other
identification of premises not denoting commercial activity;
      (2)   Flags and insignia of any governmental unit, or civic, educational
or religious organization, except when displayed in connection with promotion;
      (3)   Temporary political signs of any size pertaining to an election,
referendum, or other voting event, may be displayed beginning 60 days before an
election, ending at the beginning of the sixth day after the election, pursuant
to I.C. 36-1-3-11(c) or as thereafter amended.
      (4)   Legal notices, identification, information, warning, trespassing or
directional signs erected or required by governmental units;
      (5)   Memorial plaques, historical markers, integral decorative or
architectural features of buildings, except trademarks, moving parts or moving
lights;
      (6)   One real estate sign for each lot frontage not exceeding six square
feet in area, indicating the sale, rental or lease of the premises on which
displayed. A solid sign may be attached to such real estate sign; both signs
shall be removed within seven days from the time the premises were sold, rented
or leased;
      (7)   Such signs may be illuminated but not flashing or animated; and
      (8)   Private signs: (non-profit) including historical signs and
homestead signs (refer to Hoosier Homestead sign issued by state) shall be
exempt, but must meet setback requirements.
   (C)   The following incidental signs shall be permitted subject to the
requirements of this section:
      (1)   Signs directing and guiding traffic, pedestrian or other control
designative entrances or exits to or from a parking or loading area, or
indicating parking or loading area, or loading spaces, on private property, not
exceeding four square feet in surface area for each such sign and not bearing
any advertising matter, limited to two such signs for each entrance or exit;
      (2)   One identification sign for parking or loading area not exceeding
16 square feet in surface area for each street frontage of such area. Said sign
shall include only the name and address of the owner or the name and address of
the use for which it is provided, the hours of operation and similar such
information;
      (3)   Temporary signs in connection with a special event, in accordance
with §§
156.515 through
156.518 of this chapter. Special events signs are permitted for a maximum of 14
days limited to twice yearly;
      (4)   One temporary announcement sign for each street frontage of
premises or buildings which are under construction, demolition, remodeling or
rebuilding, which sign announces the character of the building enterprise,
including names of architects, engineers or contracts. Such sign shall not
exceed 64 square feet of surface area, and shall be removed when said indicated
purpose is completed, in accordance with §§
156.515 through
156.518 of ths chapter;
      (5)   One temporary subdivision sign for each street entrance to the
subdivision, on not less than 200 feet of street frontage, in accordance with
§§
156.515 through
156.518 of ths chapter, which sign is both incidental and necessary to
advertise the sale, rental or lease of §§
156.515 through
156.518 of ths chapter, which sign is both incidental and necessary to
advertise the sale, rental or lease of real property in the district. Such sign
shall not exceed 200 square feet of surface area and shall not be erected until
the subdivision has been approved and recorded;
      (6)   One temporary office, model home or model apartment sign for each
use, in accordance with §§
156.515 through
156.518 of ths chapter, which sign is both incidental and necessary to identify
or promote said use. Such sign shall not exceed 16 square feet of surface area;
and
      (7)   Such signs may be illuminated, but not flashing or animated. Such
signs shall conform to all the requirements of the district; provided, however,
in the case of divisions (C)(1), (C)(2), (C)(4) and (C)(6) above, said signs
may encroach into required setback distances but no closer than 15 feet to any
adjoining property line; provided, further, said signs shall not project higher
than 16 feet above the lot ground level.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.37(B); Ord. 2024-05, passed 4-12-2024) Penalty, see
§
156.999
§ 156.552 ADVERTISING SIGNS OR BILLBOARDS.
   (A)   It is the intent of this section to establish reasonable and uniform
limitations, safeguards and controls for the operation and use of advertising
signs in highway-oriented business locations. Such requirements are deemed
necessary in the public interest to protect the use and value of adjoining
properties, as well as the best interests of the community. Advertising signs
or billboards may be permitted as a special exception subject to the
requirements of this section and §§
156.400 through
156.405 of this chapter.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, an advertising sign shall be construed
in accordance with the definition and subject to the provisions of this
subchapter. All off-premises advertising signs are billboards.
   (C)   One advertising sign shall be permitted on any lot of at least 300
feet of frontage on a street designated as a secondary arterial or primary
arterial in the A-1, A-2, LB, RB, GB, IB, I-1 and I-2 Districts, and one
additional advertising sign shall be permitted for each 300 feet of additional
frontage.
   (D)   Minimum setback lines shall be 50 feet from the right-of-way as
proposed and/or set forth in the County Thoroughfare Plan to the closest edge
of any portion of the advertising sign/billboard.
   (E)   No advertising sign shall be permitted within 100 feet of a
residential or agricultural district unless said sign is provided and
maintained with landscape screening in order to mask the sign from view of the
district.
   (F)   The number of traffic access points shall not exceed one for each such
sign frontage.
   (G)   The facing of an advertising sign shall not be greater than 18 feet in
vertical dimension, nor greater than 55 in horizontal dimension, except as
provided in division (I) below, and shall not contain more than two advertising
signs per facing.
   (H)   The face of an advertising sign shall be viewed along the line of
travel to which it is exposed for a distance of at least 250 feet along the
centerline of the frontage street measured from a point opposite the center of
the sign and perpendicular to the street’s centerline; provided, however:
      (1)   In the case of a sign parallel (or within 20 degrees of parallel)
to a one-way street, the required viewing distance shall be at least 400 feet;
      (2)   In the case of a sign which is from three to 20 degrees of parallel
to a two-way street, the required viewing distance shall be at least 400 feet;
      (3)   In the case of a sign parallel (or within three degrees of
parallel) to a two-way street, the required viewing distance shall be at least
250 feet in each direction; and
      (4)   In the case of a sign so placed that it can be viewed from more
than one street, the above viewing distance requirements shall be applicable to
only one street.
   (I)   No semi-trailer(s) shall be used for signage.
   (J)   The maximum height of advertising signs erected upon the ground shall
not exceed 40 feet above the street elevation to which the sign is oriented.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.37(C); Ord. 2007-2-F, passed 3-12-2007) Penalty, see
§
156.999
§ 156.553 BUSINESS SIGNS.
   (A)   The number and size of business signs for uses permitted in a business
or industrial district shall be limited as follows.
      (1)   The total number of signs for a lot having a business use located
thereon shall be based upon the following formula: for each ten lineal feet of
property constituting frontage on a street, 20 square feet of sign surface area
shall be allowed; provided that, this total surface area shall be allowed,
provided that this total surface area may be allocated into any number of
signs; and, provided further that, in no case shall the total number of such
signs exceed two per street frontage for each occupant therein.
      (2)   The minimum size allotment for signs for each lot having a business
use located thereon shall be at least 300 feet of total surface area, and this
area may be divided into two signs.
   (B)   For unified centers, including shopping centers, planned business
areas and enclosed industrial parks, in single ownership or under unified
control, or individual uses with a collective and contiguous minimum frontage
of 400 feet, one additional business sign in addition to those signs permitted
in this section shall be permitted for each main entrance to such center
subject to the following.
      (1)   Such sign shall indicate only the name and location of such center
and the name and type of business of the occupants of such center.
      (2)   The maximum surface area of such sign shall be neither flashing or
animated.
   (C)   On-premises advertising signs are the same as business signs and have
the following requirements:
      (1)   Maximum size of 32 square feet;
      (2)   Permitted in business districts;
      (3)   Lighting shall be permitted (directional only, limited to sign
face);
      (4)   Permit fee applicable to current improvement location permit fee;
      (5)   Shall not apply to home or rural occupations;
      (6)   Setback shall be at least 20 feet from front lot line;
      (7)   Setback shall be at least 20 feet from an agriculture or residence
district;
      (8)   Maximum height is six feet; and
      (9)   Any sign over 32 feet shall require a variance.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.37(D)) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.554 CERTAIN IDENTIFICATION SIGNS.
   (A)   Directional - off-premises signs. The purpose of this section is to
prevent the uncontrolled use of off-premises signs so as to promote the health,
safety and general welfare of those persons using the public rights-of-way.
These regulations are intended to preserve the overall landscape quality of the
county while allowing the reasonable use of signs to inform the traveling
public. This is accomplished through the application of standards for size,
illumination and separation.
      (1)   Sign shall contain only name, emblem and arrow;
      (2)   Permit shall be required;
      (3)   Not permitted in residence districts;
      (4)   Lighting shall not be permitted;
      (5)   Maximum of two signs per business use;
      (6)   Zero setback from front property line;
      (7)   Setback of 20 feet from side and rear property lines;
      (8)   Vision clearance on corner lots or intersection visibility shall be
observed;
      (9)   Maximum height is six feet (street grade to top of sign);
      (10)   Maximum of 16 square feet when abutting arterial thoroughfare.
Permitted only on arterial streets; and
      (11)   Width shall not exceed four feet.
   (B)   The following provisions shall apply to residential uses in any zone
district.
      (1)   Two sign structures identifying and/or providing information
regarding a residential subdivision or project area shall be permitted for each
main entrance to such residential area.
      (2)   Said sign shall not exceed 64 square feet in surface area, and may
be illuminated, but not flashing or animated.
      (3)   Said sign shall indicate only the name and address of the building
or use, the name and address of the management thereof, or associated
information, but not including permanent promotional information.
      (4)   Provision for maintenance shall be made for permanent residential
identification signs in platted subdivisions. Said sign shall be constructed of
ornamental metal, stone, masonry or other permanent material.
   (C)   The following provisions shall apply to special exception uses.
      (1)   One identification sign not exceeding 64 square feet in surface
area shall be permitted for each street frontage adjoining any residential
property; provided, however, for each 200 feet of additional street frontage,
one additional such sign shall be permitted, not to exceed a total number of
four; provided, further, when not adjoining residential property such sign
surface area may be increased to a maximum of 128 square feet.
      (2)   Said sign may be illuminated, but not flashing or animated.
      (3)   Said sign shall indicate only the name and address of the building
or use, conditions of operation and associated information, but not including
permanent promotional information.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.37(D)) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.555 ACCESSORY SIGNS AND SIGN STRUCTURES.
   Accessory signs and sign structures shall be permitted for all buildings,
structures or premises used for purposes permitted by this chapter in
accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.37(F))
§ 156.556 MAINTENANCE AND REMOVAL.
   (A)   All signs shall be kept in repair and in proper state of preservation.
   (B)   Signs, which are no longer functional or are abandoned shall be
removed or relocated in compliance with the regulations of this chapter within
30 days following such abandonment. Signs shall be considered no longer
functional or abandoned when such sign is materially obstructed from view, when
its essential elements are no longer readable or when a condition of
dilapidation is in evidence.
   (C)   Any legally established non-conforming sign shall be permitted without
alteration in size or location, unless movable or unattached, in accordance
with §
156.366 of this chapter. If such sign is damaged or dilapidated to an extent of
more than 50% of its replacement cost at time of damage or repair, as
determined by the Building Inspector, it shall not be rebuilt; provided,
however, that, nothing herein shall prevent maintenance, repainting or normal
repair of legally established non-conforming signs.
   (D)   Whenever any movable or unattached sign is erected or maintained in
violation of this chapter, said sign may be removed by action of the Executive
Director after due notice is given to the person in interest. If the owner
fails to remove or renovate the sign within 30 days after due notice has been
given the county or respective town may remove such sign at the owner’s
expense.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.37(G)) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.557 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   No sign or sign structure shall be placed on private or public
property without the written consent of the owner or agent thereof.
   (B)   No sign or sign structure other than official highway signs shall be
placed upon, over or in any street or highway right-of-way or any sidewalk,
except as provided in division (E) below.
   (C)   No sign or sign structure shall be erected at any location where it
may interfere with, obstruct the view of, or be confused with any authorized
traffic sign, signal or device. No rotating beam, beacon or flashing
illumination resembling any emergency lights shall be used in connection with
any sign display, nor shall any sign make use of the words “Stop”, “Look”,
“Danger” or any other word, phrase, symbol or character in such a manner as to
interfere with, mislead or confuse traffic.
   (D)   No sign or sign structure shall be located in such a manner as to
materially impede the view of any street or highway intersection, or in such a
manner as to materially impede the view of the intersection of a street or
highway with a railroad grade crossing.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful to erect and maintain:
      (1)   Any sign which is not included under the types of signs permitted
in this chapter;
      (2)   Any portable or movable sign, except as permitted under the
provisions of this chapter (see §§
156.515 through
156.518 of this chapter);
      (3)   Any sign which projects more than 18 inches over public property
except when such sign is necessary to the public safety and convenience and so
authorized by the applicable governmental unit;
      (4)   Any sign or sign structure affixed to a roof top or known as roof-
top sign, which superstructure extends above the highest point of the roof; and
      (5)   A business sign and advertising sign on the same lot.
   (F)   Signs or sign structures located on a marquee or canopy shall be
affixed flat to the surface thereof, and shall not:
      (1)   Be greater than three feet in vertical measurement above the
marquee or canopy; and/or
      (2)   Extend vertically below or horizontally beyond more than 18 inches
from the marquee or canopy limits.
   (G)   Signs located on awnings shall be affixed flat to, or painted upon the
surface thereof, shall not extend vertically or horizontally beyond the limits
of said awning, and shall not be illuminated. Only the name and address of the
use shall be indicated.
   (H)   No sign or sign structure, except a projecting sign structure,
attached to the wall of a building shall extend more than 18 inches
horizontally from such wall.
   (I)   No sign or sign structure attached to the wall of a building shall
extend above the roof or parapet lines of such building; provided, however, in
the case of the unified center, including unit development plans, shopping
centers, planned business areas and enclosed industrial parks, in single
ownership or under unified control, the Board of Zoning Appeals may grant a
special exception in accordance with §§
156.400 through
156.405 of this chapter for one such sign per occupant extending not more than
four feet above the roof or parapet line of such building.
   (J)   Business and advertising signs may be illuminated, unless specified
otherwise; provided, however, light reflectors shall not extend more than 12
feet from the face of the sign. Where a sign is illuminated by light reflected
upon it, direct rays of light shall not beam upon any part of adjoining
property.
   (K)   Not more than one projecting business sign structure shall be allowed
for each lot or occupant thereof, and the maximum surface area of such sign
shall not exceed 240 square feet per side. Only one side of a projecting sign
shall be considered in computing total allowable sign surface area. In no case
shall the sign structure extend more than eight feet from or beyond its
supporting building. No projecting sign shall be at its lowest point less than
eight feet above grade level.
   (L)   Freestanding signs shall not be higher than 40 feet above the street
elevation to which the sign is oriented, and the maximum surface area of such
sign shall not exceed 300 square feet per side.
   (M)   Signs or sign structures shall be set back in accordance with the
building setback lines required by the district; provided, however:
      (1)   In case the supporting building for a projecting sign is located
closer than eight feet to the building setback line, the projecting sign may
extend in front of said setback line, but in no case shall such sign extend
beyond the property line, in accordance with the standards of this section; or
      (2)   In the case of freestanding signs where graphic illustration is
exhibited to the Board of Zoning Appeals, indicating extensive landscaping,
compliance with all other standards of this chapter and appropriate safeguards
for the public safety, such sign or sign structure located no closer than 20
feet to the front property line shall be deemed sign setback special exemption,
and in accordance with the requirements of §§
156.400 through
156.405 of this chapter, the Board of Zoning Appeals may approve such special
exception.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.37(H)) Penalty, see §
156.999
SOIL SURVEY, DRAINAGE, EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL
§ 156.570 GENERAL.
   Before an improvement location permit or a certificate of occupancy shall be
issued, the Executive Director shall be satisfied that the proposed use meets
the applicable criteria set forth herein for the lot or tract of land
concerning types of soils involved, and the conditions which are requisite to
assure proper execution of erosion and sediment control and proper drainage.
The Executive Director shall be guided by the information set forth in the
findings in the National Cooperative Soil Survey prepared by the USDA Soil
Conversation Service in cooperation with the Purdue Experiment Station and the
Ripley County Soil and Water Conservation District, and the specifications set
forth in §
156.575 of this chapter. The Executive Director shall also be guided by advice
from the USDA Soil Conservation Service, the County Soil and Water Conservation
District, Department of Natural Resources, Division of Water, and other
agencies or officials offering technical assistance on the subjects of soils,
drainage, erosion and sediment control. The applicant shall provide the above
information, report or plan with his or her application, and additional expense
necessary to ensure adequate information, report or plan shall be met by the
applicant.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.42)
§ 156.571 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words in
the singular number include the singular. Present tense includes the future.
The word “building” shall be deemed to include the word “structure”.
   CUT. An excavation. The difference between a point on the original ground
and a designated point of lower elevation on the final grade. Also the material
removed in excavation.
   EROSION. The removal of surface materials by the action of natural elements.
   EXCAVATION. Any act by which earth, sand, gravel, rock or any other similar
material is dug, into, cut quarried, uncovered, removed, displaced, relocated
or bulldozed, and shall include the conditions resulting therefrom.
   FILL. Any act by which earth, sand, gravel, rock or any other similar
material is placed, pushed, dumped, pulled, transported or moved to a new
location above the natural surface of the ground or on top of the stripped
surface and shall include the conditions resulting therefrom. The difference in
elevation between a point on the original ground and a designated point of
higher elevation on the final grade. The material used to make a FILL.
   FLOODPLAIN. See §
156.020 of this chapter.
   QUALIFYING TRACT. Any tract where 20 or more cubic yards of earth is
removed.
   RUNOFF. The surface water discharge or rate of discharge of a given
watershed after a fall of rain or snow that does not enter the soil but runs
off the surface of the land.
   RUNOFF FROM A FULLY DEVELOPED AREA UPSTREAM. The surface water runoff that
can be reasonably anticipated upon maximum development of that area of the
watershed located upstream from the subject tract, as permitted by prevailing
zoning or the Comprehensive Plan.
   SEDIMENTATION. The process by which mineral or organic matter is accumulated
or deposited by moving, wind, water or gravity. Once this matter is deposited
(or remains suspended in water), it is usually referred to as “sediment”.
   SLOPE. The face of an embankment or cut section; any ground whose surface
makes an angle with the plane of a horizon. SLOPES are usually expressed in a
percentage based upon vertical difference in feet per 100 feet or horizontal
distance.
   SOIL STABILIZATION. Chemical or structural treatment of a mass of soil to
increase or maintain its stability or otherwise improve its engineering
properties.
   SWALE. A low-lying stretch of land, which gathers or carries surface water
runoff.
   TOPSOIL. Surface soils and subsurface soils, which presumably are fertile
soils and soil material, ordinarily rich in organic matter of humus debris.
TOPSOIL is usually found in the uppermost soil layer called the “A Horizon”.
   WATERCOURSE. A permanent stream; intermittent stream, river; brook; creek;
channel or ditch for water whether natural or human-made.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.42(A))
§ 156.572 PLAN FOR MINIMIZING EROSION.
   (A)   No changes shall be made in the contour of the land; or grading,
excavating, removal or destruction of the top soil, trees or other vegetative
cover of the land shall be commenced until such time that a plan for minimizing
erosion and sedimentation has been reviewed by the Executive Director, or there
has been a determination by the Executive Director that such plans are not
necessary.
   (B)   No development plan shall be approved unless there has been a plan
approved by the Executive Director that provides for drainage and minimizing
erosion and sedimentation consistent with this subchapter, and an improvement
bond or other acceptable securities are deposited with the county or the
respective applicable town, as the case may be, in the form of an escrow
guarantee satisfactory for the planning which will ensure installation and
completion of the required improvements; or there has been a determination by
the Executive Director that a plan for drainage and minimizing erosion and
sedimentation is not necessary.
   (C)   Measures used to control erosion and reduce sedimentation and to
provide drainage shall as a minimum meet that standards and specifications of
the County Soil and Water Conservation District. The Executive Director shall
ensure compliance with the appropriate specifications, copies of which are
available from the County Soil and Water Conservation District or the Area Plan
Commission office.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.42(B)) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.573 MEASURES TO MINIMIZE EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION.
   The following measures are effective in minimizing erosion and
sedimentations and shall be included where applicable in the control plan.
   (A)   Stripping of vegetation, regarding or other development shall be done
in such a way that will minimize erosion.
   (B)   Development plans shall preserve salient natural features, keep cut-
fill operations to a minimum and ensure conformity with topography so as to
create the least erosion potential and adequately handle the volume and
velocity of surface water runoff.
   (C)   Whenever feasible, natural vegetation shall be retained, protected and
supplemented.
   (D)   The disturbed area and the duration of exposure shall be kept to a
practical minimum.
   (E)   Disturbed soils shall be stabilized as quickly as practicable.
   (F)   Temporary vegetation and mulching shall be used to protect exposed
critical areas during development.
   (G)   The permanent final vegetation and structural erosion control and
drainage measures shall be installed as soon as practical in the development.
   (H)   Provisions shall be made to effectively accommodate the increased
runoff caused by changed soil and surface conditions during and after
development. Where necessary, the rate of surface water runoff will be
structurally retarded.
   (I)   Sediment in the runoff water shall be trapped until the disturbed area
is stabilized by the use of debris basins, sediment basins, silt traps or
similar measures.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.42(C)) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.574 MAKING SITES MORE SUITABLE.
   In order to provide more suitable sites for building and other uses, improve
surface drainage and control erosion, the following requirements shall be met.
   (A)   The location, grading and placement of sub-grade (base) material of
all driveway and parking areas shall be accomplished as the first work done on
a development plan.
   (B)   All lots, tracts or parcels shall be graded to provide proper drainage
away from buildings and dispose of it without ponding, and all land within a
development shall be graded to drain and dispose of surface water without
ponding, except where approved by the Executive Director.
   (C)   All drainage provisions shall be of such design to adequately handle
the surface runoff and carry it to the nearest suitable outlet such as a curbed
street, storm drain or natural watercourse. Where drainage swales are used to
divert surface waters away from buildings, they shall be of such slope, shape
and size as to conform with the requirements of the county.
   (D)   Concentration of surface water runoff shall only be permitted in
swales or watercourses.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.42(D)) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.575 EXCAVATIONS AND FILLS.
   (A)   Cut and fill slopes shall not be steeper than two to one unless
stabilized by a retaining wall or cribbing, except as approved by the Building
Inspector when handled under special conditions.
   (B)   Provisions shall be made to prevent surface water from damaging the
cut face of excavations or the sloping surfaces of fills, by installations of
temporary or permanent drainage across or above these areas.
   (C)   Cut and fills shall not endanger adjoining property.
   (D)   Fill shall be placed and compacted so as to minimize sliding or
erosion of the soil.
   (E)   Fill shall not encroach on natural watercourses or constructed
channels.
   (F)   Fills placed adjacent to natural watercourses or constructed channels
shall have suitable protection against erosion during periods of flooding.
   (G)   Grading will not be done in such a way so as to divert water on to the
property of another landowner without the expressed consent of the Building
Inspector.
   (H)   During grading operations, necessary measures of duct control will be
exercised.
   (I)   Grading equipment will not be allowed to ford live streams.
   (J)   Provision will be made for the installation of temporary or permanent
culverts or bridges.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.42(E)) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.576 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Whenever sedimentation is caused by stripping vegetation, re-grading
or other development, it shall be the responsibility of the applicant, person,
corporation or other entity causing such sedimentation to remove it from all
adjoining surfaces, drainage systems and watercourses and to repair any damage
at his or her expense as quickly as possible.
   (B)   Maintenance of all driveways, parking areas, drainage facilities and
watercourses within any development plan area is the responsibility of the
applicant or owner/developer.
   (C)   It is the responsibility of the applicant and any person, corporation
or other entity doing any act on or across a communal stream, watercourse or
swale or upon the floodplain or right-of-way during the pendency of the
activity and to return it to its original or equal condition after such
activity is completed.
   (D)   No applicant and person, corporation or other entity shall block,
impede the flow of, alter, construct any structure, or deposit any material or
thing, or commit any at which will affect normal or flood flow in any communal
stream or watercourse without having obtained prior approval from the Executive
Director of the State Department of Natural Resources, Division of Water,
whichever is applicable.
   (E)   (1)   Where a development plan area is traversed by a watercourse, the
total development of the watercourse shall be considered.
      (2)   There shall be provided a drainage easement or right-of-way
conforming substantially with the line of such watercourse, and of such width
as will be adequate to preserve natural drainage to the satisfaction of the
Executive Director. (See §
156.054 of this chapter.)
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.42(F)) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.577 RESPONSIBILITY OF APPLICANT.
   (A)   Each applicant, person, corporation or other entity which makes any
surface changes shall be required to:
      (1)   Collect on-site surface runoff and dispose of it to the point of
discharge into an adequate outlet approved by the Executive Director;
      (2)   Handle existing and potential off-site runoff through its
development by designing to adequately handle storm runoff from a fully
developed area upstream;
      (3)   Pay its proportionate share of the total cost of off-site
improvements to the common natural watercourse based on a fully development
drainage; and
      (4)   Provide and install at its expense, in accordance with the
Executive Director’s requirements, all drainage and erosion control
improvements (temporary and permanent) as required by the erosion and sediment
control plan.
   (B)   It is the responsibility of the applicant or owner to keep all major
streams, not under the jurisdiction of other official agency, open and free
flowing.
   (C)   The applicant or owner shall assume the responsibility for maintaining
an open and free-flowing condition in all minor streams, watercourse and
drainage systems, constructed or improved in accordance with the county design
criteria on its property, which are necessary for proper drainage in the
discretion of the Executive Director if adequate right-of-way exists or can be
acquired.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.42(G)) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.578 DESIGN STANDARDS.
   The design, installation and maintenance of the required drainage facilities
and erosion and sediment control measures shall be in accordance with the
following standards and specifications on file in the office of the County Soil
and Water Conservation District and the Executive Director: “Urban Soil and
Water Conservation Guidelines, Specification No. 1”, adopted by the County Soil
and Water Conservation District, Versailles, Indiana
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.42(H)) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.579 PLAN APPROVAL.
   (A)   The approval of plans and specifications for the control of erosion
and sedimentation shall be concurrent with the approval of the development and
become a part thereof.
   (B)   Permission for clearing and grading prior to the approval of the
development plan may be obtained under temporary easements or other conditions
satisfactory to the Executive Director.
   (C)   In the event the applicant or developer proceeds to clear and grade
prior to the approval of the development plan, without satisfying conditions
specified under division (B) above, the Board may revoke the approval of all
plans.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.42(I))
SPECIFICATIONS
§ 156.590 FIGURE 1, LOT AND YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   Figure 1, “Lot Area, Ground Floor Area, Lot Width, Lot Coverage, Minimum
Yard Requirements, and other Development Standards for Dwelling, Businesses and
Industrial Uses”, shows the minimum lot areas, area per unit, ground floor
area, lot widths, lot coverage, front yard depths, side yard widths, rear yard
depths, height limits and other standards and dwellings, businesses and
industrial uses for the various districts.
Figure 1
                                                        Minim um
Information                                             Side
in These                                                Yard
Columns                                      Minimum    along
Refer to                                     Side Yard  Side
Business and                                 Where      Street
Industrial                                   Business   Line of  Minimum
District     Districts Minimum Minimum Minim or         Corner   Side Yard Normal
Requirements in Which  Depth   Depth   um    Industrial Lot      in Blocks Maximum
for Various  this Type Front   Rear    Lot   District   Where    Not       Building
Types of     of Use Is Yard    Yard    Width Adjoins    Block    Including Height
Uses Denoted Permitted                       Residence  (or      Residence
by the Names                                 District   Tract)   District
of the                                       Within     Is
Districts                                    Block      Adjoin
and Their                                    Frontage   ed by
Yard and                                                Reside
Height                                                  nce
Requirements                                            District
                       Feet    Feet    Feet  Feet       Feet     Feet      Feet
                                                                                                                       Minim um
                                                                                                                       Side
                                                                                                                       Yard
                                                                                                            Minimum    along
                                                                                                            Side Yard  Side
                                                                                                            Where      Street
                                                                                                            Business   Line of  Minimum
                                                                            Districts Minimum Minimum Minim or         Corner   Side Yard Normal
Information in These Columns Refer to Business and Industrial District      in Which  Depth   Depth   um    Industrial Lot      in Blocks Maximum
Requirements for Various Types of Uses Denoted by the Names of the          this Type Front   Rear    Lot   District   Where    Not       Building
Districts and Their Yard and Height Requirements                            of Use Is Yard    Yard    Width Adjoins    Block    Including Height
                                                                            Permitted                       Residence  (or      Residence
                                                                                                            District   Tract)   District
                                                                                                            Within     Is
                                                                                                            Block      Adjoin
                                                                                                            Frontage   ed by
                                                                                                                       Reside
                                                                                                                       nce
                                                                                                                       District
                                                                                      Feet    Feet    Feet  Feet       Feet     Feet      Feet
                                                                            Special provisions. Dwellings not permitted. See §§
FP Floodplain District                                                      156.300 through
                                                                            156.309 of this chapter.
   General Business District (See Note 3)                                   GB
   General business uses:                                                   I-2
G     Single-family dwelling: same as LB                                 I-1 w/    GB: 0   15      GB:   10         5        5         35
B     Manufactured home: same as LB                                      special                   50
      Two-family dwelling: same as LB                                    exception
   Multi-family dwelling: same as LB
I- Enclosed Industrial District (See Note 3)                                I-1       100     100     100   100        100      See Note  60
1  Enclosed industrial uses: (no dwellings)                                 I-2                                                 3
I- Open Industrial District (See Note 3)                                    I-2       100     100     100   100        100      See Note  60
2  Open industrial uses: (no dwellings)                                                                                         3
   Interchange Business District (See Note 1)                               IB
   Interchange business uses:                                               All
      Single-family dwelling: same as R-2                                business
IB    Manufactured home: same as R-2                                     uses      80      25      200   20         20       20        35
      Two-family dwelling: same as R-2                                   require
   Multi-family dwelling: same as R-3                                       special
                                                                            exception
                                                                                                      LB:
   Local Business District                                                  LB        LB: 15          50               LB and
L  Local business uses:                                                     RB        RB: 80  15      RB:   10         GB: 5    LB: 35    35
B     Note: See LB Local Business above for residential use requirements GB        GB: 0           100              RB:20    GB: 60
                                                                                                      GB:
                                                                                                      50
   Roadside Business District (See Note 1)                                  RB
   Roadside business uses:                                                  All
      Single-family dwelling: same as R-2                                business
RB    Manufactured home: same as R-2                                     uses      80      25      200   20         20       20        35
      Two-family dwelling: same as R-2                                   require
   Multi-family dwelling: same as R-3                                       special
                                                                            exception
                                                                            Special provisions for dwellings, businesses, industries and other
U  Unit Development Plan District                                           types of uses: see §§
D                                                                           156.320 through
                                                                            156.328 of this chapter.
NOTES TO TABLE:
Note 1: Business uses in the RB District and IB District require approval of the Board of Zoning Appeals in accordance with special exception
procedure.
Note 2: “Arterial” and “Other Streets” refer to thoroughfare classifications in the Thoroughfare Plan of Ripley County, Indiana - 2004. The depth
of the front yard is measured from the proposed right-of-way line (see §§ 156.420 through 156.423 of this chapter) or front lot line to the
building line. Arterial streets include state highways, major and minor arterial thoroughfares, and collector or feeder thoroughfares; other
streets include residential streets or thoroughfares.
Note 3: For purposes of Figure 1 in relation to I-1 and I-2 setback requirements, a residence district shall include an area zoned A-l, A-2, FR,
R-l, R-2, R-3, LB and RB. All setback requirements in the industrial zones, I-1 and I-2 are 100 feet from the property lines side and rear. Where
the side or rear property line of I-1 or I-2 zoned property adjoins another I-1, I-2 or GB zone, said side or rear setback/s shall be 20 feet from
each such property line where there is an adjoining and/or existing I-1, I-2 or GB zone. For any I-l or I-2 zone that has a front yard adjoining
or facing another I-1 or I-2 zone the minimum set back for the front yard shall be the same for all other zones being 40 feet when abutting an
arterial and 25 feet when abutting all other streets.
 
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.45(A); Ord. 2006-13-A, passed 12-18-2006; Ord. 2007-
2-E, passed 3-12-2007; Ord. 7, passed 6-27-2010)
§ 156.591 FLOOD INSURANCE CRITERIA AND MAPS.
   The Floodplain District (areas subject to inundation by the regulatory
flood) as identified by the Federal Insurance Rate Map dated 9-1-1987, (or
applicable town map), with any subsequent revisions to the text of the federal
criteria or maps, and all NFIP regulations (contained in 44 C.F.R. Ch. 603(d)
and as specified on attachment A (Section 10 Review Sheet for NFIP Regulations)
are adopted by reference and are on file for public examination in the Plan
Commission Office in the County Courthouse. (See §
156.002 of this chapter.)
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.45(B))
§ 156.592 STATE DRAINAGE CODE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Seventy-five foot drainage right-of-way. The State Drainage Code
provides that all regulated drains in the state shall have a 75-foot right-of-
way on either side of the centerline of any tiled drain and from the top edge
of each bank of an open ditch as determined by the County Surveyor. This right-
of-way is for the use of the County Board of County Commissioners.
   (B)   Use of drainage right-of-way. The owners of land over which the right-
of-way runs may use the land in any manner consistent with the State Drainage
Code and the proper operation of the drain. Permanent structures may not be
placed upon or over the right-of-way without the written consent of the County
Board of Commissioners. Temporary structures may be placed upon or over the
right-of-way without written consent of the Board of Commissioners, but shall
be removed immediately by the owner when so ordered by the Board of
Commissioners or an authorized representative of the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.46)
MANUFACTURED HOME AND MOBILE HOME PERMITTED
§ 156.605 MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   Manufactured homes may be permitted in certain districts (see I.C. 36-7-4-
1106), provided their use as a single-family dwelling unit incorporates a
permanent foundation (see I.C. 22-12-1-1 et seq., as amended and § 156.020 of
this chapter for definition), as well as the other requirements in this
chapter.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.30(A); Ord. 2015-10, passed 12-21-2015)
§ 156.606 MOBILE HOMES.
   Manufactured dwellings (see §
156.020 of this chapter for definition) and mobile homes (see §
156.020 of this chapter for definition) are permitted uses in a mobile home
park.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.30(B))
§ 156.607 MOBILE HOMES PERMITTED ACCORDING TO CERTAIN CONDITIONS.
   (A)   A mobile home located on a lot, when an improvement location permit
and a certificate of occupancy have been issued for such use which is on file
in the office of the Executive Director, is a permitted use on the lot and
shall be classified by the Executive Director according to one of the six
mobile home classifications set forth in §
156.608 of this chapter. Accordingly, the existing “classified” mobile home may
remain on the lot upon which it was legally located at the time of passage of
this chapter.
   (B)   The owner of the lot has the following options.
      (1)   The existing mobile home may be replaced with another mobile home
having the same or a higher classification, provided that the existing mobile
home would either replace another mobile home in the county, or be removed from
the county before an improvement location permit could be issued by the
Executive Director.
      (2)   The existing mobile home may be replaced with any other use
permitted in the particular district where the lot is located.
      (3)   If an existing or replaced mobile home is removed from a lot for a
period of more than 90 days, another mobile home cannot again be located on
that lot.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.30(C))
§ 156.608 CLASSIFICATION OF MOBILE HOMES.
   Mobile homes are hereby divided into the following classes by the Executive
Director:
   (A)   Class A: mobile homes built on or after June 15, 1976, and
manufactured dwellings built prior to January 1, 2003, or on or after June 15,
1976, certified as meeting the mobile home construction and safety standards of
the Department of Housing and Urban Development and approved as meeting
“acceptable similarity” appearance standards in accordance with the Federal §
504.10;
   (B)   Class B: mobile homes certified as meeting HUD mobile home
construction and safety standards, but not approved as meeting “acceptable
similarity” appearance standards;
   (C)   Class C: mobile homes (built prior to 6-15-1976), certified as meeting
“acceptable prior code or codes” or used mobile homes certified as meeting
either HUD standards specified above or such prior code, found on inspection to
be in excellent condition and safe and fit for residential occupancy;
   (D)   Class D: mobile homes (built prior to 6-15-1976), whether or not
certified as meeting HUD or prior codes, found on inspection to be in good
condition;
   (E)   Class E: mobile homes (built prior to 6-15-1976), whether or not
certified as meeting HUD or prior codes, found on inspection to be in fair
condition; and
   (F)   Class F: mobile homes (built prior to 6-15-1976), whether or not
certified as meeting HUD or prior codes, found on inspection to be in poor
condition, unsafe and/or unfit for residential occupancy.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.30(D); Ord. 2015-10, passed 12-21-2015)
HOME OCCUPATIONS AND RURAL HOME OCCUPATIONS
§ 156.620 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the home occupation and rural home occupation is:
   (A)   To encourage commerce in the county by allowing small businesses to
exist and be conducted in a residential or rural community without disrupting
the neighborhood atmosphere; and
   (B)   To discourage “spot zoning” in a manner that will not diminish the
rights of county citizens to prosper.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.35(A))
§ 156.621 INTENT.
   (A)   This section authorizes as home occupations and rural home occupations
all uses that conform to its standards. In general, a home or rural home
occupation is an accessory use located and conducted in such a way that
neighbors, under normal circumstances, would be unaware of its existence,
except for a sign as permitted below. To establish whether a proposed accessory
use qualifies as a home or rural home occupation, standards have been set to
ensure compatibility with permitted uses, to maintain neighborhood character
(whether urban or rural, residential or agricultural) and to clearly indicate a
status that is secondary or incidental to an existing and occupied dwelling
unit.
   (B)   Because compatibility with permitted uses and neighborhood character
vary considerably with location and zoning, this section distinguishes between
what may be suited to all living environments and what may be uniquely suited
to agricultural settings. Thus home occupations conforming to the requirements
below, are permitted in any non-rural zone which authorizes the dwelling unit
to which the home occupation is accessory, and in rural zones on lots up to two
acres in area; rural home occupations conforming to the requirements below are
permitted as an accessory use on rural zoned lots, or parcels of land that have
been and are currently used, by the owner of such a lot or parcel, for
agricultural purposes larger than two acres in area.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.35(B))
§ 156.622 LEVELS.
   This chapter allows business use of land as intended above by the following
four levels:
   (A)   Home occupation permit;
   (B)   Rural home occupation permit;
   (C)   Home or rural occupation permit with special exception; and
   (D)   Zone map amendment (recommend to re-zone).
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.35(C))
§ 156.623 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   The Executive Director of the County Area Plan Commission shall issue a
permit for a home occupation or rural home occupation only after an applicant
provides to the Executive Director the following:
   (A)   A completed application for the home or rural home occupation;
   (B)   A detailed site plan;
   (C)   Payment of an administrative fee of $50 to offset the processing; and
   (D)   A copy of all required state permits or licenses shall be submitted
with the application.
   *NOTE: The permits described above are given to the property owner and
belong to the owner until such time as the land is sold, the business ceases to
operate for a period of one year, or the business is expanded so that it no
longer meets the requirements under the home or rural home occupation
ordinance. The permits shall be non-transferable and shall automatically
terminate or be suspended during any time that has lapsed or expired.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.35(D))
§ 156.624 SIGNS.
   (A)   Home occupation: a maximum of one double faced sign, no greater than
18 inches by 24 inches and attached to the residence.
   (B)   Rural home occupation: a maximum of one double-faced sign; no greater
than two feet by four feet.
   (C)   No directed lighting of these signs will be permissible.
   (D)   No portable signs or off-premises signs shall be permitted.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.35(E))
§ 156.625 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   (A)   Use requirements. In addition to all other requirements applicable in
the zone in which located, all home occupations are subject to the following.
      (1)   No alteration shall be made to the exterior of the primary use
building or to the lot which changes the residential character of that building
or lot.
      (2)   The operator of a home occupation shall be a resident of the
dwelling unit and not more than one employee shall be allowed who is not a
resident of that dwelling unit.
      (3)   A home occupation shall not involve construction features or the
use of any electrical or mechanical equipment or combustible materials any of
which would change the fire separation requirements of the primary use
building.
      (4)   There can be no activity or storage of any kind related to the home
occupation outside the buildings.
      (5)   A home occupation shall provide an additional off-street parking
area adequate to accommodate needs created by the home occupation. This area
shall contain at least one parking space, which shall be in addition to the
parking spaces required for the dwelling unit. This parking space shall be
provided on the same lot as the home occupation, and may be located in the
front setback (but not the right-of-way).
      (6)   A home occupation shall not create noise, dust, vibration, smell,
smoke, glare, electrical interference, fire, chemical hazard, traffic hazard or
any other hazard or nuisance to any greater or more frequent extent than would
be expected from a normally occupied dwelling unit in that zone that has no
home occupation.
      (7)   No stock in trade shall be displayed, stored or sold outdoors or
outside of the home occupation. A home occupation is neither a retail nor
wholesale establishment.
   (B)   Permitted home occupations.
      (1)   Home occupations may include, but are not necessarily limited to,
the following:
         (a)   Artist or sculptor;
         (b)   Author or composer;
         (c)   Dressmaker, seamstress or tailor;
         (d)   One-station barber or beauty shop;
         (e)   Computer programmer and business consultant;
         (f)   Home craft, such as model making, rug weaving, lapidary work,
cabinet and furniture making, antique restoration (not including automobile
restoration) and furniture upholstering;
         (g)   Office facility of a member of the clergy;
         (h)   Office facility of a sales representative, salesperson or
manufacturer’s representative; provided that, no retail or wholesale goods are
stored or exchanged;
         (i)   Office facility of an accountant, architect, artist, broker,
engineer, insurance agent land surveyor, lawyer, musician, real estate agent or
member of the recognized counseling professions;
         (j)   Class of special instruction whose class size does not exceed
four pupils and not more than one class per day, or group counseling session
whose group size does not exceed five clients and not more than one session per
day;
         (k)   Individual instruction;
         (l)   Individually ordered and/or customized items only (but no stock
in trade);
         (m)   Office facility of a building contractor;
         (n)   Catering service; and
         (o)   Day care (for those who care for six or more children, fencing
will be required, and evidence proving compliance with state laws must be
submitted upon request of the Executive Director).
      (2)   A home occupation that is not listed above, may be permitted by the
Executive Director upon his or her determination that the characteristics of a
requested occupation are:
         (a)   Consistent with the purpose and description of the zone as per
this chapter; and
         (b)   Compatible with the permitted primary uses in the zone regarding
hours of operation, traffic generation, outdoor lighting and noise, vibration,
dust, odor, glare and heat producing properties.
      (3)   If the Executive Director determines that a home occupation no
longer meets the requirements set forth above, the Executive Director shall
require such changes that are necessary to bring it back into compliance with
those requirements.
   (C)   Prohibited home occupations. For reasons of incompatibility with
permitted uses and/or violations of neighborhood character, permitted home
occupations shall not include the following:
      (1)   Antique shop;
      (2)   Automobile, truck or motorcycle service, repair, salvage,
customizing or restoration;
      (3)   Barber or beauty shop with two or more stations;
      (4)   Gift shop;
      (5)   Physician, dentist, optometrist, podiatrist, chiropractor,
naturopathic doctor, hypnotherapist, acupuncturist or any medical or dental
clinic, office or hospital;
      (6)   Restaurant or bakery;
      (7)   Kennel;
      (8)   Veterinarian or any veterinary clinic, office or hospital;
      (9)   Welding shop;
      (10)   Bed and breakfast, tourist home or boarding home; and
      (11)   Other activities having similar characteristics.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.35(F))
§ 156.626 RURAL HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   (A)   Use requirements. Rural home occupations are permitted in any dwelling
unit or any accessory building which is normally associated with a residential
or agricultural use, and which is located on a lot two acres or larger in area
and in a rural or agriculture zone, or in any zone where an agricultural use or
practice is in existence at time of the amendment and adoption of this section
and ordinance. In addition to all other requirements applicable in the rural
zone in which located, all rural home occupations are subject to the following.
      (1)   No alteration shall be made to the exterior of the residential
primary use building which changes the residential character of that building,
nor shall any alterations be made to an accessory building or the lot which
changes the agricultural character of that accessory building or that lot.
      (2)   The operator of a rural home occupation shall be a resident of the
dwelling unit or the owner of the accessory building, agricultural operation or
farm and not more than two employees shall be allowed who are not residents of
that dwelling unit or record owners of the accessory building, agricultural
operation or farm.
      (3)   A home occupation shall not involve construction features or the
use of any electrical or mechanical equipment or combustible materials that
would change the fire separation requirements of the primary use or accessory
use building.
      (4)   There can be no activity related to the rural home occupation
outside any primary use or accessory use building, except storage.
      (5)   A rural home occupation shall provide an additional off-street
parking area adequate to accommodate needs created by the rural home
occupation. This area shall contain at least two parking spaces, which shall be
in addition to the parking spaces required for the dwelling unit or accessory
building. This parking space shall be provided on the same lot as the rural
home occupation.
      (6)   A rural home occupation shall not create noise, dust, vibration,
smell, smoke, glare, electrical interference, fire, chemical hazard, traffic
hazard or any other hazard or nuisance to any greater or more frequent extent
than is characteristic of the location.
      (7)   No stock in trade shall be displayed, stored or sold outdoors or
outside of the building located on the lot.
   (B)   Permitted rural home occupations.
      (1)   Rural home occupations may include, but are not necessarily limited
to, the following:
         (a)   All home occupations permitted above;
         (b)   Agricultural equipment repair within enclosed structure; (No
outside storage or work shall occur on the lot or premises; except that, not
more than one piece of equipment that cannot fit within an accessory building,
that is not owned by the landowner/permit holder, may be worked on or stored on
the lot until it is repaired.)
         (c)   Greenhouse (not exceeding 1,000 square feet) and/or uses
compatible with the greenhouse);
         (d)   Barber shop or beauty shop;
         (e)   Farm produce sales;
         (f)   Office facility of a physician, dentist, optometrist,
podiatrist, chiropractor, naturopathic doctor, hypnotherapist or acupuncturist;
         (g)   Small engine repair;
         (h)   Welding shop;
         (i)   Individually ordered and/or customized items;
         (j)   Bait sales;
         (k)   Antique shop;
         (l)   Agricultural retail related businesses (not including implement
sales) including, but not limited to, tack shop, fencing, seed, minor assembly
of already manufactured equipment and the like; and
         (m)   Gift shop or boutique.
      (2)   A rural home occupation that is not listed above, may be permitted
by the Executive Director upon his or her determination that the
characteristics of a requested occupation are:
         (a)   Consistent with the purpose and description of the zone or
agricultural use of the land as per this chapter; and
         (b)   Compatible with the permitted primary uses in the zone or
agricultural use of land regarding hours of operation, traffic generation,
outdoor lighting and noise, vibration, dust, odor, glare and heat producing
properties.
      (3)   If the Executive Director determines that a rural home occupation
no longer meets the requirements set forth above, the Executive Director shall
require such changes that are necessary to bring it back into compliance with
those requirements.
   (C)   Prohibited rural home occupations. For reasons of incompatibility with
permitted uses, and/or violations of neighborhood character, permitted rural
home occupations shall not include the following:
      (1)   Automotive salvage, junk yard or scrap metal yard;
      (2)   Medical clinic or hospital;
      (3)   Restaurant; and
      (4)   Boarding home.
   (D)   Rural home occupations permitted by special exception. The following
rural home occupations shall be permitted to operate in a rural or agriculture
zone or in any zone where an agricultural use or practice is in existence at
the time of the amendment and adoption of this section and ordinance, by
special exception:
      (1)   Bed and breakfast with three or less rooms for overnight
accommodations;
      (2)   Home occupations or rural home occupations that need limited new
construction or improvements on the existing property;
      (3)   Agricultural implement sales; and
      (4)   Automotive or light truck repair including painting of automobiles,
(not more than four motor vehicles shall be stored or kept outside that are
scheduled to be repaired or picked-up).
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.35(G))
CELLULAR/WIRELESS/ PERSONAL COMMUNICATION FACILITIES AND TOWERS
§ 156.640 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Purpose. In order to protect the public health, safety and general
welfare of the community, while accommodating the communication needs of
residents and business these regulations are necessary in order to:
      (1)   Facilitate the provision of wireless telecommunication services to
the residents and businesses of the county;
      (2)   Minimize adverse visual effects of towers through careful design
and sizing standards;
      (3)   Encourage the location of towers in non-residential areas through
performance standards and incentives;
      (4)   Avoid potential damage to adjacent properties from tower failure
through structural standards and setback requirements; and
      (5)   Provide mechanisms for the mitigation of tower proliferation
through tower sharing requirements for all new tower applicants and those
existing towers that are physically capable of sharing.
   (B)   Authority. The Board of Zoning Appeals of the county (hereinafter
“Board”) is vested with the authority to review, approve, conditionally approve
and disapprove applications for cellular/wireless/ personal communication
facilities and towers including sketch, preliminary and final plans.
   (C)   Jurisdiction. These regulations apply to all cellular/wireless/
personal communication facilities and towers as defined herein, located within
the jurisdiction of the County Area Plan Commission and this chapter.
   (D)   Enactment. In order that wireless communications facilities may be
constructed in accordance with these purposes and policies, these regulations
are hereby adopted and made effective as of the date of passing. All
applications for cellular/wireless/personal communication facilities and tower
(s) pending on the effective date of these regulations shall be reviewed under
these regulations or thereafter filed.
   (E)   Public purpose. Regulation of the sizing of wireless communication
facilities is an exercise of valid police power delegated by the state and as
stipulated in the Federal Telecommunications Act of 1996. The developer has the
duty of compliance with reasonable conditions set forth or required by the Area
Plan Commission.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.49(A))
§ 156.641 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of these regulations, certain abbreviations, terms and
words shall be used, interpreted, and defined as set forth in this subchapter.
Unless the context clearly indicates to the contrary, words used in the present
tense include the future tense and words used in the plural indicate the
singular.
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACT. The Communications Act of 1934, as it has been amended from time to
time, including the Telecommunications Act of 1996, and shall include future
amendments to the Communications Act of 1934.
      ALTERNATIVE TOWER STRUCTURE. Human-made trees, clock towers, bell
steeples, light poles and similar alternative-design mounting structures that
camouflage or conceal the presence of antennas or towers. (See also STEALTH
FACILITY.)
      ANALOG TECHNOLOGY. Replicates and amplifies voice messages as they are
carried from the transmitting antenna to the receiving antenna.
      ANTENNA. Any exterior apparatus designed for telephonic, radio or
television communications through sending and/or receiving of electromagnetic
waves.
      ANTENNA HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the base of the
antenna support structure at grade to the highest point of the structure. If
the support structure is on a sloped grade, then the average between the
highest and lowest grades shall be used in calculating the ANTENNA HEIGHT.
      CELLULAR TELECOMMUNICATIONS. A commercial low power mobile radio service
licensed by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to providers in a
specific geographical area in which the radio frequency spectrum is divided
into discrete channels which are assigned in groups to geographic cells within
a service area and which are capable of being reused in different cells within
the service area.
      CELLULAR/WIRELESS/PERSONAL COMMUNICATION TOWER. A guyed, monopole or
self-supporting tower, constricted as a freestanding structure or in
association with a building, other permanent structure or equipment, containing
one or more antennas intended for transmitting and/or receiving television, AM/
FM radio, digital, microwave, cellular, telephone or similar forms of
electronic communication.
      CELLULAR/WIRELESS/PERSONAL COMMUNICATIONS FACILITY. A land use facility
supporting antennas and/or microwave dishes that send and/or receive radio
frequency signals. COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES include structures or towers,
supporting equipment and accessory buildings.
      COUNTY. Ripley County, Indiana
      CO-LOCATION. Locating wireless communication equipment from more than one
provider on a single site.
      COMMON CARRIER. An entity licensed by the FCC or a state agency to supply
local and/or distance telecommunications services to the general public at
established and stated prices.
      COMPREHENSIVE OR MASTER PLAN. The current adopted Comprehensive/Master
Plan of the county.
      DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY. Technology that converts voice and data messages into
digits that represent sound intensities at specific points of time and data
content.
      FAA. The Federal Aviation Administration.
      FCC. The Federal Communications Commission.
      FREQUENCY. The number of cycles completed each second by a sound wave;
measured in hertz (Hz).
      GOVERNING AUTHORITY. The Board of Zoning Appeals of Ripley County,
Indiana.
      GRADE. The lowest point of elevation of the finished surface of the
ground, paving or sidewalk within the area between the structure and the
property line or, when the property line is more than five feet from the
structure, between the structure and a line five feet from the structure.
      GUYED TOWER. A communication tower that is supported, in whole or in
part, by guy wires and ground anchors.
      LATTICE TOWER. A guyed or self-supporting three or four sided, open,
steel frame structure used to support telecommunications equipment.
      MONOPOLE TOWER. A communication tower consisting of a single pole,
constructed without guy wires and ground anchors.
      OWNER. The owner of the title to real property or the contract purchaser
of real property of record, as shown on the latest assessment records in the
County Assessor’s office. OWNER also includes a deed holder or contract
purchaser whose name does not appear in the latest assessment records, but who
presents to the County Board of Zoning Appeals a copy of a deed or contract of
sale showing date, book and page of recording.
      PERSONAL COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES or PCS. Digital wireless telephone
technology such as portable phones, pagers, faxes and computers. Such mobile
technology promises to allow each consumer the same telephone number wherever
he or she goes. Also known as PERSONAL COMMUNICATION NETWORK (PCN).
      PRE-EXISTING TOWERS AND ANTENNAS. Any tower or antenna for which a permit
has been issued prior to the effective date of these regulations and is exempt
from the requirements of these regulations so long as the tower and antennas
are not modified or changed.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any real property, easement, air-space or other interest
in real estate, including a street, owned or controlled by the county or any
other government unit.
      SELF-SUPPORT TOWER. A communication tower that is constructed without guy
wires and ground anchors.
      TEMPORARY WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITY. Any tower, pole, antenna and
the like designed for use while a permanent wireless facility is under
construction, or for a special event or conference where a majority of people
attending are wireless users.
      TOWER.
         (a)   Any structure that is designed and constructed primarily for the
purpose of supporting one or more antennas, including self-supporting lattice
towers, guy towers or monopole towers.
         (b)   The term includes radio and television transmission towers,
microwave towers, common-carrier towers, cellular telephone towers, alternative
tower structures and the like.
      WIRELESS COMMUNICATION. An all encompassing definition; any towers,
poles, antennas or other structures intended for use in connection with
transmission or receipt of radio or television signals, or any other spectrum-
based transmission/receptions.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.49(B))
§ 156.642 WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITY APPLICATION PROCEDURE AND APPROVAL
PROCESS.
   (A)   General procedure. The submission of applications for wireless
communications facilities shall follow the same procedure as detailed in this
chapter for special exceptions.
   (B)   Additional procedures. In addition to the information required
elsewhere in this chapter for special exceptions, development applications for
wireless communications facilities shall include the following supplemental
information:
      (1)   A report from a qualified and licensed professional engineer which:
         (a)   Describes the tower height and design including a cross-section
and elevation, (including the total height with antennas and the like);
         (b)   Documents the height above grade for all potential mounting
positions for co-located antennas and the minimum separation distances between
antennas;
         (c)   Describes the tower’s capacity, including the number and type of
antennas that it can accommodate;
         (d)   Documents what steps the applicant will take to avoid
interference with established public safety telecommunications;
         (e)   Includes an engineer’s stamp and registration number; and
         (f)   Includes other information necessary to evaluate the request.
      (2)   For all cellular/wireless/personal communication facilities and/or
towers, a letter of intent committing the tower owner and his, her or its
successors to allow the shared use of the tower if an additional user agrees in
writing to meet reasonable terms and conditions for shared use;
      (3)   Before the issuance of an improvement location permit, the
following supplemental information shall be submitted:
         (a)   A copy of the FAA’s response to the submitted “Notice of
Proposed Construction or Alteration” (FAA Form 7460-1) shall be submitted to
Executive Director;
         (b)   Proof of compliance with applicable Federal Communications
Commission regulations;
         (c)   A report from a qualified and licensed professional engineer
which demonstrates the tower’s compliance with any applicable local, state or
federal structural and electrical standards; and
         (d)   A copy of any purchase agreement and/or lease for the land upon
which the subject tower is to be located which document shall contain language
in accordance with §
156.643(I) of this chapter.
      (4)   In the course of its consideration of an application, the Executive
Director, the Area Plan Commission or the Board of Zoning Appeals may deem it
necessary, in complex situations, to employ an engineer(s) or other consultant
qualified in the design and installation of wireless communication facilities
to assist the County Board of Zoning Appeals in the technical aspects of the
application. In such cases, any additional reasonable costs incurred by the
County Area Plan Commission or Board of Zoning of Appeals not to exceed $1,500
for the technical review and recommendation shall be reimbursed by the
applicant prior to the final hearing on the proposed cellular/wireless/personal
communication facility or tower.
   (C)   Site plan requirements. In addition to the site plan requirements
found elsewhere in this chapter, site plans for wireless communications
facilities shall include the following supplemental information:
      (1)   Location and approximate size and height of all buildings and
structures within 500 feet adjacent to the proposed wireless communication
facility;
      (2)   Site plan of entire development, indicating all improvements
including landscaping and screening;
      (3)   Elevations showing all facades, indicating exterior materials and
color of the tower(s) on the proposed site; and
      (4)   Plans shall be drawn at the scale of one inch equals 50 feet.
   (D)   General approval standards.
      (1)   The location of proposed tower is compatible with county’s Master
Plan/Comprehensive Plan and this chapter.
      (2)   All efforts to locate on an existing tower have been made and have
not been successful or legally/physically possible.
      (3)   The submitted site plan complies with the performance standards set
in these regulations.
      (4)   The proposed facility/tower will not unreasonably interfere with
the view from any public park, natural scenic vista, historic building or
district.
      (5)   The plan calls for chain link security fence around the perimeter
of the facility or tower and around any guyed wire anchors a minimum of six
feet up to a maximum of ten feet high. Also, the facility/tower shall be
visually screened by trees, large shrubs, solid walls, solid fences and/or
nearby buildings if said facility or tower are within 400 feet of a residential
district or the closest edge of a residential dwelling in any district.
      (6)   The height and mass of the facility/tower does not exceed that
which is essential for its intended use and public safety.
      (7)   The owner of the cellular/wireless/personal communication facility
or tower has agreed by written commitment as a condition for approval to permit
other persons, common carriers or cellular providers to attach cellular antenna
or other communications apparatus which do not interfere with the primary
purpose of the facility.
      (8)   There exists no other existing facility/tower that can reasonably
serve the needs of the owner of the proposed new facility/tower.
      (9)   The proposed facility/tower is not constructed in such a manner as
to result in needless height, mass and guy-wire supports.
      (10)   The color of the proposed facility/tower will be of a light tone
or color (except where required otherwise by the FAA) as to minimize the visual
impact and that the tower will have a security fence around the tower base or
the lot where the tower is located.
      (11)   The facility/tower is in compliance with any other applicable
local, state or federal regulations.
      (12)   The applicant for the proposed facility/tower shall have a written
commitment with at least one common carrier (for towers up to 250 feet) or at
least two common carriers (for towers up to 400 feet) attached to it and
submitted at the time of the initial application.
      (13)   The applicant for the facility/tower should provide an estimate
for annual repair and maintenance and provide a bond sufficient to cover the
cost of repair or removal of the proposed facility/tower.
   (E)   Additional considerations. The Board of Zoning Appeals, in reviewing
the special exception application, shall give consideration to the particular
needs and circumstances of each application and shall examine the following
items as they relate to the proposed special exception:
      (1)   Topography;
      (2)   Zoning on site;
      (3)   Surrounding zoning and land use;
      (4)   Access to public streets;
      (5)   Building height, bulk and setback;
      (6)   Front, side and rear yards;
      (7)   Site coverage by building(s), parking area(s) and other structures,
trash and material storage;
      (8)   Special and general easements for public or private use;
      (9)   Landscaping and trees masses, screening and buffering, fencing and
exterior lighting;
      (10)   On-site and off-site, surface and subsurface storm and water
drainage; and
      (11)   Protective restrictions and/or covenants.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.49(C))
§ 156.643 GENERAL WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILITY PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Co-location requirements. All commercial wireless telecommunication
towers erected, constructed or located within the jurisdiction of this chapter
shall comply with the following requirements.
      (1)   New cellular/wireless/personal communications facilities and towers
shall not be permitted within one mile of an existing cellular/wireless/
personal communications facility or tower, unless the criteria of this section
is met to the satisfaction of the County Board of Zoning Appeals; also, such
tower shall be set back from any yard line or inhabitable building a distance
of at least the distance of the height of the tower plus an additional 50 feet,
unless the tower is of a collapsible type, in which case the tower must
collapse within a fenced area. Excepting as set forth by I.C. 8-1-32.3-17(b), a
permit authority may not impose a fall zone requirement that:
         (a)   Applies to a wireless support structure; and
         (b)   Is larger than the area within which the wireless support
structure is designed to collapse, as set forth in the applicant’s engineering
certification for the wireless support structure.
      (2)   However, a permit authority may impose a fall zone requirement that
is larger than the area described in division (2) if the permit authority
provides evidence that the applicant's engineering certification is flawed. The
permit authority's evidence must include a study performed and certified by a
professional engineer.
      (3)   A proposal for a new commercial wireless telecommunication service
tower shall not be approved unless the Board of Zoning Appeal finds that the
telecommunications equipment planned for the proposed tower cannot be
accommodated on an existing or approved tower due to one or more of the
following reasons:
         (a)   The planned equipment would exceed the structural capacity of
the existing or approved tower or building, as documented by a qualified and
licensed professional engineer, and the existing or approved tower cannot be
reinforced, modified or replaced to accommodate planned or equivalent equipment
at a reasonable cost;
         (b)   The planned equipment would cause interference materially
impacting the usability of the other existing or planned equipment at the tower
or building as documented by a qualified and licensed professional engineer and
the interference cannot be prevented at a reasonable cost;
         (c)   Existing or approved towers and buildings within the search
radius cannot accommodate the planned equipment at a height necessary to
function reasonably as documented by a qualified and licensed professional
engineer; and/or
         (d)   Other unforeseen reasons that make it infeasible to locate the
planned telecommunications equipment upon an existing or approved tower or
building.
      (4)   Any proposed commercial wireless telecommunication service tower
shall be designed, structurally, electrically and in all respects, to
accommodate both the applicant’s antennas and comparable antennas for at least
two additional users.
      (5)   All engineering plans of the tower and foundation, must be approved
by a licensed structural engineer certifying the plans, design and fall area of
a tower, and submitted with the permit application.
   (B)   Tower and antenna design requirements. Proposed and modified towers
and antennas shall meet the following design requirements.
      (1)   Towers and antennas shall be designed to blend into the surrounding
environment through the use of color and camouflaging architectural treatment,
except in instances where the color is dictated by federal or state authorities
such as the Federal Aviation Administration.
      (2)   Commercial wireless telecommunication service towers shall be of a
monopole design unless the Board of Zoning Appeal determines that an
alternative design would better blend into the surrounding environment.
   (C)   Tower height. The maximum tower height permitted in the county is as
follows.
      (1)   If the tower is designed to accommodate three common carriers/
service providers, and the applicant has at least one written commitment from a
common carrier to utilize the proposed facility/tower, the maximum height shall
be 250 feet from grade.
      (2)   If the tower is designed to accommodate five common carriers/
service providers, and the applicant has at least two written commitments from
common carriers to utilize the proposed facility/tower, the maximum height
shall be 400 feet from grade.
      (3)   No facility/tower including the height of any attached antenna,
array, microwave, satellite and the like shall exceed the maximum tower height
as set forth above.
      (4)   No facility/tower, including the height of any attached antenna,
array, microwave, satellite and the like shall be permitted, placed or situated
within a distance less than the height of the facility/tower, plus 50 feet from
an adjoining property line or the edge of a road or highway right-of-way.
Excepting as set forth by I.C. 8-1-32.3-17(b), a permit authority may not
impose a fall zone requirement that:
         (a)   Applies to a wireless support structure; and
         (b)   Is larger than the area within which the wireless support
structure is designed to collapse, as set forth in the applicant's engineering
certification for the wireless support structure.
      (5)   All engineering plans of the tower and foundation, must be approved
by a licensed structural engineer certifying the plans, design and fall area of
a tower, and submitted with the permit application.
   (D)   Accessory utility building and uses.
      (1)   All utility buildings and structures accessory to a tower shall be
architecturally designed to blend in with the surrounding environment and shall
meet the minimum setback requirements of the underlying zoning district.
Ground-mounted equipment shall be completely screened from view by suitable
landscaping and/or vegetation, except where a design of non-vegetative
screening better reflects and complements the architectural character of the
surrounding neighborhood.
      (2)   Accessory uses for wireless communication facilities, cellular/
wireless/personal communication towers shall not include:
         (a)   Offices;
         (b)   Long term vehicles storage;
         (c)   Broadcast studios, except if used only for emergency purposes;
or
         (d)   Other uses that are not needed to send or receive transmissions.
      (3)   In no event shall accessory uses for a primary tower exceed 25% of
the gross floor area used for transmission equipment and functions.
   (E)   Tower lighting. Towers shall not be illuminated by artificial means
and display strobe lights unless such lighting is specifically required by the
Federal Aviation Administration or other federal or state authority for a
particular tower and meet all state and federal safety requirements.
   (F)   Antennas mounted on structures, roofs, walls and existing towers. The
placement of wireless telecommunication antennas on roofs, walls and existing
towers may be approved by the Executive Director; provided, the antennas meet
the requirements of these regulations, after submittal of:
      (1)   A final site and building plan as specified by these regulations;
and
      (2)   A report prepared by a qualified and licensed professional engineer
indicating the existing structure of tower’s suitability to accept the antenna,
and the proposed method of affixing the antenna to the structure. Complete
details of all fixtures and couplings, and the precise point of attachment
shall be indicated.
   (G)   Temporary wireless communications facilities. Any facility designed
for temporary use and defined in this section, is subject to the following.
      (1)   Use of a temporary facility is allowed only if the owner has
received a temporary user permit from the county pursuant to the procedure set
forth in §§
156.515 through
156.518 of this chapter.
      (2)   Temporary wireless facilities are permitted for use of no longer
than 30 days for use while constructing permanent facilities, and no longer
than five days for use during a special event.
      (3)   Temporary facilities are subject to all applicable portions of
these regulations.
   (H)   Interference with public safety telecommunications. Neither new nor
existing telecommunications service shall interfere with public safety
telecommunications. All applications for new service shall be accompanied by an
intermodulation study, which provides a technical evaluation of existing and
proposed transmissions and indicated all potential interference problems.
Before the introduction of a new service or changes in existing service,
telecommunication providers shall notify the Executive Director of the County
Area Plan Commission at least ten calendar days in advance of such changes to
allow any employee or agent for the county to monitor interference levels
during the testing process.
   (I)   Abandoned or unused towers or portions of towers. Abandoned or unused
towers or portions of towers shall be removed as follows. The owner of a
wireless facility shall file annually a declaration with Executive Director as
to continuing operation of every facility installed subject to these
regulations. Failure to do so shall be determined to mean that the facility is
no longer in use and considered abandoned, thus subject to the following. All
abandoned or unused towers and associated facilities shall be removed within
180 days of the cessation of operations at the site unless a time extension is
approved by the Executive Director. A copy of the relevant portions of a signed
lease which requires the applicant to remove the tower and associated
facilities upon cessation of operations at the site shall be submitted at the
time of application. In the event that a tower is not removed within 180 days
of the cessation of operations at a site, the tower and associated facilities
may be removed by the county and the costs of removal assessed against the
property owner and/or property.
   (J)   Signs and advertising. The use of any portion of a tower for signs
other than warning or equipment information signs is prohibited.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.49(D); Ord. 2019-02, passed 4-22-2019) Penalty, see
§
156.999
§ 156.644 ZONING SPECIFIC, CELLULAR/WIRELESS/PERSONAL COMMUNICATION FACILITY
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Cellular/wireless/personal communication facilities and/or towers are
permitted only as a special exception with the approval of the Board of Zoning
Appeals, in all districts, except for any residential district (R1, R2 or R3)
and Floodplain District (FP).
   (B)   Cellular/wireless/personal communication facilities and/or towers are
not permitted under any circumstances in any residential district (R1, R2 or
R3) or Floodplain District (FP).
   (C)   No cellular/wireless/personal communication towers shall be permitted
within the boundaries of any incorporated town.
   (D)   No cellular/wireless/personal communication facilities and/or towers
shall be permitted, placed or situated within a distance equivalent to or less
than two times the height of the tower (and antennas and the like extending
above the facility/tower), of any residential district, or the closest edge of
any residential dwelling or structure in any district. Or the closest edge of
any residential dwelling or structure in any district. Excepting as set forth
by I.C. 8-1-32.3-17(b), a permit authority may not impose a fall zone
requirement that:
      (1)   Applies to a wireless support structure; and
      (2)   Is larger than the area within which the wireless support structure
is designed to collapse, as set forth in the applicant's engineering
certification for the wireless support structure.
   (E)   However, a permit authority may impose a fall zone requirement that is
larger than the area described in division (2) if the permit authority provides
evidence that the applicant's engineering certification is flawed. The permit
authority's evidence must include a study performed and certified by a
professional engineer.
   (F)   All engineering plans of the tower and foundation, must be approved by
a licensed structural engineer certifying the plans, design and fall area of a
tower, and submitted with the permit application.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.49(E); Ord. 2019-02, passed 4-22-2019) Penalty, see
§
156.999
§ 156.645 CONSTRUCTION OF CELLULAR/WIRELESS/PERSONAL COMMUNICATION FACILITIES
AND TOWERS.
   (A)   Construction of all towers must begin within 90 days after issuance of
a permit. Once construction begins, all towers must be completed within 90
days.
   (B)   Any permit issued prior to the adoptive date of this amended ordinance
must have construction started within 180 days from the date of the adoption.
If construction does not begin within 180 days of issuance, then such permit
shall be void.
   (C)   All tower placements must be pursuant to the amended provisions of
this chapter thereafter.
   (D)   Within 30 days following erection of the Tower, the applicant/permit
holder shall submit two sets of "as-built" plans to the Executive Director of
the Area Plan Commission, certified by the professional engineer who designed
the tower, confirming that the tower has been built/constructed to the
specifications and the design contained within the plans submitted with the
application.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.49(F); Ord. 2019-02, passed 4-22-2019) Penalty, see
§
156.999
SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS (SES)
§ 156.660 INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose and intent of this subchapter is to establish minimum
requirements and regulate the placement, construction and modification of SES
in order to minimize its impact on the character and environment of the
community, and to protect health, safety and welfare of the public. The process
for review and approval of the application shall assure an integrated and
comprehensive review of the environmental impact of such facilities with the
full understanding that alternative energy is ever changing.
   (B)   The purpose of the regulation is:
      (1)   To regulate the location of SES facilities within the county;
      (2)   To protect residential areas and land use from potential adverse
impact;
      (3)   To minimize adverse visual impacts of SES facilities through
careful design and placement, landscaping, preservation of trees and natural
vegetation, and innovative camouflaging techniques;
      (4)   To avoid potential damage to adjacent properties caused by SES
facilities by ensuring such structures are soundly and carefully designed,
constructed, screened, modified, maintained, and removed; and
      (5)   To the greatest extent feasible, ensure that SES are compatible
with surrounding land uses.
(Ord. 2024-04, passed 4-12-2024)
§ 156.661 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter applies to all solar energy installations within the
jurisdiction of the County Area Plan Commission. This section is not intended
to regulate or allow the use of land as a commercial energy storage facility.
Commercial energy storage facilities must comply with all requirements of this
zoning chapter.
(Ord. 2024-04, passed 4-12-2024)
§ 156.662 PURPOSE.
   The county has adopted this regulation for the following purposes in
addition to ensuring impacts to adjacent parcels are properly mitigated and
prevent land use conflicts with current and future development.
(Ord. 2024-04, passed 4-12-2024)
§ 156.663 ACCESSORY SES GENERAL STANDARDS.
   Ground-mounted SES shall not count toward the maximum number of accessory
structures permitted.
   (A)   Accessory SES height.
      (1)   Heights of all accessory SES are measured from the lowest point of
the base of the device (or ground elevation if ground or pole-mounted) or to
the highest point at maximum design tilt.
      (2)   No accessory SES shall exceed the maximum allowed height of the
zoning district in which the parcel is located or the maximum height
requirements for building-mounted mechanical devices or equipment, with the
least restrictive applying, except for the following:
         (a)   Ground-mounted SES and pole-mounted SES shall not exceed 20 feet
in height.
         (b)   Solar carports SES in non-residential districts shall not exceed
20 feet in height.
   (B)   Accessory SES setbacks. Accessory SES shall comply with the accessory
structure setbacks for the zoning district and primary land use associated with
the lot on which the system is located, and subject to certain conditions set
forth by this subchapter. All setbacks are measured at maximum design tilt.
   (C)   Building-integrated SES and roof-mounted SES.
      (1)   The collector surface and mounting devices for building-integrated
SES and roof-mounted SES shall not extend beyond the exterior perimeter of the
building on which the system is mounted or built unless it has been designed by
a professional engineer licensed to practice in the State of Indiana to safely
extend beyond the perimeter, and it complies with all required setbacks.
      (2)   Exterior piping for solar hot water systems may extend beyond the
perimeter of the building on a side or rear yard if the minimum setbacks are
met.
      (3)   Solar collectors mounted on the sides of buildings and serving as
awnings are considered to be building-integrated SES and are regulated as
awnings under this subchapter.
   (D)   Ground-mounted SES. Ground-mounted SES must comply all setbacks,
except as otherwise allowed for building mechanical systems.
   (E)   Accessory SES visibility. Accessory SES in residential districts shall
be designed to minimize visual impacts from the public right-of-way, as to the
extent that it does not affect the cost or efficacy of the system, consistent
with I.C. 36-7-2-8. Visibility standards do not apply to systems in non-
residential districts.
   (F)   Building-integrated photovoltaic SES. Building integrated photovoltaic
systems shall be allowed regardless of visibility from any public right-of-way,
provided the building component in which the system is integrated meets all
required setback, land use, and performance standards for the district in which
the building is located.
   (G)   Aesthetic restrictions. Roof-mounted SES and ground-mounted SES shall
not be restricted for aesthetic reasons if the system is not visible from a
public right-of-way other than an alley or if the system meets the following
standards:
      (1)   Roof-mounted systems on pitched roofs that are visible from a
public right-of-way shall have the same finished pitch as the roof and be no
more than ten inches above the finished roof.
      (2)   Roof-mounted systems on flat roofs that are visible from a public
right-of-way shall not be more than five feet above the finished roof and are
exempt from any rooftop equipment or mechanical system screening requirements.
   (H)   Reflectors. All systems using a reflector to enhance solar production
shall minimize glare from the reflector affecting adjacent or nearby
properties.
   (I)   Accessory SES lot coverage. Ground-mounted SES shall meet the maximum
lot coverage restrictions for the zoning district in which the parcel is
located, except as defined below:
      (1)   Ground-mounted SES shall be exempt from and not included in maximum
lot coverage or impervious surface calculations if the soil under the collector
is maintained with vegetation and not compacted.
      (2)   Solar carport SES in non-residential districts shall be exempt from
and not included in maximum lot coverage calculations.
   (J)   Accessory SES site plan required. All accessory SES are required to
obtain site plan approval and shall provide a site plan for review as part of
the building permit process.
      (1)   The site plan shall include scaled horizontal and vertical
(elevation) drawings. The drawings must show the location of the system on the
building, if building-mounted, and location on property, including the property
lines.
      (2)   Site plans that meet the design requirements of this subchapter
shall be approved administratively by the Administrator as part of the building
permit process. Approval of the site plan does not indicate compliance with
Building Code or Electric Code.
   (K)   Accessory SES approved solar components. Electric solar energy system
components must have an underwriters laboratory (UL) or equivalent listing and
solar hot water systems must have a solar rating and certification corporation
(SRCC) or equivalent rating.
   (L)   Accessory SES compliance with applicable codes.
      (1)   Building code. All accessory use solar energy systems shall meet
approval of local building code officials, consistent with the State of Indiana
Building Code, and solar thermal systems shall comply with HVAC-related
requirements of the Energy Code.
      (2)   State electric code. All photovoltaic systems shall comply with the
Indiana State Electric Code.
      (3)   State plumbing code. Solar thermal systems shall comply with
applicable Indiana State Plumbing Code requirements.
   (M)   Accessory SES utility notification. It is recommended that the
interconnection application be submitted to the utility prior to applying for
required permits. Grid-tied solar energy systems shall comply with
interconnection requirements of the electric utility, if applicable. Off-grid
systems are exempt from this requirement.
(Ord. 2024-04, passed 4-12-2024)
§ 156.664 PRIMARY SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS (SES).
   (A)   Primary SES site location. No primary commercial SES project shall be
located within one-half mile of any then existing incorporated city or town
limits. An incorporated city or town may withdraw the one-half mile location
restriction for a specific primary SES by issuing an express written waiver to
be included in the primary SES's application information.
   (B)   Primary SES minimum acreage. No primary SES project shall be located
on a site that is less than five acres in size.
   (C)   Primary SES height. No primary SES shall exceed 20 feet in height as
measured at maximum design tilt.
   (D)   Primary SES setbacks.
      (1)   Setback distance shall be measured from the edge of the solar
energy system array at maximum design tilt, including security fencing,
screening, or berm, to the right-of-way or edge of pavement if right-of-way
does not exist.
      (2)   Setbacks listed in this section represent the minimum setbacks
allowed and do not restrict the Board of Zoning Appeals authority or discretion
to impose more restrictive setbacks as a condition of special exception
approval.
      (3)   Setbacks of all primary SES structures from the property line of
any non- participating property line shall be a minimum of 50 feet.
      (4)   Setbacks of all primary SES structures between separate parcels,
both of which are participating in the project, may be waived upon mutual
agreement of all the property owner(s) by filing a written consent/waiver with
the Zoning Administrator or body regardless of whether the parcels are
residential use or non-residential use properties.
      (5)   Setbacks of all primary SES structures from all:
         (a)   Federal interstate highway, federal highway, or county highway
shall be a minimum of 40 feet.
         (b)   Utility rights-of-way or ingress/egress easement may be waived
by the beneficiary of the right-of-way or easement by filing a written consent/
waiver with the Zoning Administrator or body.
      (6)   Setbacks of all primary SES structures from any housing or dwelling
unit of a non-participating landowner shall be a minimum of 400 feet. This
setback may be waived by a non-participating landowner filing a written waiver
with the Zoning Administrator or body. For primary SES structures the distance,
measured as a straight line, from the nearest outer edge of the SES system to
the nearest point on the outer wall of a dwelling.
      (7)   Setbacks for all primary SES structures from a cemetery shall be a
minimum of 100 feet.
   (E)   Primary SES screening. All primary SES shall be fully screened on all
sides of the SES site. Any visual buffer must be approved by the Board of
Zoning Appeals.
      (1)   A landscape plan shall be submitted that identifies the type and
extent of proposed buffer and screening. Vegetation or another type of buffer
can be proposed if it fully screens the SES.
      (2)   Non-participating parcel owners, not including owners of parcels
that are across rights-of-way from the SES site, may waive landscaping
requirements by filing a written consent/waiver with the Zoning Administrator
or body.
   (F)   Primary SES Wildlife habitat non-interference. The construction of a
primary SES shall comply with all federal, state, and local laws intended to
protect wetlands, wooded areas, or areas recognized as habitats for wildlife.
   (G)   Primary SES ground cover. Primary SES that are mounted on the ground
are required to install one of the following alternatives for ground cover.
Detailed plans showing compliance with one alternative shall be submitted as
part of a development plan application.
      (1)   Alternative A: perennial ground cover. Additional site-specific
conditions may be required by the BZA as part of a special exception approval
in addition to the following:
         (a)   The site around and under solar panels and within all setback or
buffer areas shall be planted, established, and maintained for the life of the
SES project in perennial ground cover. To the extent feasible for site
conditions and height requirements so plantings do not interfere with solar
equipment, perennial ground cover shall include a diverse seed mix of native
species consistent with guidance specific to the local area provided by the
Soil and Water Conservation District office or the Indiana Native Plant
Society.
         (b)   The owner/operator shall outline site maintenance practices that
are intended to manage and mitigate invasive or noxious plant species, as
listed by the Indiana Invasive Species Council, without harming perennial
ground cover.
      (2)   Alternative B: pollinator friendly ground cover. Additional site-
specific conditions may be required by the BZA as part of a special exception
approval in addition to the following:
         (a)   The site around and under solar panels and within all setback or
buffer areas shall be planted, established, and maintained for the life of the
SES project in perennial ground cover that complies with the definition of
pollinator-friendly solar energy.
         (b)   Primary SES that are mounted on the ground that propose to
install, establish, and maintain pollinator-friendly ground cover must
demonstrate the quality of the proposed habitat based on guidance from sources
such as Purdue University 2020 Indiana Solar Site Pollinator Habitat Planning
Scorecard or other third party solar-pollinator scorecards designed for mid-
western eco-systems, soils, and habitat.
         (c)   All applicants shall submit a completed pollinator-friendly
solar scorecard such as the 2020 Indiana Solar Site Pollinator Habitat Planning
Scorecard developed by Purdue University, or a similar third-party solar
pollinator standard designed for mid-west eco-systems and conditions.
         (d)   If the project does not qualify as pollinator-friendly, the
applicant shall submit a landscaping plan detailing site conditions that
prevent the site from being qualified and alternative means of meeting the
water quality and habitat goals of the pollinator-friendly standard.
         (e)   The owner/operator shall outline site maintenance practices that
are intended to manage and mitigate invasive or noxious plant species, as
listed by the Indiana Invasive Species Council, without harming perennial
ground cover.
   (H)   Primary SES foundations. A professional engineer licensed to practice
in the State of Indiana shall certify that the foundation and design of the
solar panel racking, foundations, and support is within accepted professional
standards, given local soil and climate conditions prior to application for
building permits.
   (I)   Primary SES power and communication lines.
      (1)   All power and communication lines on the site shall be buried
underground. Exemptions may be granted by the BZA in instances where shallow
bedrock, water courses, or other elements of the natural landscape interfere
with the ability to bury lines or distance makes undergrounding infeasible.
      (2)   Power and communication lines between the project and the point of
interconnection with the transmission system can be overhead.
   (J)   Primary SES fencing. Perimeter fencing for the site shall not include
barbed wire designs and shall preferably use wildlife-friendly fencing
standards that include clearance at the bottom. Perimeter fencing is required
on all sides of a primary SES project. All fencing must be approved by the
Board of Zoning Appeals.
      (1)   A perimeter fencing plan shall be submitted that identifies the
type offencing and location of fencing.
      (2)   Fencing plans that provide for straight lines of fencing or fencing
that provides for continuity of the land are preferred.
      (3)   Primary SES operators shall maintain all fencing in good repair at
all times.
   (K)   Primary SES lighting. No primary SES project shall produce noxious
glare or light on non-participating properties or rights-of-way. All security
and other lighting at the SES project site shall be certified as dark sky
friendly. Emergency lighting systems shall not be subject to this provision but
must comply with industry standards.
   (L)   Primary SES unreasonable noise. At all times, the noise level of a
primary SES shall be no greater than 50 decibels measured from each surrounding
property line.
   (M)   Primary SES stormwater. A detailed drainage plan prepared and
certified by a licensed engineer shall be submitted and approved by the Board
of Zoning Appeals prior to the issuance of any permit for the construction of
an SES. The preliminary drainage plan shall describe the owner's overall
approach for managing stormwater runoff on the project site, including pre and
post construction runoff calculations. Post-construction stormwater runoff
shall be at least 80% of pre-construction storm water runoff.
   (N)   Primary SES fire protection. All primary SES projects shall comply
with industry standards for fire protection and suppression. SES developers,
owners, or operators are responsible for providing professional training to all
fire departments servicing the SES location if said departments have not
already received specific training.
   (O)   Primary SES applicable codes. All primary SES projects shall comply
with all applicable local, state, and federal regulatory codes, including the
State of Indiana Uniform Building Code, as amended; and the National Electric
Code, as amended.
   (P)   Primary SES aviation protection. For primary SES projects located
within 500 feet of an airport or within any approach zones of an airport, the
applicant must complete and provide the results of a glare analysis through a
qualitative analysis of potential impact, field test demonstration, or
geometric analysis of ocular impact in consultation with the Federal Aviation
Administration (FAA) Office of Airports, consistent with the interim policy,
FAA Review of Solar Energy Projects on Federally Obligated Airports, or most
recent version adopted by the FAA.
   (Q)   Decommissioning plan. 
      (1)   Prior to receiving approval under this subchapter, the Board of
Zoning Appeals and the applicant, County Commissioners, and owner and/or
operator shall formulate a decommissioning plan approved and signed by the
County Commissioners and the applicant, outlining the anticipated means and
cost of removing a SES at the end of their serviceable life or upon becoming a
discontinued or abandoned use to ensure that the SES is properly
decommissioned.
      (2)   Surety bond-commercial SES.
         (a)   Applicant for a commercial SES shall provide a bond, or other
proof of financial responsibility that is of an amount determined by the County
Commission to be sufficient to satisfy the decommissioning agreement
requirements.
         (b)   Other proof of financial responsibility may be:
            1.   Cash advance to county to be released upon completion of
decommissioning plan.
            2.   An arrangement whereby the county would have access to the
funds in an escrow account or other type of account held by a bank, until the
completion of the decommissioning plan.
         (c)   Bond or financial responsibility review. The applicant shall
agree that every five years an updated cost estimate, as outlined below
including cost adjustments, shall be provided at the developer's, owner's, or
operator's expense and the bond or financial responsibility amount shall be
adjusted accordingly.
         (d)   Bond shall be released upon receipt of a certificate of
inspection by the office of the Area Planning Executive Director indicating
that the decommissioning plan is complete with no unresolved issues related to
the plan.
      (3)   A decommissioning plan shall include, at a minimum, language to the
following:
         (a)   Assurance. Written assurance that the facilities will be
properly decommissioned upon the project life or in the event that the facility
is abandoned.
         (b)   Cost estimates. The applicant shall provide a contractor cost
estimate for demolition and removal of the SES facility which cost estimate
shall include any offsetting effects of salvage value. The cost estimates shall
be made by a competent party: such as a professional engineer, a contractor
capable of decommissioning or a person with suitable expertise or experience
with decommissioning SES, at the applicant's, owner's or operator's cost.
         (c)   Cost adjustments. Terminology shall be included in the plan that
provides cost estimate adjustments derived from the US Bureau of Labor
Statistics Consumer Price Indexes (CPI) to protect against inflation.
      (4)   No storage of industrial or hazardous material. Owners and/or
operators of SES facilities shall not store any hazardous, industrial, or waste
materials on the property at any time. Additionally, owners and/or operators
shall not store any materials on the property that are not currently in use for
the purposes of electrical production.
      (5)   Discontinuation and abandonment.
         1.   Discontinuation. All SES shall be considered a discontinued use
after six months without energy production, unless a plan is developed and
submitted to the Executive Director and approved by the Board of Zoning Appeals
outlining the steps and schedule for returning the SES to service.
         2.   Abandonment by the owner or operator. All SES shall be considered
an abandoned use after three months without maintenance of SES structures,
including fencing and screening.
         3.   Enforcement of decommission plan. In the event of discontinuation
or abandonment by the owner or operator, the Executive Director shall provide
written notice to the owner or operator that the county considers the use
discontinued or abandoned and shall demand immediate compliance with the
decommission plan. Failure to comply with the decommission plan will result in
a forfeiture of the bond or other financial assurance which shall be converted
to the county's ownership and use for the purpose of completing the
decommission plan.
      (6)   Removal. An applicant’s obligations shall include removal of all
physical material pertaining to the project improvements, including everything
that is placed on the property by the developer, owner, or operator, to no less
than a depth of six feet below ground level within 365 days of the
discontinuation or abandonment of the facility. An applicant shall also be
obligated to restore the project area to, as near as practicable, the condition
of the site immediately before construction of such improvements by the
operator at the operator's expense, unless othe1wise agreed to by the property
owner in writing and approved by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
      (7)   Written notices. Prior to implementation of the existing procedures
for the resolution of such default(s), the Executive Director shall first
provide written notice to the owner and/or operator, setting forth the alleged
default(s). Such written notice shall provide the owner and/or operator a
reasonable time period not to exceed 60 days, for good faith negotiations to
resolve the alleged default(s).
   (R)   Primary SES development plan required.
      (1)   All primary SES are required to obtain development plan approval
and shall provide a development plan prepared and certified by a licensed
engineer for approval.
      (2)   A detailed development plan shall be submitted that includes both
existing and proposed uses, residential and non-residential structures,
conditions, locations of all solar arrays and all other structures/equipment,
property lines, rights-of-way, driving areas or service roads, floodplains,
wetlands, protected natural resources, topography, and all other
characteristics requested by the Administrator to determine compliance. The
development plan should show all existing uses, residential and non-residential
structures, conditions, property lines, rights-of-way, and driving areas for
all neighboring properties. The development plan should show distances from all
property lines, rights-of-way, and structures. The development plan should show
all zoning districts and/or overlay districts of the subject and adjoining
properties.
   (S)   Primary SES inspections and permits required.
      (1)   Development plans that meet the design requirements of this
subchapter and special exception approval are required prior to the issuance of
any building permits. Approval of the development plan does not indicate
compliance with Building Code or Electric Code.
      (2)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall adopt a fee schedule for all
primary SES applications and permits.
      (3)   The applicant shall be responsible for paying for a third-party
inspector, who is qualified to inspect solar systems and is approved by the
county, to inspect all solar structures prior to the issuance of a certificate
of occupancy. The fee schedule adopted by the Board of Zoning Appeals shall
include the reasonable costs of inspection.
(Ord. 2024-04, passed 4-12-2024)
§ 156.665 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY SES. A solar energy system that is an integral part of a primary
or accessory building. ACCESSORY SES include building-integrated SES, ground-
mounted SES, pole-mounted SES, roof-mounted SES, and solar carport SES.
   BUILDING-INTEGRATED SES. An accessory solar energy system that is an
integral part of a primary or accessory building, rather than a separate
mechanical device, replacing or substituting for an architectural or structural
component of the building. BUILDING-INTEGRATED SYSTEMS include, but are not
limited to, photovoltaic or hot water solar energy systems that are contained
within roofing materials, windows, skylights, and awnings.
   COMMUNITY-SCALE SES. A primary solar energy system that covers less than ten
acres and converts sunlight into electricity for the primary purpose of serving
electric demands offsite from the facility, either retail or wholesale.
   GRID-TIED SES. A photovoltaic solar energy system that is connected to an
electric circuit served by an electric utility company.
   GROUND-MOUNTED SES. An accessory solar energy system mounted on a rack that
rests on or is attached to the ground.
   LARGE-SCALE SES. A primary solar energy system that covers ten acres or more
and converts sunlight into electricity for the primary purpose of wholesale
sales of generated electricity. It can include collection and feeder lines,
substations, ancillary buildings, solar monitoring stations and accessory
equipment or structures thereto, that capture and convert solar energy into
electrical energy, primarily for use in locations other than where it is
generated.
   OFF-GRID SES. A photovoltaic solar energy system in which the circuits
energized by the solar energy system are not electrically connected in any way
to electric circuits that are served by an electric utility company.
   PHOTOVOLTAIC SES. A solar energy system that converts solar energy directly
into electricity.
   POLE-MOUNTED SES. An accessory solar energy system mounted on a pole.
   POLLINATOR-FRIENDLY SES. A community- or large-scale solar energy system
that meets the requirements of the 2020 Indiana Solar Site Pollinator Habitat
Planning Scorecard (as amended) developed by Purdue University or another
pollinator-friendly checklist developed by a third-party as a solar-pollinator
standard designed for mid-western eco-systems, soils, and habitat.
   PRIMARY SES. A solar energy system that is free-standing and serves as the
primary land use for the parcel(s) on which it is located. PRIMARY SES include
community-scale SES and large-scale SES.
   RESIDENTIAL USE LOT. Any lot under ten acres in area.
   ROOF-MOUNTED SES. An accessory solar energy system mounted on a rack that is
fastened to or ballasted on a structure roof.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM (SES). A device, array of devices, or structural design
feature, the purpose of which is to provide for generation or storage of
electricity from sunlight, or the collection, storage, and distribution of
solar energy for space heating or cooling, daylight for interior lighting, or
water heating. For purposes of this subchapter, an SES is classified as
accessory SES or primary SES.
   SOLAR COLLECTOR. A device, structure or a part of a device or structure for
which the primary purpose is to transform solar radiant energy into thermal,
mechanical, chemical, or electrical energy. The collector does not include
frames, supports, or mounting hardware.
   SOLAR CARPORT SES. An accessory solar energy system of any size that is
installed on a carport structure that is accessory to a parking area, and which
may include electric vehicle supply equipment or energy storage facilities.
(Ord. 2024-04, passed 4-12-2024)
§ 156.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Remedies and enforcement. Remedies and enforcement of the provisions
of this chapter are set forth in I.C. 36-7-4-1000.
   (B)   Violations as common nuisance. Any structure erected, raised or
converted, or land or premises used in violation of this chapter is a common
nuisance and the owner or possessor of the structure, land or premises is
liable for maintaining a common nuisance.
   (C)   Penalty. Any person or corporation in violation of this chapter may be
punished subject to the provisions of I.C. 36-1-3-8, specifically; a fine of
not more than $2,500 for an ordinance violation.
   (D)   FP Floodplain District violations. Failure to obtain an improvement
location permit in the SFHA or failure to comply with the requirements of a
permit or conditions of a variance shall be deemed to be a violation of this
chapter. All violations shall be considered a common nuisance and be treated as
such in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. All violations shall be
punishable be a fine not exceeding $2,500.
      (1)   A separate offense shall be deemed to occur for each day the
violation continues to exist.
      (2)   The County Area Plan Commission shall inform the owner that any
such violation is considered a willful act to increase flood damages and
therefore may cause coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be
suspended.
      (3)   Nothing herein shall prevent the county from taking such other
lawful action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected
therewith shall accrue to the person or persons responsible.
   (E)   Continuation of violation. Each month or period of 30 days, (whichever
is less), that a violation of any portion of this chapter continues or exists
shall constitute a separate offense, and any person or corporation in violation
of this chapter may be punished by a fine of not more than $2,500 as set forth
in division (C) above for each month or period of 30 days, (whichever is less),
that such violation continues or exists.
   (F)   Enforcement by participating towns. Each town, that is a participating
member/town of this area zoning code, shall have the right to enforce the terms
of this code within its incorporated area/boundary as set forth in division (A)
through (E) above.
(Ord. passed - -2006, § 80.99; Ord. 2020-2, passed 3-9-2020)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   BONDS; APPROPRIATION OF FUNDS
      
II.   FRANCHISES AND AGREEMENTS
      
III.   VACATIONS AND CLOSURES
      
IV.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
      
V.   EASEMENTS
TABLE I: BONDS; APPROPRIATION OF FUNDS
 
Ord.    Date   Description
No.     Passed
Council 11-11- Issuing general obligation bonds in the amount of $1,500,000
1997-11 1997
Council 11-25- Appropriating funds of the general obligation bonds of 1997 toward the
1997-14 1997   county’s purchase of real estate and preliminary costs of construction of a
               Courthouse annex
Council 11-20- Issuing bonds for funds for the construction of an expansion of the County
2001-15 2001   Jail facility and incidental expenses
              
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISES AND AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
1989-4   9-18-1989   Cable television franchise granted to Country Cable
                     Systems, Inc.
93-7     8-24-1993   Extension of enhanced 911 emergency telephone system
                     within Franklin County
                     Granting and conveying a temporary and permanent easement
1997-9   9-22-1997   for sewage collection purposes to the Friendship Regional
                     Sewer District
                    
 
TABLE III: VACATIONS AND CLOSURES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date      Description
         Passed
1999-9   11-1-1999 Vacating a portion of County Road 25 South
Council  11-17-    Vacating an alley in Henry Meyer’s Addition to the Town of
2009-14  2009      Osgood
                   Vacating the streets, alleys and public ways (excluding Main
2020-04  9-4-2020  Street/Spades Road) within the original platted Town of
                   Spades
2021-01  2-22-2021 Vacating the portion of North Old Milan Road west of State
                   Road 129
2024-07  7-7-2024  Vacating the street between lots 39 and 40 in Blue Grass
                   Acres
2024-11  9-27-2024 Vacating a portion of County Road 350 South
                  
 
TABLE IV: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
1995- 3-13-  Rezoning one acre in Delaware Township in the northeast quarter of the
5     1995   northeast quarter of Sec. 21, T9N, R11E; 2045 West County Road 100 North;
             from A2 to RB
P-    3-11-  Rezoning part of the southwest quarter of fractional Sec. 6, T7N, R11E, (part
1996- 1996   of the northeast corner of U.S. Highway 50 and Old Michigan Road), in Otter
1            Creek Township; 3.15 acres; from I and A2 to LB
P-    3-11-  Rezoning part of the southwest quarter of Sec. 10, T7N, R12E, and part of the
1996- 1996   northwest quarter of Sec. 15, T7N, R12E, (part of the northeast corner of
2            U.S. Highway 50 and S.R. 129) in Washington Township; 27 acres; from A1 to GB
96-3  6-17-  Rezoning Lots 1, 2 and 3 in Aikins Subdivision, part of Sec. 14, T8N, R12E,
      1996   in Franklin Township; 5051 East S.R. 350; from G-B to I-1
P-    6-17-  Rezoning part of the northwest quarter of Sec. 2, T7N, R11E; 10.5 acres; from
1996- 1996   A2 to R-B
4
P-    4-8-
1996- 1996   Rezoning part of Sec. 20, T8N, R11E, in Center Township; from I1 to I2
5
P-    7-15-  Rezoning one acre on the west side of a 2.43-acre tract in the northwest
1996- 1996   quarter of Sec. 1, T9N, R11E in Batesville; 105 East County Road 1250 North;
6            from A2 to I1
P-    8-12-
1996- 1996   Rezoning the east 300 feet of 14.485 acres in Delaware Township
7
P-    8-12-  Rezoning 300 feet by 300 feet on the north side of S.R. 350 and 1,034 feet
1996- 1996   west of the southeast corner of Sec. 13, T8N, R12E, in Franklin Township;
8            from A-1 to GB
P-    9-9-   Rezoning 11.881 acres in the northwest quarter of Sec. 20, T8N, R13E, in
1996- 1996   Franklin Township; from A-2 to RB
9
P-    9-9-   Rezoning one acre in the northeast corner of 3.8 acres in the northeast
1996- 1996   quarter of Sec. 13, T9N, R11E, in Laughery Township; from A-2 to GB
10
P-    9-9-   Rezoning 17.813 acres in the east half of the southwest quarter of Sec. 5,
1996- 1996   T7N, R11E, in Otter Creek Township; from A-1 to A-2
11
P-    9-9-   Rezoning 120 acres in the east half of Sec. 11 and the west half of Sec. 12,
1996- 1996   T7N, R12E, in Washington Township; from A-1 to A-2
12
1997- 3-10-  Rezoning a one-acre part of the northeast quarter of Sec. 35, T10N, R12E, in
1     1997   Adams Township; from A-2 to LB
1997- 8-11-  Rezoning one acre out of a 10.65-acre tract in the southeast quarter of Sec.
4     1997   12, T8N, R11E, in Center Township; from A2 to LB
1997- 8-11-  Rezoning five acres in the west half of the east half of the southwest
5     1997   quarter of Sec. 36, T8N, R12E, in Washington Township; from A1 to A2
1997- 8-25-  Rezoning 160 acres in the southeast quarter in Sec. 28, T7N, R11E, 90 acres
6     1997   in the southwest quarter of Sec. 27, T7N, R11E, and 61.4 acres in the
             northwest quarter of Sec. 27, T7N, R11E, in Johnson Township; from A2 to I2
1997- 11-17- Rezoning 1.6 acres of a five-acre tract in the northeast quarter of the
12    1997   northeast quarter of Sec. 20, T9N, R13E, in Franklin Township; from A2 to GB
1997- 11-17- Rezoning the north half of 3.15 acres in the northwest quarter of the
13    1997   northeast quarter of Sec. 21, T9N, R11E, in Delaware Township; from A-2 to LB
1997- 12-15- Rezoning the south half of the northwest quarter of Sec. 20, T9N, R13E, in
15    1997   Franklin Township; 1.43 acres; from A1 to A2
1997- 12-15- Rezoning the front part of Lot 1 and the west 50 feet of Lot 2 of the East
16    1997   Side Subdivision in Adams Township; 477 feet by 313 feet; 3.479 acres; from
             A2 to LB
1998- - -    Rezoning 2.51 acres in the northeast quarter of Sec. 27, T8N, R11E, in Center
2     1998   Township; from A-2 to LB
1998- - -    Rezoning 4.2743 acres in part of the northeast quarter of Sec. 27, T8N, R11E,
3     1998   in Center Township; from A2 to LB
1998- - -    Rezoning 48.214 acres in part of the northeast quarter of Sec. 20, T7N, R12E,
4     1998   in Johnson Township; from FR to UD
1998- 5-18-  Rezoning ten acres in the southwest quarter of Sec. 20, T9N, R11E, in Jackson
4A    1998   Township; from A-2 to I-2
1998- 8-14-  Rezoning the Jeff Meinders property; nine+ acres in the northeast and
7     1998   northwest quarters in Sec. 22, T8N, R12E, in Franklin Township; from A-1 to
             A-2
1998- 12-14- Rezoning 9.62 acres in the southwest quarter of the southeast quarter of Sec.
9     1998   29, T10N, R13E, in Adams Township; from A-2 to IB
1998- 12-14- Rezoning three acres in the west half of the northwest quarter of Sec. 35,
10    1998   T8N, R12E, in Washington Township; from A-1 to A-2
1999- 4-19-  Rezoning 5.879 acres in the northwest quarter of Sec. 10, T7N, R11E, in
1     1999   Johnson Township; from A2 to GB
1999- 4-19-  Rezoning 6.88 acres in the northeast quarter in Sec. 32, T8N, R11E, in Otter
2     1999   Creek Township; from A-1 to A-2
1999- 5-17-  Rezoning 2.4673 acres in the west half of Sec. 20, T8N, R13E, in Franklin
4     1999   Township; from A-2 to RB
1999- 5-28-  Rezoning four acres in the southeast quarter of the northwest quarter of Sec.
5     1999   26, T7N, R11E; from A-2 to I-2
1999- 7-12-  Rezoning 12.052 acres in the north half of the northeast quarter of Sec. 20,
7     1999   T9N, R13E, in Franklin Township; from A-2 to RB
1999- 11-1-  Rezoning 20.14 acres in the southeast quarter of Sec. 12, T7N, R11E, in
8     1999   Johnson Township; from R1 to U.D.
2000- 4-3-   Rezoning the east half and part of the west half of the west half of the
2     2000   southeast quarter of Sec. 4, T9N, R12E, in Adams Township; 115 acres; from A-
             1 to A-2
2000- 4-3-   Rezoning 62.1707 acres in part of the southwest quarter of Sec. 4, T9N, R12E,
3     2000   and 11.2932 acres in part of the northwest quarter of Sec. 9, T9N, R12E, in
             Adams Township; from A-1 to A-2
2000- 8-7-   Rezoning part of the northeast quarter of Sec. 36, T10N, R11E, in Laughery
4     2000   Township; 0.966 acre; from A-2 to R-B
2000- 8-21-  Rezoning part of the southwest quarter of Sec. 4, T9N, R12E, in Adams
5     2000   Township; 2.4643 acres; from A-2 to L-B
2001- - -    Rezoning part of the west half of the southeast quarter of Sec. 27, T10N,
2     2001   R12E, in Adams Township; 14279 N. Morris Street; from R-2 to R-B
2001- 3-19-  Rezoning part of the southeast quarter of Sec. 17, T9N, R13E, in Adams
4     2001   Township; 4.2333 acres; from A-2 to I-1
2001- 4-16-  Rezoning part of the northwest quarter of the northeast quarter of Sec. 3,
5     2001   T7N, R12E, in Washington Township; one acre; from A-1 to R-B
2002- 5-13-  Rezoning Lots 63 and 64 in the Town of Morris; from R-2 to G-B
7     2002
2002- 6-10-  Rezoning part of the northwest quarter of Sec. 9, T6N, R11E, in Shelby
8     2002   Township; ten acres; from A-1 to I-2
2002- 10-11- Rezoning 28.4345 acres in Sec. 13, T7N, R11E, in Johnson Township; from A-
9     2002   2 to R-1
2003- 3-17-  Rezoning part of the southwest quarter of Sec. 13, T7N, R12E, in Washington
05    2003   Township; 2.4415 acres; from R-2 to R-B
2003- 3-17-  Rezoning the west half of the northwest quarter of Sec. 4, T9N, R12E, in
06    2003   Adams Township; 15.45 acres (unchanged)
2003- 4-14-  Rezoning part of Sec. 33, T9N, R13E, in Franklin Township; Parcels 1 and 2;
08    2003   30.053 acres; from A-2 to G-B
      11-10- Rezoning part of the west half of the southeast quarter of Sec. 27, T10N,
18    2003   R12E, in Adams Township; 1.46 acres; 14241 N. East Street in the Town of
             Morris; from R-2 to L-B
2003- 12-8-  Rezoning part of the northeast quarter of Sec. 32, T9N, R13E, in Franklin
19A   2003   Township; 5.798 acres; 7940 North S.R. 101; from L-B to R-B
13    - -    Rezoning part of the northeast quarter of Sec. 16, T9N, R12E, in Adams
      2004   Township; 3.990 acres (unchanged)
2004- 1-16-  Rezoning land from I-B to U-D
02    2004
2004- 1-16-  Rezoning part of the southeast quarter of Sec. 22, T7N, R12E, in Washington
03    2004   Township; 4.7 acres; County Road 475 East; from F-R to A-1
2004- 3-15-  Rezoning part of the southeast quarter and part of the northeast quarter of
09    2004   Sec. 35, T10N, R12E, in Adams Township; 4.313 acres; from A-2 to L-B
14    4-12-  Rezoning part of the northeast quarter in Sec. 27, T8N, R11E, in Center
      2004   Township; 7.8508 acres; from A-2 to L-B
15    4-12-  Rezoning part of the northeast quarter of Sec. 11, T7N, R11E, in Johnson
      2004   Township; from U-D to A-2 and R-3
18    5-10-  Rezoning part of the northeast quarter of Sec. 16, T9N, R12E, in Adams
      2004   Township; 3.990 acres; from A-1 to R-B
19    6-7-   Rezoning part of the southwest quarter of Sec. 26, T10N, R12E, in Adams
      2004   Township; 4.83 acres (unchanged)
20    6-7-   Rezoning part of the southeast quarter of Sec. 32, T10N, R13E, in Adams
      2004   Township; 1.0530 acres; from R-3 to L-B
27    10-8-  Rezoning part of the northwest quarter of the southwest quarter of Sec. 26,
      2004   T10N, R12E, in Adams Township; 11.2 acres more or less; from A-2 to G-B
28    11-8-  Rezoning part of the northwest quarter of Sec. 18, T8N, R13E, in Franklin
      2004   Township; 19.730 acres; from A-1 to A-2
2005- 6-20-  Rezoning part of the south half of Sec. 21, T10N, R12E, in Adams Township;
08    2005   3.29 acres; from R-1 to R-B
2005- 6-20-  Rezoning part of the northwest quarter of Sec. 4, T9N, R12E, in Adams
09    2005   Township; two acres; from A-2 to R-B
2006- 2-13-  Rezoning part of the northeast quarter of Sec. 11, T7N, R11E, in Johnson
04    2006   Township; 1.6117 acres; from R-3 to R-B
2006- 3-13-  Rezoning part of the southeast quarter of Sec. 32, T10N, R13E, in Adams
06    2006   Township; 3.256 acres; from A-2 to R-B
2006- 10-6-  Rezoning part of the northwest quarter of Section 27, T8N, R11E, in Center
13    2006   Township; 2.22 acres; from I-1 to R-1
2006  12-18- Rezoning part of the southwest quarter of Sec. 26, T10N, R12E, in Adams
      2006   Township; 4.83 acres; from A-2 to GB
2007- - -    Rezoning part of the southwest quarter of Sec. 33, T10N, R12E, in Adams
13    2007   Township; three acres; 13296 N. Coonhunters Road; from A-2 to R-B
2006- 1-12-  Rezoning land from A-2 to I-2
13-C  2007
2007- 3-12-  Rezoning part of the southwest quarter of Sec. 14, T7N, R11E, in Johnson
2-A   2007   Township; 6.5 acres more or less; from A-2 to G-B
2007- 3-12-  Rezoning part of the southwest quarter of Sec. 14, T7N, R11E, in Johnson
2-B   2007   Township; 61 acres more or less; from A-2 to I-1
2007- 3-12-  Rezoning part of the southwest quarter of Sec. 14, T7N, R11E, in Johnson
2-C   2007   Township; 2.5 acres more or less; from I-1 to G-B
2007- 3-12-  Rezoning part of the east half of Sec. 14, T7N, R11E, in Johnson Township;
2-D   2007   9.145 acres; from A-2 to I-1
2007- 10-5-  Rezoning part of Sec. 4, T9N, R12E, and part of Sec. 33, T10N, R12E, in Adams
10B   2007   Township; 2.9151 acres; from A-2 to R-B
2007- 10-5-  Rezoning part of the southwest quarter of the southeast quarter of Sec. 14,
10C   2007   T7N, R11E, in Johnson Township; 3.92 acres; from A-2 to I-1
2008- 4-7-   Rezoning part of the west half of the northwest quarter of Sec. 22, T10N,
4A    2008   R12E, in Adams Township; 60 acres; from R-1 to G-B and R-B
2008- 7-14-  Rezoning part of the southeast quarter of Sec. 29, T10N, R12E, in Laughery
10A   2008   Township; 31.579 acres; from R-1 to U-D
1     1-12-  Rezoning part of the southwest quarter of Sec. 9, T6N, R11E, in Shelby
      2009   Township; 7.4 acres; from A-1 to R-B
2009- 10-19- Rezoning part of the northwest quarter of Sec. 13, T7N, R12E, in Washington
10    2009   Township; 20 acres; from A-2 to I-2
2010- 1-11-  Rezoning certain land from A-2 to R-B
01    2010
2012- 8-20-  Rezoning part of Sec. 27, T10N, R12E, in Adams Township; Morris original town
3     2012   Lots 99 and 100; 4539 E. Morris S.R. 46; from R-2 to L-B
2013- 4-15-  Rezoning part of the northwest quarter of Sec. 31, T10N, R13E, in Adams
03    2013   Township; 6.37 acres more or less; 7331 E. S.R. 46; from A-2 to G-B
2013- 6-10-  Rezoning the Curry Addition to the Town of Cross Plains, Lots 7 and 8; 9115
07    2013   S. S.R. 129; from R-2 to L-B
2013- 9-16-  Rezoning part of the west half of Sec. 11, T7N, R11E, in Johnson Township;
09    2013   4.40 acres; 949 W. U.S. Highway 50; from R-1 to L-B
2014- 3-17-  Rezoning part of Sec. 27, T8N, R11E, in Center Township; 0.9009 acres; from
01    2014   R-2 to R-3
2014- 4-14-  Rezoning part of the northwest quarter of Sec. 14, T7N, R12E, in Washington
02    2014   Township; 1.0 + 2.8094=3.8094 acres; 1111 S. Co. Rd. 525 E., Milan IN; from
             A-2 to I-1
2014- 6-9-   Rezoning part of the south half of Sec. 27, T10N, R12E, in Adams Township;
04    2014   0.43 acres; Morris Original Town Lots #71, 72 and 73; from R-2 to L-B
2015- 11-9-  Rezoning 5451 W US 50, Holton, Indiana from A-2 to I-1, approximately 2 acres
05    2015
2016- 3-14-  Rezoning 10749 N St. Rd., Sunman, Indiana from Unit Development to Roadside
01    2016   Business, 10.022 acres
2016- 4-11-  Rezoning 5059 E St. Rd., Milan, Indiana from I-1 to Roadside Business, 2.17
02    2016   acres
2016- 5-9-   Rezoning part of the west ½ of the S.E. ¼ of Section 27, Township 10 North,
03    2016   Range 12 East, Adams Township from R-1 to Local Business, 6.75 acres
2016- 5-9-   Rezoning 13002 N St. Rd. 129, Batesville, Indiana from A-1 to Roadside
04    2016   Business, 6 acres
2017- 12-21- Rezoning 4980 E. US 50, Dillsboro, from A-2 to Roadside Business, 1.5 acres
01    2016
2017- 12-18- Rezoning part of Section 22, Township 8 North Range 11 East, Center Township,
08    2017   from A-2 to General Business, 5,000 acres
2017- 12-18- Rezoning part of Section 22, Township 8 North Range 11 East, Center Township,
09    2017   from A-2 to Local Business, 20,000 acres
2018- 8-13-  Rezoning 12598 N. Coonhunters Road, Batesville, from A-2 to RB, 1.934 acres.
02    2018
2018- 9-10-  Rezoning 3445 W. St. Rd. 229, Batesville, from R-1 to I-1, 9.804 acres.
03    2018
2018- 10-5-  Rezonng part of Section 27, Township 8 North, Range 11 East, Center Township,
04    2018   from Local Business to Roadside Business, 1.0129 acres + 20-foot fringe area
             to the north adjoining property.
2018- 10-5-  Rezoning lots 18 - 21 of the Blue Grass Acres Subdivision, from A-2 to R-2,
05    2018   1.33 acres.
2018- 11-19- Rezoning part of Section 16, Township 8 North, Range 11 East, Center
08    2018   Township, from R-1 to A-1, 0.38 acres.
2019- 11-18- Rezoning part of Section 9, Township 7 North, Range 12 East, Johnson
09    2019   Township, three acres also known as 3227 E. U.S. 50, Dillsboro, IN from GB
             and A-1 to Roadside Business.
2020- 2-10-  Rezoning part of Section 17, Township 9 North, Range 13 East, Adams Township,
1     2020   from A-2 to I-1, 14.69 acres.
2020- 9-4-   Rezoning part of Section 20, Township 6 North, Range 12 East, Brown Township,
05    2020   from A-1 to GB, approximately 2.00 acres.
2021- 9-20-  Rezoning part of Section 29, Township 8 North, Range 13 East, Washington
05    2021   Township, 0.56 acres, 8575 E. Old St. Rd. 350 Moores Hill, Indiana, from LB
             Local Business to R-3 Residential.
2022- 1-10-  Rezoning parts of Sections 19 and 20 Township 6 North, Range 11 East, Shelby
1     2022   Township, 300 feet by 700 feet along the east side of South U.S. 421, 8217
             South U.S. 421 Madison, Indiana, from R-2 Residential to A-2 Agricultural.
2022- 2-18-  Rezoning part of Section 21, Township 10 North, Range 12 East, Adams
2     2022   Township, 4.10 acres, 412 Six Pine Ranch Road, Batesville, Indiana, from R-
             1 Residential to Roadside Business.
2022- 4-18-  Rezoning part of Section 29, Township 10 North, Range 13 East, Adams
4     2022   Township, 1.052 acres, 8663 East Hoff Road, Sunman, Indiana from I-2 Open
             Industrial to Roadside Business.
2022-        Rezoning part of Section 21, Township 10 North, Range 12 East, Adams
5     - -    Township, 4.0 acres, Six Pine Ranch Road, Batesville, Indiana, from R-
             1 Residential to Roadside Business.
2022- 6-13-  Rezoning part of the west half of Section 34, Township 10 North, Range 12
6     2022   East, Adams Township, 2.00 acres, 13738 North County Road, 400 East
             Batesville, Indiana, from A-2 Agricultural to Roadside Business.
2022- 6-13-  Rezoning part of the southwest quarter of the southeast quarter of Section
7     2022   29, Township 9 North, Range 11 East, Jackson Township, 4.00 acres, 8055 North
             U.S. 421 Osgood, Indiana, from A-2 Agricultural to I-2 Open Industrial.
2022- 11-14- Rezoning part of Section 21, Township 10 North, Range 12 East, Adams
11    2022   Township, 5.5460 acres, 490 Six Pine Ranch Road, Batesville, Indiana, from R-
             1 Residential to Roadside Business.
2023- 5-15-  Rezoning part of Section 10, Township 7 North, Range 12 East, Washington
03    2023   Township, 2 acres, from A-1 Agricultural to R-3 Residential.
2023- 7-10-  Rezoning part of the SW quarter of the NE quarter of Section 32, Township 9
04    2023   North, Range 13 East, Franklin Township, 3 acres from A-2 Agricultural to
             Roadside Business.
2023- 9-18-  Rezoning part of the north half of Section 4, Township 9 North, Range 12
07    2023   East, Adams Township 6 acres, 13002 N St. Rd. 129 Batesville, Indiana from
             Roadside Business to A-1 Agricultural.
2024- 9-3-   Rezoning part of Section 20, Township 9 North, Range 13 East, Adams Township,
010   2024   5 acres, 8902 E Co. Rd. 1000 N, Sunman, Indiana, from General Business to
             Roadside Business.
2024- 11-22- Rezoning part of Section 4, Township 9 North, Range 12 East, Adams Township,
013   2024   12.94 acres, 12612 N St. Rd. 129, Batesville, Indiana, from A-2 Agricultural
             to Roadside Business.
            
 
TABLE V: EASEMENTS
 
Ord. No.     Date Passed Description
                         Permission for Elrod Water Construction Company, Inc.
Res. 2013-03 4-1-2013    to construct and maintain certain water lines along
                         the right-of-ways and across certain county roads
                        
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Section Code Section
I.C. Section                  Code Section
1-1-1-5                       10.04
1-1-1-7                       10.12
1-1-1-8                       10.06
1-1-4-5                       10.05
1-1-5-1                       10.11
1-1-6-1                       10.08
4-3-13-5                      33.041
4-21.5-3-7                    151.68
5-2-1-9(f)                    31.06
5-3-1                         155.004
                              30.04,
5-14-1.5 et seq.              30.05,
                              32.20
5-14-1.5-2                    32.20
5-14-1.5-5                    50.09
5-14-1.5-5(d)                 32.41,
                              32.42
5-14-3 et seq.                32.20
5-14-3-2                      33.075
5-14-3-3                      34.15
5-14-3-3(e)                   33.075
5-14-3-3.6                    33.075
5-14-3-3.6(e)                 33.075
5-14-3-4                      33.075
5-14-3-6                      33.075
5-14-3-8(j)                   33.075
5-14-3-8(k)                   33.075
5-14-3-8.5                    33.075
5-14-3-8.5(b)                 33.075
5-15-6 et seq.                32.20
5-22 et seq.                  33.002
6-1.1-5.5-4                   33.072
6-1.1-5.5-4.5                 33.072
6-1.1-5.5-4.7                 33.072
6-3.5-1.1-21.1                33.046
6-3.5-6-17.3                  33.046
6-3.5-7-17.3                  33.046
6-9-18                        31.03
6-9-18 et seq.                33.020
8-1-14-4(a)                   33.053
8-1-23-3                      34.03
8-1-23-4                      34.03
8-1-32.3-17(b)                156.643,
                              156.644
8-1-32.5-3                    34.19
9-20-4-1                      70.02
9-20-18-12                    70.02
9-21-5-13                     70.01
Title 10                      32.02
                              32.21,
10-14-3                       32.42,
                              32.45,
                              32.46
                              32.02,
                              32.05,
10-14-3-17                    32.21,
                              32.40,
                              32.41
10-14-3-17(c)                 32.20
10-14-3-17(h)                 32.22,
                              32.23
10-14-3-17(j)(5)              32.42
10-14-3-22                    32.05,
                              32.42
10-14-3-24                    32.42
10-14-3-27                    32.22
                              32.02,
10-14-3-29                    32.40,
                              32.41
11-12-2-4                     31.07
12-2-1-10                     34.08
13-1-3                        156.406
13-1-7                        156.406
13-18-10                      156.405
14-4-9-14                     156.017
14-4-9-18                     156.017
14-4-9-19                     156.017
14-28-1                       154.60 ,
                              156.304
16-10-2                       156.020,
                              156.406
16-10-2.1                     156.388
16-10-2.1-1                   156.020
16-20-1-8                     33.063
16-20-2-1 et seq.             33.063
16-31.1                       156.388
16-41                         156.020
16-41-25-9                    50.50,
                              50.05
17-2-72-1                     150.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.              90.01
22-9.5-2-2                    90.02
22-9.5-2-3                    90.02
22-9.5-2-4                    90.02
22-9.5-2-8                    90.02
22-9.5-2-9                    90.02
22-9.5-2-11                   90.02
22-9.5-2-13                   90.02
22-9.5-3                      90.03,
                              90.09
22-9.5-4-1                    90.02
22-9.5-4-8                    90.10
22-9.5-5                      90.02,
                              90.10
22-9.5-5-1                    90.03
22-9.5-6                      90.02,
                              90.10
22-11-1-1.5                   156.020
22-12                         151.68
22-12-1-1 et seq.             156.605
22-12-1-5                     151.03
22-12-1-7                     151.03
22-12-1-14                    151.03
22-12-1-16                    151.03,
                              156.020
22-12-1-17                    151.03
22-12-1-18                    151.03
22-12-1-22(b)(12)             151.51
22-12-1-24                    151.03
22-12-1-26                    151.03
22-12-7                       151.05
22-13                         151.68
22-13-2-3(b)                  151.50
22-13-2-5                     151.07
22-13-2-6                     151.04
22-13-2-7                     151.68
22-13-2-7(b)                  151.50
22-13-2-9                     151.04
22-13-2-11                    151.05
22-14                         151.68
22-15                         151.68
22-15-3                       151.21
22-15-4                       151.04
27-1-15.6-6(d)                34.15
27-7-3-2                      34.15
27-7-3-6                      34.15
31-16-17-12                   31.01
31-37-1-2                     31.01
32-25                         156.406
32-25-2-9                     151.03
32-29-7                       33.064
32-29-7-3                     33.064
32-29-7-3(i)                  33.064
33-40-3-1 et seq.             31.01
33-40-6-1 et seq.             31.01
33-40-7-4                     31.01
33-40-7-5                     31.01
33-40-7-11                    31.01
35-41-1-6                     31.01
35-41-1-18                    33.067
35-43-5-5                     33.003
35-43-5-5(e)                  33.003
36-1-2-23                     34.19
36-1-3-1 et seq.              93.01
36-1-3-2                      93.01
36-1-3-8                      155.999,
                              156.999
36-1-3-8(a)(10)               10.99,
                              91.99
36-1-3-11(c)                  156.551
36-1-4-11                     154.01
36-1-5-4                      151.50,
                              151.51
36-1-6-3(b)                   91.99
36-1-6-4                      91.99,
                              151.99
36-1-6-9                      151.68
36-1-8-5                      33.046
36-2-2                        32.02
36-2-2-8                      32.41,
                              32.42
36-2-2-8(b)                   32.42
36-2-4-3                      32.02
36-2-7-10(f)                  34.15
36-2-7-10.1(d)                34.15
36-2-7.5                      33.035
36-2-7.5-6                    33.035
36-2-9-18                     33.069
36-2-19                       155.007
36-7-2-8                      156.663
36-7-3                        155.004
                              155.003,
                              155.008,
36-7-4                        155.085,
                              155.086,
                              156.019,
                              156.020,
36-7-4-405                    155.004
36-7-4-602(c)                 156.020
36-7-4-706                    155.088
36-7-4-710                    155.004
36-7-4-901                    156.075
36-7-4-902 through 36-7-4-907 156.075
36-7-4-918.3                  156.082
36-7-4-1000                   156.999
36-7-4-1016                   155.004
36-7-4-1103                   156.405
36-7-8-3                      151.07
36-7-8-9                      151.68
36-7-14-3                     31.04
36-8-10-7                     33.067
36-8-16                       34.10
36-8-17                       151.36
36-10-3                       31.05
1971.32-11                    32.46
                              
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
1989-2   3-6-1989    34.09
2002-13  6-10-2002   152.01
2013-03  4-1-2013    TSO Table V
2014-03  8-29-2014   31.07
2014-04  - -2014     34.11
2017-01  3-13-2017   34.16
2018-01  5-21-2018   34.18
2019-01  1-22-2019   33.053
2021-02  5-17-2021   30.04
2021-04  6-21-2021   30.05
2021-05  10-4-2021   33.006
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.            Date Passed          Code Section
77-1                3-7-1977             93.03
1979-1              5-21-1979            150.02
2-1980              8-18-1980            34.07
2-82                12-20-1982           70.01,
                                         70.02
-                   6-6-1983             34.08
-                   8-31-1984            50.99
1985-1              5-20-1985            93.01—
                                         93.04
1986-2              4-15-1986            70.01,
                                         70.02
1989-4              9-18-1989            TSO Table
                                         II
Council 1990-2      5-22-1990            34.10
1991-1              1-18-1991            34.06
1991-4              6-3-1991             30.01
                                         155.001—
                                         155.010,
                                         155.025—
                                         155.032,
                                         155.045—
                                         155.047,
-                   6-5-1991             155.060—
                                         155.072,
                                         155.085—
                                         155.091,
                                         155.105—
                                         155.109,
                                         155.999
                                         150.15—
1991-3              6-20-1991            150.24,
                                         150.99
1991-2-A            12-27-1991           30.02
1991-3              12-27-1991           30.03
                                         92.01—
1991-4              12-27-1991           92.05,
                                         92.99
92-2                7-6-1992             33.069
93-7                8-24-1993            TSO Table
                                         II
Council 1993-O-93-3 9-28-1993            31.05
O-1994-1            6-20-1994            91.01—
                                         91.03
Council 1995-3      2-27-1995            33.020
1995-5              3-13-1995            TSO Table
                                         IV
                                         155.004,
1995-1              6-5-1995             155.027,
                                         155.062
O-1995-7            8-1-1995             33.071
Council O-1995-8    9-26-1995            33.020
1995-9              11-6-1995            33.070
1996-1              1-12-1996            31.03
96-2                2-26-1996            33.067
P-1996-1            3-11-1996            TSO Table
                                         IV
P-1996-2            3-11-1996            TSO Table
                                         IV
P-1996-5            4-8-1996             TSO Table
                                         IV
P-1996-4            6-17-1996            TSO Table
                                         IV
96-3                6-17-1996            TSO Table
                                         IV
P-1996-6            7-15-1996            TSO Table
                                         IV
P-1996-7            8-12-1996            TSO Table
                                         IV
P-1996-8            8-12-1996            TSO Table
                                         IV
P-1996-9            9-9-1996             TSO Table
                                         IV
P-1996-10           9-9-1996             TSO Table
                                         IV
P-1996-11           9-9-1996             TSO Table
                                         IV
P-1996-12           9-9-1996             TSO Table
                                         IV
1997-1              3-10-1997            TSO Table
                                         IV
1997-2              4-7-1997             153.01—
                                         153.09
1997-4              8-11-1997            TSO Table
                                         IV
1997-5              8-11-1997            TSO Table
                                         IV
1997-6              8-25-1997            TSO Table
                                         IV
1997-7              9-8-1997             155.091
1997-8              9-8-1997             33.044
1997-9              9-22-1997            TSO Table
                                         II
1997-10             10-20-1997           33.069
Council 1997-11     11-11-1997           TSO Table
                                         I
1997-12             11-17-1997           TSO Table
                                         IV
1997-13             11-17-1997           TSO Table
                                         IV
Council 1997-14     11-25-1997           TSO Table
                                         I
1997-15             12-15-1997           TSO Table
                                         IV
1997-16             12-15-1997           TSO Table
                                         IV
1998-1              2-23-1998            33.043
1998-2              - -1998              TSO Table
                                         IV
1998-3              - -1998              TSO Table
                                         IV
1998-4              - -1998              TSO Table
                                         IV
1998-4A             5-18-1998            TSO Table
                                         IV
1998-7              8-14-1998            TSO Table
                                         IV
1998-8              11-16-1998           33.066
1998-9              12-14-1998           TSO Table
                                         IV
1998-10             12-14-1998           TSO Table
                                         IV
1999-1              4-19-1999            TSO Table
                                         IV
1999-2              4-19-1999            TSO Table
                                         IV
1999-4              5-17-1999            TSO Table
                                         IV
1999-5              5-28-1999            TSO Table
                                         IV
                                         130.01—
1999-6              6-28-1999            130.04,
                                         130.99
1999-7              7-12-1999            TSO Table
                                         IV
1999-8              11-1-1999            TSO Table
                                         IV
1999-9              11-1-1999            TSO Table
                                         III
2000-2              4-3-2000             TSO Table
                                         IV
2000-3              4-3-2000             TSO Table
                                         IV
Council 2000-1      4-18-2000            33.067
2000-4              8-7-2000             TSO Table
                                         IV
2000-5              8-21-2000            TSO Table
                                         IV
2000-7              10-30-2000           33.002
2000-8              12-11-2000           33.003
2001-2              - -2001              TSO Table
                                         IV
Council 2001-3      2-20-2001            33.068
2001-4              3-19-2001            TSO Table
                                         IV
2001-5              4-16-2001            TSO Table
                                         IV
                                         155.004,
                                         155.062,
2001-9              7-9-2001             155.068,
                                         155.069,
                                         155.072
2001-11             7-23-2001            33.072
2001-14             10- -2001            33.004
Council 2001-15     11-20-2001           TSO Table
                                         I
2002-7              5-13-2002            TSO Table
                                         IV
2002-8              6-10-2002            TSO Table
                                         IV
2002-9              10-11-2002           TSO Table
                                         IV
2003-05             3-17-2003            TSO Table
                                         IV
2003-06             3-17-2003            TSO Table
                                         IV
2003-08             4-14-2003            TSO Table
                                         IV
2003-02             4-15-2003            33.038
Council 2003-14     8-19-2003            33.041
Council 2003-13A    9-3-2003             33.045
18                  11-10-2003           TSO Table
                                         IV
2003-19A            12-8-2003            TSO Table
                                         IV
2003-19B            12-8-2003            31.04
13                  - -2004              TSO Table
                                         IV
2004-02             1-16-2004            TSO Table
                                         IV
2004-03             1-16-2004            TSO Table
                                         IV
Council 2004-05     2-17-2004            33.046
2004-09             3-15-2004            TSO Table
                                         IV
14                  4-12-2004            TSO Table
                                         IV
15                  4-12-2004            TSO Table
                                         IV
18                  5-10-2004            TSO Table
                                         IV
19                  6-7-2004             TSO Table
                                         IV
20                  6-7-2004             TSO Table
                                         IV
27                  10-8-2004            TSO Table
                                         IV
28                  11-8-2004            TSO Table
                                         IV
2005-08             6-20-2005            TSO Table
                                         IV
2005-09             6-20-2005            TSO Table
                                         IV
15                  11-7-2005            155.047
2005-13             11-7-2005            33.035
-                   - -2006, § 80.01    156.001
-                   - -2006, § 80.02    156.002
-                   - -2006, § 80.03    156.003
-                   - -2006, § 80.04    156.004
-                   - -2006, § 80.05    156.005
-                   - -2006, § 80.06    156.340
-                   - -2006, § 80.06(A) 156.341
-                   - -2006, § 80.06(B) 156.342
-                   - -2006, § 80.06(C) 156.343
-                   - -2006, § 80.06(D) 156.344
-                   - -2006, § 80.06(E) 156.345
-                   - -2006, § 80.06(F) 156.346
-                   - -2006, § 80.06(G) 156.347
-                   - -2006, § 80.06(H) 156.348
-                   - -2006, § 80.06(I) 156.349
-                   - -2006, § 80.07    156.360
-                   - -2006, § 80.07(A) 156.361
-                   - -2006, § 80.07(B) 156.362
-                   - -2006, § 80.07(C) 156.363
-                   - -2006, § 80.07(D) 156.364
-                   - -2006, § 80.07(E) 156.365
-                   - -2006, § 80.07(F) 156.366
-                   - -2006, § 80.07(G) 156.367
-                   - -2006, § 80.07(H) 156.368
-                   - -2006, § 80.07(I) 156.369
-                   - -2006, § 80.07(J) 156.370
-                   - -2006, § 80.07(K) 156.371
-                   - -2006, § 80.08    156.372
-                   - -2006, § 80.09    156.120
-                   - -2006, § 80.09(A) 156.121
-                   - -2006, § 80.09(B) 156.122
-                   - -2006, § 80.10    156.135
-                   - -2006, § 80.10(A) 156.136
-                   - -2006, § 80.10(B) 156.137
-                   - -2006, § 80.11    156.150
-                   - -2006, § 80.11(A) 156.151
-                   - -2006, § 80.11(B) 156.152
-                   - -2006, § 80.12    156.165
-                   - -2006, § 80.12(A) 156.166
-                   - -2006, § 80.12(B) 156.167
-                   - -2006, § 80.13    156.180
-                   - -2006, § 80.13(A) 156.181
-                   - -2006, § 80.13(B) 156.182
-                   - -2006, § 80.14    156.195
-                   - -2006, § 80.14(A) 156.196
-                   - -2006, § 80.14(B) 156.197
-                   - -2006, § 80.15    156.210
-                   - -2006, § 80.15(A) 156.211
-                   - -2006, § 80.15(B) 156.212
-                   - -2006, § 80.16    156.225
-                   - -2006, § 80.16(A) 156.226
-                   - -2006, § 80.16(B) 156.227
-                   - -2006, § 80.17    156.240
-                   - -2006, § 80.17(A) 156.241
-                   - -2006, § 80.17(B) 156.242
-                   - -2006, § 80.18    156.255
-                   - -2006, § 80.18(A) 156.256
-                   - -2006, § 80.18(B) 156.257
-                   - -2006, § 80.19    156.270
-                   - -2006, § 80.19(A) 156.271
-                   - -2006, § 80.19(B) 156.272
-                   - -2006, § 80.19(C) 156.273
-                   - -2006, § 80.20    156.285
-                   - -2006, § 80.20(A) 156.286
-                   - -2006, § 80.20(B) 156.287
-                   - -2006, § 80.20(C) 156.288
-                   - -2006, § 80.21(A) 156.300
-                   - -2006, § 80.21(B) 156.301
-                   - -2006, § 80.21(C) 156.302
-                   - -2006, § 80.21(D) 156.303
-                   - -2006, § 80.21(E) 156.304
-                   - -2006, § 80.21(F) 156.305
-                   - -2006, § 80.21(G) 156.306
-                   - -2006, § 80.21(H) 156.307
-                   - -2006, § 80.21(I) 156.308
-                   - -2006, § 80.21(J) 156.309
-                   - -2006, § 80.22    156.320
-                   - -2006, § 80.22(A) 156.321
-                   - -2006, § 80.22(B) 156.322
-                   - -2006, § 80.22(C) 156.323
-                   - -2006, § 80.22(D) 156.324
-                   - -2006, § 80.22(E) 156.325
-                   - -2006, § 80.22(F) 156.326
-                   - -2006, § 80.22(G) 156.327
-                   - -2006, § 80.22(H) 156.328
-                   - -2006, § 80.23    156.385
-                   - -2006, § 80.23(A) 156.386
-                   - -2006, § 80.23(B) 156.387
-                   - -2006, § 80.23(C) 156.388
-                   - -2006, § 80.24(A) 156.400
-                   - -2006, § 80.24(B) 156.401
-                   - -2006, § 80.24(C) 156.402
-                   - -2006, § 80.24(D) 156.403
-                   - -2006, § 80.24(E) 156.404
-                   - -2006, § 80.24(F) 156.405
-                   - -2006, § 80.25    156.420
-                   - -2006, § 80.25(A) 156.421
-                   - -2006, § 80.25(B) 156.422
-                   - -2006, § 80.25(C) 156.423
-                   - -2006, § 80.26(A) 156.435
-                   - -2006, § 80.26(B) 156.436
-                   - -2006, § 80.26(C) 156.437
-                   - -2006, § 80.26(D) 156.438
-                   - -2006, § 80.26(E) 156.439
-                   - -2006, § 80.26(F) 156.440
-                   - -2006, § 80.26(G) 156.441
-                   - -2006, § 80.26(H) 156.442
-                   - -2006, § 80.26(I) 156.443
-                   - -2006, § 80.26(J) 156.444
-                   - -2006, § 80.27    156.006
-                   - -2006, § 80.28    156.007
-                   - -2006, § 80.29(A) 156.455
-                   - -2006, § 80.29(B) 156.456
-                   - -2006, § 80.29(C) 156.457
-                   - -2006, § 80.29(D) 156.458
-                   - -2006, § 80.30(A) 156.605
-                   - -2006, § 80.30(B) 156.606
-                   - -2006, § 80.30(C) 156.607
-                   - -2006, § 80.30(D) 156.608
-                   - -2006, § 80.31(A) 156.470
-                   - -2006, § 80.31(B) 156.471
-                   - -2006, § 80.32    156.485
-                   - -2006, § 80.32(A) 156.486
-                   - -2006, § 80.32(B) 156.487
-                   - -2006, § 80.32(C) 156.488
-                   - -2006, § 80.33(A) 156.500
-                   - -2006, § 80.33(B) 156.501
-                   - -2006, § 80.33(C) 156.502
-                   - -2006, § 80.34(A) 156.515
-                   - -2006, § 80.34(B) 156.516
-                   - -2006, § 80.34(C) 156.517
-                   - -2006, § 80.34(D) 156.518
-                   - -2006, § 80.35(A) 156.620
-                   - -2006, § 80.35(B) 156.621
-                   - -2006, § 80.35(C) 156.622
-                   - -2006, § 80.35(D) 156.623
-                   - -2006, § 80.35(E) 156.624
-                   - -2006, § 80.35(F) 156.625
-                   - -2006, § 80.35(G) 156.626
-                   - -2006, § 80.36(A) 156.530
-                   - -2006, § 80.36(B) 156.531
-                   - -2006, § 80.36(C) 156.532
-                   - -2006, § 80.36(D) 156.533
-                   - -2006, § 80.36(E) 156.534
-                   - -2006, § 80.36(F) 156.535
-                   - -2006, § 80.36(G) 156.536
-                   - -2006, § 80.37(A) 156.550
-                   - -2006, § 80.37(B) 156.551
-                   - -2006, § 80.37(C) 156.552
-                   - -2006, § 80.37(D) 156.553
-                   - -2006, § 80.37(E) 156.554
-                   - -2006, § 80.37(F) 156.555
-                   - -2006, § 80.37(G) 156.556
-                   - -2006, § 80.37(H) 156.557
-                   - -2006, § 80.38    156.537
-                   - -2006, § 80.39(A) 156.035
-                   - -2006, § 80.39(B) 156.036
-                   - -2006, § 80.39(C) 156.037
-                   - -2006, § 80.39(D) 156.038
-                   - -2006, § 80.39(E) 156.039
-                   - -2006, § 80.39(F) 156.040
-                   - -2006, § 80.39(G) 156.041
-                   - -2006, § 80.39(H) 156.042
-                   - -2006, § 80.39(I) 156.043
-                   - -2006, § 80.39(J) 156.044
-                   - -2006, § 80.39(K) 156.045
-                   - -2006, § 80.39(L) 156.046
-                   - -2006, § 80.39(M) 156.047
-                   - -2006, § 80.39(N) 156.048
-                   - -2006, § 80.39(O) 156.049
-                   - -2006, § 80.39(P) 156.050
-                   - -2006, § 80.39(Q) 156.051
-                   - -2006, § 80.39(R) 156.052
-                   - -2006, § 80.39(S) 156.053
-                   - -2006, § 80.39(T) 156.054
-                   - -2006, § 80.39(U) 156.055
-                   - -2006, § 80.39(V) 156.056
-                   - -2006, § 80.39(W) 156.057
-                   - -2006, § 80.39(X) 156.058
-                   - -2006, § 80.39(Y) 156.059
-                   - -2006, § 80.39(Z) 156.060
-                   - -2006, § 80.39(AA)156.061
-                   - -2006, § 80.40    156.075
-                   - -2006, § 80.40(A) 156.076
-                   - -2006, § 80.40(B) 156.077
-                   - -2006, § 80.40(C) 156.078
-                   - -2006, § 80.40(D) 156.079
-                   - -2006, § 80.40(E) 156.080
-                   - -2006, § 80.40(F) 156.081
-                   - -2006, § 80.40(G) 156.082
-                   - -2006, § 80.40(H) 156.083
-                   - -2006, § 80.40(I) 156.084
-                   - -2006, § 80.40(J) 156.085
-                   - -2006, § 80.41(A) 156.008
-                   - -2006, § 80.41(B) 156.009
-                   - -2006, § 80.41(C) 156.010
-                   - -2006, § 80.41(D) 156.011
-                   - -2006, § 80.41(E) 156.012
-                   - -2006, § 80.41(F) 156.013
-                   - -2006, § 80.41(G) 156.014
-                   - -2006, § 80.41(H) 156.015
-                   - -2006, § 80.41(I) 156.016
-                   - -2006, § 80.41(J) 156.017
-                   - -2006, § 80.41(K) 156.018
-                   - -2006, § 80.41(L) 156.019
-                   - -2006, § 80.42    156.570
-                   - -2006, § 80.42(A) 156.571
-                   - -2006, § 80.42(B) 156.572
-                   - -2006, § 80.42(C) 156.573
-                   - -2006, § 80.42(D) 156.574
-                   - -2006, § 80.42(E) 156.575
-                   - -2006, § 80.42(F) 156.576
-                   - -2006, § 80.42(G) 156.577
-                   - -2006, § 80.42(H) 156.578
-                   - -2006, § 80.42(I) 156.579
-                   - -2006, § 80.43    156.020
-                   - -2006, § 80.44(A) 156.100
-                   - -2006, § 80.44(B) 156.101
-                   - -2006, § 80.44(C) 156.102
-                   - -2006, § 80.44(D) 156.103
-                   - -2006, § 80.44(E) 156.104
-                   - -2006, § 80.44(F) 156.105
-                   - -2006, § 80.44(G) 156.106
-                   - -2006, § 80.44(H) 156.107
-                   - -2006, § 80.45(A) 156.590
-                   - -2006, § 80.45(B) 156.591
-                   - -2006, § 80.46    156.592
-                   - -2006, § 80.47    156.062
-                   - -2006, § 80.49(A) 156.640
-                   - -2006, § 80.49(B) 156.641
-                   - -2006, § 80.49(C) 156.642
-                   - -2006, § 80.49(D) 156.643
-                   - -2006, § 80.49(E) 156.644
-                   - -2006, § 80.49(F) 156.645
-                   - -2006, § 80.99    156.999
2006-04             2-13-2006            TSO Table
                                         IV
2006-06             3-13-2006            TSO Table
                                         IV
2006-07             3-13-2006            155.004
2006-08             3-13-2006            155.003
10A                 7-17-2006            156.038
11                  7-17-2006            155.004
2006-13             10-6-2006            TSO Table
                                         IV
2006-14             10-6-2006            155.046
2006                12-18-2006           TSO Table
                                         IV
2006-13-A           12-18-2006           156.590
2006-13-C           1-12-2007            TSO Table
                                         IV
3A                  2-22-2007            156.500
2007-2-A            3-12-2007            TSO Table
                                         IV
2007-2-B            3-12-2007            TSO Table
                                         IV
2007-2-C            3-12-2007            TSO Table
                                         IV
2007-2-D            3-12-2007            TSO Table
                                         IV
2007-2-E            3-12-2007            156.590
2007-2-F            3-12-2007            156.552
2007-6              5-7-2007             31.06
Council 2007-10A    9-17-2007            33.067
2007-10B            10-5-2007            TSO Table
                                         IV
2007-10C            10-5-2007            TSO Table
                                         IV
2007-12             11-19-2007           155.003
2007-13             - -2007              TSO Table
                                         IV
2007-015A           12-3-2007            33.068
2008-004            1-28-2008            33.067
2008-4A             4-7-2008             TSO Table
                                         IV
2008-10A            7-14-2008            TSO Table
                                         IV
Council 2008-11     7-21-2008            33.047
2008-15             10-6-2008            34.05
1                   1-12-2009            TSO Table
                                         IV
2009-7              6-29-2009            33.061
2009-10             10-19-2009           TSO Table
                                         IV
Council 2009-14     11-17-2009           TSO Table
                                         III
2010-01             1-11-2010            TSO Table
                                         IV
2010-02             1-11-2010            156.590
                                         151.01—
                                         151.07,
                                         151.20—
                                         151.23,
                                         151.35,
2010-03             1-25-2010            151.36,
                                         151.50,
                                         151.51,
                                         151.65—
                                         151.68,
                                         151.99
2010-04             1-25-2010            150.01
2011-2              2-18-2010            31.02
2010-05             10-18-2010           34.04
06                  11-29-2010           TSO Table
                                         III
2011-3              2-7-2011             33.065
Council 2011-5      5-16-2011            33.040
Council 2011-6      6-20-2011            33.042
7                   6-27-2011            156.590
Council 2011-8      7-18-2011            34.10
Council 2011-9      7-18-2011            33.036
Council 2011-10     7-18-2011            33.037
2011-11             7-25-2011            33.005
2011-12             8-22-2011            33.060
2011-13             12-12-2011           34.03
2012-1              4-30-2012            33.064
2012-2              4-30-2012            34.02
2012-3              8-20-2012            TSO Table
                                         IV
                                         32.01—
                                         32.05,
                                         32.20—
2012-05             10-15-2012           32.26,
                                         32.40—
                                         32.46,
                                         32.99
2013-02             4-15-2013            33.038
2013-03             4-15-2013            TSO Table
                                         IV
2013-04             4-15-2013            70.01,
                                         70.02
                                         90.01—
Council 2013-05     4-29-2013            90.10,
                                         90.99
2013-06             5-13-2013            34.01
2013-07             6-10-2013            TSO Table
                                         IV
2013-08             8-19-2013            31.01
2013-09             9-16-2013            TSO Table
                                         IV
2013-13             10-21-2013           33.063
Council 2013-10     10-21-2013           33.062
2014-01             3-17-2014            TSO Table
                                         IV
2014-02             4-14-2014            TSO Table
                                         IV
2014-04             6-9-2014             TSO Table
                                         IV
2014-05             8-29-2014            34.12
2015-01             3-6-2015             155.003
Council 2015-02     3-16-2015            33.073
Council 2015-03     6-15-2015            33.049
2015-05             11-9-2015            TSO Table
                                         IV
Council 2015-07     12-14-2015           33.050
2015-08             12-21-2015           156.103
2015-09             12-21-2015           155.004
                                         156.020,
2015-10             12-21-2015           156.605,
                                         156.608
2015-11             12-21-2015           150.01
2016-01             3-14-2016            TSO Table
                                         IV
2016-02             4-11-2016            TSO Table
                                         IV
2016-03             5-9-2016             TSO Table
                                         IV
2016-04             5-9-2016             TSO Table
                                         IV
2016-05             6-28-2016            33.051,
                                         33.074
2016-06             6-20-2016            34.13
2016-07             9-12-2016            156.020,
                                         156.405
2017-01             12-21-2016           TSO Table
                                         IV
2017-02             7-3-2017             34.15
2017-02A            5-15-2017            33.052
2017-04             10-6-2017            34.14
2017-04A            12-18-2017           34.14
2017-07             10-23-2017           34.17
2017-08             12-18-2017           TSO Table
                                         IV
2017-09             12-18-2017           TSO Table
                                         IV
                                         91.01 -
2018-01             5-7-2018             91.06,
                                         91.99
2018-02             8-13-2018            TSO Table
                                         IV
2018-03             9-10-2018            TSO Table
                                         IV
2018-04             10-5-2018            TSO Table
                                         IV
2018-05             10-5-2018            TSO Table
                                         IV
2018-08             11-19-2018           TSO Table
                                         IV
2019-01             4-22-2019            155.004
2019-02             4-22-2019            155.643 -
                                         156.645
2019-03             4-22-2019            156.404,
                                         156.405
2019-05             6-17-2019            156.404,
                                         156.405
2019-06             6-17-2019            33.072
2019-07             10-7-2019            156.020
2019-08             10-7-2019            156.404,
                                         156.405
2019-09             11-18-2019           TSO Table IV
2020-1              2-10-2020            TSO Table IV
2020-2              3-9-2020             156.062,
                                         156.999
2020-04             9-4-2020             TSO Table III
2020-05             9-4-2020             TSO Table IV
2021-01             2-22-2021            TSO Table III
2021-02             2-22-2021            33.075
2021-03             5-17-2021            33.054
2021-04             6-15-2021            33.072
2021-05             9-20-2021            TSO Table IV
2021-06             7-13-2021            33.063
2021-08             12-28-2021           30.02,
                                         30.03
2022-1              1-10-2022            TSO Table IV
2022-2              2-18-2022            TSO Table IV
                                         50.15 -
2022-3              3-1-2022             50.24,
                                         50.99
2022-4              4-18-2022            TSO Table IV
2022-5              - -                  TSO Table IV
2022-6              6-13-2022            TSO Table IV
2022-7              6-13-2022            TSO Table IV
2022-08             9-19-2022            33.055
2022-09             10-17-2022           155.028
2022-10             10-17-2022           155.004
2022-11             11-14-2022           TSO Table IV
2022-12             12-19-2022           33.007
2023-01             3-6-2023             33.054
2023-03             5-15-2023            TSO Table IV
2023-04             7-10-2023            TSO Table IV
2023-06             9-1-2023             34.19
2023-07             9-18-2023            TSO Table IV
2023-09             11-13-2023           33.005
2023-10             12-18-2023           34.14
2024-02             1-5-2024             155.004
                                         154.01 -
                                         154.04,
                                         154.20 -
2024-03             2-16-2024            154.29,
                                         154.40 -
                                         154.45,
                                         154.60 -
                                         154.64
2024-04             4-12-2024            156.660 -
                                         156.665
2024-05             4-12-2024            156.551
2024-06             4-12-2024            33.063
2024-07             7-7-2024             TSO Table III
2024-08             - -                  50.01 -
                                         50.11
2024-09             7-19-2024            155.004
2024-10             9-3-2024             TSO Table IV
2024-11             9-27-2024            TSO Table III
2024-12             - -                  34.14
2024-13             11-22-2024           TSO Table IV
                                        
 
 
