TOWN OF ROACHDALE, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through:
Ord. 5-2019, passed 9-10-2019.
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Chapter
   
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10:  RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component codes, titles,
chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Roachdale Town
Code”, for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified ordinances” or
“code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02  INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03  APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04  CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   (1)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws,
amendments thereto, and newly enacted laws.
      (2)   Any previously existing law or amendment thereto reenacted by this
code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it had not been repealed by
this code. All rules and regulations adopted under laws reenacted in this code
shall remain in full force and effect unless repealed or amended subsequent to
the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or subsection.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning, application
or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05  RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. Technical  words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate  meaning
in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town Council.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council.
      COUNTY. Putnam County, Indiana.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON.
         (a)   Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver and bodies politic.
         (b)   Whenever used in any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty,
the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as applied to any unincorporated entity, shall
mean the partners or members thereof, and as applied to corporations, the
officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      TOWN. The Town of Roachdale, Indiana.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing or other modes of
representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06  SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
non-severability provision, each division or part of every section is
severable. If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the
invalidity does not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section or amendment stating that the provisions of a
chapter, subchapter or section are severable as provided in division (B) above
does not affect the operation of division (B) above with respect to that
chapter, subchapter or section.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07  REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08  REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or following the
effective date, the rights, powers, duties or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers, and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10  REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11  REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture or liability incurred under
the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture or
liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12  LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14  ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15  SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
§ 39.01  PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the city published in a prior year and subsequently amended, the
previous code section number shall be indicated in the history by “(Prior Code,
§     )”.
§ 10.16  PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   (A)   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date
of this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those
laws.
   (B)   This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code.
   (C)   The liabilities, proceedings and rights are continued; punishments,
penalties or forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not
been enacted.
   (D)   In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway
rights-of-way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment or vacation of any highway and the election of corporate officers
shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
Chapter
   
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
31.   TOWN COUNCIL
   
32.   TOWN OFFICIALS
   
33.   FINANCE
   
34.   ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
   
35.   TOWN POLICIES
CHAPTER 30:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Compensation of officers and employees
   
30.02   Registered Cities and Towns Program
   
30.03   Emergency Operations Plan
   
30.04   Town vehicles
§ 30.01  COMPENSATION OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   Officers and employees of the town shall be compensated at a rate as
established by Town Council ordinance from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 30.01)  (Ord. 5-2007, passed 11-13-2007)
§ 30.02  REGISTERED CITIES AND TOWNS PROGRAM.
   The town pledges its full support and cooperation to the Registered Cities
and Towns Program.
(Prior Code, § 30.02)  (Res. 1-1987, passed 3-11-1987)
§ 30.03  EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN.
   (A)   State law requires that each local or each interjurisdictional agency
shall prepare and keep current a local or interjurisdictional disaster
emergency plan for its area.
   (B)   The county has adopted and implemented the county’s Emergency
Operations Plan.
   (C)   The Emergency Operations Plan does include the town within the plan.
   (D)   It is hereby recognized by the Town Council that it is included in the
interjurisdictional plan and has previously signed off on the plan and pursuant
to the above referenced statute again reaffirms and acknowledges that it is
part of the Emergency Operations Plan.
(Prior Code, § 30.03)  (Ord. 4-2002, passed 5-14-2002)
§ 30.04  TOWN VEHICLES.
   (A)   The town, with regard to the town police vehicles, this section
reaffirms that the police vehicles of the town are purchased by the town for
and on behalf of the town and should be used within the town limits and should
not be used for personal business outside of the town limits.
   (B)   The Town Council fully recognizes that a dispatch by 911 or any other
form of official communication does require the town’s police vehicles to be
outside of the town limits and it is totally permissible and in fact required
of the Town Marshal as part of his or her duties.
   (C)   It is also recognized by the Town Council that from time to time the
police vehicle must be used to transport prisoners and/or conduct court
business or other official police business and for this purpose leaving the
town limits is not only permissible but required.
   (D)   The purpose of this section is to restrict the use of the town vehicle
for personal business and to restrict the use of the town vehicle outside the
town limits for any other business that is not related to official police
business.
   (E)   Unless it is official police business, no civilian not under the
employ of the town shall be in the police car at any time.
(Prior Code, § 30.04)  (Res. 2-2001, passed 4-10-2001)
CHAPTER 31:  TOWN COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
31.001   Term of office
   
31.002   Residency required
   
31.003   Powers and duties
   
31.004   President
   
31.005   Council members elected at large
Meetings; General Provisions
   
31.020   Open meetings
   
31.021   Executive sessions
   
31.022   Notice of meetings
   
31.023   Agenda
   
31.024   Record of meetings
   
31.025   Quorum
   
31.026   Clerk of Council; tie-breaking vote
Meetings; Rules of Procedure
   
31.040   Presiding officer
   
31.041   Quorum for conducting business
   
31.042   Absence of President
   
31.043   Duties of the President
   
31.044   Duties of Council members
   
31.045   Seconding of motions required
   
31.046   Withdrawal of motions
   
31.047   Division of questions
   
31.048   Record of motions
   
31.049   Vote
   
31.050   Precedence of motion
   
31.051   Undebatable motions and exceptions to order
   
31.052   Motion to adjourn
   
31.053   Motion to postpone indefinitely
   
31.054   Motion to amend
   
31.055   Amendments
   
31.056   Reconsideration
   
31.057   Visitors and petitioners
   
31.058   Reports, communications, petitions and the like
   
31.059   Adoption of Robert’s Rules of Order, revised
   
31.060   Temporary suspension of rules; amendment of rules
Ordinances and Resolutions
   
31.075   Majority vote; when required
   
31.076   Two-thirds’ vote; when required
   
31.077   Date of adoption; publication
   
31.078   Record of ordinances
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.001  TERM OF OFFICE.
   Except as otherwise provided in I.C. 36-5-2-3(b), (c), (d) or (e), the term
of office of a member of the Town Council is four years, beginning at 12:00
p.m. January 1 after the member’s election and continuing until the member’s
successor is elected and qualified.
(I.C. 36-5-2-3(a))  (Prior Code, § 31.001)
§ 31.002  RESIDENCY REQUIRED.
   (A)   A member of the Town Council must reside within:
      (1)   The town as provided in Indiana Constitution, Art. 6, § 6; and
      (2)   The district from which the member was elected, if applicable.
   (B)   A member of the Town Council who is elected by the voters of a
district forfeits office if the member ceases to be a resident of the district.
   (C)   A member of the Town Council who is elected by the voters of the
entire town, but is elected or selected as a candidate from a district forfeits
office if the member ceases to be a resident of the district.
   (D)   An at-large member of the Town Council forfeits office if the member
ceases to be a resident of the town.
(I.C. 36-5-2-6)  (Prior Code, § 31.002)
§ 31.003  POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Town Council may:
   (A)   Adopt ordinances and resolutions for the performance of functions of
the town;
   (B)   Purchase, hold and convey any interest in property for the use of the
town; and
   (C)   Adopt and use a common seal.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9)  (Prior Code, § 31.003)
§ 31.004  PRESIDENT.
   The Town Council shall select 1 of its members to be its President for a
definite term, which may not exceed his or her term of office as a member of
the Town Council.
(I.C. 36-5-2-7)  (Prior Code, § 31.004)
§ 31.005  COUNCIL MEMBERS ELECTED AT LARGE.
   (A)   It is hereby ordained by the Town Council that the town legislative
body districts are hereby abolished.
   (B)   All members of the legislative body, known now as the Town Council,
are to be elected at large.
(Prior Code, § 31.005)  (Ord. 9-1990, passed 8-8-1990)
MEETINGS; GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.020  OPEN MEETINGS.
   All meetings of the Town Council shall be held in accordance with state law
regarding open meetings, being I.C. 5-14-1.5.
(Prior Code, § 31.020)
§ 31.021  EXECUTIVE SESSIONS.
   (A)   As used in this section, PUBLIC OFFICIAL means a person:
      (1)   Who is a member of a governing body of a public agency; or
      (2)   Whose tenure and compensation are fixed by law and who executes an
oath.
   (B)   Executive sessions may be held only in the following instances:
      (1)   Where authorized by federal or state statute;
      (2)   For discussion of strategy with respect to any of the following:
         (a)   Collective bargaining;
         (b)   Initiation of litigation or litigation that is either pending or
has been threatened specifically in writing;
         (c)   The implementation of security systems; or
         (d)   The purchase or lease of real property by the Town Council up to
the time a contract or option to purchase or lease is executed by the parties.
However, all strategy discussions must be necessary for competitive or
bargaining reasons and may not include competitive or bargaining adversaries.
      (3)   For discussion of the assessment, design and implementation of
school safety and security measures, plans and systems; 
      (4)   Interviews with industrial or commercial prospects or agents of
industrial or commercial prospects by the Indiana Economic Development
Corporation, the Indiana Development Finance Authority, the Office of Tourism
Development, the Indiana Finance Authority or Economic Development Commissions;
      (5)   To receive information about and interview prospective employees;
      (6)   With respect to any individual over whom the Town Council has
jurisdiction:
         (a)   To receive information concerning the individual’s alleged
misconduct; and
         (b)   To discuss, before a determination, the individual’s status as
an employee, a student or an independent contractor who is a physician or a
school bus driver.
      (7)   For discussion of records classified as confidential by state or
federal statute;
      (8)   To discuss before a placement decision an individual student’s
abilities, past performance, behavior and needs;
      (9)   To discuss a job performance evaluation of individual employees.
This division (B)(9) does not apply to a discussion of the salary, compensation
or benefits of employees during a budget process;
      (10)   When considering the appointment of a public official, to do the
following:
         (a)   Develop a list of prospective appointees;
         (b)   Consider applications;
         (c)   Make one initial exclusion of prospective appointees from
further consideration; and
         (d)   Notwithstanding I.C. 5-14-3-4(b)(12), the Town Council may
release and shall make available for inspection and copying in accordance with
I.C. 5-14-3-3 identifying information concerning prospective appointees not
initially excluded from further consideration. An initial exclusion of
prospective appointees from further consideration may not reduce the number of
prospective appointees to fewer than three unless there are fewer than three
prospective appointees. Interviews of prospective appointees must be conducted
at a meeting that is open to the public.
      (11)   To train School Board members with an outside consultant about the
performance of the role of its members as public officials;
      (12)   To prepare or score examinations used in issuing licenses,
certificates, permits or registrations under I.C. 15-10-1-4 or I.C. Title 25;
and
      (13)   To discuss information and intelligence intended to prevent,
mitigate or respond to the threat of terrorism.
   (C)   A final action must be taken at a meeting open to the public.
   (D)   Public notice of executive sessions must state the subject matter by
specific reference to the enumerated instance or instances for which executive
sessions may be held under division (B) above. The requirements stated in §
31.024 of this chapter for memoranda and minutes being made available to the
public is modified as to executive sessions in that the memoranda and minutes
must identify the subject matter considered by specific reference to the
enumerated instance or instances for which public notice was given. The Town
Council shall certify by a statement in the memoranda and minutes of the Town
Council that no subject matter was discussed in the executive session other
than the subject matter specified in the public notice.
   (E)   The Town Council may not conduct an executive session during a
meeting, except as otherwise permitted by applicable statute. A meeting may not
be recessed and reconvened with the intent of circumventing this division (E).
(I.C. 5-14-1.5-6.1)  (Prior Code, § 31.021)
§ 31.022  NOTICE OF MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings of the Town Council shall be held at a time and place
established by the Town Council.
   (B)   Public notice of the date, time and place of any meetings, executive
sessions or of any rescheduled or reconvened meeting shall be given by the Town
Council by posting a copy of the notice at the principal office of the Town
Council or if no like office exists, at the building where the meeting is to be
held.
(Prior Code, § 31.022)
§ 31.023  AGENDA.
   (A)   The Town Council, when utilizing an agenda, shall post a copy of the
agenda at the entrance to the location of the meeting prior to the meeting. A
rule, regulation, ordinance or other final action adopted by reference to
agenda number or item alone is void.
(I.C. 5-14-1.5-4(a))
   (B)   The Town Council shall designate a person who shall prepare the agenda
for each meeting.
(Prior Code, § 31.023)
§ 31.024  RECORD OF MEETINGS.
   (A)   As the meeting progresses, the following memoranda shall be kept:
      (1)   The date, time and place of the meeting;
      (2)   The members of the Town Council recorded as either present or
absent;
      (3)   The general substance of all matters proposed, discussed or
decided;
      (4)   A record of all votes taken, by individual members if there is a
roll call; and
      (5)   Any additional information required under I.C. 5-14-1.5 et seq.
   (B)   The memoranda are to be available within a reasonable period of time
after the meeting for the purpose of informing the public of the Town Council’s
proceedings. The minutes, if any, are to be open for public inspection and
copying.
(I.C. 5-14-1.5-4(b) and (c))  (Prior Code, § 31.024)
§ 31.025  QUORUM.
   A majority of all the elected members of the Town Council constitutes a
quorum.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.2)  (Prior Code, § 31.025)
§ 31.026  CLERK OF COUNCIL; TIE-BREAKING VOTE.
   (A)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is the Clerk of the Town Council.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer is an ex-officio member for the purpose of casting
the deciding vote to break a tie.
(I.C. 36-5-2-8)  (Prior Code, § 31.026)
MEETINGS; RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 31.040  PRESIDING OFFICER.
   The Council President shall take the chair at the hour appointed, or to
which the Council shall have adjourned, and shall immediately call the members
to order; whereupon, the Clerk of Council shall proceed to call the roll of
members. If a quorum is present, the Clerk of Council shall so announce and the
Council shall proceed with the order of business.
(Prior Code, § 31.040)
§ 31.041  QUORUM FOR CONDUCTING BUSINESS.
   (A)   A quorum shall consist of a majority of the entire Council, including
the Council President. A quorum shall be necessary to transact the business of
the Town Council.
   (B)   If no quorum is present, the Council shall not thereby stand
adjourned, but the members present shall adjourn or recess the Council by a
majority vote.
(Prior Code, § 31.041)
§ 31.042  ABSENCE OF PRESIDENT.
   At any meeting of the Council where a majority shall be assembled, and if
the President is temporarily absent but within or near the community, the Clerk
of Council shall preside and call the roll, whereupon the Council shall elect a
temporary Chairperson from its membership. In the event that the absence of the
President shall be of a more permanent nature, a President Pro Tem shall be
elected.
(Prior Code, § 31.042)
§ 31.043  DUTIES OF THE PRESIDENT.
   (A)   The President shall serve as the Chair, shall preserve order and
decorum and may speak to points of order in preference to other members, and
shall decide all questions of order subject to appeal.
   (B)   If the President refuses to allow the Council members to exercise
their right to appeal a decision of the Chair, the Council members may consider
and pass upon the matter in spite of the Chair’s failure to grant them appeal.
   (C)   The President shall have the power to require the Council room to be
cleared, or to have any disorderly person or persons ejected, in case of any
disturbances or disorderly conduct which prevent the meeting from being
continued in an orderly manner.
   (D)   Nothing in this code shall preclude the President from making or
seconding a motion, or from voting on any matters coming before the Council.
(Prior Code, § 31.043)
§ 31.044  DUTIES OF COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   (A)   While the President is stating the motion, or deciding a point of
order, the members shall be seated and no member shall leave the Council room
during the session without permission from the presiding officer.
   (B)   Every member, prior to his or her speaking, making a motion or
seconding the same, shall address the presiding officer and shall not proceed
with his or her remarks until recognized and named by the Chair.
   (C)   A member so recognized by the Chair shall confine himself or herself
to the question under debate.
   (D)   No member shall speak more than once on the same question, except by
permission of the Chair, and then not until every other member desiring to
speak shall have had an opportunity to do so.
   (E)   No member shall speak longer than five minutes at any one time, except
by consent of the Chair.
   (F)   While a member is speaking, no member shall hold any private
discussion, nor pass between the speaker and the Chair.
   (G)   A member, when called to order by the Chair, shall thereupon
discontinue speaking. The order or ruling of the Chair shall be binding and
conclusive, subject only to the right to appeal.
   (H)   Any member may appeal to the Council from a ruling of the Chair and,
if the appeal is seconded, the member making the appeal may briefly state his
or her reason for the same, and the Chair may briefly explain his or her
ruling; but there shall be no debate on the appeal and no other member shall
participate in the discussion. The Chair shall then put the question, “Shall
the decision of the Chair be overruled?” Otherwise, it shall be sustained.
   (I)   The right of a member to address the Council on a question of personal
privilege shall be limited to cases in which his or her integrity, character or
motives are assailed, questioned or impugned.
(Prior Code, § 31.044)
§ 31.045  SECONDING OF MOTIONS REQUIRED.
   (A)   No motion shall be put or debated in the Council or in committee
unless it be seconded.
   (B)   When a motion is seconded, it shall be stated by the presiding officer
before debate.
(Prior Code, § 31.045)
§ 31.046  WITHDRAWAL OF MOTIONS.
   After a resolution or a motion is stated by the President, it shall be
deemed to be in the possession of the Council, but it may be withdrawn by the
maker thereof with or without the consent of the Council member seconding the
motion prior to the call for the vote by the President.
(Prior Code, § 31.046)
§ 31.047  DIVISION OF QUESTIONS.
   If any question under consideration contains several distinct propositions,
the Council, by a majority vote of the members present, may divide the
questions.
(Prior Code, § 31.047)
§ 31.048  RECORD OF MOTIONS.
   In all cases where a resolution or motion is entered in the journal, the
names of the members moving and seconding the same shall be entered.
(Prior Code, § 31.048)
§ 31.049  VOTE.
   (A)   The ayes and nays shall be taken upon the passage of all ordinances
and on all propositions to create any liability against the town, or for the
expenditure or appropriation of its money, and upon any question and in all
other cases at the request of any member of the Council. When the Clerk of
Council has commenced to call the roll of the Council for the taking of a vote
by “Ayes” and “Nays”, all debate on the question before the Council shall be
deemed concluded, and during the taking of the vote a member shall be permitted
to briefly explain his or her vote and shall respond to the calling of his or
her name by the Clerk of Council by answering “Aye” or “Nay”, as the case may
be.
   (B)   The names of each member of the Council shall be listed on the
official copy of every ordinance passed indicating specifically the names of
those voting “Aye” and those voting “Nay”.
   (C)   An abstention is neither an affirmative vote nor a negative vote.
Regardless of the number of abstentions, and except as otherwise provided by
law, an affirmative vote of the majority of the Council members is required to
pass a motion, ordinance, resolution or other action of the Town Council.
   (D)   The President shall announce the result of the Council’s vote and the
votes shall be entered in the journal of the proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 31.049)
§ 31.050  PRECEDENCE OF MOTION.
   When a question is before the Council, no motion shall be received, except
as specified in this section, and which shall have precedence in the following
order:
   (A)   To fix the time to which to adjourn;
   (B)   To adjourn;
   (C)   To take a recess;
   (D)   To raise a question of privilege;
   (E)   To call for the orders of the day;
   (F)   To lay on the table;
   (G)   To call for the previous question;
   (H)   To postpone to a certain time;
   (I)   To refer to committee;
   (J)   To amend;
   (K)   To postpone indefinitely; and
   (L)   To the main motion.
(Prior Code, § 31.050)
§ 31.051  UNDEBATABLE MOTIONS AND EXCEPTIONS TO ORDER.
   The motion to adjourn or to lay on the table shall be decided without
debate, and the motion to fix the time to which to adjourn and the motion to
adjourn shall always be in order, except:
   (A)   When a member is in possession of the floor;
   (B)   When the roll call votes are being called;
   (C)   While the members are voting;
   (D)   When adjournment was the last preceding motion; or
   (E)   When it has been decided that the previous question shall be taken.
(Prior Code, § 31.051)
§ 31.052  MOTION TO ADJOURN.
   A motion to adjourn cannot be amended; but a motion to adjourn to a given
day or time shall be open to amendment and debate.
(Prior Code, § 31.052)
§ 31.053  MOTION TO POSTPONE INDEFINITELY.
   When a question is postponed indefinitely, it shall not be taken up again
before the next regular meeting.
(Prior Code, § 31.053)
§ 31.054  MOTION TO AMEND.
   A motion to amend an amendment shall be in order, but a motion to amend an
amendment to an amendment shall not be entertained.
(Prior Code, § 31.054)
§ 31.055  AMENDMENTS.
   Only one amendment at a time may be offered to any question before the
Council. The vote shall first be taken on the amendment and, if the amendment
passes, then further amendments may be proposed. Finally, a vote shall be taken
on the principal motion as finally amended.
(Prior Code, § 31.055)
§ 31.056  RECONSIDERATION.
   (A)   (1)   A vote or question may be reconsidered at any time during the
same meeting, or at the first regular meeting held thereafter. A motion for
reconsideration, once having been made and decided in the negative, shall not
be renewed. A matter once having been decided and a motion to reconsider the
matter having been defeated, it may nonetheless come before the Council at a
future time by way of a motion to rescind or as a new motion. If the Chair
determines that new facts are to be presented to the Council, or that there is
a likelihood that the Council will reverse its previous decision, the Chair
shall rule the motion in order.
      (2)   If a motion is continuously brought before the Council and
rejected, the Chair may rule its reintroduction under a motion to rescind or as
a new motion to be out of order.
   (B)   No motion to reconsider the approval or denial of the recommendation
of an advisory body required to hold public hearings shall be entertained,
except at the same meeting at which the original action was taken or after the
matter has been referred to the advisory body for a further hearing and
recommendation.
   (C)   A motion to reconsider must be made and seconded by members who voted
on the prevailing side of the question to be reconsidered, unless otherwise
provided by law; provided, however, that where a motion has received a majority
vote in the affirmative, but is declared lost solely on the ground that a
greater number of affirmative votes is required by statute for the passage or
adoption of the motion, then in that case a motion to reconsider may be made
and seconded only by those who voted in the affirmative on the question to be
reconsidered, so long as the issue presented is the same, no new information is
forthcoming and the rights of third parties have not intervened.
(Prior Code, § 31.056)
§ 31.057  VISITORS AND PETITIONERS.
   Except during the time allotted for public discussion and comments, no
person other than a member of the Council shall address that body, except with
the consent of a majority of the members present.
(Prior Code, § 31.057)
§ 31.058  REPORTS, COMMUNICATIONS, PETITIONS AND THE LIKE.
   All communications, reports, petitions or any other papers addressed to the
Council shall be made available to the Clerk of Council prior to the meeting.
The Clerk of Council shall endeavor to distribute copies or read the material
to the members of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 31.058)
§ 31.059  ADOPTION OF ROBERT’S RULES OF ORDER, REVISED.
   The rules of parliamentary practice comprised in the latest published
edition of Robert’s Rules of Order, revised, shall govern the Council in all
cases to which they are applicable and in which they are not inconsistent with
the ordinances of the town, including these rules or the statutes of the state.
(Prior Code, § 31.059)
§ 31.060  TEMPORARY SUSPENSION OF RULES; AMENDMENT OF RULES.
   The rules of the Council may be temporarily suspended, altered or amended,
by concurrence of a majority vote of all the Council members then in office.
(Prior Code, § 31.060)
ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS
§ 31.075  MAJORITY VOTE; WHEN REQUIRED.
   (A)   A requirement that an ordinance, resolution or other action of the
Town Council be passed by a majority vote means at least a majority vote of all
the elected members.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.4(a))
   (B)   A majority vote of the Town Council is required to pass an ordinance
unless a greater vote is required by statute.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.6)  (Prior Code, § 31.080)
§ 31.076  TWO-THIRDS’ VOTE; WHEN REQUIRED.
   (A)   A requirement that an ordinance, resolution or other action of the
Town Council be passed by a two-thirds’ vote means at least a two-thirds’ vote
of all the elected members.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.4(b))
   (B)   A two-thirds’ vote of all the elected members, after unanimous consent
of the members present to consider the ordinance, is required to pass an
ordinance of the Town Council on the same day or at the same meeting at which
it is introduced.
   (C)   Division (B) above does not apply to the following:
      (1)   A zoning ordinance or an amendment to a zoning ordinance adopted
under I.C. 36-7; or
      (2)   An ordinance to increase the number of Town Council members adopted
under I.C. 36-5-2-4.2, unless the ordinance also establishes new legislative
body districts.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.8)  (Prior Code, § 31.081)
§ 31.077  DATE OF ADOPTION; PUBLICATION.
   (A)   An ordinance, order or resolution passed by the Town Council is
considered adopted when it is signed by the President of Council. If required
by statute, an adopted ordinance, order or resolution must be promulgated or
published before it takes effect.
   (B)   An ordinance prescribing a penalty for a violation must, before it
takes effect, be published in the manner prescribed by I.C. 5-3-1 unless:
      (1)   It is published under I.C. 36-1-5; or
      (2)   It declares an emergency requiring its immediate effectiveness and
is posted in:
         (a)   One public place in each district in the town; or
         (b)   A number of public places in the town equal to the number of
Town Council members, if the town has abolished legislative body districts
under I.C. 36-5-2-4.1.
   (C)   This section does not apply to a zoning ordinance or amendment to a
zoning ordinance, or a resolution approving a comprehensive plan, that is
adopted under I.C. 36-7.
   (D)   An ordinance increasing a building permit fee on new development must:
      (1)   Be published 1 time in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1, and not later
than 30 days after the ordinance is adopted by the Town Council in accordance
with I.C. 5-3-1; and
      (2)   Delay the implementation of the fee increase for 90 days after the
date the ordinance is published under division (D)(1) above.
(I.C. 36-5-2-10)  (Prior Code, § 31.082)
§ 31.078  RECORD OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Within a reasonable time after an ordinance of the Town Council is
adopted, the Clerk-Treasurer shall record it in a book kept for that purpose.
The record must include:
      (1)   The signature of the President of Council;
      (2)   The attestation of the Clerk-Treasurer; and
      (3)   The date of each recorded item.
   (B)   The record or a certified copy of it constitutes presumptive evidence
of the adoption of the ordinance.
(I.C. 36-5-2-10.2)  (Prior Code, § 31.083)
CHAPTER 32:  TOWN OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Plan Commission
   
32.02   Reserve police officers
   
32.03   Hiring of relatives
   
32.04   Park Advisory Board
   
32.05   Department of Redevelopment; Redevelopment Commission
   
32.06   Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals
   
32.07   Promotional expenses
   
32.08   Personnel policies
   
32.09   Pre-approved payment of certain claims
Clerk-Treasurer
   
32.20   Residency requirement
   
32.21   Election; term of office
   
32.22   Powers and duties
   
32.23   Deputies and employees
   
32.24   Office space
   
32.25   Bills; authority to pay
Town Marshal
   
32.40   Appointment; compensation
   
32.41   Removal from office; discipline
   
32.42   Powers and duties
   
32.43   Gun permit applications; authority to charge
   
32.44   Service as Street Commissioner and Fire Chief
   
32.45   Deputy Marshals; Humane Officer
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01  PLAN COMMISSION.
   (A)   Commission created. Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-202(a), there is hereby
created a municipal Advisory Plan Commission, to be legally known as the
“Roachdale Plan Commission”, with all the powers and duties set forth in I.C.
36-7-4 and state law generally for municipal advisory plan commissions. This
specifically includes, therefore, the powers and duties set forth in I.C. 36-7-
4-401 et seq.
      (1)   The Commission shall consist of seven members to be appointed
pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-207(b) as follows.
         (a)   The Town Council shall appoint three members who must be elected
or appointed municipal officials or employees in the municipal government.
         (b)   The President of the Town Council shall appoint four citizen
members, no more than two of whom may be affiliated with the same political
party. Per I.C. 36-7-4-216, each citizen member shall be appointed because of
the member’s knowledge and experience in community affairs, the member’s
awareness of the social, economic, agricultural and industrial problems of the
area, and the member’s interest in the development and integration of the area.
A citizen member may not hold other elective or appointive office in municipal,
county or state government, except in the case of an area plan commission
membership on the school board, the park board, or the board of directors for
public utilities or board of trustees for utilities created under I.C. 8-1-
11.1. A citizen member must be a resident of the jurisdictional area of the
Commission. Two citizen members shall initially be appointed for a term of
three years and two shall initially be appointed for a term of four years.
         (c)   In addition, there may be additional voting and advisory members
of the Commission appointed by other entities, such as the Park Board, as
required by law.
         (d)   These appointments shall be certified as required by I.C. 36-7-
4-212.
         (e)   As a term expires, each new appointment shall be for a four-year
term, but a member shall continue in office until her or his successor is duly
appointed and qualified.
         (f)   If an appointment for any new term is not made by the first
Monday in January, the incumbent member shall continue to serve for the
remaining full term.
         (g)   If a vacancy occurs on the Commission, the appropriate entity
shall appoint a member to serve for the remainder of the unexpired term.
      (2)   The appointing authority may remove a member from the Plan
Commission for cause. The appointing authority must mail notice of the removal,
along with written reasons for the removal, to the member at his or her
residence address. A member who is removed may, within 30 days after receiving
notice of the removal, appeal the removal to the Circuit or Superior Court of
the county. The court may, pending the outcome of the appeal, order the removal
or stay the removal of the member.
      (3)   The Commission shall be organized and operate as required by I.C.
36-4-7-300 et seq.
   (B)   Initial Commission duties. As required by I.C. 36-7-4-205 et seq., the
Commission shall:
      (1)   Adopt a comprehensive plan for the town;
      (2)   Establish and record its jurisdictional boundaries;
      (3)   Make all required notifications to other entities, such as the
County Plan Commission;
      (4)   Organize and elect officers; and
      (5)   Take all other actions required by law of a plan commission.
(Prior Code, § 30.05)  (Ord. 2-1995, passed 5-10-1995; Ord. 2-1995, passed 1-
16-1996; Ord. 5-2015, passed 6-15-2015)
§ 32.02  RESERVE POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   Pursuant to state law, there is hereby established a force of reserve
police officers for the town.
   (B)   The Town Council, on recommendation of the Town Marshal may appoint up
to four reserve police officers to serve in the town.
   (C)   The reserve police officers shall abide by the rules established by
the Town Council and/or Town Marshal; their police powers shall be limited to
the times they are on assigned duty.
   (D)   Police reserves shall be directed by the Town Marshal and shall be
assigned duty time as the needs of the town may require.
(Prior Code, § 30.06)  (Ord. passed 7-7-1981)
§ 32.03  HIRING OF RELATIVES.
   (A)   The Town Council will never hire relatives of the Superintendent,
maintenance employees, Town Marshal, Town Council or the Clerk-Treasurer to
work for the town.
   (B)   This section will be recorded in the town’s minute book and kept in
the town files.
(Prior Code, § 30.07)  (Res. passed 11-4-1980)
§ 32.04  PARK ADVISORY BOARD.
   There is hereby created a Park Advisory Board to advise the Council
concerning the town park and municipal recreation matters generally, structured
as set forth below.
   (A)   The Board shall consist of four members to be appointed by the Town
Council.
   (B)   Board members shall serve for one-year terms, starting January 1 and
ending December 31. A member shall continue in office until her or his
successor is duly appointed. If a new appointment is not made by the second
Tuesday in March, the incumbent member shall continue to serve for his or her
remaining full term. If a vacancy occurs on the Board, the Council shall
appoint a member to serve for the remainder of the unexpired term. Members of
the Board may be removed by the Council at any time without cause by majority
vote of the Council.
   (C)   All meetings of the Board shall be open to the public. The Board shall
fix the time and place of its regular meetings. Special meetings of the Board
may be called by the President or by any two members by written request to the
Secretary. The Secretary shall send to each member, at least two days before a
special meeting, written notice fixing the time, place and purpose of the
meeting. Written notice of a special meeting is not required if the time of the
special meeting is fixed at a regular meeting, or if all members are present at
the special meeting. E-mail to a member’s e-mail address of record constitutes
written notice.
   (D)   At its first regular meeting each year, the Board shall elect a
President and a Vice President. The Vice President may act as president during
the absence or disability of the President. The Board may select a Secretary,
either from within or outside its membership.
   (E)   A majority of the members constitutes a quorum. Action of the Board is
not official unless it is authorized by at least three members present and
acting.
   (F)   Meetings of the Board shall be conducted at the Town Hall or such
other location as the Board shall designate.
   (G)   The Board is expressly advisory in nature and is not intended to have
any duties and powers of a town park board as set forth in state law, including
I.C. 36-10-3-10 et seq.
(Ord. 4-2014, passed 7-8-2014)
§ 32.05  DEPARTMENT OF REDEVELOPMENT; REDEVELOPMENT COMMISSION.
   (A)   Commission Created. Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-14-3, there is hereby
created a town department of redevelopment controlled by a redevelopment
commission, to be known as the “Roachdale Redevelopment Commission”, with all
the powers and duties set forth in I.C. 36-7-14 and state law generally for
municipal redevelopment commissions. This specifically includes, therefore, the
powers set forth in I.C. 36-7-14-11 and 36-7-14.2.
      (1)   The Commission shall consist of five members to be appointed
pursuant to I.C. 36-7-14-6.1 as follows.
         (a)   The Town Council shall appoint two members.
         (b)   The President of the Town Council shall appoint three members,
plus a non-voting school board advisory member as required by I.C. 36-7-14-6.1
(d).
         (c)   Each member shall serve for a one-year term, starting January 1
after her or his appointment, but a member shall continue in office until her
or his successor is duly appointed and qualified.
      (2)   The appointing authority may remove a member from the Commission at
any time, with or without cause or advance notice.
      (3)   The Commission shall be organized and operate as required by I.C.
36-7-14.
     (B)   Initial Commission duties. As required by I.C. 36-7-14-8 et seq.,
the Commission shall:
      (1)   Organize and elect officers; and
      (2)   Take all other actions required by law of a redevelopment
commission.
(Ord. 6-2015, passed - -2015)
§ 32.06  ADVISORY BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-902, there is hereby created a municipal Advisory
Board of Zoning Appeals, to be legally known as the “Roachdale Advisory Board
of Zoning Appeals” with all the powers and duties set forth in LC. 36-7-4 and
state law generally for municipal advisory boards of zoning appeals. This
specifically includes, therefore, the powers and duties set forth in I.C. 36-7-
4-900 et seq.
   (A)   The Board shall consist of five members to be appointed pursuant to
I.C. 36-4-7-902(a) as follows.
      (1)   The Town Council, as the fiscal body of the town, shall appoint one
member who must not be a member of the Plan Commission.
      (2)   The President of the Town Council, as the town executive, shall
appoint three citizen members, one of whom must be a member of the Plan
Commission and two of whom cannot be members of the Plan Commission.
      (3)   The Plan Commission shall appoint one member from the Commission’s
membership, who must be either a county agricultural agent or a citizen member
of the Commission other than a person appointed by the President of the Council
pursuant to division (A)(2) above.
      (4)   A Board member may not hold other elective or appointive office in
municipal, county or state government, except as permitted or required by I.C.
36-7-4-902.
      (5)   A member must be a resident of the jurisdictional area of the Board
or otherwise be eligible pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-905.
      (6)   Initial appointments shall be staggered at one year intervals per
I.C. 36-7-4-906, and as an initial term expires, each appointment shall be for
a four-year term, but a member shall continue in office until her or his
successor is duly appointed and qualified.
      (7)   If an appointment for any new term is not made by the first Monday
in January, the incumbent member shall continue to serve for the remaining full
term.
      (8)   If a vacancy occurs on the Board, the appropriate entity shall
appoint a member to serve for the remainder of the unexpired term.
   (B)   The appointing authority may remove a member from the Board for cause.
The appointing authority must mail notice of the removal, along with written
reasons for the removal, to the member at his or her residence address. A
member who is removed may, within 30 days after receiving notice of the
removal, appeal the removal to the Circuit or Superior Court of the county.
   (C)   The Board shall be organized and operate as required by I.C. 36-7-4-
900 et seq.
(Ord. 1-2016, passed 1-12-2016)
§ 32.07  PROMOTIONAL EXPENSES.
   (A)   Approved expenses include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Rental of meeting places;
      (2)   Meals, including:
         (a)   Holiday meals for employees and retirees; and
         (b)   Retirement meals for employees.
      (3)   Decorations;
      (4)   Memorabilia;
      (5)   Commemorative objects;
      (6)   Awards;
      (7)   Promoting industrial, commercial and residential development and
tourism;
      (8)   Developing relationships with and assisting other governmental
units;
      (9)   Municipal sports programs;
      (10)   Membership dues and assessments;
      (11)   Conference registrations;
      (12)   Assistance in local, regional, state and national associations of
a civic, educational or governmental nature which have as their purpose the
betterment and improvement of municipal operations;
      (13)   Travel, parking, meals and/or lodging in conjunction with town
business or meetings or organizations to which the town belongs; and/or
      (14)   Other expenses of a civic or governmental nature deemed by the
Town Council to be in the interest of the town.
   (B)   The promotional expenditures as described above are hereby authorized
for budgeting and appropriation from the Town General Fund, under specific
named appropriations or under the promotional appropriation, and for payment by
the town upon proper presentation to the Clerk-Treasurer and Council as for any
other lawful claim.
(Ord. 9-2018, passed 8-14-2018)
§ 32.08  PERSONNEL POLICIES.
   The town’s personnel policies, including drug/alcohol policies and the
employee handbook, are hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein as
if set out in full.
(Ord. 2-2016, passed 3-8-2016; Ord. 7-2016, passed 5-10-2016; Ord. 8-2016,
passed - -2016)
§ 32.09  PRE-APPROVED PAYMENT OF CERTAIN CLAIMS.
   (A)   No claim against the town shall be paid unless the claim complies with
I.C. 36-5-4-4, 36-5-4-6, 36-11-10 and any other applicable law.
   (B)   However, pursuant to I.C. 36-5-4-12, certain claims may be paid by the
town’s Fiscal Officer prior to the review and allowance of those claims by the
Town Council; provided that, the Council approves those claims at its next
regular meeting. The types of expenses eligible for pre-approved payment are
those listed in I.C. 36-5-4-12(b). The town’s Fiscal Officer is authorized by
this ordinance to pay any and all of those claims listed in I.C. 36-5-4-12(b),
and as same may be amended from time to time in the future, prior to allowance
of those claims by the Town Council.
   (C)   Pursuant to the authority given to the Council by I.C. 36-5-4-12(b)
(13), the town’s Fiscal Officer is also authorized by this section to pay any
and all claims incurred by the town in the usual course of its business, in the
event that a quorum of the Town Council is not present at a regular meeting to
authorize payment of those claims; provided that, the Council must approve same
at its next regular meeting, pursuant to statute.
(Ord. 3-2012, passed 4-10-2012)
CLERK-TREASURER
§ 32.20  RESIDENCY REQUIREMENT.
   The Clerk-Treasurer must reside within the town as provided in Indiana
Constitution Art. 6, § 6. The Clerk-Treasurer forfeits office if the Clerk-
Treasurer ceases to be a resident of the town.
(I.C. 36-5-6-3(a))  (Prior Code, § 32.01)
§ 32.21  ELECTION; TERM OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Election. The Clerk-Treasurer shall be elected under I.C. 3-10-6 or 3-
10-7 by the voters of the whole town.
(I.C. 36-5-6-4)
   (B)   Term of office. Except as provided in I.C. 36-5-6-3(c) or (d), the
term of office of the Clerk-Treasurer is four years, beginning at 12:00 p.m. on
January 1 after election and continuing until a successor is elected and
qualified.
(I.C. 36-5-6-3(b))  (Prior Code, § 32.02)
§ 32.22  POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer is both the Town Clerk and the Town Fiscal
Officer.
(I.C. 36-5-6-2)
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer may administer oaths, take depositions and take
acknowledgments of instruments required by statute to be acknowledged.
(I.C. 36-5-6-5)
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall do the following:
      (1)   Receive and care for all town money and pay the money out only on
order of the Town Council;
      (2)   Keep accounts showing when and from what sources the Clerk-
Treasurer has received town money, and when and to whom the Clerk-Treasurer has
paid out town money;
      (3)   Prescribe payroll and account forms for all town offices;
      (4)   Prescribe the manner in which creditors, officers and employees
shall be paid;
      (5)   Manage the finances and accounts of the town and make investments
of town money;
      (6)   Prepare for the Town Council the budget estimates of miscellaneous
revenue, financial statements and the proposed tax rate;
      (7)   Maintain custody of the town seal and the records of the Town
Council;
      (8)   Issue all licenses authorized by statute and collect the fees fixed
by ordinance;
      (9)   Serve as Clerk of the Town Council by attending its meetings and
recording its proceedings;
      (10)   Administer oaths, take depositions and take acknowledgment of
instruments that are required by statute to be acknowledged, without charging a
fee;
      (11)   Serve as Clerk of the Town Court under I.C. 33-35-3-2, if the
judge of the court does not serve as Clerk of the court or appoint a Clerk of
the court under I.C. 33-35-3-1; and
      (12)   Perform all other duties prescribed by statute.
(I.C. 36-5-6-6)  (Prior Code, § 32.03)
§ 32.23  DEPUTIES AND EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall appoint the number of deputies and employees
needed for the effective operation of the office, with the approval of the Town
Council. The Clerk-Treasurer’s deputies and employees serve at the Clerk-
Treasurer’s pleasure.
   (B)   If the town owns a utility and the Clerk-Treasurer is directly
responsible for the billing and collection of that utility’s rates and charges,
the Clerk-Treasurer shall appoint those employees who are also responsible for
that billing and collection. These employees serve at the Clerk-Treasurer’s
pleasure.
(I.C. 36-5-6-7)
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer may hire or contract with competent attorneys or
legal research assistants on terms the Clerk-Treasurer considers appropriate.
Appropriations for the salaries of attorneys and legal research assistants
employed under this division (C) shall be approved in the annual budget and
must be allocated to the Clerk-Treasurer for the payment of attorneys’ and
legal research assistants’ salaries.
(I.C. 36-5-6-8)  (Prior Code, § 32.04)
§ 32.24  OFFICE SPACE.
   If office space exists in a building owned or leased by the town, the Town
Council shall provide suitable office space for the Clerk-Treasurer and staff
and records of the Clerk-Treasurer.
(I.C. 36-5-6-5.1)  (Prior Code, § 32.05)
§ 32.25  BILLS; AUTHORITY TO PAY.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer of the town is hereby authorized pursuant to this
section to pay all bills incurred in the ordinary course of the town’s
business, between the time period fixed for Council meetings, including
payroll, payroll taxes, unemployment taxes, gross income taxes and all other
bills necessary to be paid prior to the next regularly scheduled monthly
Council meeting.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer of the town is hereby authorized to pay any bill
which would result in a late penalty if the same remained unpaid until the next
regularly scheduled Council meeting.
   (C)   It shall be the policy of the Clerk-Treasurer to contact one Council
member if necessary by telephone for the purpose of paying any bill which may
require payment prior to the next regularly scheduled Council meeting, and upon
approval by a Council member by telephone the bill may be paid under this
section.
(Prior Code, § 32.06)  (Ord. 2-1988, passed 4-13-1988)
TOWN MARSHAL
§ 32.40  APPOINTMENT; COMPENSATION.
   The Town Council shall appoint the Town Marshal and shall fix his or her
compensation.
(I.C. 36-5-7-2)  (Prior Code, § 32.20)
§ 32.41  REMOVAL FROM OFFICE; DISCIPLINE.
   The Town Marshal serves at the pleasure of the Town Council. However, before
terminating or suspending a Town Marshal who has been employed by the town for
more than six months after completing the minimum basic training requirements
adopted by the Law Enforcement Training Board under I.C. 5-2-1-9, the Town
Council must conduct the disciplinary removal and appeals procedures prescribed
by I.C. 36-8 for the Fire and Police Departments.
(I.C. 36-5-7-3)  (Prior Code, § 32.21)
§ 32.42  POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Town Marshal is the chief police officer of the town and has the
powers of other law enforcement officers in executing the orders of the Town
Council and enforcing laws.
   (B)   The Town Marshal or his or her deputy:
      (1)   Shall serve all process directed to him or her by the Town Court or
Town Council;
      (2)   Shall arrest without process all persons who commit an offense
within his or her view, take them before a court having jurisdiction and detain
them in custody until the cause of the arrest has been investigated;
      (3)   Shall suppress breaches of the peace;
      (4)   May, if necessary, call the power of the town to his or her aid;
      (5)   May execute search warrants and arrest warrants; and
      (6)   May pursue and jail persons who commit an offense.
(I.C. 36-5-7-4)  (Prior Code, § 32.22)
§ 32.43  GUN PERMIT APPLICATIONS; AUTHORITY TO CHARGE.
   The Town Council authorizes the Town Marshal to charge $10 for gun permit
applications, and $2 to $5 for all other reports done by him or her on behalf
of the town, moneys to be deposited into the town Police/Gun Permit Fund for
use in purchasing needed equipment and/or supplies for the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 32.23)  (Res. 1-1990, passed 9-12-1990)
§ 32.44  SERVICE AS STREET COMMISSIONER AND FIRE CHIEF.
   The Town Council may require the Town Marshal to serve as the Street
Commissioner, Chief of the Fire Department or both.
(I.C. 36-5-7-5)  (Prior Code, § 32.24)
§ 32.45  DEPUTY MARSHALS; HUMANE OFFICER.
   (A)   (1)   The position of Deputy Marshal is hereby established for the
town.
      (2)   The Town Council may employ no more than two Deputy Marshals for
the town.
      (3)   The cumulative hours served by the Deputy Marshal(s) shall not
exceed 20 hours per week. The Deputy Marshal(s) shall serve at the discretion
of the Council.
      (4)   The Town Council may employ no more than two Reserve Marshals for
the town. The Reserve Marshal(s) shall serve at the discretion of the Council.
      (5)   (a)   Deputy  Marshal(s). The Deputy Marshal(s) shall be
compensated at an hourly rate set by the Town Council at the time of hiring and
as adjusted from time to time by the Town Council.
         (b)   Reserve Marshal(s). The Reserve Marshal(s) shall be compensated
as designated by the Town Council in accordance with the provision of I.C. 36-
8-3-20.
         (c)   Compensation. Compensation may include:
            1.   Uniform allowance;
            2.   Compensation for lost time from other employment because of
court appearances; and
            3.   Insurance for life, accident and sickness coverage.
      (6)   All persons serving in the position of Deputy Marshal or Reserve
Marshal shall complete all requisite state and local law enforcement training
which may be required by the state legislature from time to time. Failure to
complete training shall constitute grounds for immediate dismissal by the Town
Council.
   (B)   One Deputy Marshal may be designated as the Town Humane Officer. He or
she has the duties prescribed by I.C. 36-8 for municipal humane officers.
(Prior Code, § 32.25)  (Ord. 5-1999, passed 7-13-1999)
CHAPTER 33:  FINANCE
Section
Generally
   
33.01   Rainy Day Fund
   
33.02   Cumulative Capital Development Fund
   
33.03   Safe Summer Event Kick Off Fund
   
33.04   Special LOIT Distribution Fund #257
   
33.05   Economic Development Income Tax Plan
Disbursement of Funds
   
33.20   Appropriation required
   
33.21   Issue of warrants
   
33.22   Allowance of claims
   
33.23   Warrants for payment of claims
   
33.24   Payment of compensation to officer or employee prior to vacation leave
   
33.25   Transfer of funds
Budgets
   
33.40   Preparation of annual budget estimates
   
33.41   Preparation and approval of ordinance fixing tax rate; making annual
appropriations
   
33.42   Increase or decrease of appropriations after approval of ordinance
GENERALLY
§ 33.01  RAINY DAY FUND.
   (A)   Creation of a rainy day fund. There is hereby established a Rainy Day
Fund to receive transfers of unused and unencumbered moneys whenever the
purposes of a tax levy have been fulfilled and an unused and unencumbered
balance remains.
   (B)   Purposes of the fund. The funds on deposit in the Rainy Day Fund may
be used for the operation of the municipality and its various departments when
the town does not have sufficient levies or funds to pay costs, including, but
not limited to, salaries and wages, costs and services, supplies, equipment,
capital improvements, repairs and similar expenditures.
   (C)   Transfer to fund. On or before December 31 for each year, the Town
Council shall determine the amount, if any, of any unused and unencumbered
funds available to be transferred to the Rainy Day Fund, which transfer may not
exceed more than 10% of the town’s total budget for that fiscal year.
   (D)   Appropriations. The Town Council may authorize the expenditure of
funds from the Rainy Day Fund by appropriations made in the same manner as
other funds are appropriated that receive tax moneys, upon making a finding
that the proposed use of the funds is consistent with the intent of the fund.
(Prior Code, § 33.01)  (Ord. 2004-1, passed 4-13-2004)
§ 33.02  CUMULATIVE CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby re-established the Cumulative Capital Development Fund
(“the CCD Fund”) within the town.
   (B)   The purposes of the CCD Fund are each and every approved purpose set
forth in I.C. 36-9-15.5, as it may be amended from time to time, and the town
shall adhere to all the provisions of I.C. 36-9-15.5 with respect to
expenditures from the CCD Fund. Therefore, pursuant to said statute, moneys
from the CCD Fund may be used for one or more of the following statutory
purposes:
      (1)   I.C. 8-16-3 (allows for certain bridge capital expenditures);
      (2)   I.C. 8-22-3-25 (allows for certain airport capital expenditures);
      (3)   I.C. 14-27-6-48 (concerns levees in Vanderburgh County);
      (4)   I.C. 14-33-14 (concerns conservancy district channel improvements,
levees and water retarding or impoundment structures);
      (5)   I.C. 16-23-1-40 (concerns city-owned hospitals);
      (6)   I.C. 36-8-14 (allows for certain fire and police capital
expenditures);
      (7)   I.C. 36-9-4-48 (concerns public mass transportation);
      (8)   I.C. 36-9-16-2 (which allows for the following expenditures:
         (a)   To purchase, construct, equip, and maintain buildings for public
purposes;
         (b)   To acquire the land, and any improvements on it, that are
necessary for the construction of public buildings;
         (c)   To demolish any improvements on land acquired under this
section, and to level, grade and prepare the land for the construction of a
public building;
         (d)   To acquire land or rights-of-way to be used as a public way or
other means of ingress or egress to land acquired for the construction of a
public building; and
         (e)   To improve or construct any public way or other means of ingress
or egress to land acquired for the construction of a public building.)
      (9)   I.C. 36-9-16-3 (which allows for the following expenditures:
         (a)   To acquire land or rights-of-way to be used for public ways or
sidewalks;
         (b)   To construct and maintain public ways or sidewalks;
         (c)   To acquire land or rights-of-way for the construction of
sanitary or storm sewers, or both;
         (d)   To construct and maintain sanitary or storm sewers, or both;
         (e)   To acquire, by purchase or lease, or to pay all or part of the
purchase price of a utility;
         (f)   To purchase or lease land, buildings or rights-of-way for the
use of any utility that is acquired or operated by the unit;
         (g)   To purchase or acquire land, with or without buildings, for park
or recreation purposes;
         (h)   To purchase, lease or pay all or part of the purchase price of
motor vehicles for the use of the Police or Fire Departments, or both,
including ambulances and firefighting vehicles with the necessary equipment,
ladders and hoses;
         (i)   To retire in whole or in part any general obligation bonds of
the unit that were issued for the purpose of acquiring or constructing
improvements or properties that would qualify for the use of cumulative capital
improvement funds;
         (j)   To purchase or lease equipment and other non-consumable personal
property needed by the unit for any public transportation use;
         (k)   In a county or a consolidated city, to purchase or lease
equipment to be used to illuminate a public way or sidewalk; and
         (l)   The fund may be used for any of the following purposes:
            1.   To purchase, lease, upgrade, maintain or repair one or more of
the following:
               a.   Computer hardware;
               b.   Computer software;
               c.   Wiring and computer networks; and
               d.   Communication access systems used to connect with computer
networks or electronic gateways.
            2.   To pay for the services of full-time or part-time computer
maintenance employees; and
            3.   To conduct nonrecurring inservice technology training of unit
employees.
      (10)   I.C. 36-9-16.5 (which allows for the acquisition of rights-of-way
for public ways or sidewalks or the construction or reconstruction of public
ways or sidewalks);
      (11)   I.C. 36-9-17 (which allows for the construction, repair or
improvement of streets, alleys, sidewalks, curbs, gutters and sewers);
      (12)   I.C. 36-9-26 (which allows for expenditures for storm and sanitary
sewer systems);
      (13)   I.C. 36-9-27-100 (which allows for expenditures for the
construction, reconstruction or maintenance of drains);
      (14)   I.C. 36-10-3-21 (which allows for expenditures for building,
remodeling and repairing park and recreation facilities, or purchasing land for
park and recreation purposes);
      (15)   I.C. 36-10-4-36 (which allows for additional park capital
expenditures); or
      (16)   I.C. 36-9-15.5(8)(c) (which allows for certain emergency
expenditures).
   (C)   The tax rate for the CCD Fund shall be and shall not exceed $0.05 per
S100 of assessed valuation and shall be levied beginning with taxes assessed in
2019 and due and payable in the year 2020, continuing until reduced or
rescinded.
(Ord. 2-2019, passed 4-9-2019)
§ 33.03  SAFE SUMMER EVENT KICK OFF FUND.
   (A)   A “Safe Summer Kickoff Event Fund” is hereby established in and for
the town.
   (B)   Said fund shall receive donations and other moneys dedicated to or
pledged to the town’s Safe Summer Kickoff Event.
   (C)   Expenditures from said fund shall be for costs and expenses for and
arising out of the Safe Summer Kickoff Event, such as rentals, supplies,
advertising, entertainment, game prizes and any other expenses incidental to
this event.
   (D)   After payment of the year’s expenses for the event, any unexpended
moneys in said fund shall carry forward to the next year’s Safe Summer Kickoff
Event and be expended as set forth above. In the event the event is no longer
held, all moneys in said fund shall be transferred to the Police Department
Fund of the town.
(Ord. 2018-4, passed 5-8-2018)
§ 33.04  SPECIAL LOIT DISTRIBUTION FUND #257.
   (A)   A “Special LOIT Distribution Fund #257" is hereby established in and
for the town.
   (B)   Moneys from the state’s Local Option Income Tax Trust Fund distributed
by the County Auditor to the town shall be deposited into the Special LOIT
Distribution Fund #257.
   (C)   Moneys from the Special LOIT Distribution Fund #257 may be expended
only upon an appropriation by the Town Council and only for the following:
      (1)   At least 75% of the special LOIT distribution must be:
         (a)   Used exclusively by the town for:
            1.   Engineering, land acquisition, construction, resurfacing,
maintenance, restoration or rehabilitation of both local and arterial road and
street systems;
            2.   The payment of principal and interest on bonds sold primarily
to finance road, street or thoroughfare projects;
            3.   Any local costs required to undertake a recreational or
reservoir road project under I.C. 8-23-5;
            4.   The purchase, rental or repair of highway equipment;
            5.   Providing a match for a grant from the Local Road and Bridge
Matching Grant Fund under I.C. 8-23-30; or
            6.   Capital projects for aviation related property or facilities,
including capital projects of a board of aviation commissioners established
under I.C. 8-22-2 or an airport authority established under I.C. 8-22-3-1; or
         (b)   Deposited in the town’s Rainy Day Fund established under I.C.
36-1-8-5.1. The money deposited in a Rainy Day Fund under this clause may not
be appropriated from the Rainy Day Fund or transferred to another fund under
I.C. 36-1-8-5.1(g), unless the money will be used exclusively for purposes set
forth in division (C)(1)(a) above.
      (2)   The remaining part of a Special LOIT Distribution may be spent by
the town for any other purposes allowed by law.
(Ord. 09-2016, passed 6-14-2016)
§ 33.05  ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT INCOME TAX PLAN.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 6-3.6-10-2, the town may expend moneys of the EDIT
Fund for any lawful purpose for which money in any of its other funds may be
used.
   (B)   This EDIT plan shall replace and supersede any previously passed
ordinances, resolutions, executive orders and/or plans that are in
contradiction of this plan.
(Ord. 1-2017, passed 1-26-2017)
DISBURSEMENT OF FUNDS
§ 33.20  APPROPRIATION REQUIRED.
   Unless a statute provides otherwise, town moneys may be disbursed only after
an appropriation made by ordinance of the Town Council and recorded in a book
kept for that purpose by the Town Council. Each appropriation must be made from
the fund against which the expenses arose.
(I.C. 36-5-4-2)  (Prior Code, § 33.15)
§ 33.21  ISSUE OF WARRANTS.
   (A)   The Town Council or a board of the town may order the issuance of
warrants for payment of money by the town only at a meeting of the Town Council
or meeting of a town board.
   (B)   A town officer who violates this section forfeits his or her office.
(I.C. 36-5-4-3)  (Prior Code, § 33.16)
§ 33.22  ALLOWANCE OF CLAIMS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
33.20 of this chapter, the Town Council or a board of the town may allow a
claim:
      (1)   Only at a meeting of the Town Council or board; and
      (2)   Only if the claim was filed in the manner prescribed by I.C. 5-11-
10-2 at least five days before the meeting.
   (B)   A town officer who violates this section forfeits his or her office.
(I.C. 36-5-4-4)  (Prior Code, § 33.17)
§ 33.23  WARRANTS FOR PAYMENT OF CLAIMS.
   (A)   As used in this section, CLAIM means a bill or an invoice submitted
for goods or services.
   (B)   Except as provided in §
33.20 of this chapter, a warrant for payment of a claim against a town may be
issued only if the claim is:
      (1)   Supported by a fully itemized invoice or bill under I.C. 5-11-10-
1.6;
      (2)   Filed with the town’s Fiscal Officer;
      (3)   Certified by the Fiscal Officer before payment that each invoice is
true and correct; and
      (4)   Allowed by the Town Council or by the board of the town having
jurisdiction over allowance of the payment of the claim.
   (C)   The certification by the Fiscal Officer under division (B)(3) above
must be on a form prescribed by the state’s Board of Accounts.
(I.C. 36-5-4-6)  (Prior Code, § 33.18)
§ 33.24  PAYMENT OF COMPENSATION TO OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE PRIOR TO VACATION
LEAVE.
   One to three days before the vacation leave period of a town officer or
employee begins, the town may pay him or her the amount of compensation he or
she will earn while he or she is on vacation leave.
(I.C. 36-5-4-7)  (Prior Code, § 33.19)
§ 33.25  TRANSFER OF FUNDS.
   Notwithstanding I.C. 8-14-1 and 8-14-2, the town may transfer money
distributed to the town from the motor vehicle highway account under I.C. 8-14-
1; the local road and street account under I.C. 8-14-2; or the motor vehicle
highway account under I.C. 8-14-1 and the local road and street account under
I.C. 8-14-2 to any other town fund after the passage of an ordinance or a
resolution by the Town Council that specifies the amount of the transfer, the
funds involved, the date of the transfer and the general purpose of the
transfer. However, the total amount of all money transferred by the town under
this section may not exceed $40,000.
(I.C. 36-5-4-13(b))  (Prior Code, § 33.21)
BUDGETS
§ 33.40  PREPARATION OF ANNUAL BUDGET ESTIMATES.
   Before the publication of notice of budget estimates required by I.C. 6-1.1-
17-3, the town shall formulate a budget estimate for the ensuing budget year in
the following manner, unless the town provides by ordinance for a different
manner.
   (A)   Each department head shall prepare for his or her department an
estimate of the amount of money required for the ensuing budget year, stating
in detail each category and item of expenditure he or she anticipates.
   (B)   The Town Fiscal Officer shall prepare an itemized estimate of revenues
available for the ensuing budget year, and shall prepare an itemized estimate
of expenditures for other purposes above the money proposed to be used by the
departments.
   (C)   The President of Council shall meet with the department heads and the
Fiscal Officer to review and revise their various estimates.
   (D)   After the President’s review and revision, the Fiscal Officer shall
prepare for the President a report of the estimated department budgets,
miscellaneous expenses and revenues necessary or available to finance the
estimates.
(I.C. 36-5-3-3)  (Prior Code, § 33.35)
§ 33.41  PREPARATION AND APPROVAL OF ORDINANCE FIXING TAX RATE; MAKING ANNUAL
APPROPRIATIONS.
   The Town Fiscal Officer shall present the report of budget estimates to the
Town Council under I.C. 6-1.1-17. After reviewing the report, the Town Council
shall prepare an ordinance fixing the rate of taxation for the ensuing budget
year and an ordinance making appropriations for the estimated department
budgets and other town purposes during the ensuing budget year. The Town
Council, in the appropriation ordinance, may change any estimated item from the
figure submitted in the report of the Fiscal Officer. The Town Council shall
promptly act on the appropriation ordinance.
(I.C. 36-5-3-4)  (Prior Code, § 33.36)
§ 33.42  INCREASE OR DECREASE OF APPROPRIATIONS AFTER APPROVAL OF ORDINANCE.
   After the passage of the appropriation ordinance, the Town Council may make
further or additional appropriations by ordinance, unless their result is to
increase the tax levy set under I.C. 6-1.1-17. The Town Council may, by
ordinance, decrease any appropriation set by ordinance.
(I.C. 36-5-3-5)  (Prior Code, § 33.37)
CHAPTER 34:  ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
Section
   
34.01   Establishment
   
34.02   Violations Clerk designated
   
34.03   Duties of Clerk
   
34.04   Schedule of fines
   
34.05   Right to trial
   
34.06   Denial; exercise of the right to trial
   
34.07   Failure to appear or to satisfy assessed civil penalty; report;
prosecution
   
34.08   Court costs fee; admitted violations
   
34.09   Disposition of civil penalties and costs collected
§ 34.01  ESTABLISHMENT.
   The Town Council may establish, by ordinance or code, an Ordinance
Violations Bureau.
(I.C. 33-36-2-1)  (Prior Code, § 34.01)
§ 34.02  VIOLATIONS CLERK DESIGNATED.
   (A)   Upon the creation of a Bureau, the Town Council shall provide for the
appointment of a Violations Clerk, who may be the Clerk-Treasurer of the town,
to be the administrator of the Bureau.
(I.C. 33-36-2-1)
   (B)   If the Town Council does not establish an Ordinance Violations Bureau
under §
34.01 of this chapter, the Clerk-Treasurer is designated the Violations Clerk
for purposes of this chapter.
(I.C. 33-36-2-2)
(Prior Code, § 34.02)
§ 34.03  DUTIES OF CLERK.
   In ordinance violation cases, subject to the schedule prescribed under I.C.
33-36-3 by the Town Council, the Violations Clerk may accept the following:
   (A)   Written appearances;
   (B)   Waivers of trial;
   (C)   Admissions of violations; and
   (D)   Payment of civil penalties up to a specific dollar amount set forth in
an ordinance adopted by the Town Council, but not more than $250.
(I.C. 33-36-2-3)  (Prior Code, § 34.03)
§ 34.04  SCHEDULE OF FINES.
   (A)   (1)   Upon the appointment or designation of the Violations Clerk as
provided by §
34.01 of this chapter, the Town Council shall designate, by ordinance or code,
a schedule of ordinance and code provisions that are subject to admission of
violation before the Violations Clerk and the amount of civil penalty to be
assessed to a violator who elects to admit a violation under this chapter.
      (2)   Civil penalties shall be paid to, receipted by and accounted for by
the Clerk under procedures provided for by the state’s Board of Accounts.
Payment of civil penalties under this chapter may be made in person, by mail or
to an agent or agents designated by the Town Council.
(I.C. 33-36-3-1)  (Prior Code, § 34.04)
   (B)   (1)   The following rates shall be applied and charged to violators of
town ordinances in the event the town must itself abate, clean-up, disposal or
compliance task that the violating property failed to do as required by
ordinance or statute:
 
Town employee manpower $50/hour per person, billed in minimum increments of one
                       hour
Town tractor, backhoe  $90/hour
Town dump truck        $60/hour
Town Bushhog, mower    $75/hour
Other town machinery   $40/hour
NOTES TO TABLE:
All above shall be billed in minimum increments of one hour.
 
      (2)   Any charges incurred by the town for third party contractors
performing or assisting with abatement, clean-up, disposal or compliance work
shall be charged to violators at the town’s actual cost, plus 10%. Examples of
such charges are trash container (“dumpster”) rentals, trash hauling and
tipping fees, vehicle towing charges and demolition contractors.
      (3)   Any charges incurred by the town for materials or consumables used
for abatement, clean-up, disposal or compliance work shall be charged to
violators at the town’s actual cost, plus 10%. Examples of such charges are
lumber, tarps, seed, fill dirt and trash bags.
      (4)   The foregoing are in addition to any fines, attorney fees, postage
and mailing expenses and any other costs imposed by ordinance or state law for
violations of same.
      (5)   A copy of this section may be attached to any notice of violation
as proof of the basis of those costs.
(Ord. 7-2014, passed 12-9-2014)
§ 34.05  RIGHT TO TRIAL.
   A person charged with an ordinance or a code violation is entitled to a
trial before a court as provided by law, unless the person waives the right to
trial and enters an admission of the violation with the Violations Clerk. Upon
an admission, the Clerk shall assess and receive from the violator the amount
prescribed by the schedule of civil penalties established under §
34.04 of this chapter.
(I.C. 33-36-3-2)  (Prior Code, § 34.05)
§ 34.06  DENIAL; EXERCISE OF THE RIGHT TO TRIAL.
   If a person charged with a violation wants to exercise the right to trial,
the person shall appear before the Violations Clerk and deny the violation or
enter a written denial with the Clerk.
(I.C. 33-36-3-3)  (Prior Code, § 34.06)
§ 34.07  FAILURE TO APPEAR OR TO SATISFY ASSESSED CIVIL PENALTY; REPORT;
PROSECUTION.
   (A)   If a person does any of the following, then the Violations Clerk shall
report this fact to the official having the responsibility to prosecute
ordinance violation cases for the town:
      (1)   Denies an ordinance or code violation under this chapter;
      (2)   Fails to satisfy a civil penalty assessed by the Violations Clerk
after having entered an admission of violation; or
      (3)   Fails to deny or admit the violation under this chapter.
   (B)   Proceedings in court against the person shall then be initiated for
the alleged ordinance violation.
(I.C. 33-36-3-5)  (Prior Code, § 34.07)
§ 34.08  COURT COSTS FEE; ADMITTED VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   An ordinance violation admitted under this chapter does not constitute
a judgment for the purposes of I.C. 33-37. An ordinance violation costs fee may
not be collected from the defendant under I.C. 33-37-4.
   (B)   An ordinance violation processed under this chapter may not be
considered for the purposes of I.C. 33-37-7-6 when determining the percentage
of ordinance violations prosecuted in certain courts.
(I.C. 33-36-3-6)  (Prior Code, § 34.08)
§ 34.09  DISPOSITION OF CIVIL PENALTIES AND COSTS COLLECTED.
   All sums collected by the Violations Clerk as civil penalties for ordinance
violations shall be accounted for and paid to the town as provided by law.
(I.C. 33-36-3-7)  (Prior Code, § 34.09)
CHAPTER 35:  TOWN POLICIES
Section
Tort Claims Against Town
   
35.01   Clerk-Treasurer to receive notice
   
35.02   Form and service of notice
Health- and Safety-Related Provisions
   
35.15   Tobacco use on town property
   
35.99   Penalty
TORT CLAIMS AGAINST TOWN
§ 35.01  CLERK-TREASURER TO RECEIVE NOTICE.
   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is hereby designated as the town official to
receive notice of a tort claim under I.C. 34-13-3.
(Prior Code, § 35.20)
§ 35.02  FORM AND SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   (A)   The notice of a tort claim against the town must be in writing and
must be delivered in person or by registered or certified mail.
(I.C. 34-13-3-12)
   (B)   The notice must comply with the provisions of I.C. 34-13-3.
(Prior Code, § 35.21)
HEALTH- AND SAFETY-RELATED PROVISIONS
§ 35.15  TOBACCO USE ON TOWN PROPERTY.
   (A)   No smoking of cigarettes, cigars, pipes, or other such smoking
material, nor the use of smokeless tobacco products, including e-cigarettes and
vaping devices, shall be allowed at any time in, or about, the town property
described in division (C) below.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to smokeless smoking cessation aids.
   (C)   This section applies to the following property owned or leased by the
town:
      (1)   All town buildings;
      (2)   The town park, including its shelters, restrooms, and picnic
tables;
      (3)   All town-owned or operated vehicles; and
      (4)   Such other property as the town may designate from time to time by
amendment to this section.
(Ord. 04-2016, passed 4-12-2016)  Penalty, see §
35.99
§ 35.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating §
35.15 shall, upon conviction thereof:
      (1)   Be fined $25 if the conviction is that person’s first offense of §
35.15;
      (2)   Be fined $50 if the conviction is that person’s second offense of §
35.15; or
      (3)   Be fined $75 for each and every conviction after the second
offense.
(Ord. 04-2016, passed 4-12-2016)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
Chapter
   
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
51.   WATER
   
52.   GAS
   
53.   SEWERS
CHAPTER 50:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Disconnection for late payment
   
50.02   Reconnect fee
   
50.03   Customer guaranty meter deposits
   
50.04   Removing municipally-owned utilities from jurisdiction of State Utility
Regulatory Commission
   
50.05   Accepting cable service by employees of town
   
50.06   Liability for service charges
   
50.07   Utility rates and charges; adjustments
Water and Sewer Deposit Policy
   
50.20   Application
   
50.21   Residential accounts
   
50.22   Installment options
   
50.23   Customer history
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01  DISCONNECTION FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   (A)   It is the policy of the town to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of non-payment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills.
   (B)   The town’s form for application for utility service and all bills
shall contain, in addition to the title, address, room number and telephone
number of the official in charge of billing, clearly visible and easily
readable provisions to the effect:
      (1)   All bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth on
the bill;
      (2)   If any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill will
be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within ten
days of the mailing of the second bill, and is 30 days or more delinquent,
service will be discontinued for non-payment; and
      (3)   (a)   Any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill
shall have a right to a hearing, at which time he or she may be represented in
person and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may
present orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the town
official in charge of utility billing.
         (b)   This official shall be authorized to order that the customer’s
service not be discontinued and shall have the authority to make a final
determination of the customer’s complaint.
   (C)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered.
   (D)   In the absence of payment of the bill rendered or resort to the
hearing procedure provided herein, service will be discontinued at the time
specified, but in no event until the charges have been due and unpaid for at
least 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 50.01)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see I.C. 8-1.5-3-4(d)
§ 50.02  RECONNECT FEE.
   (A)   The utility reconnect fees as identified below be in full force and
effect and made a part of this chapter.
   (B)   A fee of $15 must be paid before water service can be restored to a
customer that has been disconnect due to non-payment.
   (C)   A fee of $15 must be paid before gas service can be restored to a
customer that has been disconnected due to non-payment.
(Prior Code, § 50.02)  (Ord. 2-2004, passed 8-10-2004)
§ 50.03  CUSTOMER GUARANTY METER DEPOSITS.
    The customer guaranty meter deposits, as identified on the pages attached
to the ordinance codified herein and made a part thereof, be transferred to the
respective utility’s operating fund.
(Prior Code, § 50.03)  (Ord. 8-1996, passed 6-11-1996)
§ 50.04  REMOVING MUNICIPALLY-OWNED UTILITIES FROM JURISDICTION OF STATE
UTILITY REGULATORY COMMISSION.
   The municipally-owned utilities of the town shall be taken out of the
jurisdiction of the state’s Utility Regulatory Commission for the approval of
rates and charges, and of the issuance of stocks, bonds, notes or other
evidence of indebtedness.
(Prior Code, § 50.04)  (Ord. 4-1988, passed 9-14-1988)
§ 50.05  ACCEPTING CABLE SERVICE BY EMPLOYEES OF TOWN.
   (A)   This section is enacted pursuant to the powers granted units of
government as to local affairs by the provisions of I.C. 36-1 under the Home
Rule Section.
   (B)   Any official or employee of the town may accept cable television
service from the qualified provider for the town at basic rate charges,
including full service and pay channels if so offered by the provider.
(Prior Code, § 50.05)  (Ord. 10-1984, passed 10-2-1984)
§ 50.06  LIABILITY FOR SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   (1)   A contract for service shall exist between the owner of property
receiving utility service and the town municipal utilities, and said property
owner shall be responsible for payment for all utility service through that
meter or to that property, in addition to any person residing or operating at
that property shown as a customer of the utility.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, the PROPERTY OWNER shall be the
person or entity responsible for payment of property tax assessed on that
property as shown in the records of the County Auditor.
      (3)   Owners of properties that participate in § 8 of the United States
Housing Act of 1937, Veterans Administration Supported Housing, being 42 U.S.C.
§§ 1437 et seq., and other governmental housing assistance programs that
include utility assistance are exempted from this section.
      (4)   From time to time, additional contracts for service may be made
between the utilities and other persons or occupants of the premises; however,
those contracts shall not relieve the property owner from primary liability for
billing and charges related to service to that property.
   (B)   Previous customers who have moved from the utilities’ service area and
who have a delinquent service billing shall be required to remit the total
amount of the delinquency and to make an additional deposit if and when that
customer returns to the utilities’ service area.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 4-14-2015)
§ 50.07  UTILITY RATES AND CHARGES; ADJUSTMENTS.
   The updated rates and charges for all town utilities are as set by the Town
Council and are adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in
full.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 2-8-2011; Ord. 5-2012, passed 6-18-2012; Ord. 8-2014,
passed 12-19-2014; Ord. 9-2014, passed 12-19-2014; Ord. 03-2016, passed 4-12-
2016)
WATER AND SEWER DEPOSIT POLICY
§ 50.20  APPLICATION.
   Before service will be provided in a town utility customer’s name, said
customer must submit an application and make deposits of $150 for the gas
utility and $50 for the water utility.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 1-16-2013)
§ 50.21  RESIDENTIAL ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   When the customer or responsible party of a previously terminated
residential utility account (owner-occupied or renter) wishes to re-establish a
new account after 60 or more days have elapsed since termination, the deposit
on any such new account or customer which has a previously established a
negative credit history (see below for “history defined”) with the town’s
utilities, shall be double the regular deposit established above and any
amounts previously written off as bad debts must be paid and any collection or
legal fees paid to outside agencies must be reimbursed before a new account
will be established.
      (2)   If an active utility account (owner-occupied or renter) becomes
past due for the third or more time or remains past due (determined by multiple
application of penalty charges against the account) for at least three billing
periods, or service has been disconnected due to non-payment, a deposit equal
to double the regular deposit established above may be required for
continuation or reestablishment of service.
   (B)   Rental.
      (1)   A residential rental deposit shall always be required before
utility service will be rendered. When a rental utility account (billing
address or customer) moves to a new account, a new “application for utility
service” shall be required.
      (2)   The existing deposit on hand (“old deposit”) shall be transferred
to the new account, unless the customer has established a negative credit
history (see below for “history defined”), in which case the old deposit shall
stay with the old account and a new deposit shall be required for the new
account. In this event, the deposit required on the new account may be double
the regular deposit requirement. The old deposit will be applied to the current
and final bills of the old account, and the balance, if any, will be refunded.
If the old account is past due on the date utility service terminates, a new
account will not be established until the old account is brought current. If,
after a final bill is prepared, the old deposit is not sufficient to cover the
remaining charges on the old account and the old account becomes past due, the
new account will be subject to service termination as though the two accounts
were one, because of the responsible party is the same. If the new account has
different utility services than the old account, the new account’s deposit
requirements must be met. A reduction in the utility requirement may result in
a partial refund on the deposit.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 1-16-2013)
§ 50.22  INSTALLMENT OPTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   If the combined required deposit (owner-occupied or rental) is
more than $200, the applicant or customer may make weekly installment payments
until the total deposit requirement is paid in full. The first installment
shall be at least $150 and subsequent installments shall not be less than $25
per week. Installment payments shall not continue beyond six weeks.
      (2)   Service shall be connected upon receipt of the first such payment,
but may be terminated at any time, without notice, upon failure of the
applicant or customer to make the agreed upon installment payments and/or
utility bill payments when due.
   (B)   If a customer with bad history is required to make a doubled deposit,
installment payments may also be made in the same manner as established above
with payments not continuing longer than six weeks.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 1-16-2013)
§ 50.23  CUSTOMER HISTORY.
   Having a HISTORY OF BEING PAST DUE or a NEGATIVE CREDIT HISTORY is hereby
defined as follows:
   (A)   Having been past due on more than one utility bill during the
preceding 12-month period;
   (B)   Having any service disconnected as a result of non-payment during the
preceding 24-month period; or
   (C)   Being past due on the date utility service is terminated, including
those customers who request service be terminated at one location and connected
at a new location as a result of moving to said new location.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 1-16-2013)
CHAPTER 51:  WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Storm water management policy
   
51.02   Water conservation
   
51.03   Water wells
Cross-Connections
   
51.15   Definitions
   
51.16   Prohibited maintenance
   
51.17   Inspections
   
51.18   Water service discontinued
   
51.19   Findings
   
51.20   Backflow preventers
 
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01  STORM WATER MANAGEMENT POLICY.
   The impact of storm water runoff from all developed or developing territory
located with the town should be considered in public and private projects alike
with the town by weighing the risks, benefits and costs to the property owners
affected and general public as a whole.
(Prior Code, § 51.01)  (Res. 1-2000, passed - -; Ord. 3-2013, passed 4-9-2013;
Ord. 5-2013, passed 5-14-2013)
§ 51.02  WATER CONSERVATION.
   (A)   Application. This section shall apply to all users of water of the
municipal water utility.
   (B)   Declaration of need. Upon determining that the town’s municipal water
utility is in imminent danger of a shortage of water, the governing body shall
declare a water conservation emergency and establish the appropriate
conservation measures and the duration thereof.
   (C)   Voluntary conservation. In accordance with division (G) below, users
shall be requested to reduce water consumption by practicing voluntary
conservation techniques. The governing body shall suggest reasonable and
meaningful actions which will alleviate existing or potential water shortage.
   (D)   Mandatory conservation. In accordance with division (G) below, users
shall be prohibited from the water uses listed below, subject to reasonable
terms, times and conditions as the governing body shall determine:
      (1)   Sprinkling, watering or irrigating of shrubbery, trees, grass,
ground covers, plants, vines or any other vegetation, with the exception of
vegetable gardens;
      (2)   Washing of automobiles, trucks, trailers, mobile homes, railroad
cars or any other type of mobile equipment on private property;
      (3)   Cleaning or spraying of sidewalks, driveways, paved areas or other
outdoor surfaces;
      (4)   Washing and cleaning of any business equipment or machinery;
      (5)   The filling of swimming pools, wading pools and ornamental
fountains; and
      (6)   Knowingly allowing leakage through defective plumbing. The town and
its municipal water utility reserves the right to disconnect service to any
user and/or customer if water leaks are not repaired.
   (E)   Rationing.
      (1)   The Town Council and its municipal water utility, hereby authorizes
the implementation of the following section of this section at anytime deemed
necessary by the Superintendent of the Municipal Water Utility.
      (2)   In addition to the mandatory conservation measures identified in
division (D) above, and in accordance with division (G) below, users and/or
customers of the Municipal Water Utility shall be limited to water use per the
following schedule, to be determined when and if the need arises:
         (a)   Residential use shall be limited to ___ gallons per person per
day; and
         (b)   Business, commercial and industrial users shall be limited to
___% of the volume of water used during the corresponding month of the
preceding year. Business, commercial or industrial users that were not in
business and operating in the area served by the Municipal Water Utility more
than one year prior to the declaration of need shall be restricted to ___% of
the average monthly volume of water used during the number of months the
business, commercial and industrial user was in business and operating in the
Municipal Water Utility system area.
   (F)   Exceptions. The governing body of the town and its Municipal Water
Utility reserves the right to establish alternative rationing requirements for
the following:
      (1)   Health care providers;
      (2)   A reasonable use of water to maintain adequate health and sanitary
standards; and
      (3)   Those industrial and agricultural activities declared to be
necessary for the public health and well-being.
   (G)   Notice. Notice of voluntary conservation measures shall be by
publication in a local newspaper of general circulation or other means as
deemed appropriate by the governing body. Notice shall be effective upon
publication. Notice of mandatory conservation or rationing shall be by First
Class United States Mail, or by other door-to-door distribution to each current
user, and by electronic and print media. Notice shall be deemed effective at
the conclusion of door-to-door distribution, or at 12:00 p.m. of the third day
after depositing same in the United States mail.
(Prior Code, § 51.02)  (Ord. 2-1988, passed 7-13-1988)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.03  WATER WELLS.
   (A)   After adoption of this section, no private water wells may be
constructed within the town.
   (B)   PRIVATE WATER WELL includes dewatering wells, irrigation wells,
heating and cooling supply and return wells, temporary service wells,
construction water wells, process wells and other structures for withdrawing
ground water or lowering of a water table, regardless of location, length of
intended service or original use or intent.
(Ord. 5-2014, passed 9-9-2014)
CROSS-CONNECTIONS
§ 51.15  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical connection or arrangement between two
otherwise separate systems, one of which contains potable water from the water
system, and the other contains water from a private source, water of unknown or
questionable safety, or steam, gases or chemicals, whereby there may be a flow
from one system to the other, the direction of flow depending on the pressure
differential between the two systems. The Utility (defined below) is
specifically a separate potable water system.
   UTILITY. The municipal drinking water system owned by the town, a
municipality and political subdivision of the State of Indiana, and operated by
its public Town Water Utility.
(Ord. 1-2018, passed 1-9-2018)
§ 51.16  PROHIBITED MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   No person (as defined in §
10.05 of this code of ordinances) shall establish or permit to be established
or maintain or permit to be maintained any cross-connection.
   (B)   No connection shall be established whereby potable water from a
private, auxiliary or emergency water supply other than the regular public
water supply of the utility may enter the supply or distribution system of the
utility, unless such private, auxiliary or emergency water supply and the
method of connection and use of such supply shall have been approved by the
utility and by the state’s Department of Environmental Management in accordance
with 327 I.A.C. 8-10.
(Ord. 1-2018, passed 1-9-2018)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.17  INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The utility is hereby authorized to make inspections of any premises
served by the utility where a cross-connection with the utility is suspected or
possible. The frequency of inspections and re-inspections shall be established
by the utility in its discretion, based on the potential health hazards
involved.
   (B)   Pursuant to state law, including I.C. 36-1-6-2, and this subchapter,
upon presentation of credentials, authorized agents the utility shall have the
right to enter at any reasonable time real property served by the utility to
inspect for cross-connections. On request by the utility, the owner, lessee or
occupant of any such premises shall furnish to the utility any pertinent
information about and access to the pipes, valves, drains, inlets, outlets and
piping systems on the premises. The refusal of access or the refusal of
requested pertinent information shall be deemed evidence of the presence of
cross-connections on the premises.
(Ord. 1-2018, passed 1-9-2018)
§ 51.18  WATER SERVICE DISCONTINUED.
   (A)   The utility is hereby authorized and directed to discontinue water
service to any premises wherein any connection in violation of this subchapter
exists, and to take such other precautionary measures as the utility deems
necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water system.
   (B)   Water service shall be discontinued only after notice is served on the
owner, lessee or occupants of the premises where a violation is found or
suspected to exist, and a reasonable opportunity to correct the violation has
been given. The reasonableness of the opportunity to correct the violation is
fact- sensitive and will depend on the extent of the violation and the threat
posed to the public water supply. Water service to such property shall not be
restored until the cross-connection has been eliminated and the property is in
compliance with this subchapter.
(Ord. 1-2018, passed 1-9-2018)
§ 51.19  FINDINGS.
   If the utility, in its sole discretion, determines that a cross-connection
or emergency endangers public health, safety or welfare and requires immediate
action, and a written finding to that effect is filed with the town’s Clerk-
Treasurer and delivered to the consumer’s premises, then water service to the
premises may be immediately discontinued by the utility. Any person adversely
affected by that discontinuance may request shall have an opportunity to
request for hearing within ten days of such emergency discontinuance.
(Ord. 1-2018, passed 1-9-2018)
§ 51.20  BACKFLOW PREVENTERS.
   (A)   All consumers using toxic or hazardous liquids and/or all hospitals,
mortuaries, wastewater treatment plants, laboratories and all other hazardous
users install and maintain a reduced pressure principal backflow preventer in
the main water line serving each building on the premises. The backflow
preventer must be installed in an easily accessible location not subject to
flooding or freezing.
   (B)   Reduced pressure principal backflow preventers shall not be installed
below ground level.
   (C)   This subchapter does not supersede the Indiana Plumbing Code, IDEM
Rule 327 I.A.C. 8-10, or any other applicable Building Code, but is intended to
be supplementary to them.
   (D)   In addition to IDEM Rule 327 I.A.C. 8-10-4(c), from time to time
certain specialized customer facilities will be required to install a backflow
prevention device, as determined by the utility and Council by amendment to
this subchapter.
   (E)   If, in the judgment of the utility, an approved backflow prevention
device is necessary for the safety of the public water system, the utility
shall give notice to the water consumer to install such an approved device
immediately. The water consumer shall, at the customer’s own expense, promptly
install such an approved device at a location and in a manner approved by the
utility and shall have inspections and tests made of that device.
(Ord. 1-2018, passed 1-9-2018)
§ 51.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any user who violates §
51.02(D) and (E) of this chapter may be punished by a fine of not more than
$2,500. (See I.C. 36-1-3-8-(a)(10).) Each day of violation shall constitute a
separate offense. In addition to, or in the alternative to a fine, water
service may be terminated for any user and/or customer who violates §
51.02(D) or (E) of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 51.02)
   (C)   Any person violating §
51.03 of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined $250 and shall
be required to remove any well(s) installed in violation of §
51.03 of this chapter at that violator’s expense within 30 days of such
conviction.
   (D)   In addition to any other sanction provided by §§
51.15 through
51.20 of this chapter, a person who violates §§
51.15 through
51.20 of this chapter shall on the first offense be fined $100. A person who
violates §§
51.15 through
51.20 of this chapter a second time shall be fined the sum $250. A person who
violates §§
51.15 through
51.20 of this chapter a third time, or more, shall be fined a sum not to exceed
$2,500. The foregoing shall together with reasonable attorney’s fees incurred
by the town in enforcing §§
51.15 through
51.20 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2-1988, passed 7-13-1988; Ord. 5-2014, passed 9-9-2014; Ord. 1-2018,
passed 1-9-2018)
CHAPTER 52:  GAS
Section
   
52.01   Procedures for approval of cost adjustments
   
52.02   Tariff of utility
§ 52.01  PROCEDURES FOR APPROVAL OF COST ADJUSTMENTS.
   (A)   Gas cost adjustment tracker. The schedule of rates and charges for the
municipally-owned natural gas utility shall be adjusted semiannually to reflect
the cost to the utility of gas purchased from its suppliers by a gas cost
adjustment factor to be determined and calculated semiannually.
   (B)   Review and approval. The gas utility, by the Clerk-Treasurer, or other
designated person, shall submit to the Town Council, in written form, a rate
study supporting the proposed gas cost adjustment factor. The gas cost
adjustment factor as approved, together with the rate study calculations for
its determination, shall be kept on file and available for public inspection
during usual business hours in the town office.
   (C)   Effective date of the gas cost adjustment factor. Each semiannual
calculation and determination of the gas cost adjustment factor shall be
effective for the next six months following the month of approval and adoption
of the gas cost adjustment factor by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 52.01)  (Ord. 3-1995, passed 6-14-1995)
§ 52.02  TARIFF OF UTILITY.
   (A)   The tariff of the Municipal Gas Utility is hereby amended by adding
thereto the following, “Rate adjustment tracking factor: occasioned solely by
changes in cost of purchased gas, increase filed with the Public Service
Commission of Indiana, approved December 11, 1970, Cause No. 32485: Factor per
month $.0079 per 100 cubic feet used per month”.
   (B)   The Town Council of the Town of Roachdale, through its President, is
hereby authorized and directed to file the utility’s verified statement in
support of change in schedule of rates in accordance with the Order of the
Public Service Commission of Indiana in Cause No. 32485.
(Prior Code, § 52.02)  (Ord. 7-1975, passed 8-26-1975)
CHAPTER 53:  SEWERS
Section
   
53.01   Definitions
   
53.02   Unlawful disposal
   
53.03   Private sewage disposal system
   
53.04   Building sewers
   
53.05   Discharges
   
53.06   Tampering with municipal sewage works
   
53.07   Superintendent
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   B.O.D. (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   INSPECTOR. The person or persons duly authorized by the town, through its
Council, to inspect and approve the installation of building sewers and their
connection to the public sewer system.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or ground water.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights and is controlled by public authority.
   SANITARY BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of the
sanitary drainage system inside the walls of any building, which receives the
discharge from soil or waste stacks and branches and conveys the same to a
point three feet outside the building walls where it connects with its
respective building sewer.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with such
ground, surface and storm waters as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   STORM DRAIN (STORM SEWER). A sewer which carries storm and surface waters
and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other than unpolluted
cooling water.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the municipal sewage works of the town
or his or her authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(Prior Code, § 53.01)  (Ord. 3-1970, passed 12-21-1970)
§ 53.02  UNLAWFUL DISPOSAL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town, any sewage or other
polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (D)   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the town
and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located
a public sanitary or combined sewer of the town, is hereby required at his or
her expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such
facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, within 90 days after date of official notice to do
so; provided that, the public sewer is within 100 feet of the property line.
(Prior Code, § 53.02)  (Ord. 3-1970, passed 12-21-1970)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.03  PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
53.02(D) of this chapter, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the
Superintendent. The application for the permit shall be made on a form
furnished by the town, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans,
specifications and other information as are deemed necessary by the
Superintendent. A permit and inspection fee of $25 shall be paid to the town at
the time the application is filed.
   (C)   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
Superintendent. He or she shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any
underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within 48 hours
of the receipt of notice by the Superintendent.
   (D)   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of the state’s Board of Health. No
permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system employing
subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is less than
160,000 square feet. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge
to any natural outlet.
   (E)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system as provided in division (D) above, a direct
connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with this chapter,
and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private sewage disposal facilities
shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
   (F)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the town.
   (G)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Health Officer.
   (H)   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be
connected to the sewer within 60 days and the private sewage disposal system
shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bank-run gravel or dirt.
(Prior Code, § 53.03)  (Ord. 3-1970, passed 12-21-1970)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.04  BUILDING SEWERS.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits: for residential
and commercial service, and for service to establishments producing industrial
wastes. In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make application on
a special form furnished by the town. The permit application shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information considered
pertinent in the judgment of the Inspector. A permit and inspection fee of $5
for a residential or commercial building sewer permit and $15 for an industrial
building sewer permit shall be paid to the Clerk-Treasurer at the time the
application is filed.
   (C)   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
town from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by
the installation of the building sewer.
   (D)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
   (E)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the Inspector, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
   (F)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
town. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   (G)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by the building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (H)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   (I)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the town, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and the W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice
No. 9. All connections shall be made gas-tight and water-tight. Any deviation
from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the
Superintendent before installation.
   (J)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Inspector
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the Inspector or
his or her representative.
   (K)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the town.
(Prior Code, § 53.04)  (Ord. 3-1970, passed 12-21-1970)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.05  DISCHARGES.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers,
or to a natural outlet approved by the Superintendent. Industrial cooling water
or unpolluted process waters may be discharged, on approval of the
Superintendent, to a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural outlet.
   (C)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having any
other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment and personnel of the sewage works; and
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
   (D)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the Superintendent that the wastes can harm either the sewers,
sewage treatment process or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving
stream, or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a
nuisance. In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of these
wastes, the Superintendent will give consideration to the factors as the
quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers,
materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of
wastes in the sewage treatment plant and other pertinent factors. The
substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
      (2)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F and 150°F (0°F and
65°C);
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths
horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the Superintendent;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes or
concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the Superintendent for such materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste- or odor-
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other
public agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5;
      (9)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert, suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; and
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs”, as defined herein.
      (10)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
   (E)   (1)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged, to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or
possess the characteristics enumerated in division (D) above and which, in the
judgment of the Superintendent, may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage
works, processes, equipment or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a
hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the Superintendent may:
         (a)   Reject the wastes;
         (b)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
         (c)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/
or
         (d)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of division (J) below.
      (2)   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plans and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
   (F)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Inspector, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid
wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand or
other harmful ingredients; except that, such interceptors shall not be required
for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a
type and capacity approved by the Superintendent and shall be located as to be
readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
   (G)   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided
for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
   (H)   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable control manhole together with such necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and
measurement of the wastes. The manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and
safely located and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her
expense and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible
at all times.
   (I)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at the control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb and property. (The particular analysis
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a
premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are obtained from
24-hour composites of all outfalls whereas pHs are determined from periodic
grab samples.)
   (J)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the town and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the town for treatment, subject to payment therefor, by the
industrial concern.
(Prior Code, § 53.05)  (Ord. 3-1970, passed 12-21-1970)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.06  TAMPERING WITH MUNICIPAL SEWAGE WORKS.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the municipal sewage works. Any person violating
this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly
conduct.
(Prior Code, § 53.06)  (Ord. 3-1970, passed 12-21-1970)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.07  SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   The Superintendent, Inspector and other duly authorized employees of
the town bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling and testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The
Superintendent or his or her representatives shall have no authority to inquire
into any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic,
paper or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind
and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste
treatment.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) above, the Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the
town shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by
the company and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the
town’s employees and the town shall indemnify the company against loss or
damage to its property by town employees and against liability claims and
demands for personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and
growing out of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused
by negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required
in §
53.05(H) of this chapter.
   (C)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the town
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the town holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within the easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on the easement,
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(Prior Code, § 53.07)  (Ord. 3-1970, passed 12-21-1970)
§ 53.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter, except
§
53.06 of this chapter, shall be served by the town with written notice stating
the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the
satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time
stated in the notice, permanently cease all violations.
   (B)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in division (A) above shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and on
conviction thereof shall be fined in an amount not exceeding $10 for each
violation. Each day in which any violation shall continue shall be deemed a
separate offense.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the town for any expense, loss or damage occasioned the town
by reason of the violation.
(Prior Code, § 53.99)  (Ord. 3-1970, passed 12-21-1970)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
Chapter
   
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
   
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
   
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
   
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Exhaust or engine compression brakes
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.15   Establishment and maintenance of traffic-control devices
   
70.16   Obedience to signals
   
70.17   Interference with signals
   
70.18   Unauthorized signals or markings
Snow Emergencies
   
70.30   Definitions
   
70.31   Declaration of emergency
   
70.32   Effect of emergency
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. The following vehicles:
      (1)   Fire Department vehicles;
      (2)   Police Department vehicles;
      (3)   Ambulances;
      (4)   Emergency vehicles operated by or for hospitals or health and
hospital corporations under I.C. 16-22-8;
      (5)   Vehicles designated as emergency vehicles by the state’s Department
of Transportation under I.C. 9-21-20-1;
      (6)   Motor vehicles that, subject to I.C. 9-21-20-2, are approved by the
state’s Emergency Medical Services Commission, that are:
         (a)   Ambulances that are owned by persons, firms, limited liability
companies or corporations other than hospitals; or
         (b)   Not ambulances and that provide emergency medical services,
including extrication and rescue services (as defined in I.C. 16-18-2-110).
      (7)   Vehicles of the Department of Correction that, subject to I.C. 9-
21-20-3, are:
         (a)   Designated by the Department of Correction as emergency
vehicles; and
         (b)   Responding to an emergency.
(I.C. 9-13-2-6)
   DRIVER. A person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
(I.C. 9-13-2-47)
   ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE. A self-balancing, two non-
tandem wheeled device that is designed to transport only one person and that
has the following:
      (1)   An electric propulsion system with average power of 750 watts or
one horsepower; and
      (2)   A maximum speed of less than 20 mph when operated on a paved level
surface, when powered solely by the propulsion system referred to in division
(1) of this definition, and when operated by an operator weighing 170 pounds.
(I.C. 9-13-2-49.3)
   HIGHWAY or STREET. The entire width between the boundary lines of every
publicly maintained way when any part of the way is open to the use of the
public for purposes of vehicular travel. The term includes an alley.
(I.C. 9-13-2-73)
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within:
         (a)   The prolongation or connection of the lateral curb lines or, if
none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways of two highways that join
at or approximately at right angles; or
         (b)   The area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways
joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
      (2)   Where a highway includes two roadways at least 30 feet apart, every
crossing of each roadway of the divided highway by an intersecting highway is
regarded as a separate INTERSECTION. If the intersecting highway also includes
two roadways at least 30 feet apart, every crossing of two roadways of the
intersecting highway is regarded as a separate INTERSECTION.
(I.C. 9-13-2-84)
   MOTOR VEHICLE.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this definition, a vehicle that is
self-propelled. The term does not include a farm tractor, an implement of
agriculture designed to be operated primarily in a farm field or on farm
premises or an electric personal assistive mobility device as those terms are
defined in I.C. 9-13-2-56, 9-13-2-77 and this section.
      (2)   MOTOR VEHICLE also means:
         (a)   A vehicle, except a motorized bicycle that is self-propelled; or
         (b)   A vehicle that is propelled by electric power obtained from
overhead trolley wires, but not operated upon rails.
(I.C. 9-13-2-105(a) and (b))
   MOTORCYCLE. A motor vehicle with motive power having a seat or saddle for
the use of the rider and designed to travel on not more than three wheels in
contact with the ground. The term does not include a farm tractor or a
motorized bicycle.
(I.C. 9-13-2-108)
   OPERATOR. A person, other than a chauffeur or a public passenger chauffeur,
who:
      (1)   Drives or is in actual physical control of a motor vehicle upon a
highway; or
      (2)   Is exercising control over or steering a motor vehicle being towed
by a motor vehicle.
(I.C. 9-13-2-118)
   OWNER.
      (1)   A person who holds the legal title of a motor vehicle;
      (2)   A person renting or leasing a motor vehicle and having exclusive
use of the motor vehicle for more than 30 days; or
      (3)   If a motor vehicle is the subject of an agreement for the
conditional sale or lease vested in the conditional vendee or lessee, or in the
event that the mortgagor, with the right of purchase upon the performance of
the conditions stated in the agreement and with an immediate right of
possession of a vehicle, is entitled to possession, the conditional vendee or
lessee or mortgagor.
(I.C. 9-13-2-121(a))
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of a highway.
(I.C. 9-13-2-155)
   ROADWAY. The part of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel.
(I.C. 9-13-2-157)
   STREET. See HIGHWAY.
   THROUGH HIGHWAY. A highway or portion of a highway at the entrance to which
vehicular traffic from intersecting highways is required by law to yield right-
of-way to vehicles on the through highway, in obedience to either a stop sign
or a yield sign.
(I.C. 9-13-2-178)
   VEHICLE. A device in, upon or by which a person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway.
(I.C. 9-13-2-196(a))
(Prior Code, § 70.01)
§ 70.02  EXHAUST OR ENGINE COMPRESSION BRAKES.
   (A)   No person operating a motor vehicle within the corporate limits of the
town shall use an exhaust brake or engine compression brake.
   (B)   Prohibitions contained in this section shall not be applicable to:
      (1)   Emergency or public safety vehicles;
      (2)   Vehicles owned and operated by a unit of government or a utility
company; or
      (3)   Any motor vehicle used in an activity for which a permit or
exception has been granted by the Town Council.
   (C)   Town officials are hereby authorized to acquire and post appropriate
signage at the town limits advising of this restriction.
   (D)   Any person or entity who is in violation of this section shall be
deemed to have committed a civil ordinance violation and may be issued a
citation by a law enforcement officer.
(Ord. 8-2012, passed 8-14-2012)  Penalty, see §
70.99
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.15  ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   The town may establish and maintain official traffic-control devices
necessary within the town.
   (B)   All traffic-control devices, including signs, shall be employed to
indicate one particular warning or regulation, shall be uniform and, as far as
possible, shall be placed uniformly.
   (C)   All traffic-control devices and signs shall conform to required state
specifications.
(Prior Code, § 70.20)
§ 70.16  OBEDIENCE TO SIGNALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
signal of any official traffic- control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code or of a traffic barrier or sign erected by any
of the public departments or public utilities of the town, or any electric
signal, gate or watchperson at railroad crossings, unless otherwise directed by
a police officer. However, the type and the right to or necessity for the
barrier or sign must be approved by the town.
   (B)   The sign, signal, marking or barrier shall have the same authority as
the personal direction of a police officer.
(Prior Code, § 70.21)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.17  INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person without authority to attempt to or in
fact alter, deface, injure, knock down or remove any official control device or
any railroad sign or signal, or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon or
any part thereof.
(Prior Code, § 70.22)  Penalty see §
70.99
§ 70.18  UNAUTHORIZED SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain or
display on or in view of any street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or
device which purports to be, is an imitation of, or resembles an official
traffic device, railroad sign or signal which attempts or purports to direct
the movement of traffic, or which conceals or hides from view or interferes
with the effectiveness of any official control device or any railroad sign or
signal.
      (2)   No person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit on any street, any traffic sign or signal containing any commercial
advertising.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as restricting any
public department or public utility of the town in any emergency or temporarily
from marking or erecting any traffic barrier or sign whose placing has been
approved by the town.
   (B)   Every prohibited sign, signal or marking is declared to be a public
nuisance and the town is empowered forthwith to remove it or cause it to be
removed.
(Prior Code, § 70.23)  Penalty, see §
70.99
SNOW EMERGENCIES
§ 70.30  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SNOW EMERGENCY.
      (1)   A period of time during and after a snowfall when vehicular
movement is expected to be particularly hazardous or congested due to the
elements, and during which period of time the parking of vehicles could hinder,
delay or obstruct the safe flow of traffic and the proper cleaning, clearing
and making safe of public streets of the town.
      (2)   Town officials may rely on weather forecasts from the National
Weather Service and on declarations by the county’s Emergency Management Agency
in their determination to declare a SNOW EMERGENCY.
   VEHICLE. Includes trailers, whether attached or unattached.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 1-13-2015)
§ 70.31  DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY.
   (A)   When conditions are such that a snow emergency, as defined above, is
imminent or occurring, the Town Superintendent, or if he or she is not
available, then the President of the Town Council, may declare a snow emergency
in and for the town.
   (B)   When a snow emergency is declared, notice of such declaration shall be
given by the town to the public through the fastest and most effective means of
public information used for announcing weather and other emergencies. At the
discretion of the town officials, these means may include notifying local radio
stations, posting on websites and through social media and/or posting written
notice in appropriate public locations. It shall be the duty of persons with
vehicles parked on the streets designated below to check as to whether a snow
emergency has been declared.
   (C)   Nothing in this subchapter supersedes a travel warning or travel ban
declared by the county.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 1-13-2015)
§ 70.32  EFFECT OF EMERGENCY.
   (A)   No person shall operate a vehicle on the streets and alleys of the
town, after being notified of a snow emergency and after being notified by any
law enforcement officer or Street Department to vacate the streets and roadways
while a snow emergency is in effect.
   (B)   When a snow emergency is declared, all vehicles shall be removed from
the following downtown streets:
      (1)   Washington Street, from Indiana Street, to and including 102 East
Washington Street; and
      (2)   Meridian Street, from Columbia Street to Railroad Street.
   (C)   If a vehicle is parked in violation of this subchapter, the employees
and agents of town are hereby authorized to have such vehicle towed or
otherwise removed at the expense of that vehicle owner.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 1-13-2015)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
traffic code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to a fine not exceeding $2,500. A separate offense shall
be deemed committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 70.99)
   (B)   Any person violating §
70.02 of this chapter shall be penalized as follows:
      (1)   First violation: warning;
      (2)   Second violation: fine of $50; and
      (3)   Third and subsequent violations: fine of $100.
   (C)   (1)   Any person violating §§
70.30 through
70.32 of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof:
         (a)   Be fined $50 if the conviction is that person’s first violation
of §§
70.30 through
70.32 of this chapter; or
         (b)   Be fined $100 if the conviction is that person’s second or
subsequent violation of §§
70.30 through
70.32 of this chapter.
      (2)   In addition to any fine, any person violating §§
70.30 through
70.32 of this chapter shall be responsible for payment of all towing and
impound charges for that person’s vehicle if it was towed or removed by the
town.
(Ord. 8-2012, passed 8-14-2012; Ord. 2015-2, passed 1-13-2015)
CHAPTER 71:  TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Trucks prohibited on certain streets
   
71.02   Stop intersections
   
71.03   One-way streets
   
71.04   Excess weight prohibited
Cruising
   
71.15   Definitions
   
71.16   Cruising prohibited
   
71.17   Posting of signs
Golf Carts
   
71.30   Definition
   
71.31   Unlawful operation
   
71.32   Operating requirements
Off-Road Vehicles
   
71.45   Definition
   
71.46   Unlawful operation
   
71.47   Operating requirements
Speed Limits
   
71.60   Local speed limits
   
71.61   Reasonable speed required
   
71.62   Maximum lawful speeds; alteration
   
71.63   Slow-moving vehicles
   
71.64   Sudden stopping prohibited
   
71.65   Uniform system of citation
 
   
71.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01  TRUCKS PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   (A)   No trucks, other than pickup trucks and passenger trucks and vans,
shall be allowed to operate on any posted town streets unless they must use the
particular street in question for the purpose of local pickup or delivery.
   (B)   Posted streets are those which have signs on them indicating that
their use by through trucks is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 71.01)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02  STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The town may designate intersections as stop intersections and require
all vehicles to stop at one or more entrances to the intersections.
   (B)   The town shall post signs at designated intersections, giving notice
of the designation as a stop intersection.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to obey the markings or
signs posted under this section.
(Prior Code, § 71.02)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03  ONE-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   The town may designate streets or highways as one-way streets or
highways, and may require that all vehicles operated on the street or highway
be moved in one specific direction.
   (B)   The town shall post signs at the entrance to the street or part of the
street that is affected, giving notice of the designation as a one-way street.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to obey the markings or
signs posted under this section.
(Prior Code, § 71.03)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04  EXCESS WEIGHT PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any motor vehicle to travel upon the public streets
and alleys within the city limits with a gross weight in excess of 8,000 pounds
unless the operator and owner of the vehicle first receives approval of the
Town Council, which approval may be withheld if the weight may cause serious
damage to the streets and/or alleys to be traveled upon.
(Prior Code, § 71.04)  (Ord. 1-1986, passed 5-14-1986)  Penalty, see §
71.99
CRUISING
§ 71.15  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONGESTED TRAFFIC.
      (1)   Traffic on any public street, alley or highway which is delaying to
the point that:
         (a)   Motor vehicles cannot move through a 100-yard approach corridor
to an intersection controlled by a traffic light within two complete green-
light cycles, where the delay in forward movement is due to the position of
other motor vehicles;
         (b)   Motor vehicles cannot move through a 100-yard approach corridor
to an intersection controlled by a traffic light, stop sign or yield sign
within a five-minute period of time, where the delay in forward movement is due
to the position of other motor vehicles; or
         (c)   Motor vehicles cannot readily move forward on portions of public
streets, alleys or highways between intersections because traffic speed is
slowed to less than five mph, and the delay in movement is due to the position
of other motor vehicles.
      (2)   The determination that a street, alley or highway is congested
shall be made by the Town Marshal or ranking peace officer on duty within the
affected area.
   CRUISING. The repetitive driving of any motor vehicle past a traffic-control
point in traffic which is congested at or near the traffic-control point.
   GREEN LIGHT CYCLE. The period commencing upon the switching of a traffic
light from a red light to a green light through to the return of a red light.
   PEACE OFFICER. The Town Marshal, his or her designee, any member of the
Police Department or other town, county or state official designated to enforce
this subchapter.
   PROPERTY IN THE PROXIMITY OF ANY POSTED NO-CRUISING ZONE. Any property which
is both visible from and located within 300 feet of any portion of a street,
alley or highway which is posted as a no-cruising zone pursuant to this
subchapter.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL POINT. A location along a public street, alley or highway
utilized by the Town Marshal or a peace officer on duty within the affected
area as an observation point in order to monitor traffic conditions for
potential violations of this traffic code.
(Prior Code, § 71.20)
§ 71.16  CRUISING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Conduct prohibited. It shall be unlawful to engage in the activity
known as “cruising” as defined in this subchapter on the public streets, alleys
or highways of the town in any area which has been posted as a no-cruising
zone.
   (B)   First violation. Any person who violates division (A) above may be
given a written warning stating that any subsequent passage past that traffic
control point within the next succeeding four hours will be a violation of this
subchapter.
   (C)   Subsequent violations. Any person who, after having received a written
warning under division (B) above, subsequently drives past or is a passenger in
a vehicle passing the same traffic-control point within the next succeeding
four hours shall be in violation of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 71.21)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.17  POSTING OF SIGNS.
   This subchapter may be enforced in any area which has been posted as a no-
cruising zone. “No Cruising” signs shall be posted at the beginning and the end
of any public street, alley or highway, or portion thereof, which is a no-
cruising zone.
(Prior Code, § 71.22)
GOLF CARTS
§ 71.30  DEFINITION.
   GOLF CART means a three- or four-wheeled motor vehicle originally and
specifically designed and intended to transport one or more individuals and
golf clubs for the purpose of playing the game of golf on a golf course.
(Ord. 3-2019, passed 4-9-2019)
§ 71.31  UNLAWFUL OPERATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motorized golf cart on the
streets, alleys, sidewalks, highways or other publicly accessible place within
the town, except as provided in this subchapter.
(Ord. 3-2019, passed 4-9-2019)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.32  OPERATING REQUIREMENTS.
   Any and all golf carts operated on the streets, alleys or other publicly
accessible places within the town must:
   (A)   At all times display a reflective slow moving vehicle emblem in
accordance with I.C. 9-21-9-3 or a red or amber flashing lamp in accordance
with I.C. 9-21-9-4;
   (B)   Have two operable front headlights on at all times and have a
functional rear-view mirror;
   (C)   Be operated by an individual who possesses a valid state issued
driver’s license;
   (D)   Be operated during daylight hours only, with daylight hours defined as
the times required by state statute for motorists not to be required to use
headlights on motor vehicles;
   (E)   Not operate on state highways or on sidewalks; provided that, a cart
may cross the highway or a sidewalk at a 90-degree angle, if the operator does
so safely and in the manner proved by state law as if he or she were a driver
of a motor vehicle;
   (F)   Abide by all state laws and local ordinances, including all traffic
laws that would otherwise apply to motor vehicles and noise ordinances;
   (G)   Have financial responsibility in effect with respect to the golf cart,
with proof thereof in accordance with I.C. 9-25-4-4 in the state required
minimum amounts set by I.C. 9-25-4-5;
   (H)   Have no more occupants than there are manufactured seats in the cart
and all occupants must be seated when the cart is in motion;
   (I)   Not be operated on the grounds of the town park; and
   (J)   Display the owner’s first and last name, physical address and working
phone number visibly located on the cart, and this information must be legible
in all weather conditions.
(Ord. 3-2019, passed 4-9-2019)  Penalty, see §
71.99
OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
§ 71.45  DEFINITION.
   (A)   OFF-ROAD VEHICLE has the definition contained in I.C. 14-8-2-185. It
means a motor driven vehicle capable of cross-country travel:
      (1)   Without benefit of a road or trail; and
      (2)   On or immediately over land, water, snow, ice, marsh, swampland or
other natural terrain.
   (B)   The term includes the following:
      (1)   A multi-wheel drive or low-pressure tire vehicle;
      (2)   An amphibious machine;
      (3)   A ground effect air cushion vehicle;
      (4)   An all-terrain vehicle (“ATV”) (as defined in I.C. 14-8-2-5.7);
      (5)   A recreational off-highway vehicle (as defined in I.C. 14-8-2-
233.5); and
      (6)   Other means of transportation deriving motion from a source other
than muscle or wind.
   (C)   The term does not include the following:
      (1)   Any vehicle including an off-road vehicle being used for
agricultural purposes;
      (2)   A vehicle being used for military, law enforcement or emergency
services purposes;
      (3)   A construction, mining or other industrial related vehicle used in
performance of the vehicle’s common function;
      (4)   A snowmobile;
      (5)   A registered aircraft;
      (6)   Any other vehicle properly registered by the Bureau of Motor
Vehicles;
      (7)   Any water craft that is registered under state statutes;
      (8)   A golf cart vehicle; and
      (9)   A vehicle including an off-road vehicle that is being used by a
person suffering from a handicap or disability, if the handicapped or disabled
person is using the vehicle as a necessary means of transportation.
(Ord. 3-2019, passed 4-9-2019)
§ 71.46  UNLAWFUL OPERATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate an off-road vehicle on the
streets, alleys, sidewalks, highways or other publicly accessible place within
the town, except as provided in this subchapter. It shall be unlawful for any
person to operate a go-cart or non-street legal “dirt bike” on the streets,
alleys, sidewalks, highways or other publicly accessible place within the town.
(Ord. 3-2019, passed 4-9-2019)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.47  OPERATING REQUIREMENTS.
   Any and all off-road vehicles operated on the streets, alleys or other
publicly accessible places within the town must:
   (A)   At all times display a reflective slow moving vehicle emblem in
accordance with I.C. 9-21-9-3, a red taillight or amber flashing lamp in
accordance with I.C. 9-21-9-4, or a manufacturer-installed taillight;
   (B)   Have at least one operable front headlight on at all times and have a
functional rear-view mirror;
   (C)   Be operated by an individual who possesses a valid state issued
driver’s license;
   (D)   Be operated during daylight hours only, with daylight hours defined as
the times required by Indiana statute for motorists not to be required to use
headlights on motor vehicles;
   (E)   Not operate on state highways or on sidewalks; provided that, a
vehicle may cross the highway or a sidewalk at a 90-degree angle, if the
operator does so safely and in the manner proved by state law as if he or she
were a driver of a motor vehicle;
   (F)   Abide by all state laws and local ordinances, including all traffic
laws that would otherwise apply to motor vehicles and noise ordinances;
   (G)   Have financial responsibility in effect with respect to the vehicle,
with proof thereof in accordance with I.C. 9-25-4-4 in the state required
minimum amounts set by I.C. 9-25-4-5;
   (H)   Have no more occupants that there are manufactured seats in the
vehicle and all occupants must be seated when the vehicle is in motion;
   (I)   Not be operated on the grounds of the town park;
   (J)   Be registered with the state’s Bureau of Motor Vehicles and display
all required BMV plates and stickers; and
   (K)   Be operated in compliance with the state’s Helmet Law, being I.C. 9-
18.1-14-11, and in compliance with all requirements of state law.
(Ord. 3-2019, passed 4-9-2019)  Penalty, see §
71.99
SPEED LIMITS
§ 71.60  LOCAL SPEED LIMITS.
   The town, as authorized by state law, may declare and determine from the
basis of an engineering and traffic investigation that certain maximum or
minimum speed regulations shall be applicable upon specified streets. It shall
be prima facie unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle in excess of any
speed so declared upon any street when signs are in place giving notice
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 75.01)  (Ord. 1-2007, passed - -2007)  Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Local authority authorized to adopt local police regulations regarding
traffic, see I.C. 9-21-1-2
§ 71.61  REASONABLE SPEED REQUIRED.
   A person may not drive a vehicle on a highway at a speed greater than is
reasonable and prudent under the conditions, having regard to the actual and
potential hazards then existing. Speed shall be restricted as necessary to
avoid colliding with a person, vehicle or other conveyance on, near or entering
a highway in compliance with legal requirements and with the duty of all
persons to use due care.
(Prior Code, § 75.02)  (Ord. 1-2007, passed - -2007)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.62  MAXIMUM LAWFUL SPEEDS; ALTERATION.
   (A)   Maximum lawful speeds. Except when a special hazard exists that
requires lower speed for compliance with §
71.61 of this chapter, the limits specified in this section are the maximum
lawful speeds. A person may not drive a vehicle on a highway at a speed of the
following maximum limits:
      (1)   Thirty mph in an urban district;
      (2)   Thirty mph, except as provided in divisions (A)(3) and (A)(4)
below;
      (3)   Twenty mph in a school zone; and
      (4)   Ten mph in an alley.
   (B)   Alteration of maximum speed limits.  The maximum speed limits set
forth in division (A) above may be altered as follows:
      (1)   By the state’s Department of Transportation under I.C. 9-21-5-12;
      (2)   By the Transportation Finance Authority under I.C. 8-15-2-17.2; and
      (3)   In work sites by all jurisdictions under I.C. 9-21-5-11.
(Prior Code, § 75.03)  (Ord. 1-2007, passed - -2007)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.63  SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES.
   A person may not drive a motor vehicle at a slow speed that impedes or
blocks the normal and reasonable movement of traffic, except when reduced speed
is necessary for safe operation or in compliance with the law. A person who is
driving at a slow speed so that three or more other vehicles are blocked and
cannot pass on the left around the vehicle shall give right-of-way to the other
vehicles by pulling off the right of the right lane at the earliest reasonable
opportunity and allowing the blocked vehicles to pass.
(Prior Code, § 75.04)  (Ord. 1-2007, passed - -2007)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.64  SUDDEN STOPPING PROHIBITED.
   A person may not stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle first
giving an appropriate signal to a person who drives a vehicle immediately to
the rear when there is opportunity to give a signal.
(Prior Code, § 75.05)  (Ord. 1-2007, passed - -2007)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.65  UNIFORM SYSTEM OF CITATION.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 9-21-1-3, the town may enforce certain traffic
violations as local ordinance violations. The traffic code of the town provides
for specific infractions and other violations which may be in addition to or
separate from the traffic code set forth in I.C. Title 9.
   (B)   (1)   In order to provide for the efficient citation for those
violations by police offices, a traffic citation issued by any officer may be
enforced by the town as an ordinance violation under this subchapter if the
officer provides on the uniform citation form the corresponding general traffic
code violation and otherwise indicates a town ordinance violation enforcement.
      (2)   For example, a citation for speeding shall be enforceable under
this chapter if the citation provides that the offense of speeding has
occurred, giving the actual and posted speeds and the location of the
violation.
      (3)   A citation is valid and enforceable under this subchapter without a
citation to the specific section of this code.
   (C)   The fines and costs for the violations as established by the Town
Council from time to time in accordance with §
71.99 of this chapter shall be assessed for any citation which is issued
pursuant to this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 75.06)  (Ord. 1-2007, passed - -2007)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any individual, firm or corporation violating the provision of §
71.04 of this chapter shall be fined in a sum not to exceed $2,500.
(Prior Code, § 71.99)
   (C)   (1)   Any person found guilty of violation of §§
71.30 through
71.32 and
71.45 through
71.47 of this chapter shall be fined the sum of $50 for the first violation and
$100 for each violation thereafter.
      (2)   Owners or operators of non-compliant golf carts or off-road
vehicles that are operated on the streets, alleys or other public places within
the town are also subject to having said vehicles impounded; if impoundment
occurs, the owner of the vehicle shall be liable for an impound fee of $50 and
all towing and storage fees, in addition to any other fines or penalties of
this and any other ordinance(s) violated; in order to retrieve the vehicle from
impound, the owner must first pay all fines, fees and charges due; in the event
the vehicle is not retrieved within seven days, it will be subject to disposal
by the town in the manner set forth under state law for abandoned motor
vehicles.
      (3)   In the event a golf cart or off-road vehicle is operated on the
streets, alleys or other public places within the town by someone without a
valid driver’s license and there is no one else present to lawfully operate the
vehicle, or in the event such a vehicle is operated on a state highway other
than to directly cross it, then it may be impounded immediately as provided
above, together with all applicable fines and charges.
   (D)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of §§
71.60 through
71.65 of this chapter for which another penalty is not specifically provided
shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine not exceeding $2,500, with each
violation being a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 75.99)
(Ord. 1-1986, passed 5-14-1986; Ord. 1-2007, passed - -2007; Ord. 3-2019,
passed 4-9-2019)
CHAPTER 72:  PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   No parking where posted
   
72.02   Limited parking
   
72.03   Other parking restrictions
   
72.04   Parking for persons with physical disability
   
72.05   Unlawful to park in alleys
 
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01  NO PARKING WHERE POSTED.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle upon the public streets of the
town at any place where official signs or where appropriate devices, marks or
painting, either upon the surface of the street or the curb immediately
adjacent thereto, prohibit those acts.
(Prior Code, § 72.01)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02  LIMITED PARKING.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle upon the public streets of the
town where official signs are erected limiting the parking time thereon, for a
period of time in excess of the time as designated by the official signs.
(Prior Code, § 72.02)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03  OTHER PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   The Town Council may order the placing of signs, devices or marks or the
painting of streets or curbs prohibiting or restricting the stopping, standing
or parking of vehicles on any street where, in its opinion, the stopping,
standing or parking is dangerous to those using the highway, or where the
stopping, standing or parking of vehicles would unduly interfere with the free
movement of traffic thereon. The signs, devices, marks or painting shall be
official signs, devices, marks or painting; and no person shall stop, stand or
park any vehicle in violation of the restrictions thereon or as indicated
thereby.
(Prior Code, § 72.03)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04  PARKING FOR PERSONS WITH PHYSICAL DISABILITY.
   (A)   Definition. A PERSON WITH A PHYSICAL DISABILITY is any person who has
been issued a placard or special registration plate or decal for a motor
vehicle by the state’s Bureau of Motor Vehicles under I.C. 9-18.5-5, 9-18.5-8,
or the laws of another state.
   (B)   Parking prohibited. 
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a motor vehicle,
motorcycle, moped, bicycle or other vehicle of any nature, which does not have
displayed a placard for a person with a physical disability issued under the
laws of the state or the laws of another state, in a parking space reserved for
a vehicle of a person with a physical disability.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly park in a parking
space reserved for a person with a physical disability while displaying a
placard to which neither the person, nor the person’s passenger is entitled.
   (C)   Violation. If any vehicle is parked unlawfully in violation of any of
the provisions of this section, and the identity of the driver cannot be
determined, the owner or person in whose name the vehicle is registered shall
be held prima facie responsible for the violation.
   (D)   Towing. In addition to any fines which may be given as a result of
violations of this section, any vehicle which is parked in a manner in
violation of this section may be towed to an area designated by the town at the
owner’s expense. The owner shall also be required to pay any and all storage
fees resulting from this action.
(Prior Code, § 72.04)  Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see I.C. 5-16-9
§ 72.05  UNLAWFUL TO PARK IN ALLEYS.
   (A)   All alley ways located with the town are hereby designated as alleys/
fire lanes.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any vehicle, trailer, camper or the like to
be parked in alleys/fire lanes, or for any obstruction to be caused by any
means in alleys/fire lanes.
(Prior Code, § 72.05)  (Ord. 4-1995, passed 6-14-1995)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
chapter for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to a fine not exceeding $100. A separate offense shall
be deemed committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   Any individual, business firm or corporation violating the provisions
of §
72.05 of this chapter shall be fined in a sum not to exceed $25.
(Prior Code, § 72.99)  (Ord. 11-1984, passed 11-6-1984)
CHAPTER 73:  TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Traffic direction restrictions
   
II.   Speed limits
   
III.   Trucks
   
IV.   Stop intersections
SCHEDULE I.  TRAFFIC DIRECTION RESTRICTIONS.
 
Street            Direction Between
Washington Street West      Indiana Street and Meridian Street
 
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a motor vehicle to travel on the above.
   (B)   Any individual, business, firm or corporation violating the provisions
of this schedule shall be fined in a sum not to exceed $25.
(Prior Code, Ch. 73, Schd. I)  (Ord. 11-1984, passed 11-6-1984)
SCHEDULE II. SPEED LIMITS.
 
Street               Location              Speed Limit Penalty
Oak Street                                20 mph      In accordance with state
                                                       law
                     Between Maple Street              In accordance with state
South Indiana Street and Forest Home (S.R. 20 mph      law
                     236)
 
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 6-9-2009)
SCHEDULE III. TRUCKS.
   (A)   Effective as of the date of adoption of this schedule, there shall be
a weight limit on all streets in the town, with the exception of Indiana
Street, which weight limit shall be five tons per truck, with the exception of
special delivery trucks.
   (B)   Any violations of this schedule shall be subject to penalties as
provided below:
      (1)   First violation: $25;
      (2)   Second violation: $50; and
      (3)   Third violation: $100 fine.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 6-9-2009)
SCHEDULE IV. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
 
Location                              Signage   Penalty
Intersection of East Maple Street and Stop sign In accordance with state law
Oak Street
 
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 6-9-2009)
CHAPTER 74:  PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Restricted parking
SCHEDULE I.  RESTRICTED PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver or operator of any motor vehicle to park
as follows:
 
Street                    Location                  Penalty
205 North Indiana Street
(handicapped parking      In front of Town Hall      
space)
                                                    -First offense: $25 fine
                                                    and vehicle tow at owner
                                                    expense
                                                    -Second offense: $50 fine
                          From Forest Home (S.R.    and vehicle tow at owner
South Indiana Street      236) south to the town    expense
                          limits                    -Third offense: $100 fine
                                                    and vehicle tow at owner
                                                    expense
                                                    -Not to exceed $100 maximum
                                                    fine
                          East side, from Maple
                          Street North to the dead- Not to exceed $25
                          end of Walnut Street
                                                    -First offense: $25 fine
                                                    and vehicle tow at owner
                                                    expense
Walnut Street             West side, in the area    -Second offense: $50 fine
                          running from Railroad     and vehicle tow at owner
                          Street to Forest Home     expense
                          (S.R. 236)                -Third offense: $100 fine
                                                    and vehicle tow at owner
                                                    expense
                                                    -Not to exceed $100 maximum
                                                    fine
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 74, Schd. I)  (Ord. 7-1984, passed 7-3-1984; Ord. 2-2009,
passed 6-9-2009; Ord. 3-2009, passed 12-8-2009; Ord. 3-2017, passed 4-11-2017)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
90.   NUISANCE AND ABANDONED VEHICLES
   
91.   ANIMALS
   
92.   NUISANCES
   
93.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
   
94.   FAIR HOUSING
   
95.   PARKS AND RECREATION
CHAPTER 90:  NUISANCE AND ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
Nuisance Vehicles
   
90.01   Purpose
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Certain vehicles declared a public nuisance
   
90.04   Removal of certain vehicles constituting a nuisance
   
90.05   Removal of other vehicles; release
   
90.06   Procedure for removing and impounding vehicles
   
90.07   Liability of town and wrecker
Abandoned Vehicles
   
90.20   Purpose
   
90.21   Definitions
   
90.22   Storage of abandoned vehicles
   
90.23   Appraisals of vehicles
   
90.24   Disposal of vehicles
   
90.25   Towing and storage charges; fine
   
90.26   Abandoned Vehicle Fund
NUISANCE VEHICLES
§ 90.01  PURPOSE.
   It shall be the purpose of this subchapter to provide for the impoundment of
vehicles which, due to their location and/or condition, constitute a threat to
the health, safety or welfare of the members of this community, and vehicles
which have been involved in violations of law warranting temporary police
custody of such vehicles.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 6-12-2018)
§ 90.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCIDENT. A collision of vehicles or a vehicle and an object on a public
street, highway, right-of-way or publicly owned property.
   DEPUTY. Any active or reserve deputy of the County Sheriff’s Department.
   DEPUTY HOLD. An order from the Sheriff’s Department to impound a vehicle
because of its suspected involvement in criminal activity.
   IMPOUNDMENT. The act of taking temporary custody of a vehicle and towing it
from a public street or alley, public or private place, highway or right-of-way
to an authorized secured area.
   OFFICER. Any member of the town’s Police Department, including the Town
Marshal and all Deputy Marshals.
   PERSON. All natural persons, firms, partnerships, limited liability
companies, and corporations.
   POLICE HOLD. An order from the town’s Police Department to impound a vehicle
because of its suspected involvement in criminal activity.
   PUBLIC PLACE. A place that is visited by many persons, and usually
accessible to the neighboring public, but it need not be a place devoted solely
to the use of the public.
   SHERIFF. The Sheriff of Putnam County.
   STORAGE FEE. The certain sum of money charged the owner, operator or
authorized representative of same, for the safekeeping of the impounded
vehicle.
   TOW. The act of lifting, pushing, pulling or removing a vehicle.
   TOWING FEE. The certain sum of money charged the owner, operator or
authorized representative of same, of a towed vehicle.
   VEHICLE. A machine propelled by power other than human power, designed to
travel along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners or slides and
transport persons or property or pull machinery, and shall include, without
limitation, automobile, truck, trailer, motorcycle, tractor, buggy and wagon.
   WRECKER. Any person engaged in the business of offering the services of a
towing vehicle for use in removing, pulling, lifting or pushing another vehicle
which is disabled, and shall include the employees, agents and towing vehicles
used in the business of providing towing and vehicle storage services.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 6-12-2018)
§ 90.03  CERTAIN VEHICLES DECLARED A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   The following are hereby declared to be public nuisances:
   (A)   Any vehicle parked or left standing unattended upon any street or
public place in the town in violation of any of the provisions of this code or
of any statute of the state;
   (B)   Any vehicle known to have been stolen or wrecked and left standing on
any street or public place;
   (C)   Any vehicle the operator of which is unable to move such vehicle by
reason of his or her incapacitation from injury;
   (D)   Any vehicle the operator of which is unable to move such vehicle by
reason of his or her incapacitation from arrest;
   (E)   Any vehicle upon which there is a police hold or deputy hold; or
   (F)   Any vehicle which has been involved in four or more violations of
traffic ordinances of the town for which notices of traffic violations have
been issued pursuant to this subchapter, which notices of traffic violations
have not been paid, presented for compromise payment or subject to court
proceedings pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 6-12-2018)
§ 90.04  REMOVAL OF CERTAIN VEHICLES CONSTITUTING A NUISANCE.
   (A)   Any officer or deputy, upon discovering a vehicle parked or left
standing so as to constitute a public nuisance pursuant to the provisions of §
90.03(B), (D), (E) and (F) of this chapter, shall cause the vehicle to be
removed to an authorized storage place where it shall be impounded and detained
as provided in this subchapter.
   (B)   Such vehicles shall be released only upon order of the Town Marshal,
the County Sheriff or upon an order of the judge of any court having
jurisdiction over the vehicle.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 6-12-2018)
§ 90.05  REMOVAL OF OTHER VEHICLES; RELEASE.
   (A)   Any officer or deputy, upon discovering a vehicle parked or left
standing so as to constitute a public nuisance pursuant to the provisions of §
90.03(A) and (C) of this chapter, may cause the vehicle to be impounded.
Impounded vehicles shall be released either upon payment by the owner, operator
or authorized representative of same of the fees charged for impoundment and
storage, or upon order of the law enforcement agency which impounded the
vehicle, or upon order of any court having jurisdiction over the vehicle.
   (B)   All vehicles impounded by reason of being wrecked or stolen and all
vehicles otherwise coming into the custody or control of the town’s Police
Department, and those impounded for parking violations, may be impounded in
lots maintained for such purposes by wreckers or in a lot chosen by the
Department.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 6-12-2018)
§ 90.06  PROCEDURE FOR REMOVING AND IMPOUNDING VEHICLES.
   (A)   Vehicles involved in an accident may be towed by any wrecker of the
owner’s or operator’s choosing; provided that, such wrecker may be summoned
promptly to avoid creating a traffic hazard. If the officer or deputy on the
scene of the accident determines a traffic hazard has been created by the delay
in the arrival of the owner’s or operator’s chosen wrecker, or if the owner or
operator does not care to select a wrecker of his or her own choice, the
officer or deputy may declare the vehicle a traffic hazard, and it shall become
subject to the officer’s or deputy’s order to a wrecker to remove it from the
scene. However, the vehicle shall not be subject to impoundment, but shall be
towed to the destination selected by the owner or operator. If the owner or
operator is under a disability by reason of injury or arrest, the vehicle shall
be subject to impoundment upon order of the officer or deputy on the scene.
   (B)   Vehicles recovered as stolen or which come into the custody of the
Police Department or Sheriff for other reasons shall be subject to impoundment
upon order of the officer or deputy having control of the vehicle.
   (C)   All other vehicles subject to removal by the police or Sheriff,
including those in violation of parking ordinances, may be towed by wrecker,
upon notification and order by an officer or deputy, and may be impounded and
stored pursuant to the provisions of law.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 6-12-2018)
§ 90.07  LIABILITY OF TOWN AND WRECKER.
   (A)   The town, its police, the county or its Sheriff shall not be liable
for any loss or damage which may occur to any vehicle which is removed pursuant
to the provisions of this subchapter.
      (1)   The wrecker shall indemnify and hold harmless the town and county,
their officers, agents and employees from any loss, claim, judgment or damages
arising from the removal and storage of vehicles pursuant to this subchapter.
      (2)   The wrecker shall have sole responsibility for any articles of
personal property which may be contained in any vehicle at the time of its
removal; such articles of personal property shall not be held by the contract
wrecker in lieu of the service charges authorized herein but shall be returned
by him or her or his or her agents to the owner thereof upon sufficient
identification and proof of ownership.
   (B)   (1)   The officer directing the removal of a vehicle shall verify what
personal property in plain view is contained in it prior to its removal, report
such articles to police headquarters or the Sheriff’s Department and/or on the
incident report, and if possible, remove all property of value to the Police
Department or the Sheriff’s Department property room pursuant to existing
Police Department or Sheriff’s Department regulations.
      (2)   If certain items of personal property cannot be stored by the
police department or Sheriff’s Department, the wrecker company shall store said
items, and the officer or deputy in charge shall furnish a copy of the list of
said items to the wrecker truck operator for the use of the wrecker service.
Said list prepared by the officer or deputy shall be signed by the wrecker
operator after the wrecker operator has verified the existence of the items so
listed.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 6-12-2018)
ABANDONED VEHICLES
§ 90.20  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter shall be to implement the procedures
contained in I.C. 9-22-1 which govern the removal, storage and disposal of
abandoned vehicles.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 6-12-2018)
§ 90.21  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   ABANDONED VEHICLE has the definition(s) ascribed to it in I.C. 9-13-2-
1. Pursuant to I.C. 9-13-2-1(7), ABANDONED VEHICLE specifically includes a
vehicle that is at least three model years old, is mechanically inoperable and
is left on private property continuously in a location visible from public
property for more than 20 days.
   (B)   The terms used in this subchapter shall have the meanings ascribed to
them in I.C. 9-22-1-2 and herein.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 6-12-2018)
§ 90.22  STORAGE OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   Abandoned vehicles which are removed pursuant to I.C. 9-22-1 shall be towed
by a wrecker designated by the town’s Police Department and stored in an area
designated by the Department or the towing company.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 6-12-2018)
§ 90.23  APPRAISALS OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   If a tagged vehicle or parts are not removed within 72 hours of
tagging, and the officer suspects the market value of the vehicle is $500 or
less, the vehicle shall be towed to a storage area, and an appraisal shall be
performed by an individual designated by the Town Marshal.
   (B)   If the appraisal confirms the market value of the vehicle is $500 or
less, the towing service shall be instructed to provide for the immediate
disposal of the vehicle to an automobile scrapyard. The Department shall retain
a copy of the appraisal and any photographs for two years after the disposal of
the vehicle or parts.
   (C)   If the appraisal indicates the market value of the vehicle is greater
than $500, the notification and disposal procedures in I.C. 9-22-1 shall be
followed.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 6-12-2018)
§ 90.24  DISPOSAL OF VEHICLES.
   Vehicles which have been towed to a storage area and have not been claimed
by the record owner or lienholder within the statutory period shall be disposed
of by means of a public sale in the manner provided by I.C. 9-22-1-2 or 9-22-1-
23.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 6-12-2018)
§ 90.25  TOWING AND STORAGE CHARGES; FINE.
   An owner or lienholder who claims a vehicle impounded and declared abandoned
by the town’s Police Department shall be liable to the towing company for its
towing fee and per-day storage fee consistent with the charges normally
incurred for voluntary towing and storage by that towing company, subject to
state limits, and for a fine of $100 payable to the town.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 6-12-2018)
§ 90.26  ABANDONED VEHICLE FUND.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 9-22-1-27 and 9-22-1-30(b), there is hereby
established an “Abandoned Vehicle Fund” in the town. Pursuant to I.C. 9-22-1-27
(d), that fund shall be a non-reverting fund.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 9-22-1-27, all proceeds from the sale of abandoned
vehicles or parts shall be deposited with the Clerk-Treasurer and placed in
that fund, and the costs of administering I.C. 9-22-1 and this subchapter shall
be paid from that fund.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 6-12-2018)
CHAPTER 91:  ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Limitation on keeping certain animals; sanitation
   
91.03   Farm animals prohibited
   
91.04   Standards for animal care
Dogs; Nuisances Relating to Dogs and Other Animals
   
91.15   Owner responsibility
   
91.16   Licensing
   
91.17   Care and control
   
91.18   Length of impoundment
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner, and not under the control of the
owner or his or her agent either by leash, cord, chain or otherwise.
   DOG. Any member of the canine family, six months of age or over, male or
female.
   OWNER. Every person having a right of property to an animal and every person
who keeps or harbors an animal, has it in his or her care or permits it to
remain on or about the premises owned or occupied by him or her.
(Prior Code, § 91.01)
§ 91.02  LIMITATION ON KEEPING CERTAIN ANIMALS; SANITATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to have or keep any goats, sheep, swine or pigs,
horses, mules, ponies, cattle, rabbits, chickens, ducks, geese, turkeys,
guineas or other farm animals or fowl within 200 feet of any residence, other
than the residence of the person so keeping or having these animals.
   (B)   No person shall cause or allow any stable or place where any animal or
fowl is or may be kept to become unsanitary.
(Prior Code, § 91.02)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03  FARM ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, harbor, raise or stable
any cattle, bovine, horses, ponies, donkeys, burros, equine, swine, porcine,
sheep, goats, llamas, alpacas, deer, bison, rabbits, poultry or fowl (including
but not limited to chickens, roosters, and turkeys) of any kind within the
town.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person who keeps, harbors, raises or
stables any cattle, bovine, horses, ponies, donkeys, burros, equine, swine,
porcine, sheep, goats, llamas, alpacas, deer, bison, rabbits, poultry or fowl
(including, but not limited to, chickens, roosters, and turkeys) of any kind
within the town to allow said animal(s) to run at large in any public place
within the town. Any such animal found running at large may be impounded by the
town or its designated agent.
(Ord. 2018-13, passed 10-9-2018)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04  STANDARDS FOR ANIMAL CARE.
   The following rules and requirements apply to all animals kept within the
town:
   (A)   All dogs and cats must be under the physical control of the owner or
attendant by leash when off the owner’s property;
   (B)   All animal excrement must be removed immediately when on public
property (such as parks) and rights-of-way (such as sidewalks and greenways
between the sidewalk and the street) or on the property of another;
   (C)   When restraining an animal on the owner’s property, it is unlawful to
use a rope, chain or cord fastened directly to the animal’s neck, nor may a
choker chain be used for tethering an animal. Animals that must be tied must
have a collar or harness made of nylon or leather. The tying device shall be
attached to the collar or harness with a swivel device on the anchor and collar
end to prevent tangling. The animal must not be able to leave the owner’s
property while restrained;
   (D)   An animal, while tethered outside, must have access to proper shelter
at all times. All indoor and outdoor animal enclosures, including pens, fenced
areas, and areas in which an animal is tied, fastened, hitched, leashed,
enclosed or confined, shall be kept in a sanitary condition. Persons
responsible for an animal shall regularly, and more frequently if necessary,
clean and maintain all animal enclosures and areas of animal contact to prevent
odor, health and sanitation issues. In addition, the animal and its shelter
must be located on dry ground that is mud free. The shelter must be designed to
specifically shelter an animal, with a roof and three sides free of leaks and
openings to the wind and rain, and a fourth side allowing access that is
protected from the elements;
   (E)   Animals shall be provided with water and food that is nutritional for
the species in adequate amounts and appropriate intervals to maintain good
health;
   (F)   No person shall allow his or her animal to bark, yelp, whine, howl or
make sounds common to its species in excess, continuously for 15 minutes;
   (G)   No person shall abandon his or her animal or cause his or her animal
to be abandoned at any public or private premises, structure, yard or other
location; and
   (H)   An animal cannot be left unattended in a vehicle when the conditions
in that vehicle would pose a health hazard to the animal.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 2-12-2019)  Penalty, see §
91.99
DOGS; NUISANCES RELATING TO DOGS AND OTHER ANIMALS
§ 91.15  OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   It is hereby ordained by the Town Council that any person, partnership or
corporation owning, keeping or harboring one or more dogs, cats or other
animal, hereinafter defined as “owner”, shall be subject to the following
regulations pertaining to those animals.
(Prior Code, § 91.15)  (Ord. 10-2003, passed 10-14-2003)
§ 91.16  LICENSING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own or keep a dog or dogs in
the municipality without first obtaining a license for each dog. All dogs kept
in the municipality shall be registered as to sex, breed, name and address of
the owner and name of the dog. At the time of the registration the owner shall
obtain a license tag for the dog and shall pay a fee of $5 for each dog.
   (B)   The license tag shall be valid for one year from the date of the
issue. A new tag shall be obtained each year by every owner and a new fee paid.
   (C)   The license tag shall be fastened to the collar of the dog and shall
be worn continuously, and the failure to have the tag so attached shall subject
the owner or keeper thereof to the penalties provided herein.
   (D)   It shall be the responsibility of every dog owner to have all dogs
over six months of age owned by him or her continuously protected against
contracting rabies.
   (E)   Licenses shall be provided for purchase at the town office beginning
January 1 and continuing through December 31 for each calendar year. After
March 1 of each calendar year, a late fee will be assessed in the sum of $10
for any animal found to be unlicensed. Sale of licenses for the following year
shall begin January 1 and end December 31 each year thereafter, licenses for
the following year shall be obtained from the Clerk-Treasurer during the month
of January for the following calendar year.
   (F)   In the event of the death of the licensed animal or sale, any license
may be transferred to a new animal upon proper recording with the Clerk-
Treasurer. All penalties assessed shall be passed through to the owner.
(Prior Code, § 91.16)  (Ord. 10-2003, passed 10-14-2003)  Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Municipal power to control rabies, see I.C. 15-17-6-14
   Rabies control in general, see I.C. 15-17-6
§ 91.17  CARE AND CONTROL.
   (A)   Humane care. All owners shall provide their animals with sufficient
food and water, proper shelter, veterinary care when needed to prevent
suffering and with humane care and treatment. No person shall poison or ill-
treat an animal, nor may an animal be abandoned.
   (B)   At large. Owners shall not permit their dogs to run at large. A dog
shall be deemed to be at large if off the premises of its owner and not under
the immediate control of a responsible person.
   (C)   School grounds or recreational areas. Owners shall not permit their
dogs on any school ground when school is in session, or on any public
recreation area when an organized activity is being conducted, unless the dog
is controlled by a leash or similar device to prevent the dog from biting any
person or animal.
   (D)   Dogs or cats in heat. Every female dog or cat in heat shall be
confined in a closed building so that the animal can not come in contact with
animal, except for planned breeding.
   (E)   Nuisance. Every owner of a dog or cat shall exercise proper care and
control of his or her animal to prevent the animal from becoming a public
nuisance. The term NUISANCE shall include but is not limited to the following:
excessive or untimely barking, molesting passers-by, chasing vehicles,
attacking other domestic animals, depositing excretory matter on property other
than that of the owner and damaging property.
   (F)   Vicious dogs. Owners shall not permit a dog which has the property to
bite or attack human beings to run loose on or within the owner’s premises in a
manner so as to endanger the safety of any person lawfully entering the
premises.
   (G)   Dog bites. Any person who knows or has reason to believe that a dog
has bitten any person shall be responsible for the reporting of the fact to the
Town Marshal immediately. The owner of a dog which has bitten a person shall
confine his or her dog at his or her own expense for a period of 14 days in a
manner directed by the police officer or County Health Officer. However, if the
Health Officer has reason to believe that the dog is rabid, he or she may order
the dog confirmed for additional period as he or she may deem necessary to
determine whether the dog is in fact, rabid. No person shall cause to be killed
any dog suspected of being rabid.
(Prior Code, § 91.17)  (Ord. 10-2003, passed 10-14-2003)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.18  LENGTH OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   All dogs impounded shall be kept for a maximum period of ten days,
excluding the date of impoundment.
   (B)   Any dog not reclaimed within that time shall be destroyed in a humane
manner or delivered to a duly licensed humane society.
(Prior Code, § 91.20)  (Ord. 10-2003, passed 10-14-2003)
§ 91.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
91.15 through
91.18 for which no penalty is otherwise provided, shall be fined not more than
$100 for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
that a violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 93.99)  (Ord. 10-2003, passed 10-14-2003)
CHAPTER 92:  NUISANCES
Section
Public Nuisances and Littering; Abatement
   
92.01   Nuisances defined
   
92.02   Inspection of premises
   
92.03   Notice to abate
   
92.04   Abatement by owner; failure to abate
   
92.05   Abatement by town
   
92.06   Billing for cost of abatement
   
92.07   Test for nuisance
   
92.08   Nuisances created by others
   
92.09   Burning of trash or rubbish
Weeds
   
92.20   Weeds and rank vegetation
   
92.21   Owners responsible for trimming, removal and the like
   
92.22   Filing complaint
   
92.23   Notice of violations
   
92.24   Appeals
   
92.25   Abatement by town
   
92.26   Liability
 
   
92.99   Penalty
PUBLIC NUISANCES AND LITTERING; ABATEMENT
§ 92.01  NUISANCES DEFINED.
   (A)   In addition to what is declared in this subchapter to be a nuisance,
those offenses which are known to the common law and the statutes of the state
as public nuisances may, in case any thereof exist within the town limits, be
treated as that and be proceeded against as if provided in this subchapter or
in accordance with any other provision of law.
   (B)   Wherever the word NUISANCE is used in this subchapter, it refers to a
public nuisance.
   (C)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (D)   The following conditions within the town are declared to be nuisances.
      ACCUMULATION OF RUBBISH. An accumulation on any premises of filth,
refuse, trash, garbage or other waste material which endangers the public
health, welfare or safety or materially interferes with the peaceful enjoyment
by owners or occupants of adjacent property because of the danger of its
catching or communicating fire, its attracting and propagating vermin, rodents
or insects or its blowing into any street, sidewalk or property of another. It
shall be the duty of persons owning or being in charge of those business
establishments whose patrons purchase goods or services from their automobiles,
commonly known as “drive-ins”, to furnish sufficient receptacles for the
deposit of wastes created in the operating of that business, and to clean up
wastes as are not deposited in receptacles at the close of business each day
(or if the business operates continuously, at least once each day), and at
other times when weather conditions are so that waste from the operation of the
business is being blown to adjoining premises.
      BUILDINGS. Any building if any of the following conditions occur:
         (a)   The building has been damaged by fire or other casualty to an
extent that following the fire or other casualty, it ceased to be occupied and
the building has remained unoccupied for a period of two years from the date of
the fire or other casualty;
         (b)   The building has been unoccupied for a period of three years;
         (c)   No building or premises shall be considered a nuisance if the
owner has obtained the necessary permits for the repair of any existing
structure which has been unoccupied because of damage, for the demolition of
any existing building and its replacement with a new building or for the
construction of a building on any vacant premises; and/or
         (d)   Any building having been observed as being in a state of
disrepair for more than one year, the disrepair to include peeling paint or
unpainted wood or block surfaces, broken window glass, unmowed yards or any
other condition which would be unsightly and offend the normal sensibilities of
neighbors or residents.
      DANGEROUS TREES OR STACKS. Any tree, stack or other object adjoining a
street or standing on premises in a condition that shall, if allowed to
continue, endanger the life, limb or property or cause hurt, damage or injury
to persons or property adjacent thereto.
      JUNK, SCRAP METAL and MOTOR VEHICLES. The storage within public view of
motor vehicles in an inoperative condition, motor vehicles unfit for further
use, automobile parts or scrap metal within the town limits. This includes the
following.
         (a)   AUTOMOBILE PARTS. Any portion or parts of any motor-driven
vehicle as detached from the vehicle as a whole.
         (b)   MOTOR VEHICLES IN AN INOPERATIVE CONDITION. Any style or type or
motor-driven vehicle used or useful for the conveyance of persons or property
which is unable to move under its own power due to defective or missing parts,
and which has remained in a like condition for a period of not less than ten
consecutive days.
         (c)   MOTOR VEHICLES UNFIT FOR FURTHER USE. Any style or type of
motor- driven vehicle used for the conveyance of persons or property which is
in a dangerous condition, has defective or missing parts or is in a condition
generally as to be unfit for further use as a conveyance.
         (d)   SCRAP METAL. Pieces or parts of steel, iron, tin, zinc, copper,
aluminum or any allow thereof, whether covered with porcelain or any other
material, whether intact or in parts, which has served its usefulness in its
original form and can no longer be used for its original intended purposes.
      NOXIOUS ODORS OR SMOKE. Odors, smoke, dust or other matters emitted from
premises into the surrounding atmosphere and which render ordinary use or
physical occupation of other property in the vicinity by interference with the
ordinary comforts of human existence.
      NOXIOUS NOISE. Sound emitted from premises which destroys the enjoyment
of dwelling houses or the uses of property in the vicinity by interference with
the ordinary comforts of human existence.
      OPEN WELLS. The maintenance of any open, uncovered or insecurely covered
cistern, collar, well, pit, excavation or vault situated on private premises in
any open or unfenced lot or place.
      TREES AND SHRUBBERY OBSTRUCTING STREETS AND SIDEWALKS. The growing or
maintenance of trees with less than 14 feet clearance over streets, or less
than eight feet over sidewalks or the growing and maintenance of shrubbery in
excess of three feet in height within the radius of 20 feet from the point
where the curb line of any street intersects the curb line of another street.
No shrub shall be planted between the curb line and the property line of any
street within a radius of 20 feet from the point where the curb line of any
street intersects with the curb line of another street.
      UNSAFE STORAGE. The storage of explosives or combustible material which
will create a safety hazard to other property or persons in the vicinity.
(Prior Code, § 92.01)  (Ord. 5-1997, passed 11-11-1997)
§ 92.02  INSPECTION OF PREMISES.
   For the purpose of carrying the provisions of this subchapter into effect,
it is the duty of all officers and employees of the town to report the
existence of nuisances to the Town Council and, for this purpose, the Town
Council, Building Inspector, the Police Department and the Fire Department or
other employees designated by the Town Council shall be permitted to visit or
enter into or on any building, lot, grounds or premises within the town to
ascertain and discover the existence of any nuisances and to make examination
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 92.02)  (Ord. 5-1997, passed 11-11-1997)
§ 92.03  NOTICE TO ABATE.
   (A)   In any case where any nuisance may be found to exist, it shall be the
duty of the Town Council to serve notice on the owner or occupant of the
premises where the nuisance exists, or on any other person so causing or
allowing the nuisance to exist, to abate the nuisance within a reasonable time.
In determining a reasonable time, the Council shall take into consideration the
degree of threat to the public health, safety and welfare and the means
required to abate the nuisance. It shall not be necessary for the Council to
designate in the notice the manner in which any nuisance shall be abated unless
the Council shall deem it advisable to do so; however, the Council shall
indicate in the notice the date within which the nuisance must be abated.
   (B)   In the event any building or premises shall become a nuisance as
herein provided, the Town Council shall notify the owner of the real estate of
the existence of a nuisance on the real estate, and shall further notify the
owner that the owner must take steps to abate the nuisance within 30 days from
the date of receipt of the notice, and that if the owner fails to do so, the
Town Council shall itself abate the nuisance within 30 days from the date of
receipt of the notice and hold a lien against the real estate for the cost
involved.
   (C)   (1)   Notice shall be sent by certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the address appearing on the tax duplicates for the real estate.
      (2)   In the event the owner is not at the address and the postal
authorities are not appraised of a new address, the Town Council shall take
reasonable measures to give notice to the owner.
   (D)   The requirements for service of notice under the provisions of
division (A) above and §
92.04(B) of this chapter below may be complied with by mailing the notice by
certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last known address of the
person sought to be notified, or by personal service of notice on the person by
any police officer so directed.
(Prior Code, § 92.03)  (Ord. 5-1997, passed 11-11-1997)
§ 92.04  ABATEMENT BY OWNER; FAILURE TO ABATE.
   (A)   The owner of any real estate on which is situated a nuisance may abate
the same by entering into a contract for the repair or alteration of any
existing structure which has been unoccupied because of damage or by entering
into contracts for the demolition of any existing building and its replacement
with a new building or for the landscaping of the premises in a manner which
will remove any hazard to the safety of pedestrians and motorists and which
will remove all physical blight from the premises.
   (B)   If the owner, occupant or other persons served with a notice to abate
the nuisance shall refuse or neglect to abate the nuisance within the
designated time after notice is given, that person shall be subject to a fine
of not more than $50. In addition, the Council may cause the nuisance to be
abated in any manner authorized by law, including the institution in the name
of the town against the owner, occupant or other person or an action and the
attorney’s fees incurred by the town.
(Prior Code, § 92.04)  (Ord. 5-1997, passed 11-11-1997)
§ 92.05  ABATEMENT BY TOWN.
   (A)   In the event the owner of any real estate on which is situated a
nuisance has not abated the nuisance within 30 days of receipt of notice, the
Council shall proceed to abate the nuisance and by landscaping the premises in
a manner which will remove any hazard to the safety of pedestrians and
motorists and which will remove all physical blight from the premises. It shall
be the duty of the Council to maintain this by landscaping until the real
estate is sold or otherwise alienated. However, the Council may extend the 30-
day period by an additional 30 days if the Council determines that the owner of
the real estate involved is making a good faith attempt to abate the nuisance
on the real estate.
   (B)   The Council may cause the nuisance to be abated by authorizing the
proper officer of the town to remove the nuisance with the employment of town
employees and charge the owner, occupant or other person for the cost of the
removal and abatement of the nuisance, the cost to be determined by doubling
the labor cost incurred by the town of abating the nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 92.05)  (Ord. 5-1997, passed 11-11-1997)
§ 92.06  BILLING FOR COST OF ABATEMENT.
   (A)   The Town Council shall submit a bill for labor, equipment and material
used in the demolition or initial landscaping to the owner of the real estate
involved. Thereafter, the Council shall submit a bill annually for the cost of
maintaining any landscaping.
   (B)   If the bill is not paid within 90 days from the date of submission,
the Council shall proceed to file a lien against the property in the amount of
the bill, together with interest at the rate of 10% per annum, plus costs and
reasonable attorney fees.
(Prior Code, § 92.06)  (Ord. 5-1997, passed 11-11-1997)
§ 92.07  TEST FOR NUISANCE.
   Whether or not a particular annoyance constitutes a nuisance shall depend
upon its effect on persons of ordinary health and average sensibilities, and
not its effect on persons who are delicate or abnormally sensitive, or whose
habits, tastes or conditions are different from persons of ordinary
sensibilities.
(Prior Code, § 92.07)  (Ord. 5-1997, passed 11-11-1997)
§ 92.08  NUISANCES CREATED BY OTHERS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, it shall not be essential that the
nuisance be created or contributed to by the owner or tenants, or their agents
or representatives, but merely that the nuisance is created or contributed to
by licensees, invitees, guests or other persons for whose conduct the owner or
operator is responsible or by persons whose conduct the owner or operator, by
the exercise of reasonable care, should have become aware.
(Prior Code, § 92.08)  (Ord. 5-1997, passed 11-11-1997)
§ 92.09  BURNING OF TRASH OR RUBBISH.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      OPEN BURNING.
      (1)   The burning of any materials wherein air contaminants resulting
from combustion are emitted directly into the air, without passing through a
stack or chimney from an enclosed chamber.
      (2)   OPEN BURNING includes burning of grass, grass clipping, weeds and/
or leaves (yard cleanup waste) and cardboard and/or trash.
   (B)   Limitations on open burning.
      (1)   No person shall start, kindle, cause, allow or maintain any form of
open burning of any materials on private or public property, except as
specifically authorized by this subchapter.
      (2)   No person shall burn any building or structure.
      (3)   No person shall conduct open burning on any street, alley, sidewalk
or property of another person without permission.
      (4)   No person shall conduct open burning during unfavorable
meteorological conditions, such as high winds, temperature inversions, air
stagnation and droughts.
   (C)   General rules for open burning.
      (1)   Burning must be in a non-combustible container that:
         (a)   Is sufficiently vented to induce adequate primary combustion;
         (b)   Has enclosed sides and bottom; and
         (c)   Has a mesh lid that reduces embers, ashes and debris.
      (2)   Burning may take place only between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 6:00
p.m.
      (3)   All fires must be attended at all times until completely
extinguished.
      (4)   A fire shall be extinguished immediately if it creates a:
         (a)   Pollution problem;
         (b)   Threat to public health;
         (c)   Nuisance; or
         (d)   Fire hazard.
      (5)   Only the burning of paper, charcoal, clean wood products and clean
petroleum products is allowed.
      (6)   Only the following types of fires are allowed, subject to all other
requirements of this subchapter:
         (a)   Fires for recreational or ceremonial purposes, such as fires for
scouting activities;
         (b)   Fires for cooking purposes, such as camp fires;
         (c)   Fires to burn remnants of pruning or to clear brush, shrubbery
or landscaping; and
         (d)   Fires to burn trash or rubbish.
      (7)   Fires shall not be more than three feet in height and four feet in
length, width or diameter.
      (8)   All burning shall comply with all other federal, state and local
laws, rules and ordinances.
   (D)   Variances. Any other type of fire or any variance or exception to this
subchapter must be approved by the Fire Chief or his or her designee in
advance.
   (E)   Enforcement. This subchapter is enforceable by the Town Marshal and
law enforcement officers within the town.
(Prior Code, § 92.09)  (Ord. 19-1982, passed 9-7-1982; Ord. 2012-4, passed 5-7-
2012)  Penalty, see §
92.99
WEEDS
§ 92.20  WEEDS AND RANK VEGETATION.
   (A)   Public nuisance declared. Allowing weeds, high grass and/or other rank
vegetation to grow on property is hereby defined as a public nuisance.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      WEED. Includes Canada thistle, field bindweed, johnsongrass, sorghum
almum, perennial sowthistle, quackgrass, Russian knapweed, wild garlic, wild
onion, and any other plant listed as a prohibited noxious weed by the state’s
Department of Natural Resources.
      WEEDS AND OTHER RANK VEGETATION. Grass and other vegetation that is
unkept and unmowed over a period of time and left to grow to a height in excess
of eight inches. The term shall not include:
         (a)   Agricultural and vegetable crops such as corn, wheat, hay and
pasture;
         (b)   Designated wetlands, parklands and forest preserves; and
         (c)   River banks, creek banks and drainage ditches from the
centerline of the waterway to the area within ten feet of the top edge of each
bank.
   (C)   Violation of ordinance. Any person may make a written complaint of
suspected violation of this subchapter to the Town Clerk-Treasurer at the Town
Hall, and that complaint shall then be investigated by the town. If the
complaint is substantiated by the town, the town may commence further
proceedings under this subchapter.
   (D)   Notice of violation.
      (1)   Upon receipt of information from the town’s Police Department or
other town employees that a violation of this subchapter exists, the Clerk-
Treasurer shall issue a written notice to cut and remove the weeds and other
rank vegetation within five days, which shall be served by certified mail,
return receipt requested, or an equivalent service permitted under I.C. 1-1-7-
1 to the following at the last address of the owner for the property as
indicated in the records of the County Auditor on the date of the notice:
         (a)   The owner of record of real property with a single owner; or
         (b)   At least one of the owners of real property with multiple
owners.
      (2)   If an initial notice of the violation of an ordinance adopted under
this section was provided by certified mail or equivalent service under I.C. 1-
1-7-1, a continuous abatement notice may be posted at the property at the time
of violation instead of by certified mail or equivalent service. A continuous
abatement notice serves as notice to the real property owner that each
subsequent violation during the same year for which the initial notice of the
violation was provided may be abated by the municipality or its contractors.
   (E)   Removal by town. If the landowner fails to cut and remove the weeds
and other rank vegetation within the five-day time prescribed by the written
notice of violation, the town or a contractor of its hiring may enter onto the
real property to cut and remove the weeds and other rank vegetation and abate
the ordinance violation.
   (F)   Notice of costs to landowner. Following any abatement of the ordinance
violation by the town or its contractor, the Clerk-Treasurer shall prepare a
certified statement of the actual costs incurred by the town in the cutting and
removal of the weeds and other rank vegetation, including administrative costs
and removal costs.
      (1)   The certified statement shall be delivered to the landowner by the
town’s Police Department or by the method set forth for notices of violation
above. If the landowner fails to pay the certified amount within ten days after
receiving the certified statement, the Clerk-Treasurer shall certify to the
County Auditor the amount of the original certified statement, plus any
additional administrative costs incurred in the certification process.
      (2)   The County Auditor shall place the total amount certified on the
tax duplicate for the property affected, per I.C. 36-7-10.1-4, and the total
amount, including any accrued interest, shall then be collected as delinquent
taxes are collected and shall be disbursed to the general fund of the town.
   (G)   Complaint and summons. If the landowner fails to cut and remove the
weeds and other rank vegetation within the five-day time prescribed by the
written notice of violation, the violation may also be enforced as any other
nuisance violation under town code and state law, such as by the filing of an
ordinance violation proceeding in a court of appropriate jurisdiction by the
Town Attorney, to include the Town Attorney’s fees as provided by nuisance law.
   (H)   Administration of section. This subchapter shall be administered by
the town’s employees, agents, and departments as directed and specified within
the particular terms and provisions of this subchapter, including the town’s
Police Department and Clerk-Treasurer.
   (I)   Appeals. The landowner may appeal a notice of violation or a certified
statement of costs issued under this subchapter to the Town Council. The appeal
must be in writing and mailed or delivered to the Clerk-Treasurer at the Town
Hall. The filing of an appeal does not automatically stay enforcement
proceedings.
      (1)   The Council shall conduct an investigation of the appeal and make a
written determination which shall be forwarded to the landowner. If the issue
is whether a plant is a prohibited or noxious weed, the Council shall consult
with the Indiana Cooperative Extension Service as to its categorization.
      (2)   The decision of the Council on all appeals shall be
administratively final and any further appeal by the landowner must be through
the courts of the county.
(Prior Code, § 92.20)  (Ord. 2013-6, passed 6-11-2013)
§ 92.21  OWNERS RESPONSIBLE FOR TRIMMING, REMOVAL AND THE LIKE.
   All property owners within the corporate limits of the town shall be
required and be financially responsible for the removal, cutting or disposal
and elimination of weeds, grasses and rank vegetation or other uncontrolled
plant growth on their property which, at the time of notice, is in excess of
ten inches in average height, and in no event exceeds 15 inches maximum height
on at least 20% of the surface area of the property.
(Prior Code, § 92.21)
§ 92.22  FILING COMPLAINT.
   Any person, including the town, who believes there is property located
within the corporate limits of the town which has growing plant matter in
violation of this subchapter, shall make a written complaint signed, dated and
filed with the Clerk-Treasurer. If the town makes the complaint, an employee,
officer or Council member of the town shall file the complaint in all respects
as set out above.
(Prior Code, § 92.22)
§ 92.23  NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Upon receiving notice of the probable existence of weeds in
violation of this subchapter, a person designated by the enforcement authority
shall make an inspection and prepare a written report to the enforcement
authority regarding the condition.
      (2)   The enforcement authority, upon concluding that there is a probable
belief that this subchapter has been violated, shall forward written
notification in the form of a destruction order to the property owner and/or
the person occupying the property as that information is contained within the
records of the Clerk-Treasurer or any other town agency.
      (3)   This notice shall be served in writing by certified mail. The
notice shall provide that, within seven calendar days after the receipt of the
notice, the designated violation shall be removed by the property owner and/or
person occupying the property.
   (B)   (1)   All notices are to be in writing, and all filings are to be with
the Clerk-Treasurer.
      (2)   Certified mailing to the Clerk-Treasurer or others is deemed filed
on the date of posting to the United States Postal Service.
(Prior Code, § 92.23)
§ 92.24  APPEALS.
   (A)   (1)   The property owner may appeal by filing written notice of
objections with the enforcement authority within 48 hours of the notice,
excluding weekends and holidays, if the property owner contests the finding of
the enforcement authority.
      (2)   It is the property owner’s responsibility to demonstrate that the
matter in question is shrubs, trees, cultivated plants or crops or is not
otherwise in violation of this subchapter, and should not be subject to
destruction under this subchapter.
   (B)   An appeal by the property owner shall be brought before the Town
Council and shall be decided by a majority vote of the Council members in
attendance, being at a regularly scheduled or special meeting of the Town
Council.
(Prior Code, § 92.24)
§ 92.25  ABATEMENT BY TOWN.
   In the event that the property owner shall fail to comply with the
destruction order within seven calendar days and has not filed a notice within
48 hours to the Clerk-Treasurer of an intent to appeal, the enforcement
authority may employ the services of town employees or outside contractors and
remove the weeds to conform to this subchapter by all lawful means.
(Prior Code, § 92.25)
§ 92.26  LIABILITY.
   (A)   The property owner is liable for all costs of removal, cutting or
destruction of weeds, as defined by this subchapter.
   (B)   (1)   The property owner is responsible for all collection costs
associated with weed destruction, including, but not limited to, court costs,
attorneys’ fees and interest on any unpaid amounts incurred by the town.
      (2)   If the enforcement authority uses municipal employees, the town
shall set and assign an appropriate per hour rate for employees, equipment,
supplies and chemicals which may be used.
   (C)   All sums payable by the property owner are to be paid to the Clerk-
Treasurer and to be deposited in a general fund, as compensation for expenses
and costs incurred by the town.
   (D)   (1)   If the property owner fails to pay a bill issued under this
subchapter within the time specified in this subchapter, the town shall certify
to the County Auditor the amount of the bill, plus any additional
administrative costs incurred in the certification.
      (2)   The Auditor shall place the total amount certified on the tax
duplicate for the property affected, and the total amount, including any
accrued interest, shall be collected as delinquent taxes are collected and
shall be disbursed to the General Fund of the town.
(I.C. 36-7-10.1-4)  (Prior Code, § 92.26)
§ 92.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person found in violation of §
92.09 of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of $50 per occurrence, not to
exceed $200 per day.
(Prior Code, § 92.99)
   (C)   (1)   The owner(s) of the real estate on which a violation of §
92.20 of this chapter has taken place shall be penalized for violation of §
92.20 of this chapter as follows:
         (a)   First violation: fine of $25;
         (b)   Second violation: fine of $50; and
         (c)   Third and subsequent violations: fine of $100 for each
violation.
      (2)   Each day a violation continues after receipt of a notice of
violation shall constitute a separate offense. The civil fine shall be in
addition to the abatement cost recovery procedures set forth in I.C. 36-7-10.1-
4.
(Ord. 19-1982, passed 9-7-1982; Ord. 2012-4, passed 5-7-2012; Ord. 2013-6,
passed 6-11-2013)
CHAPTER 93:  STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Generally
   
93.01   Street addresses
Excavations and Construction
   
93.15   Opening permit required
   
93.16   Application and cash deposit
   
93.17   Restoration of pavement
   
93.18   Barriers around excavations
   
93.19   Warning lights
   
93.20   Sidewalk construction
Obstructions
   
93.35   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
93.36   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
93.37   Materials on street or sidewalk
GENERALLY
§ 93.01  STREET ADDRESSES.
   (A)   The street addresses in the town are hereby established in accordance
with the designation of the street addresses contained in the plat map, which
plat map is incorporated herein and made a part hereof by this reference.
   (B)   It is further ordained that the address of 01 Washington Street on the
above mentioned plat map shall be changed to 109 and 111 North Indiana Street.
   (C)   It is further ordained that the street addresses in the Fairview
Addition are as set forth in Exhibit “C” attached to the ordinance codified
herein.
(Prior Code, § 93.01)  (Ord. 7-1994, passed 9-14-1994)
EXCAVATIONS AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 93.15  OPENING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than an authorized town official,
to make any opening in any street, alley, sidewalk or public way of the town
unless a permit to make the opening has been obtained prior to commencement of
the work.
(Prior Code, § 93.15)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.16  APPLICATION AND CASH DEPOSIT.
   (A)   Each permit for making an opening shall be confined to a single
project and shall be issued by the authorized town official.
   (B)   Application shall be made on a form prescribed by the Town Council,
giving the exact location of the proposed opening, the kind of paving, the area
and depth to be excavated and other facts as may be provided for.
   (C)   The permit shall be issued only after a cash deposit sufficient to
cover the cost of restoration has been posted with the authorized town
official, conditioned upon prompt and satisfactory refilling of excavations and
restoration of all surfaces disturbed.
(Prior Code, § 93.16)
§ 93.17  RESTORATION OF PAVEMENT.
   (A)   The opening and restoration of a pavement or other surface shall be
performed under the direction and to the satisfaction of the authorized town
official, and in accordance with rules, regulations and specifications approved
by the Town Council.
   (B)   (1)   Upon failure or refusal of the permittee satisfactorily to fill
the excavation, restore the surface and remove all excess materials within the
time specified in the permit or where not specified therein, within a
reasonable time after commencement of the work, the town may proceed without
notice to make the fill and restoration, and the deposit referred to in §
93.16 of this chapter shall be forfeited.
      (2)   Thereupon, the deposit shall be paid into the appropriate town
fund, except the part demanded and paid to the permittee as the difference
between the deposit and the charges of the town for restoration services
performed by it.
      (3)   If the amount of the services performed by the town should exceed
the amount of the deposit, the Clerk-Treasurer or other proper administrative
officer shall proceed to collect the remainder due from the permittee.
(Prior Code, § 93.17)
§ 93.18  BARRIERS AROUND EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or opening any
street, sidewalk, alley or other public way shall have the excavation or
opening fully barricaded at all times to prevent injury to persons or animals.
(Prior Code, § 93.18)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.19  WARNING LIGHTS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or otherwise in any
manner obstructing a portion or all of any street, sidewalk, alley or other
public way, at all times during the night season shall install and maintain at
least two illuminated red lamps which shall be securely and conspicuously
posted on, at or near each end of the obstruction or excavation, and if the
space involved exceeds 50 feet in extent, at least one additional lamp for each
added 50 feet or portion thereof excavated or obstructed.
(Prior Code, § 93.19)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.20  SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the authorized town official to supervise
construction or repair of sidewalks within the town. He or she shall cause
specifications to be prepared for the construction of the various kinds of
pavements and transmit the specifications to the Town Council for approval.
   (B)   When the specifications are approved, the Town Council shall advertise
for proposals to do all the work which may be ordered by the town in
construction and repair of sidewalks, and shall authorize the town executive to
contract therefor, for a period not exceeding one year, with the lowest
responsible bidder, who shall give bond for the faithful performance of the
work. The town executive, if authorized by Town Council, may make separate
contracts for the different kinds of work with different parties.
(Prior Code, § 93.20)
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 93.35  UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the town by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk or other public way, without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
(Prior Code, § 93.35)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.36  STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk or other public way
within the town by erecting thereon any fence or building, or permitting any
fence or building to remain thereon. Each day that any fence or building is
permitted to remain upon the public way shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 93.36)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.37  MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk. No owner, occupant or
person having the care of any building or lot of land, bordering on any street
or sidewalk, shall permit it to be encumbered with barrels, boxes, cans,
articles or substances of any kind so as to interfere with the free and
unobstructed use thereof.
(Prior Code, § 93.37)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 94:  FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
94.01   Policy statement
   
94.02   Definitions
   
94.03   Unlawful practice
   
94.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
94.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
94.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage service
   
94.07   Interference, coercion, or intimidation
   
94.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
94.09   Equal access to housing in HUD programs
   
94.10   Exemptions
   
94.11   Administrative enforcement
§ 94.01  POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the town to provide, within constitutional
limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for
under the Federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 3601
et seq., the Federal Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended,
being 42 U.S.C. §§ 5301 et seq., and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(Ord. 2015-4, passed 6-15-2015)
§ 94.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who (I.C. 22-9.5-2-2):
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
   COMMISSION. The Indiana Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-
9-1-4 et seq.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-3)
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-4)
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
94.04, 94.05, 94.06, 94.07 or 94.08 of this chapter or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure or part of a building or structure that is
occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families (I.C. 22-9.5-2-8).
   FAMILIAL STATUS.
      (1)   One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18 years
being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of such
individual or the written permission of such parent or other person.
      (2)   The protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of
familial status shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process
of securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18
years.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual (I.C. 22-9.5-2-9), with the status of
such family being further defined herein.
   HANDICAP.
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person’s major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment;
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the Federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq.; and
         (e)   Any other impairment defined in 910 I.A.C. 2-3.
      (2)   The term HANDICAP shall not include current illegal use of or
addictions to a controlled substance as defined in 21 U.S.C. § 802 and 910
I.A.C. 2-3-2(14); nor does the term HANDICAP include an individual solely
because that individual is a transvestite 910 I.A.C. 2-3-2(14).
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees,
trustees in cases under U.S.C. Title 11, receivers and fiduciaries.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the rights to occupy the premises owned by the occupant.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-13)
(Ord. 2015-4, passed 6-15-2015)
§ 94.03  UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below, §
94.09 of this chapter and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against
discrimination in the sale or rental of housing set forth in I.C. 22-9.5-5-
1 and in §
94.04 of this chapter shall apply to:
      (1)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) and I.C. 22-9.5-3;
and
      (2)   Other than the provisions of division (B) below, nothing in §
94.04 of this chapter shall apply to:
         (a)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that, in the sale of such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24-month period. The
private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or
reserved on his or her behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the
proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses
at any one time. The sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be
exempted from application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
            1.   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental
facilities or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesperson, or any
person in the business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or
agent of any such broker, agent or salesperson or person; and
            2.   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
94.04(A)(3) of this chapter, but noting in this provision shall prohibit the
use of attorneys, escrow agents, abstracters, title companies and other such
professional assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this chapter; or
         (b)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied
or intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently
of each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (B)   For the purposes of division (A)(2) above, a person shall be deemed to
be in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as agent,
other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in providing sales
or rental facilities or services in two or more transactions involving the sale
or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   They are the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 2015-4, passed 6-15-2015)
§ 94.04  DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   (A)   As made applicable by §
94.03 of this chapter and except as exempted by §§
94.03(A)(2) and
94.09 of this chapter, it shall be unlawful:
      (1)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or
to refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable
or deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin;
      (2)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services of
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin;
      (3)   To make, print or publish, or cause to be made, printed or
published any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or
rental of a dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation or
discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status
or national origin or an intention to make any such preference, limitation or
discrimination;
      (4)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin that any dwelling is not available
for inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is in fact so available;
      (5)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induct any person to sell or
rent any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry
into the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin;
      (6)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap
of:
         (a)   The buyer or renter;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (7)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a handicap of:
         (a)   The person;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, DISCRIMINATION includes:
      (1)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises; except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may where it is reasonable to do so condition permission for a modification on
the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
      (2)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
      (3)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after 9-
13-1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a manner
that;
         (a)   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
         (b)   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
         (c)   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
            1.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
            2.   Light, switches, electrical outlets, thermostats and other
environmental controls in accessible locations; and
            3.   Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
   (C)   Compliance with the appropriate requirement Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq., and of the American
National Standard for Buildings and Facilities providing accessibility an
usability for physically handicapped people (commonly cited as “ANSIA117.1”)
suffices to satisfy the requirements hereof.
   (D)   Nothing in this section requires that a dwelling be made available to
an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health of
safety of other individuals of whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 2015-4, passed 6-15-2015)
§ 94.05  DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED
TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap or familial status.
(Ord. 2015-4, passed 6-15-2015)
§ 94.06  DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICE.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple- listing service, real estate brokers’
organization or other service, organization or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her
in the terms or conditions of such access, membership or participation, on
account of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national
origin.
(Ord. 2015-4, passed 6-15-2015)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.07  INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
94.03,
94.04,
94.05 or
94.06 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-4, passed 6-15-2015)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.08  PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under code or law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempt to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status or national origin and because he or she is or has been
selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings; or
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A)
above; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
   (C)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to
discourage such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in
any of the activities, services, organizations or facilities described in
division (A) above, or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly
opposing any denial of the opportunity to participate shall be fined according
to local, state and federal law; and if bodily injury results shall be fined
not more than $10,000 or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both; and if
death results shall be subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for
life.
(Ord. 2015-4, passed 6-15-2015)
§ 94.09  EQUAL ACCESS TO HOUSING IN HUD PROGRAMS.
   Pursuant to 24 C.F.R. § 5.403 and 24 C.F.R. § 574.3, the definition of
“family” is revised to include families regardless of the actual or perceived
sexual orientation, gender identity or marital status of its members.
(Ord. 2015-4, passed 6-15-2015)
§ 94.10  EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association or society, or any non-profit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color or national
origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact
open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes
provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to its members
or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons. As used in this section, HOUSING FOR
OLDER PERSONS means housing:
      (1)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary of
the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the state’s Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly person (as defined in the state or federal program);
      (2)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, person 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years
of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 2015-4, passed 6-15-2015)
§ 94.11  ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commissioner as set forth
in division (B) below shall be vested in the chief elected official of the
town.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the town, because
of lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under this chapter, herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of this chapter by
complainants to the state’s Civil Rights Commission for administrative
enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6 and the chief elected official of
the town shall refer all said complaints to the Commission as provided for
under division (A) above to said Commission for purposes of investigation,
resolution and appropriate relief as provided for under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the town shall administer
their departments, programs and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter
and shall cooperate with the chief elected official and the Commission to
further such purposes.
   (D)   The chief elected official of the town, or the chief elected
official’s designee, shall provide information on remedies available to any
aggrieved person or complainant requesting such information.
(Ord. 2015-4, passed 6-15-2015)
CHAPTER 95:  PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
95.01   Public park hours
§ 95.01  PUBLIC PARK HOURS.
   The Roachdale Public Park will be closed to the public from 10:00 p.m. to 5:
00 a.m. every day of the week.
(Prior Code, § 95.01)  (Res. passed 7-10-2001)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
      
111.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
112.   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESSES
CHAPTER 110:  GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   Licenses required to engage in certain trades, businesses or
professions
   
110.02   Application for license
   
110.03   Standards; issuance of license
   
110.04   Date and duration of license
   
110.05   License not transferable
   
110.06   License certificate to be displayed
   
110.07   Revocation or suspension
   
110.08   Appeal and review
   
110.09   Exemptions
   
110.10   No prohibition to the issuance of licenses for sale of alcoholic
beverages
§ 110.01  LICENSES REQUIRED TO ENGAGE IN CERTAIN TRADES, BUSINESSES OR
PROFESSIONS.
   No person shall engage in any of the trades, businesses or professions for
which licenses are required by any provision of this code or any other
ordinance of the town without first applying for and obtaining a license from
the Clerk-Treasurer or other duly authorized issuing authority.
(Prior Code, § 110.01)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.02  APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   All original applications for licenses, unless otherwise specifically
provided, shall be made to the Clerk-Treasurer in writing upon forms to be
furnished by him or her and shall contain:
      (1)   The name of the applicant and of each officer, partner or business
associate;
      (2)   His or her present occupation and place of business;
      (3)   His or her place of residence for five years next preceding the
date of application;
      (4)   The nature and location of the intended business or enterprise;
      (5)   The period of time for which the license is desired;
      (6)   A description of the merchandise to be sold, if for a vendor; and
      (7)   Other information concerning the applicant and his or her business
as may be reasonable and proper, having regard to the nature of the license
desired.
   (B)   Renewal of an annual license may be granted to a licensee in good
standing upon the original application, unless otherwise provided.
   (C)   With each original or renewal application, the applicant shall deposit
the fee required for the license requested.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to knowingly make any false statement or
representation in the license application.
(Prior Code, § 110.02)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.03  STANDARDS; ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   (1)   Upon receipt of an application for a license, accompanied by the
proper fee, if approval by another officer or department is not required, the
Clerk-Treasurer shall forthwith deposit the fee in the general fund of the town
and issue to the applicant a proper license certificate signed by the Clerk-
Treasurer and any other appropriate town official.
      (2)   If, for any reason, the license is not issued, the license fee
shall be returned to the applicant.
   (B)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (C)   (1)   The application shall be approved unless investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals or general welfare.
      (2)   Tangible evidence of any of the following will constitute valid
reasons for disapproval of an application:
         (a)   The applicant has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
         (b)   The applicant has made willful misstatements in the application;
         (c)   The applicant has committed prior violations of ordinances
pertaining to itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors and the like;
         (d)   The applicant has committed prior fraudulent acts;
         (e)   The applicant has a record of continual breaches of solicited
contracts; or
         (f)   The applicant has an unsatisfactory moral character.
(Prior Code, § 110.03)
§ 110.04  DATE AND DURATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   (1)   A license shall not be valid beyond the expiration date therein
specified and, unless otherwise provided, shall not extend beyond December 31
of the year issued.
      (2)   However, at any time after December 14, licenses may be issued for
the ensuing calendar year.
      (3)   Unless otherwise specified, the full annual fee will be required of
licensees irrespective of the date of issue of the license.
   (B)   In no event shall a license be granted to any business or any person
for a longer time than one year.
(Prior Code, § 110.04)
§ 110.05  LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   Every license shall be issued to a real party in interest in the enterprise
or business, and unless otherwise provided, no license shall be assigned or
transferred.
(Prior Code, § 110.05)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.06  LICENSE CERTIFICATE TO BE DISPLAYED.
   (A)   Every licensee carrying on business at a fixed location shall keep
posted in a prominent place upon the licensed premises the license certificate.
   (B)   Other licensees shall carry their license certificates at all times
and, whenever requested by any officer or citizen, shall exhibit the license.
(Prior Code, § 110.06)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.07  REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be suspended or revoked for any of
the following reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony or conviction of the licensee
of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in a way so
as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals or general welfare of
the public.
(Prior Code, § 110.07)
§ 110.08  APPEAL AND REVIEW.
   (A)   (1)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
110.03 or
110.07 of this chapter shall have the right to appeal to the Town Council.
      (2)   The appeal shall be taken by filing with the Town Council, within
14 days after notice of the decision has been mailed to the person’s last known
address, a written statement setting forth the grounds for appeal.
      (3)   The Town Council shall set the time and place for a hearing, and
notice for the hearing shall be given to the person by mail at his or her last
known address, at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
   (B)   The order of the Town Council after the hearing shall be final.
(Prior Code, § 110.08)
§ 110.09  EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any business, occupation
or profession which is exempt from municipal licensing or license taxes
pursuant to state or federal law.
(Prior Code, § 110.09)
§ 110.10  NO PROHIBITION TO THE ISSUANCE OF LICENSES FOR SALE OF ALCOHOLIC
BEVERAGES.
   After review of town records, the Council finds no prohibition to the
issuance of licenses for the sale of alcoholic beverages within town limits.
(Prior Code, § 110.10)  (Ord. passed 5-9-1990)
CHAPTER 111:  PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Declaration of nuisance
   
111.03   Exceptions
   
111.04   Violators
   
111.05   Hours of solicitation
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ORGANIZATION, CLUB. An affiliated group of individuals, including
unincorporated associations and not-for-profit entities. Examples: Downtown
Merchants; Fire Department; American Legion; Parent-Teacher Organization; Boy
and Girl Scouts.
   PEDDLER. A business, organization, club or individual who goes from house to
house, from place to place or from street to street selling goods, wares or
merchandise, or services for any purpose whatsoever, including non-profit
fundraisers. Examples: candy; cookies; housewares; raffle tickets; donations
for the sick.
   SOLICITATION. The act of a business, organization, club or individual to
sell, offer for sale, purchase, offer to purchase or exchange goods or services
whether for monetary consideration or as a donation.
   SOLICITOR. A business, organization, club or individual who goes from house
to house, from place to place or from street to street soliciting or taking
orders for the sale of goods, wares or merchandise or for the performance of
services in the future. Examples: windows; vacuums; awnings; insurance;
publications.
(Ord. 2018-5, passed 5-8-2018)
§ 111.02  DECLARATION OF NUISANCE.
   No person shall engage in the business of peddler or solicitor within the
town, unless under an exception allowed in this chapter.
(Ord. 2018-5, passed 5-8-2018)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03  EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   Minor children who are residents of the town;
   (B)   Students and other persons affiliated with the North Putnam Community
School Corporation;
   (C)   Home-school students and their family members who reside within the
boundaries of the North Putnam Community School District;
   (D)   Not-for-profit entities which are exempt from the state’s gross retail
tax under I.C. 6-2.5-5-23, as same may be amended from time to time;
   (E)   Any entity that is exempt from local licensing pursuant to state law,
regulation or ordinance;
   (F)   Any entity that is registered with the town to do business in the
town;
   (G)   Any person delivering newspapers, fuel, dairy products, bakery goods
or groceries to regular customers on established routes; or
   (H)   Any person who has an established place of business where the goods
being sold are offered for sale on a regular basis and in which the buyer has
initiated contact with, and specifically requested a home visit by said person.
(Ord. 2018-5, passed 5-8-2018)
§ 111.04  VIOLATORS.
   (A)   Any unexempted business, organization, club or individual that engages
in the business of peddler or solicitor within the town violates this chapter
and commits a nuisance.
   (B)   Further, it shall be unlawful for a person soliciting door-to-door in
the town to:
      (1)   Call at the rear or side door of any place or dwelling unless it is
clearly marked to do so in the front of the dwelling;
      (2)   Remain on the premises after being asked to leave by the owner,
occupant or other person having authority over such premises;
      (3)   To misrepresent or make false, deceptive or misleading statements
while engaged in canvassing, the purpose of his or her business, identity or
the identity of the organization he or she represents;
      (4)   To impede the free use of sidewalks, streets and/or alleys by
pedestrians and vehicles. Where the sales are made from vehicles, all traffic
and parking regulations shall be observed;
      (5)   To make any loud noises or use any sound amplifying device to
attract customers if the noise produced is capable of being plainly heard
outside a 100-foot radius or more; and
      (6)   To allow rubbish or litter to accumulate in or around the area in
which he or she is conducting business.
(Ord. 2018-5, passed 5-8-2018)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.05  HOURS OF SOLICITATION.
   (A)   Soliciting may be only be done between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 7:00
p.m.
   (B)   Soliciting may not be conducted at any dwelling or other place between
the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m., except by previous scheduled appointment.
   (C)   Soliciting may not take place at any dwelling or other place where a
sign is a displayed bearing the wording “No Solicitors”, “No Soliciting”, “No
Peddlers” or words of similar meaning.
(Ord. 2018-5, passed 5-8-2018)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99  PENALTY.
   Any business, organization, club or individual violating the provisions of
this chapter shall, upon violation, be fined the sum of $100. Each separate act
of solicitation shall constitute a separate violation.
(Ord. 2018-5, passed 5-8-2018)
CHAPTER 112:  ADULT ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESSES
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Statement of purpose
   
112.02   Findings
   
112.03   Definitions
   
112.04   Premises requirements
   
112.05   Operational requirements
Licensing
   
112.20   Applicability
   
112.21   License required
   
112.22   License fee
   
112.23   License application
   
112.24   Grounds for denial
   
112.25   Grounds for suspension or revocation; hearing
   
112.26   Judicial review of denial, suspension or revocation
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01  STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate adult entertainment businesses
and related activities, to promote the health, safety, morals and general
welfare of the citizens of the and to establish reasonable and uniform
provisions to prevent the deleterious effects of adult entertainment businesses
within the town. The provisions of this chapter have neither the purpose, nor
effect, of imposing a limitation or restriction on the content of any
communicative materials, including sexually-oriented materials. Similarly, it
is not the intent nor effect of this chapter to restrict or deny access by the
distributors and exhibitors of sexually-oriented entertainment to their
intended market. Further, it is not the intent nor effect of this chapter to
condone or legitimize the distribution of obscene materials. It is not the
intent, nor effect, of this chapter to limit or restrict the lawful activities
permitted under I.C. Title 7.1.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 12-10-2013)
§ 112.02  FINDINGS.
   Based on evidence concerning the adverse secondary effects of adult
entertainment businesses on the community presented in hearing(s) and in
reports made available to the Town Council, and on findings incorporated in the
cases of City of Renton v. Playtime Theatres, Inc., 475 U.S.41 (1986), Young v.
American Mini Theatres, 427 U.S.50 (1976), Barnes v. Glen Theatre, Inc., 501
U.S.560 (1991), Arcara v. Cloud Books, Inc., 478 U.S.697 (1986), California v.
LaRue, 409 U.S.109 (1972), Iacobucci v. City of Newport, KY, 479 U.S.92 (1986),
United States v. O’Brien, 391 U.S.367(1968), City of Erie v. Pap’s A.M., 120
S.Ct. 1382 (2000), City of Los Angeles v. Alameda Books, Inc., 122 S.Ct 1728
(2002), Broadway Books, Inc. v. Roberts, 642 F. Supp. 486 (E.D. Tenn. 1986),
DLS, Inc. v. City of Chattanooga, 107F.3d403 (6th Cir. 1997), Pleasureland
Museum, Inc. v. Beutter, 2002 WL 818791 (7th Cir. 2002), Kev, Inc. v. Kitsap
County, 793F.2dl053 (9th Cir. 1986), Hang On, Inc. v. City of Arlington, 65F.2d
248 (5th Cir. 1995), South Florida Free Beaches, Inc. v. City of Miami,
734F.2d608 (11th Cir. 1984), and Mitchell et al v. Commission on Adult
Entertainment Establishments of the State of Delaware et al, 10F.3dl23 (3rd
Cir. 1993), Ellwest Stereo Theatre, Inc. v. Boner, 718 F. Supp. 1553 (M.D.
Tenn. 1989), City of Lincoln Nebraska v. ABC Books, Inc., 470 N.W. 2d 760 (Neb.
1991), Berg v. Health & Hosp, Corp. of Marion County, 865 F.2d 797 (7th Cir.
1989), Shultz v. Cumberland, 228 F.3d 831 (7th Cir. 2000), as well as studies
conducted in communities including, but not limited to Indianapolis, Indiana;
Phoenix, Arizona; Minneapolis, Minnesota; Houston, Texas; Amarillo, Texas;
Garden Grove, California; Los Angeles, California; Whittier, California;
Austin, Texas; Seattle, Washington; Oklahoma City, Oklahoma; Cleveland, Ohio;
and Beaumont, Texas; findings reported in the Final Report of the Attorney
General’s Commission on Pornography (1986), the Report of the Attorney
General’s Working Group On the Regulation of Sexually-Oriented Businesses (June
6, 1989, State of Minnesota); and statistics of the U.S. Department of Health
and Human Services, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the Council
finds:
   (A)   Adult entertainment businesses lend themselves to ancillary unlawful
and unhealthy activities that are presently insufficiently controlled by the
operators of the establishments;
   (B)   Crime statistics show that all types of crimes, especially sex-related
crimes, occur with more frequency in neighborhoods where adult entertainment
businesses are located;
   (C)   Sexual acts, including masturbation, oral sex and anal sex, occur at
adult entertainment businesses, especially those which provide booths or
cubicles for viewing films, videos or live sex shows;
   (D)   Acts of prostitution commonly occur at adult entertainment businesses;
   (E)   Persons frequent certain adult theaters and other adult entertainment
businesses for the purpose of engaging in sex within the premises;
   (F)   At least 50 communicable diseases may be spread by activities that
occur in adult entertainment businesses, including, but not limited to,
syphilis, gonorrhea, human immunodeficiency virus infection (HIV-AIDS), genital
herpes, hepatitis B, Non A, salmonella infections and shigella infections;
   (G)   In the four years preceding the effective date of this chapter, the
city experienced an outbreak of primary and secondary (infectious) syphilis,
yielding the highest and second highest annual case rates of any city and
county in the United States;
   (H)   Prostitution, sexual assaults and other criminal activity occur at
adult entertainment businesses;
   (I)   Prostitution is connected to the spread of sexually transmitted
diseases;
   (J)   Adult entertainment businesses have operational characteristics which
should be reasonably regulated in order to protect those substantial
governmental concerns; and
   (K)   The general welfare, health, morals and safety of the citizens of the
city will be promoted by the enactment of this chapter.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 12-10-2013)
§ 112.03  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE.
      (1)   An establishment having at least 25% of its:
         (a)   Retail floor space used for the display of adult products;
         (b)   Stock in trade consisting of adult products; or
         (c)   Weekly revenue derived from adult products.
      (2)   For purposes of this definition, the phrase “adult products” means
books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter or photographs, films,
motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, tapes, records or other forms of
visual or audio representations which are distinguished or characterized by
their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas. For purposes of this definition, the
phrase “adult products” also means a device designed or marketed as useful
primarily for the stimulation of human genital organs, or for sadomasochistic
use or abuse. Such devices shall include, but are not limited to, phallic
shaped vibrators, dildos, muzzles, whips, chains, bather restraints, racks,
non-medical enema kits, body piercing implements (excluding earrings or other
decorative jewelry) or other tools of sado-masochistic abuse.
   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, tavern, theater, restaurant or similar
establishment that regularly features:
      (1)   Live performances by topless or bottomless dancers, go-go dancers,
exotic dancers, strippers or similar entertainers, where such performances are
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or
by exposure of specified anatomical areas;
      (2)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other
photographic reproductions which are distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis upon the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas for observation by patrons;
      (3)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or semi-nudity; or
      (4)   Persons who engage in erotic dancing or performances that are
intended for the sexual interests or titillation of an audience or customer.
   ADULT DRIVE-IN THEATER. An open lot or part thereof, with appurtenant
facilities, devoted primarily to the presentation of motion pictures, films,
theatrical productions and other forms of visual productions, for any form of
consideration, to persons in motor vehicles or on outdoor seats in which a
preponderance of the total presentation time is devoted to the showing of
materials distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting,
describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas for observation by patrons.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS. An adult bookstore, adult motion picture
theater, adult mini motion picture theater, adult motion picture arcade, adult
cabaret, adult drive-in theater, adult live entertainment arcade, adult motel
or adult services establishment, which is not operating under a valid State
Alcoholic Beverage Commission permit for retail sales of wine, beer or liquor
for on-premises consumption.
   ADULT LIVE ENTERTAINMENT ARCADE. Any building or structure which contains or
is used for commercial entertainment where the patron directly or indirectly is
charged a fee to view from an enclosed or screened area or booth a series of
live dance routines, strip performances or other gyrational choreography, which
performances are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified
sexual activities or by exposure of specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT MINI MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An enclosed building with a capacity of
more than five, but less than 50, persons, used for presenting films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, slides or similar photographic reproductions in
which a preponderance of the total presentation time is devoted to the showing
of materials which are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter
depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas for observation by patrons therein.
   ADULT MOTEL. A hotel, motel or similar establishment offering public
accommodations for any form of consideration that offers a sleeping room for
rent for a period of time that is less than ten hours or allows a tenant or
occupant of a sleeping room to sub-rent the room for a period of time that is
less than ten hours, and that provides patrons, upon request, with closed-
circuit television transmissions, films, motion pictures, video cassettes,
slides or other photographic reproductions which are distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis upon the depiction or description of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted or
invited wherein coin or slug-operated or electronically, electrically or
mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors or other
image-producing devices are maintained to show images to five or fewer persons
per machine at any one time, and where the images so displayed are
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting or describing
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An enclosed building with a capacity of 50 or
more persons used for presenting films, motion pictures, video cassettes,
slides or similar photographic reproductions in which a preponderance of the
total presentation time is devoted to showing of materials which are
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing
or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for
observation by patrons therein.
   ADULT SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT. Any building, premises, structure or other
facility, or any part thereof, under common ownership or control which provides
a preponderance of services involving specified sexual activities or display of
specified anatomical areas.
   NUDITY or STATE OF NUDITY. The appearance of a human bare buttock, anus,
anal cleft or cleavage, pubic area, male genitals, female genital or vulva,
with less than a fully opaque covering or a female breast with less than a
fully opaque covering of any part of the nipple, or human male genitals in a
discernibly turgid state even if completely and opaquely covered.
   SEMI-NUDE or SEMI-NUDITY. A state of dress in which clothing covers no more
than the genitals, pubic region and areola of the female breast, as well as
portions of the body covered by supporting straps or devices.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Any of the following:
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus or female breasts below a point immediately above the
top of the areolae; or
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernible turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Any of the following:
      (1)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
      (2)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy;
      (3)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic regions,
buttocks or female breasts;
      (4)   Flagellation or torture in the context of a sexual relationship;
      (5)   Masochism, erotic or sexually-oriented torture, beating or the
infliction of pain;
      (6)   Erotic touching, fondling or other such contact with an animal by a
human being; or
      (7)   Human excretion, urination, menstruation, vaginal or anal
irrigation as part of or in connection with any of the activities set forth in
divisions (1) through (6) above.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 12-10-2013)
§ 112.04  PREMISES REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to own or operate an adult entertainment business
that is not in compliance with the requirements stated in this section;
provided that, adult entertainment businesses in operation on the effective
date of this chapter shall have 60 days from such effective date to come into
compliance with divisions (B) through (H) below.
   (B)   (1)   Upon application for an adult entertainment business license or
a renewal of such a license, the application shall be accompanied by a diagram
of the premises showing a plan thereof specifying the location of one or more
manager’s stations and the location of all overhead lighting fixtures and
designating any portion of the premises in which patrons will not be permitted.
      (2)   A manager’s station may not exceed 32 square feet of floor area.
      (3)   The diagram shall also designate the place at which the license
will be conspicuously posted, if granted.
      (4)   A professionally prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer’s or
architect’s blueprint shall not be required; however, each diagram should be
oriented to the north or to some designated street or object and should be
drawn to a designated scale or with marked dimensions sufficient to show the
various internal dimensions of all areas of the interior of the premises to an
accuracy of plus or minus six inches.
      (5)   The Clerk-Treasurer may waive the foregoing diagram for renewal
applications if the applicant adopts a diagram that was previously submitted
and certifies that the configuration of the premises has not been altered since
the diagram was prepared.
   (C)   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager’s station
may be made without the prior approval of the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (D)   Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment.
   (E)   It shall be the duty of the owners and operator, and it shall also be
the duty of any agents and employees present in the premises, to ensure that no
patron is permitted access to any area of the premises that has been designated
as an area in which patrons will not be permitted in the application filed
pursuant to division (B) above.
   (F)   (1)   Except for those premises identified in §
112.03 of this chapter and those premises identified in division (H) below, the
premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of sufficient
intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted access at an
illumination of not less than ten footcandles as measured at the floor level.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the owners and operator, and it shall also
be the duty of any agents and employees present in the premises, to ensure that
the illumination described in this division (F) is maintained at all times that
any patron is present in the premises.
   (G)   All locational requirements of this section must be approved or denied
by the Clerk-Treasurer within 45 days from the time the application is filed.
   (H)   With respect to an adult entertainment business that has individual
booths:
      (1)   Each booth shall have a rectangular shaped entranceway of not less
than two feet wide and six feet high;
      (2)   There shall be no door, curtain or other obstruction blocking or
closing off such entranceway so as to obstruct the visibility of a patron;
      (3)   It is the duty of the owners and operator of the premises to ensure
that at least one employee is on duty and situated in each manager’s station at
all times that any patron is present inside the premises;
      (4)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from a manager’s station of every area of
the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose, excluding
restrooms. If the premises has two or more manager’s stations designated, then
the interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is
an unobstructed view of each area of the premises to which any patron is
permitted access for any purpose, excluding restrooms, from at least one of the
manager’s stations. The view required in this division (H)(4) must be by direct
line of sight from the manager’s station. Viewing booths must be separated at
least 12 inches from the exterior walls of any other viewing booths by open
space; and
      (5)   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access at an illumination of not less than ten footcandles as measured at the
floor level. However, if a lesser level of illumination shall be necessary to
enable a patron to view the adult entertainment in a booth, a lesser amount of
illumination may be maintained in the booth; provided, however, at no time
shall there be less than two footcandles of illumination, as measured from the
floor. It shall be the duty of the owners and operator, and it shall also be
the duty of any agents and employees present in the premises to ensure that the
illumination described in this division (H)(5) is maintained at all times that
any patron is present in the premises.
   (I)   A person having a duty under divisions (B) through (H) above commits a
violation if he or she knowingly fails to fulfill that duty.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 12-10-2013)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.05  OPERATIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to own or operate an adult entertainment business
that is not in compliance with the requirements stated in this section.
   (B)   (1)   An adult entertainment business shall be kept in a sanitary
condition at all times.
      (2)   As a condition of licensure under this chapter, the Town Marshal or
his or her designee shall have the right to enter any licensed premises during
business hours without notice to ensure compliance with this chapter, and it
shall be unlawful for a person to prevent or deny any such entry.
      (3)   If the Clerk-Treasurer shall determine, after investigation by the
county’s Health Department, that an unsanitary condition exists within an adult
entertainment business, the Clerk-Treasurer shall suspend the license for such
premises until such unsanitary condition is rectified.
   (C)   No licensee under this chapter, or his or her employee, shall violate
any state statute or town ordinance, or allow any other person to commit such a
violation, within such business or on parking areas or other property
immediately adjacent to or normally used for purposes of parking for such
business, which property is under the control of the business owner or owners
or their lessee or lessor.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 12-10-2013)  Penalty, see §
10.99
LICENSING
§ 112.20  APPLICABILITY.
   The following sections of this subchapter shall have no application to a
license applied for or issued under this chapter: §§
112.21 and
112.26(B) of this chapter.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 12-10-2013)
§ 112.21  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or operate an adult
entertainment business in the town without first obtaining a license therefor
from the town’s Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   A license granted pursuant to this section shall be subject to annual
renewal upon the written application of the applicant and a finding by the town
that the applicant is in compliance with all of the provisions of this chapter.
The renewal of the license shall be subject to the payment of the fee as set
forth in §
112.22 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 12-10-2013)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.22  LICENSE FEE.
   The annual license fee shall be for the period of January 1 to December 31
and shall be paid to the town’s Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 12-10-2013)
§ 112.23  LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   All applications for licenses shall be made to the town’s Clerk-
Treasurer. The application for a license required by this chapter shall include
the following information:
      (1)   Name and business address of the applicant;
      (2)   The name and address of the business;
      (3)   Telephone number of the applicant;
      (4)   The state of incorporation (where applicable);
      (5)   The names of partners or corporate officers (where applicable);
      (6)   The registered agent, his or her address and the principal office
of the corporation (where applicable);
      (7)   The length of time the business has been in the town;
      (8)   Any previous location or location change of the business within two
years;
      (9)   The applicant’s citizenship;
      (10)   Whether or not the applicant or any partner or corporate officer
for the applicant business has ever been denied a license, had a license
revoked or suspended;
      (11)   Whether all town, county and state taxes have been paid;
      (12)   The seating capacity of the establishment; and
      (13)   The number of business locations, stages, motion picture or video
screens, closed circuit televisions and motion picture or video screens,
projectors or other image-producing devices.
   (B)   The application shall be signed and sworn to be true and correct by
the applicant.
   (C)   (1)   Where a person seeks a license to operate an adult entertainment
business, the applicant may begin operating the facility 45 days after
submitting a completed application, even in those instances when the Clerk-
Treasurer denies the request to issue a license, except as otherwise set forth
in this paragraph.
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall have 45 days in which to determine
whether to issue a license. If the Clerk-Treasurer fails to act by either
granting or denying the license within 45 days, the license shall be granted by
operation of law.
      (3)   If the Clerk-Treasurer denies the request to issue a license, the
Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a conditional license to operate if a timely
petition for judicial review is filed within ten days of receipt of notice of
the Clerk-Treasurer’s decision. Such a conditional license shall operate in all
respects as a license until judicial review is completed by a trial court of
competent jurisdiction. A conditional license shall not permit the applicant to
operate in violation of any other ordinance or law. In particular, the
applicant shall not operate in violation of any zoning or land use laws.
   (D)   During the term of a license under this chapter, a licensee shall
provide the Clerk-Treasurer with written notice of any additions or changes in
the information given in the license application.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 12-10-2013)
§ 112.24  GROUNDS FOR DENIAL.
   An application for a license or for renewal of a license under this chapter
may be denied if the applicant:
   (A)   Where applicable, is not a corporation organized by law or authorized
and qualified to do business in the state;
   (B)   Has not fully paid the license fee;
   (C)   Is delinquent to the town, county or state for any taxes, or is
indebted to the town, county or state for any other reason unless the
delinquency or indebtedness is the subject of pending litigation; or
   (D)   Has failed to provide all information required by this chapter or has
falsely provided such information.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 12-10-2013)
§ 112.25  GROUNDS FOR SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION; HEARING.
   (A)   A license granted under this chapter may be suspended or revoked for
any reason an application for renewal may be denied under §
112.24 of this chapter, or if the licensee:
      (1)   Conducts the business or maintains the premises in such a manner as
to create a nuisance to the public;
      (2)   Knowingly permits any illegal conduct or practice to take place on
the business premises or in the conduct of the business; or
      (3)   Violates the premises requirements or operational requirements
provided in §§
112.04 and
112.05 of this chapter.
   (B)   A suspension or revocation of a license under this chapter shall not
be made without first holding a Clerk-Treasurer’s hearing under the procedures
provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 12-10-2013)
§ 112.26  JUDICIAL REVIEW OF DENIAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   (A)   A denial of an application for a license or for renewal of a license
under this may be appealed to the county’s Circuit or Superior Court.
   (B)   A suspension or revocation of a license under this chapter may be
appealed to the county’s Circuit or Superior Court.
   (C)   The appeal of a denial, suspension or revocation under this chapter
shall be subject to the same rules and procedures, and shall be conducted in
the same manner, as prescribed for judicial review under I.C. 4-21.5-5, as the
same shall be amended from time to time; provided, however, that,
notwithstanding the provisions of those statutes, the following requirements
apply to a petition for judicial review filed under this chapter:
      (1)   The petition must be filed within ten days of the issuance of the
license administrator’s decision; and
      (2)   Within 14 days from the date the town was served with the petition,
the Clerk-Treasurer shall prepare the town’s record for the petitioner to
transmit to the Court.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 12-10-2013)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130:  GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Curfew for minors
   
130.02   Fireworks
   
130.03   Noise
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01  CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   Curfew established.
      (1)   It is a curfew violation for a child 15, 16 or 17 years of age to
be in a public place between 11:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. on Saturday or Sunday.
      (2)   It is a curfew violation for a child 15, 16 or 17 years of age to
be in a public place after 9:00 p.m. on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday,
Thursday or Friday or before 5:00 a.m. on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday
or Friday.
      (3)   It is a curfew violation for a child under 15 years of age to be in
a public place after 9:00 p.m. or before 5:00 a.m. on any day.
(Prior Code, § 130.01)
   (B)   Exemptions. Division (A) above does not apply to a child who is:
      (1)   Accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or custodian;
      (2)   Accompanied by an adult specified by his or her parent, guardian or
custodian; or
      (3)   Participating in, going to or returning from:
         (a)   Lawful employment;
         (b)   A school sanctioned activity; or
         (c)   A religious event.
(Prior Code, § 130.02)  (Ord. 6-1996, passed 2-13-1996)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02  FIREWORKS.
   (A)   (1)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-11-14-10.5, consumer fireworks (as defined
by I.C. 22-11-14) may be used in the corporate limits of the town only during
the days and times listed in I.C. 22-11-14-10.5(c)(3), which are listed below:
         (a)   Between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and two hours after sunset on
June 29, June 30, July 1, July 2, July 3, July 5, July 6, July 7, July 8 and
July 9;
         (b)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight on July 4;
and
         (c)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. on December 31 and 1:00 a.m. on
January 1.
      (2)   Use of consumer fireworks at dates and times other than those
listed above within the town limits is prohibited.
      (3)   In the event that the above hours of use for consumer fireworks
listed in I.C. 22-11-14-10.5(c)(3) are amended by state statute, then the state
statute shall control.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall discharge fireworks such that any parts or
pieces thereof fall on the property of another person or entity, nor allow such
discharge to cause a fire hazard.
      (2)   Any person discharging fireworks shall promptly clean up any debris
left by them.
(Ord. 10-2018, passed 8-14-2018)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03  NOISE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person within the town:
      (1)   To use or operate any musical instrument, music player, radio,
stereo, television set or other machine or device for the production or
reproducing of sound at such a volume as to disturb the peace, quiet and
comfort of neighboring residents or any reasonable person of normal
sensitiveness residing or working in the area;
      (2)   To create any noise on any street, sidewalk or public place
adjacent to any church or school while the same is in use, which noise
unreasonably interferes with the working of such institution, provided
conspicuous signs are displayed in such streets, sidewalk or public place
indicating the presence of a church or school;
      (3)   To create any noise on any street, sidewalk, private or public
place, which noise unreasonably interferes, disturbs the peace, quiet and
comfort of neighboring residents or any reasonable person of normal
sensitiveness working or residing in the area;
      (4)   To keep or maintain, or permit the keeping of, upon any premises
owned, occupied or controlled by such person any animal or fowl otherwise
permitted to be kept which, by any sound, cry or behavior, shall cause
annoyance or discomfort to a reasonable person or normal sensitiveness; or
      (5)   To operate any machinery, construction equipment, home repair
equipment, equipment to repair, rebuild or test motor vehicles, pump, fan,
compressor, wrench, drill, hammer, air conditioning apparatus or similar
mechanical device, mobile or fixed, or to run, operate or test any type of
motorized vehicle, in any manner so as to create any noise as to disturb the
peace, quiet and comfort of neighboring residents and/or persons between the
hours of:
         (a)   10:00 p.m. on a Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday
and 6:00 a.m. of the following day;
         (b)   11:00 p.m. on a Friday or Saturday and 7:00 a.m. of the
following day;
         (c)   On such dates and times as may be established by the Town
Council from time to time, with due notice of any such special event having
been made in advance to those persons affected; and
         (d)   Noises created by power grass and weed cutting, garden
equipment, or tree trimming equipment are limited to the hours of 8:00 a.m. and
9:00 p.m. seven days a week, as long as they are used as intended by the
manufacturer and in such a manner that a reasonable person of normal
sensitiveness residing or working in the area is not caused discomfort or
annoyance.
   (B)   The following uses and activities shall be exempt from noise level
regulations:
      (1)   Noises of safety signals, warning devices and emergency pressure
relief valves;
      (2)   Noises resulting from any authorized emergency vehicle, when
responding to an emergency call or acting in the time of an emergency; and
      (3)   Noise resulting from emergency work.
(Ord. 2-2018, passed 2-13-2018)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person violating §
130.02 of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof:
         (a)   Be fined $25 if the conviction is that person’s first violation
of §
130.02 of this chapter; or
         (b)   Be fined $50 if the conviction is that person’s second or
subsequent violation of §
130.02 of this chapter.
      (2)   In addition, a person violating I.C. 22-11-14 could be subject to
the civil and/or criminal penalties provided by that state law.
   (C)   Any person violating §
130.03 of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined $25 if the
conviction is that person’s first offense under this section, and fined $50 if
the conviction is that person’s second offense under this section, and fined
$75 if the conviction is that person’s third offense under this section, and
fined double the previous amount for each and every conviction after the third
offense.
(Ord. 2-2018, passed 2-13-2018; Ord. 10-2018, passed 8-14-2018)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   MOBILE HOMES AND MOBILE HOME PARKS
      
152.   FLOOD PREVENTION AND FLOOD-PRONE AREAS
      
153.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150:  BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
   
150.01   Unsafe Building Law; compliance
§ 150.01  UNSAFE BUILDING LAW; COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Under the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9, there is established the
Roachdale Unsafe Building Law.
   (B)   I.C. 36-7-9 is incorporated by reference. All proceedings within the
Town of Roachdale for the inspection, repair and removal of unsafe buildings
shall be governed by this law and if the provisions of this section conflict
with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9, then the provisions of the state statute
shall control.
   (C)   All buildings or portions thereof within the town which are determined
after inspection by the enforcement authority to be unsafe are declared to be
unsafe buildings as well as public nuisances and shall be abated by repair,
rehabilitation, demolition or removal, as directed by the enforcement
authority.
   (D)   (1)   The Town Superintendent is hereby designated the enforcement
authority and is authorized to administer and enforce the unsafe building law
and this section.
      (2)   The Town Council is hereby designated the hearing authority for
purposes of the Unsafe Building Law and this section.
   (E)   The definition of SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST set forth in I.C. 36-
7-9-2, is incorporated by reference herein as if copied in full.
   (F)   The description of an UNSAFE BUILDING contained in I.C. 36-7-9-4 is
incorporated herein.
   (G)   (1)   All work for the reconstruction, repair or demolition of
buildings and other structures shall be performed in a good workperson like
manner according to the accepted standards and practices in the trade.
      (2)   The provisions of the building laws, as defined in I.C. 22-12-1-
3 are incorporated herein.
      (3)   An Unsafe Building Fund is established in the operating budget of
the town in accordance with the provision of I.C. 36-7-9-14.
   (H)   (1)   No person, firm or corporation, whether as owner, lessee,
sublessee or occupant, shall erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move,
improve, remove, demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building or
premises, or cause or permit the same to be done, contrary to or in violation
of any of the provisions of this section or any other issued by the Town
Council.
      (2)   Any person violating the provision of this section or I.C. 36-7-9-
28, shall commit a Class C infraction for each day the violation continues.
   (I)   This section, and all ordinances supplemental or amendatory hereto,
shall be known as the “Building Code of the Town of Roachdale, Indiana,” may be
cited as so, and will be referred to herein as “this code”.
   (J)   The purpose of this code is to provide minimum standards for the
protection of life, health, environment, public safety and general welfare, and
for the conservation of energy in the design and construction of buildings and
structures.
(Prior Code, § 150.01)  (Ord. 2-2005, passed 9-2-2005; Ord. 6-2012, passed 6-
11-2012)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 151:  MOBILE HOMES AND MOBILE HOME PARKS
Section
   
151.01   Definitions
   
151.02   Building permit policy and variances
   
151.03   Violations
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. Incorporates I.C. 22-12-1-16 and 42 U.S.C. § 5402(6), and
shall mean:
      (1)   Any structure, transportable in one or more sections, which, in the
traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in
length or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet, and which is built
on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities, and includes the
plumbing, heating, air-conditioning and electrical systems contained therein;
except that, such term shall include any structure which meets all the
requirements of this paragraph, except the size requirements and with respect
to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification required by the
secretary and complies with the standards established under this chapter; and,
except that, such term shall not include any self-propelled recreational
vehicle; and
      (2)   A home with the characteristics of a mobile home (except that, it
was built after 6-15-1976) is considered to be a MANUFACTURED HOME.
   MOBILE HOME. Incorporates I.C. 16-41-27-4, and shall mean any dwelling,
including the equipment sold as part of the dwelling, that:
      (1)   Is factory assembled;
      (2)   Is transportable;
      (3)   Is intended for year-round occupancy;
      (4)   Is designed for transportation on its own chassis; and
      (5)   Was manufactured before the effective date of the Federal
Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Law of 1974 (42 U.S.C.
§§ 5401 et seq.).
   MOBILE HOME PARK OR COMMUNITY. The placement of or incorporates I.C. 16-41-
27-5; except that, for purposes of this chapter, MOBILE HOME PARK OR COMMUNITY
shall mean the placement of or construction of two or more mobile homes or
manufactured homes upon any tract of real estate.
(Ord. 2007-4, passed 10-9-2007)
§ 151.02  BUILDING PERMIT POLICY AND VARIANCES.
   (A)   Public policy. It shall be the public policy that there shall be no
placement of mobile homes or manufactured homes or construction of any
residence or business building without application for a building permit,
notice of hearing to all adjacent property owners and subsequent approval of
the Town Council.
   (B)   Existing use. This chapter shall not apply with respect to any mobile
home or manufactured home now in existence within the corporate limits of the
town prior to the passage of this chapter. However, if any such mobile home or
manufactured home is removed from the lot on which it is located, this chapter
shall apply to any new or replacement mobile home or manufactured home to be
located on such lot.
   (C)   No mobile or manufactured home parks or communities allowed. There
shall be no mobile home or manufactured home parks or communities located
within the corporate limits of the town unless and until a variance has been
granted by the Town Council, after a public hearing for which notice has been
given to all adjacent property owners to the site of the proposed variance.
   (D)   Granting of permits and variances. No permit for the parking of any
mobile home or manufactured home shall be issued by the Council, except as an
upgrade for an existing mobile home or manufactured home prior to the adoption
of this chapter. The Town Council shall have full, complete and absolute
authority to issue any and all variances which it may, in its discretion,
determine to be advisable. The Town Council shall determine if such mobile home
or manufactured home meets the following requirements and limitations.
      (1)   No more than one home may be included on any one lot within the
town. For the purposes of this section, a home shall include a permanent
dwelling structure, a mobile home or a manufactured home.
      (2)   A home, mobile home or manufactured home shall be located at least
five feet within the property line of the lot.
      (3)   The mobile home or manufactured home shall be located on a lot of
not less than 50 feet wide with a depth of 150 feet.
      (4)   No owner or occupant of any dwelling within the corporate limits of
the town shall park upon his or her land, or suffer to be parked upon his or
her land, any mobile home or manufactured home, which is connected to the
water, sewer and/or utility facilities of the dwelling so owned or occupied by
such owner, without have obtained prior written permit of the Town Council.
      (5)   The mobile home or manufactured home shall be placed upon a
permanent foundation or a cement slab, with its wheels removed, and such slab
shall be at least the same size as the mobile home or manufactured home and at
least three-fourths inches thick.
      (6)   The mobile home or manufactured home shall have a full skirting on
all sides, consisting of metal, fiberglass or similar construction material.
      (7)   The mobile home or manufactured home shall be tied down in
accordance with the requirements of the state.
      (8)   There shall be provision made for off-street parking for at least
two motor vehicles on the lot on which the mobile home or manufactured home is
located.
(Ord. 2007-4, passed 10-9-2007)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.03  VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Notification to cease and desist in violation. Upon the town making a
determination that a party is in violation of this chapter, the Clerk-Treasurer
of the town shall issue a written notice to the violating party, to be
delivered to the party by certified mail, return receipt requested or personal
service by the Town Marshal, as the Clerk-Treasurer shall deem most convenient.
Notice shall set forth the location of the property on which the violation
exists, the name and mailing address of the owner of the property and an
notification to cease and desist in the violation within a period of 14 days
from the date of delivery of the notice. In the event the party shall fail to
cease and desist in violation of the chapter, the penalties described in §
151.99 of this chapter shall apply, as well as the right of the town to seek an
injunction or other civil remedies as may be available.
   (B)   Nuisance. Any mobile home or manufactured home parked in the corporate
limits of the town in violation of this chapter shall be deemed a nuisance and
may be abated as such by the town or any person or persons injured thereby and
the person, corporation or any other entity violating this chapter shall be
subject to the maximum penalty provided by law for each day that the mobile
home or house trailer remains so parked, which penalty shall be recoverable in
any court of competent jurisdiction.
   (C)   Removal. A home, sited upon property in violation of this chapter,
shall be subject to removal from such property. However, the home owner must be
given a reasonable opportunity to bring the property into compliance, if
possible, before action for removal can be taken. If action finally is taken by
the appropriate authority to bring compliance, the expenses involved may be
made a lien against the property.
(Ord. 2007-4, passed 10-9-2007)
§ 151.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Initial violation. In the event that party shall continue in violation
of this chapter, after receiving notice to cease and desist as hereinafter
provided, the offending party shall pay to the town the sum of $10 per day, as
a penalty, for each day that the party shall remain in violation of the
chapter.
   (B)   Continuing violation. In the event of the violation of this chapter,
the town, by its appropriate officials, may seek a temporary or permanent
injunction against the offending party or parties in a court of competent
jurisdiction, or other civil remedies as may be provided by law.
(Ord. 2007-4, passed 10-9-2007)
CHAPTER 152:  FLOOD PREVENTION AND FLOOD-PRONE AREAS
Section
Building Permit System for Flood-Prone Areas
   
152.01   Introduction
   
152.02   Definitions
   
152.03   Requirement of permit
   
152.04   Flood-prone areas determined
   
152.05   Office of Building Inspector
   
152.06   Application for permit; fee
   
152.07   Review of application; building requirements
   
152.08   Issuance of permit
   
152.09   Applying for variance
   
152.10   Appealing decision of Building Inspector
   
152.11   Failure to comply
BUILDING PERMIT SYSTEM FOR FLOOD-PRONE AREAS
§ 152.01  INTRODUCTION.
   A building permit system for flood-prone areas of the town is hereby adopted
in the form and manner and upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set out.
(Prior Code, § 152.01)  (Ord. 1-1975, passed 5-6-1975)
§ 152.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING INSPECTOR. The official responsible for the administration and
enforcement of this subchapter.
   FLOOD or FLOOD WATER. The water of any river or stream which is above the
banks and diagonal or outside the channel and banks of the river or stream.
   FLOOD HAZARD AREAS. Those flood plains which may have not been adequately
protected from flooding by means of dikes, levies, reservoirs or other works
approved by natural resources.
   FLOOD-PRONE AREAS. Collectively, Floodway District, Floodway Fringe
District, flood hazard areas.
   FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE. The elevation of the lowest point around the
perimeter of a building at which flood water may enter the interior of the
building.
   FLOODWAY DISTRICT. The area designated as a “commission floodway” by natural
resources.
   FLOODWAY FRINGE DISTRICT. Those portions of flood hazard areas lying outside
the Floodway District.
   NATURAL RESOURCES. The Indiana Natural Resources Commission.
   REGULATORY FLOOD PROFILE. A longitudinal profile along the thread of a
stream showing the maximum water surface attained by the regulatory flood.
   TOWN. The Town of Roachdale, Putnam County, Indiana.
   TOWN COUNCIL. The Town Council of the Town of Roachdale, Putnam County,
Indiana.
(Prior Code, § 152.02)  (Ord. 1-1975, passed 5-6-1975)
§ 152.03  REQUIREMENT OF PERMIT.
   (A)   It is hereby prohibited for any person, firm or corporation to erect,
construct, enlarge, alter, repair, improve, move or demolish any building or
structure within the designated flood-prone area or areas without first
obtaining a separate building permit for each building or structure from the
Building Inspector of the town.
   (B)   No permit shall be issued, except after review of the proposal by the
Building Inspector, for all new construction or substantial improvements to
determine whether proposed building sites will be reasonably safe from flooding
according to the guidelines hereinafter set out and otherwise, conform to the
permitted uses in the flood-prone areas.
(Prior Code, § 152.03)  (Ord. 1-1975, passed 5-6-1975)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.04  FLOOD-PRONE AREAS DETERMINED.
   The flood-prone area or areas of the town shall be determined to be those
areas so delineated by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Affairs or the
Natural Resources Commission of the state, a copy of which printed designation
shall at all times be available for inspection at the office of the Building
Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 152.04)  (Ord. 1-1975, passed 5-6-1975)
§ 152.05  OFFICE OF BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   There is hereby established the Office of Building Inspector for the town,
which office shall be filled by appointment by the Town Council, the Building
Inspector to serve at the will and pleasure of the Town Council, for
compensation and upon terms and conditions as the Town Council may hereinafter
determine by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 152.05)  (Ord. 1-1975, passed 5-6-1975)
§ 152.06  APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; FEE.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation desiring to erect, construct, enlarge,
alter, repair, improve, move or demolish any building or structure within the
designated flood-prone areas shall first obtain a building permit by making
application therefor as hereinafter described.
   (B)   All applications for building permits hereunder shall be made on
forms, to be approved by the Town Council, and furnished by the Building
Inspector. The application shall be filed with the Building Inspector,
accompanied by a fee of $3, which fee is non-refundable.
(Prior Code, § 152.06)  (Ord. 1-1975, passed 5-6-1975)
§ 152.07  REVIEW OF APPLICATION; BUILDING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   This subchapter does not imply the areas outside the flood hazard
districts as defined herein, would be free of flooding or flood damage.
   (B)   In the FP, FW and FF Districts established herein, the degree of flood
protection established in this subchapter is considered reasonable for regular
purposes and is based on engineering and scientific considerations.
   (C)   Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood heights may
be increased by human- made or natural causes such as ice or debris jams.
   (D)   This subchapter does not create any liability on the part of the town,
the Commission, Natural Resources, the state or any elected or appointed
official or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from the
reliance on this subchapter or any administrative decision lawfully made
hereunder.
   (E)   Upon receipt of the application for a building permit, the Building
Inspector shall review the application and grant or deny the application based
upon the following guidelines, to-wit.
      (1)   Flood Plain. The purpose of the Flood Plain District (FP) is to
guide development in flood hazard areas in which a commission floodway has not
been established.
      (2)   Floodway. The purpose of the Floodway (FW) is to delineate the area
established by natural resources as a commissioned floodway. Natural Resources
exercises primary jurisdiction within the federal district under the provisions
of Ch. 318, Acts of 1945, as amended. The Commission may place terms and
conditions on any permit of issues in the Floodway District, which are more
restricted than those imposed by Natural Resources.
      (3)   Floodway Fringe. The purpose of the Floodway Fringe (FF) District
is to regulate land use in the flood hazard area outside the floodway. The
Floodway Fringe District may stand by itself or be combined with any district
which the Town Council deems appropriate. Generally speaking, all construction
of buildings in this district shall be two feet above regulatory flood profiles
as established by Natural Resources.
      (4)   Flood Plain uses; (FP) District.
         (a)   Permitted uses (by right).
            1.   Agricultural uses such as the production of crops, pastures,
orchards, plant nurseries, vineyards and general farming;
            2.   Forestry, wild life areas and nature preserves; and
            3.   Parks and recreational uses such as golf courses, driving
ranges and play areas.
         (b)   Special exceptions. The following special exception uses may be
permitted in the Flood Plain District, only after a proper permit for same has
been granted by Natural Resources. All terms and conditions imposed by Natural
Resources will be incorporated in any permit issued by the town. The town may
impose greater restrictions:
            1.   Water management and use facilities, such as dams, docks,
dolphins, channel improvements, dikes, jetties, groins, marinas, piers,
wharves, levees, seawalls, floodwalls, weirs and irrigation facilities;
            2.   Transportation facilities, such as streets, bridges, roadways,
fords, airports, pipe lines, railroad and utility transmission facilities;
            3.   Temporary or seasonal flood plain occupancy, such as circus
sites, fair sites, carnival sites, boat ramps, camps, roadside stands and
transient amusement facility sites;
            4.   Water-related urban uses, such as wastewater treatment
facilities, storm sewers, electric generating and transmission facilities and
water treatment facilities; and
            5.   Other flood tolerant or open space urban uses, such as flood-
proofed industrial and commercial buildings, race tracks, tennis courts, park
buildings, outdoor theaters, fills, truck freight terminals, radio or
television towers, parking lots and mineral extractions.
      (5)   Flood uses (FW District).
         (a)   Permitted uses (by right).
            1.   Agricultural uses such as the production of crops, pastures,
orchards, plant nurseries, vineyards and general farming;
            2.   Forestry, wildlife areas and nature preserves; and
            3.   Parks and recreational uses, such as golf courses, driving
ranges and play areas.
         (b)   Special exceptions. The following special exception uses may be
permitted in the Floodway (FW) District by special exception:
            1.   Water management and use facilities, such as dams, docks,
dolphins, channel improvements, dikes, jetties, groins, marinas, piers,
wharves, levees, seawalls, floodwalls, weirs and irrigation facilities;
            2.   Transportation facilities, such as streets, bridges, roadways,
fords, airports, pipe lines, railroads and utility transmission facilities;
            3.   Temporary or seasonal flood plain occupancy, such as circus
sites, fair sites, carnival sites, boat ramps, camps, roadside stands and
transient amusement facility sites;
            4.   Water-related urban areas, such as wastewater treatment
facilities, storm sewers, electric generating and transmission facilities and
water treatment facilities; and
            5.   Other flood tolerant or open space urban uses, such as flood-
proofed industrial and commercial buildings, race tracks, tennis courts, park
buildings, outdoor theaters, fills, truck freight terminals, radio or
television towers, parking lots and mineral extraction.
      (6)   Floodway Fringe uses.
         (a)   All buildings constructed in a Floodway Fringe District shall
have a flood protection grade at least two feet above the regulatory flood
profile as established by Natural Resources.
         (b)   Where the Floodway Fringe (FF) District overlaps with any other
zone, the uses permitted by right or by special exception shall be constructed
to have a flood protection grade at least two feet above the regulatory flood
profile as established by Natural Resources.
      (7)   Non-conforming uses.
         (a)   No non-conforming use in a Floodway District shall be expanded
or enlarged without a permit for construction in a floodway from Natural
Resources.
         (b)   A non-conforming use in a Floodway Fringe District may be
altered, enlarged or extended, on a one-time-only basis, provided the
alterations, enlargements or extensions do not increase the value of the
building or structure, excluding the value of land, by more than 40% of its
pre-improvement market value, unless the building or structure is permanently
changed to a conforming use.
         (c)   A non-conforming use in a Flood Plain District may be altered,
enlarged or extended on a one-time-only basis, provided the procedures set
forth in this subchapter are followed and further provided alterations,
enlargements or extensions do not increase the value of the building or
structure, excluding the value of land, by more than 49% of its pre-improvement
market value, unless the building or structure is permanently changed to a
conforming use.
         (d)   Any non-conforming use in the FP, FW and FF Districts which is
damaged by flood, fire, explosion, Act of God or the public enemy may be
restored to its original dimensions and conditions, provided the damage does
not reduce the value of the buildings, excluding the value of the land, by more
than 40% of its pre-damage value.
(Prior Code, § 152.07)  (Ord. 1-1975, passed 5-6-1975)
§ 152.08  ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   If the Building Inspector shall deem it appropriate, within the terms of
this subchapter, he or she shall issue a building permit to the applicant,
which permit shall be displayed on the building site during construction, so it
is visible from the nearest street.
(Prior Code, § 152.08)  (Ord. 1-1975, passed 5-6-1975)
§ 152.09  APPLYING FOR VARIANCE.
   (A)   If an application for a building permit does not fall within the
confines of the guidelines of this subchapter, the applicant may apply to the
Town Council for a variance therefrom upon the forms to be provided by the Town
Council, setting out the nature of the variance; further that, upon the Town
Council receiving the application, it shall set the same for hearing within 30
days from the date of the filing.
   (B)   The Town Council, in making its decision whether or not to grant the
variance applied for shall do so, solely within the confines of this
subchapter, but basing the decision on its sound discretion as to whether the
variance will be most beneficial to the orderly and safe growth and development
of the town.
   (C)   The Town Council may not grant a variance to any of the requirements
of the Flood Plain or Floodway District or to the flood protection grade
requirements of the Floodway Fringe District without the written approval of
Natural Resources.
(Prior Code, § 152.09)  (Ord. 1-1975, passed 5-6-1975)
§ 152.10  APPEALING DECISION OF BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   In the event the Building Inspector shall refuse the granting of a
building permit, and the applicant deems that decision to be unjust or contrary
to law, then the applicant may appeal the decision of the Building Inspector to
the Town Council in the following manner:
      (1)   Within ten days after the Building Inspector shall give written
notice to the applicant of the refusal of the building permit, the applicant
shall request the Town Council, in writing, to hold a hearing in review and
appeal of the decision of the Building Inspector; and
      (2)   The Town Council shall hear the review and appeal de novo, as if
the Building Inspector had neither reviewed the original application or made
any decision thereon.
   (B)   The decision of the Town Council, in the event of an appeal, shall be
final.
(Prior Code, § 152.10)  (Ord. 1-1975, passed 5-6-1975)
§ 152.11  FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   Failure of any person, firm or corporation to comply with the requirements
of this subchapter shall immediately be reported by the Building Inspector to
those companies issuing flood hazard insurance in the town; further that, the
Town Council shall issue its order to the person, firm or corporation to
immediately cease and desist from any further construction, alteration, repair
or improvement of the property until an appropriate building permit is
obtained; further that, if the person, firm or corporation shall fail to comply
with the cease and desist order, the Town Council may immediately apply to the
Circuit Court for a temporary restraining order or injunction against the
person, firm or corporation, as provided by state law, without the necessity of
filing bond.
(Prior Code, § 152.11)  (Ord. 1-1975, passed 5-6-1975)
CHAPTER 153:  ZONING
Section
   
153.01   Regulations adopted by reference
§ 153.01  REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The town’s zoning regulations are hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. 06-2016, passed - -2016; Ord. 5-2019, passed 9-10-2019)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   PROJECTS, PLANS AND AGREEMENTS
      
III.   FRANCHISES
      
IV.   STREETS, ALLEYS AND PUBLIC WAYS
TABLE I:  ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Annexes a part of the northwest fractional quarter of
1-1981   4-7-1981    section 7, township 16 north, range 3 west and part of the
                     northeast quarter of section 12
                     Annexes a part of the southwest quarter of section 1,
1-1987   1-14-1987   township 16 north. range 4 west of the second principle
                     meridian, commencing at the southwest corner of section 1,
                     township 16 north, range 4 west, thence east
                     Annexes real estate beginning at a point on the south line
7-1987   11-11-1987  of the southwest quarter of section 1, township 16 north,
                     range 4 west
                     Annexes a part of the southwest quarter of section 1,
5-1994   9-14-1994   township 16 north, range 4 west of the second principle
                     meridian, commencing at an iron pin marking the northwest
                     corner of Eggers Subdivision
1-2006   4-11-2006   Annexes 6.43 acres of the southwest quarter of section 1,
                     township 16 north, range 4 west
2014-3   6-2-2014    Annexes 0.35 acre, including Rush Street
 
TABLE II:  PROJECTS, PLANS AND AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
-    2-11-  Elijah Grantham and Nancy A. Grantham warrant to the Trustees of the
     1884   Methodist Episcopal Church land commencing at the southwest corner of Lot 7
-    8-22-  Trustees of the Northwest Indiana Conference of the Methodist Church of
     1940   Tippecanoe County quit-claim land commencing at the southwest corner of Lot 7
-    2-14-  Quit-claim deed from town to John Bullock, Roy Holton and George Fitzsimmons
     1950
-    6-28-  Mortgage and warrant of land to General Board of the Church of the Nazarene
     1954
-    7-13-  Certificate of Fidelity Abstracts Inc.
     1954
-    7-20-  Warranty deed for Church of Nazarene Trustees, Lots 7 and 10
     1954
-    12-14- Mortgage and warrant of a part of Lots 5, 6 and 7 in block 5 in Grantham’s
     1954   First Addition, commencing at the southwest corner of Lot 7
-    9-2-   Release of mortgage to General Board of the Church of the Nazarene, which is
     1957   released in Mortgage Record 99, page 267
7-   5-4-   Approves a street-lighting contract with Public Service Company of Indiana,
1982 1982   Inc.
-    4-8-   Designates the county as the recipient of the town’s share of the certified
     1992   distribution of EDIT for each calendar year
     2-10-  Warranty deed for real estate commencing at the southwest corner of Lot 7 in
-    1993   block 5 in Grantham’s Addition running north 50 feet, then east 150 feet,
            then south 50 feet, then west 150 feet
1-   6-8-   Construction of additions and improvements to the sewage works; the issuance
1999 1999   of revenue bonds
-    7-10-  Lease agreement, with Richard Hutchins as the lessor and the town the lessee
     2001
 
TABLE III:  FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Grants franchise to C-A-T-V to construct and operate a
11-1982  7-6-1982    community antenna television and closed circuit electronic
                     system
                     Grant of franchise to Quality C-A-T-V Inc. to construct,
2-1987   6-6-1987    own and operate a community antenna system including a
                     leasehold interest in certain property of the grantor
3-1997   3-11-1997   Cable system franchise to Phoenix Concept Cablevision of
                     Indiana, L.L.C.; renewal
 
TABLE IV:  STREETS, ALLEYS AND PUBLIC WAYS
 
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
9-   12-4-  Vacates 150 feet of a ten-foot alleyway in Grantham’s Sixth Addition, running
1999 1999   between Lots 17, 18 and 19
2-   3-12-  Vacates a portion of Walnut Street
2002 2002
3-   5-14-  Approves traffic safety incentive program, where teenage drivers are rewarded
2002 2002   for wearing seat belts
     11-12- Acceptance of right-of-way dedication; town, from Putnam County Habitat for
-    2002   Humanity Inc.; all streets and roads, specifically Westview Drive and Maxine
            Lane, in Habitat Subdivision as recorded in plat book 11, page 116
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Cites Code Section
I.C. Cites                   Code Section
1-1-1-5                      10.04
1-1-1-7                      10.12
1-1-1-8                      10.06
1-1-4-5                      10.05
1-1-5-1                      10.11
1-1-6-1                      10.08
1-1-7-1                      92.20
3-10-6                       32.21
3-10-7                       32.21
4-21.5-5                     112.26
5-2-1-9                      32.41
5-3-1                        31.077
5-11-10-1.6                  33.23
5-11-10-2                    33.22
5-14-1.5                     31.020
5-14-1.5 et seq.             31.024
5-14-1.5-4(a)                31.023
5-14-1.5-4(b) and (c)        31.024
5-14-1.5-6.1                 31.021
5-14-3-3                     31.021
5-14-3-4(b)(12)              31.021
5-16-9                       72.04
6-1.1-17                     33.41;
                             33.42
6-1.1-17-3                   33.40
6-2.5-5-23                   111.03
6-3.6–10-2                 33.05
itle 7.1                     112.01
8-1-11.1                     32.01
8-1.5-3-4(d)                 50.01
8-14-1                       33.25
8-14-2                       33.25
8-15-2-17.2                  71.62
8-16-3                       33.02
8-22-2                       33.04
8-22-3-1                     33.04
8-22-3-25                    33.02
8-23-5                       33.04
8-23-30                      33.04
itle 9                       71.65
9-13-2-6                     70.01
9-13-2-47                    70.01
9-13-2-49.3                  70.01
9-13-2-56                    70.01
9-13-2-73                    70.01
9-13-2-77                    70.01
9-13-2-84                    70.01
9-13-2-105(a) and (b)        70.01
9-13-2-108                   70.01
9-13-2-118                   70.01
9-13-2-121(a)                70.01
9-13-2-155                   70.01
9-13-2-157                   70.01
9-13-2-178                   70.01
9-13-2-196(a)                70.01
9-18.1-14-11                 71.47
9-18.5-5                     72.04
9-18.5-8                     72.04
9-21-1-2                     71.60
9-21-1-3                     71.65
9-21-5-11                    71.62
9-21-5-12                    71.62
9-21-9-3                     71.32;
                             71.47
9-21-9-4                     71.32;
                             71.47
9-21-20-1                    70.01
9-21-20-2                    70.01
9-21-20-3                    70.01
                             90.22;
9-22-1                       90.23;
                             90.26
9-22-1-2                     90.24
9-22-1-23                    90.24
9-22-1-27                    90.26
9-22-1 -27(d)                90.26
9-22-1-30(b)                 90.26
9-25-4-4                     71.32;
                             71.47
9-25-4-5                     71.32;
                             71.47
14-8-2-5.7                   71.45
14-8-2-185                   71.45
14-8-2-233.5                 71.45
14-27-6-48                   33.02
14-33-14                     33.02
15-10-1-4                    31.021
15-17-6                      91.16
15-17-6-14                   91.16
16-18-2-110                  70.01
16-22-8                      70.01
16-23-1-40                   33.02
16-41-27-4                   151.01
16-41-27-5                   151.01
22-9-1-4 et seq.             94.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.             94.01
22-9.5-2-2                   94.02
22-9.5-2-3                   94.02
22-9.5-2-4                   94.02
22-9.5-2-8                   94.02
22-9.5-2-9                   94.02
22-9.5-2-11                  94.02
22-9.5-2-13                  94.02
22-9.5-3 et seq.             94.10
22-9.5-3                     94.03
22-9.5-4-8                   94.11
22-9.5-5                     94.02
22-9.5-5-1                   94.03
22-9.5-6                     94.02;
                             94.11
22-11-14                     130.02,
                             130.99
22-11-14-10.5                130.02
22-11-14-10.5(c)(3)          130.02
22-12-1-3                    150.01
22-12-1-16                   151.01
itle 25                      31.021
33-35-3-1                    32.22
33-35-3-2                    32.22
33-36-2-1                    34.01;
                             34.02
33-36-2-2                    34.02
33-36-2-3                    34.03
33-36-3                      34.03
33-36-3-1                    34.04
33-36-3-2                    34.05
33-36-3-3                    34.06
33-36-3-5                    34.07
33-36-3-6                    34.08
33-36-3-7                    34.09
33-37-7-6                    34.08
33-37                        34.08
33-37-4                      34.08
34-13-3                      35.01;
                             35.02
34-13-3-12                   35.02
36-1                         50.05
36-1-3-8(a)(10)              10.99;
                             51.99
36-1-5                       31.077
36-1-6-2                     51.17
36-1-8-5.1                   33.04
36-1-8-5.1(g)                33.04
36-4-7-300 et seq.           32.01
36-4-7-902(a)                32.06
36-5-2-3(b), (c), (d) or (e) 31.001
36-5-2-3(a)                  31.001
36-5-2-4.1                   31.077
36-5-2-4.2                   31.076
36-5-2-6                     31.001
36-5-2-7                     31.004
36-5-2-8                     31.026
36-5-2-9                     31.002
36-5-2-9.2                   31.025
36-5-2-9.4(a)                31.075
36-5-2-9.4(b)                31.076
36-5-2-9.6                   31.075
36-5-2-9.8                   31.076
36-5-2-10                    31.077
36-5-2-10.2                  31.078
36-5-3-3                     33.40
36-5-3-4                     33.41
36-5-3-5                     33.42
36-5-4-2                     33.20
36-5-4-3                     33.21
36-5-4-4                     32.09;
                             33.22
36-5-4-6                     32.09
36-5-4-7                     33.23
36-5-4-12                    32.09
36-5-4-12(b)                 32.09
36-5-4-13(b)                 33.25
36-5-4-12(b)(13)             32.09
36-5-6-2                     32.22
36-5-6-3(a)                  32.20
36-5-6-3(b)                  32.21
36-5-6-3(c) or (d)           32.21
36-5-6-4                     32.21
36-5-6-5                     32.22
36-5-6-5.1                   32.24
36-5-6-6                     32.22
36-5-6-7                     32.23
36-5-6-8                     32.23
36-5-7-2                     32.40
36-5-7-3                     32.41
36-5-7-4                     32.42
36-5-7-5                     32.44
36-7                         31.076;
                             31.077
36-7                         31.077
36-7-4                       32.01
36-7-4-202(a)                32.01
36-7-4-205 et seq.           32.01
36-7-4-207(b)                32.01
36-7-4-212                   32.01
36-7-4-216                   32.01
36-7-4-401 et seq.           32.01
36-7-4-900 et seq.           32.06
36-7-4-902                   32.06
36-7-4-902(a)                32.06
36-7-4-905                   32.06
36-7-4-906                   32.06
36-7-9                       150.01
36-7-9-2                     150.01
36-7-9-4                     150.01
36-7-9-14                    32.05;
                             150.01
36-7-9-28                    150.01
                             92.20;
36-7-10.1-4                  92.26;
                             92.99
36-7-14                      32.05
36-7-14.2                    32.05
36-7-14-3                    32.05
36-7-14-6.1                  32.05
36-7-14-6.1(d)               32.05
36-7-14-8 et seq.            32.05
36-7-14-11                   32.05
36-8                         32.41;
                             32.45
36-8-3-20                    32.45
36-8-14                      33.02
36-9-4-48                    33.02
36-9-15.5                    33.02
36-9-15.5(8)(c)              33.02
36-9-16-2                    33.02
36-9-16-3                    33.02
36-9-16.5                    33.02
36-9-17                      33.02
36-9-26                      33.02
36-9-27-100                  33.02
36-10-3-10 et seq.           32.04
36-10-3-21                   33.02
36-10-4-36                   33.02
36-11-10                     32.09
                             
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2021 Code
Prior Code      2021 Code
30.01           30.01
30.02           30.02
30.03           30.03
30.04           30.04
30.05           32.01
30.06           32.02
30.07           32.03
31.001          31.001
31.002          31.002
31.003          31.003
31.004          31.004
31.005          31.005
31.020          31.020
31.021          31.021
31.022          31.022
31.023          31.023
31.024          31.024
31.025          31.025
31.026          31.026
31.040          31.040
31.041          31.041
31.042          31.042
31.043          31.043
31.044          31.044
31.045          31.045
31.046          31.046
31.047          31.047
31.048          31.048
31.049          31.049
31.050          31.050
31.051          31.051
31.052          31.052
31.053          31.053
31.054          31.054
31.055          31.055
31.056          31.056
31.057          31.057
31.058          31.058
31.059          31.059
31.060          31.060
31.080          31.075
31.081          31.076
31.082          31.077
31.083          31.078
32.01           32.20
32.02           32.21
32.03           32.22
32.04           32.23
32.05           32.24
32.06           32.25
32.20           32.40
32.21           32.41
32.22           32.42
32.23           32.43
32.24           32.44
32.25           32.45
33.01           33.01
33.15           33.20
33.16           33.21
33.17           33.22
33.18           33.23
33.19           33.24
33.21           33.25
33.35           33.40
33.36           33.41
33.37           33.42
34.01           34.01
34.02           34.02
34.03           34.03
34.04           34.04
34.05           34.05
34.06           34.06
34.07           34.07
34.08           34.08
34.09           34.09
35.20           35.01
35.21           35.02
50.01           50.01
50.02           50.02
50.03           50.03
50.04           50.04
50.05           50.05
51.01           51.01
51.02           51.02
51.02           51.99
52.01           52.01
52.02           52.02
53.01           53.01
53.02           53.02
53.03           53.03
53.04           53.04
53.05           53.05
53.06           53.06
53.07           53.07
53.99           53.99
70.01           70.01
70.20           70.15
70.21           70.16
70.22           70.17
70.23           70.18
70.99           70.99
71.01           71.01
71.02           71.02
71.03           71.03
71.04           71.04
71.20           71.15
71.21           71.16
71.22           71.17
71.99           71.99
72.01           72.01
72.02           72.02
72.03           72.03
72.04           72.04
72.05           72.05
72.99           72.99
Ch. 73, Schd. I Ch. 73, Schd. I
Ch. 74, Schd. I Ch. 74, Schd. I
75.01           71.60
75.02           71.61
75.03           71.62
75.04           71.63
75.05           71.64
75.06           71.65
75.99           71.99
91.01           91.01
91.02           91.02
91.15           91.15
91.16           91.16
91.17           91.17
91.20           91.18
92.01           92.01
92.02           92.02
92.03           92.03
92.04           92.04
92.05           92.05
92.06           92.06
92.07           92.07
92.08           92.08
92.09           92.09
92.20           92.20
92.21           92.21
92.22           92.22
92.23           92.23
92.24           92.24
92.25           92.25
92.26           92.26
92.99           92.99
93.01           93.01
93.15           93.15
93.16           93.16
93.17           93.17
93.18           93.18
93.19           93.19
93.20           93.20
93.35           93.35
93.36           93.36
93.37           93.37
95.01           95.01
110.01          110.01
110.02          110.02
110.03          110.03
110.04          110.04
110.05          110.05
110.06          110.06
110.07          110.07
110.08          110.08
110.09          110.09
110.10          110.10
130.01          130.01
130.02          130.01
152.01          152.01
152.02          152.02
152.03          152.03
152.04          152.04
152.05          152.05
152.06          152.06
152.07          152.07
152.08          152.08
152.09          152.09
152.10          152.10
152.11          152.11
                
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        2-11-1884   TSO Table II
-        8-22-1940   TSO Table II
-        2-14-1950   TSO Table II
-        6-28-1954   TSO Table II
-        7-13-1954   TSO Table II
-        7-20-1954   TSO Table II
-        12-14-1954  TSO Table II
-        9-2-1957    TSO Table II
                     53.01—
3-1970   12-21-1970  53.07;
                     53.99
1-1975   5-6-1975    152.01—
                     152.11
7-1975   8-26-1975   52.02
1-1981   4-7-1981    TSO Table I
-        7-7-1981    32.02
7-1982   5-4-1982    TSO Table II
11-1982  7-6-1982    TSO Table III
19-1982  9-7-1982    92.09;
                     92.99
7-1984   7-3-1984    72.99
10-1984  10-2-1984   50.05
11-1984  11-6-1984   72.99
1-1986   5-14-1986   71.04;
                     71.99
1-1987   1-14-1987   TSO Table I
2-1987   6-6-1987    TSO Table III
7-1987   11-11-1987  TSO Table I
2-1988   4-13-1988   32.25
2-1988   7-13-1988   51.02;
                     51.99
4-1988   9-14-1988   50.04
-        5-9-1990    110.10
9-1990   8-8-1990    31.005
-        4-8-1992    TSO Table II
-        2-10-1993   TSO Table II
5-1994   9-14-1994   TSO Table I
7-1994   9-14-1994   93.01
2-1995   5-10-1995   32.01
3-1995   6-14-1995   52.01
4-1995   6-14-1995   72.05
2-1995   1-16-1996   32.01
6-1996   2-13-1996   130.01
8-1996   6-11-1996   50.03
3-1997   3-11-1997   TSO Table III
5-1997   11-11-1997  92.01—
                     92.08
1-1999   6-8-1999    TSO Table II
5-1999   7-13-1999   32.45
9-1999   12-4-1999   TSO Table IV
-        7-10-2001   TSO Table II
2-2002   3-12-2002   TSO Table IV
3-2002   5-14-2002   TSO Table IV
4-2002   5-14-2002   30.03
-        11-12-2002  TSO Table IV
                     91.15—
10-2003  10-14-2003  91.18;
                     91.99
2004-1   4-13-2004   33.01
2-2004   8-10-2004   50.02
2-2005   9-2-2005    150.01
1-2006   4-11-2006   TSO Table I
                     71.60—
1-2007   - -2007     71.65;
                     71.99
                     151.01—
2007-4   10-9-2007   151.03;
                     151.99
5-2007   11-13-2007  30.01
2-2009   6-9-2009    72.99
3-2009   12-8-2009   72.99
2-2011   2-8-2011    50.07
3-2012   4-10-2012   32.09
2012-4   5-7-2012    92.09;
                     92.99
6-2012   6-11-2012   150.01
5-2012   6-18-2012   50.07
8-2012   8-14-2012   70.02;
                     70.99
2013-2   1-16-2013   50.20—
                     50.23
3-2013   4-9-2013    51.01
5-2013   5-14-2013   51.01
2013-6   6-11-2013   92.20;
                     92.99
                     112.01—
2013-7   12-10-2013  112.05;
                     112.20—
                     112.26
2014-3   6-2-2014    TSO Table I
4-2014   7-8-2014    32.04
5-2014   9-9-2014    51.03;
                     51.99
7-2014   12-9-2014   34.04
8-2014   12-19-2014  50.07
9-2014   12-19-2014  50.07
                     70.30—
2015-2   1-13-2015   70.32;
                     70.99
2015-3   4-14-2015   50.06
5-2015   6-15-2015   32.01
6-2015   - -2015     32.05
2015-4   6-15-2015   94.01—
                     94.11
1-2016   1-12-2016   32.06
2-2016   3-8-2016    32.08
03-2016  4-12-2016   50.07
06-2016  - -2016     153.01
04-2016  4-12-2016   35.15;
                     35.99
7-2016   5-10-2016   32.08
8-2016   - -2016     32.08
09-2016  6-14-2016   33.04
1-2017   1-26-2017   33.05
3-2017   4-11-2017   72.99
                     51.15—
1-2018   1-9-2018    51.20;
                     51.99
2-2018   2-13-2018   130.03;
                     130.99
2018-4   5-8-2018    33.03
                     111.01—
2018-5   5-8-2018    111.05;
                     111.99
                     90.01—
2018-6   6-12-2018   90.07;
                     90.20—
                     90.26
9-2018   8-14-2018   32.07
10-2018  8-14-2018   130.02;
                     130.99
2018-13  10-9-2018   91.03
2019-1   2-12-2019   91.04
2-2019   4-9-2019    33.02
                     71.30—
                     71.32;
3-2019   4-9-2019    71.45—
                     71.47;
                     71.99
5-2019   9-10-2019   153.01
                    
 
