TOWN OF ROANOKE, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-1 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2023-12, passed 12-19-2023; and
State legislation current through 2023 Indiana Legislative Service, Pamphlet #3
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 2022-14
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE TOWN OF ROANOKE, IN
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING, AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING
GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED
IN SUCH CODE OF ORDINANCES AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the political
subdivision are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in
form and substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health,
safety, and general welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of
its affairs; and
WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Indiana empower and
authorize the political subdivision to revise, amend, restate, codify and
compile any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted
or published and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book
form; and
WHEREAS, the Legislative Authority of the Political Subdivision has authorized
a general compilation, revision, and codification of the ordinances of the
Political Subdivision of a general and permanent nature and publication of such
ordinance in book form; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF THE TOWN OF ROANOKE, IN:
Section 1.   The general ordinances of the Political Subdivision as revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as
and shall constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the Town of Roanoke, In."
Section 2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following Titles:
SEE ATTACHED EXHIBIT
Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred, or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing, or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places: nor shall
such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
Section 4.   Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the Political
Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of
Ordinances in the Office of the Clerk.
Section 5.   Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in Section
6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties, and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
Section 6.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety, and general
welfare of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the
earliest date provided by law.
   ORDINANCE 2022-14
   Upon Council’s unanimous consent to consider Ordinance 2022-14 for final
adoption on the same day of its introduction, Ordinance 2022-14 was duly
adopted this 18 day of October, 2022, by a vote of 5  in favor and  0  in
opposition.
   ROANOKE, INDIANA by its TOWN COUNCIL
Voting in Favor:                     Voting in Opposition:
Amanda Sands /s/         Amanda Sands      _________________
               (President)
Joan Abbott /s/         Joan Abbott         _________________
Dave Meitzler /s/         Dave Meitzler      _________________
Nicholas Scheer /s/         Nicholas Scheer      _________________
________________         Patrick Scher         _________________
ATTEST:
By Sarah Milton /s/ as Clerk-Treasurer
 
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component codes, titles,
chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Roanoke Town
Code”, for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified ordinances” or
“code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto, and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning, application
or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate meaning in
law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk- Treasurer of the Town Council.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council.
      COUNTY. The County of Huntington, Indiana.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as
applied to any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      STATE. The State of Indiana.
      TOWN. The Town of Roanoke, Indiana.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing or other modes of
representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
non- severability provision, each division or part of every section is
severable. If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the
invalidity does not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section or amendment stating that the provisions of a
chapter, subchapter or section are severable as provided in division (B) above
does not affect the operation of division (B) above with respect to that
chapter, subchapter or section.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer or employee of the municipality
exercising the powers, duties or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or following the
effective date, the rights, powers, duties or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture or liability incurred under
the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture or
liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   (1)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a
new chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of
this code, the proper number of the chapter or section.
      (2)   In addition to an indication thereof as may appear in the text of
the proposed ordinance, a caption or title shall be shown in concise form above
the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the city published in a prior year and subsequently amended, the
previous code section number shall be indicated in the history by “(Prior Code,
§      )”.
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this code for
which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation, and not more
than $7,500 for a second or subsequent violation. The provision regarding a
second or subsequent violation does apply to ordinances that regulate traffic
or parking. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 10.99) (Ord. 2005-18, passed 7-18-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   TOWN COUNCIL
      
31.   RESERVED
      
32.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   FINANCE AND REVENUE; TAXATION
      
34.   TOWN POLICIES
      
35.   ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
CHAPTER 30: TOWN COUNCIL
Section
   
30.01   Elections
   
30.02   Council meetings
   
30.03   Rules of order
   
30.04   Electronic participation in meetings
§ 30.01 ELECTIONS.
   (A)   The town’s legislative body districts are abolished and the town’s
elective offices shall be five Council member positions and a Clerk- Treasurer,
all of which shall be filled by at large election.
   (B)   (1)   Special three-year terms. For the Town Council election held in
1991, two Council members shall be elected for a term of three calendar years
each, commencing on 1-1-1992.
      (2)   Four-year terms. For the Town Council election held in 1991, three
Council members shall be elected for a term of four calendar years each,
commending on 1-1-1992.
      (3)   Three-, four-year terms. The two Town Council members receiving the
fewest votes of the five Council members elected in 1991 shall be the Council
members to serve the foregoing three-year terms.
      (4)   Successor Council members. The successors of all Town Council
members so elected in 1991 shall be elected in November election day election
in the year of expiration of their respective terms, for successor terms of
four- years, and likewise every four years thereafter.
      (5)   Existing election authority. All other election qualifications,
standards and procedures heretofore applying to selection to membership on the
Town Council and not in conflict with the foregoing shall remain in full force
and effect.
(Prior Code, § 30.01) (Ord. 1990-3, passed 7-17-1990; Ord. 1990-6, passed 11- -
1990)
§ 30.02 COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   The Town Council will meet for regular meetings on the first Tuesday of each
month. The meetings will convene at 6:00 p.m., in the Town Hall, 141 West Third
Street.
(Prior Code, § 30.02) (Res. 1994-1, passed 1-4-1994; Ord. 2021-14, passed 5-18-
2021; Ord. 2023-01, passed 1-3-2023)
§ 30.03 RULES OF ORDER.
   These rules, consistent with any applicable town ordinance, statute or other
legal requirement, shall govern the proceedings of the Town Council.
   (A)   Authority of the Chair. Subject to appeal to the full Town Council,
the Council President (or presiding officer) shall have the authority to
prevent the misuse of motions, the abuse of any privilege, or the obstruction
of the business of the Town Council by ruling any such matter out of order (the
authority of the “Chair”). In so ruling, the Town Council President shall be
courteous and fair and should presume that the moving party is acting in good
faith. Any member of the Town Council may move to require enforcement of the
rules, and the affirmative vote of a majority of the Town Council shall require
the presiding officer to act.
   (B)   Town Council President to facilitate Council meetings. In the role of
facilitator, the Town Council President (or presiding officer) will assist the
Town Council in focusing agenda discussions and deliberations.
   (C)   Ordinances and resolutions; synopsis and reading.
      (1)   Each ordinance or resolution submitted to the Town Council shall be
prefaced by a short, non-technical synopsis of the legislation which is
comprehensible to the average citizen. Where possible the synopsis shall
reference by number material sections of the code of ordinances proposed to be
created or amended thereby.
      (2)   Except when otherwise required by a majority vote of the Council,
the synopsis (only) shall be read aloud whenever the ordinance or resolution it
accompanies is introduced and at the time of subsequent Council action on such
ordinance or resolution. The synopsis shall become a part of the record with
respect to such legislation, but shall not have the legal effect of being part
of the legislation.
   (D)   Council deliberation and order of speakers. The Town Council President
(or presiding officer) has been delegated the responsibility to control the
debate and the order of speakers. Speakers will generally be called upon in the
order of the request to speak. With the concurrence of the Town Council
President, a Council member holding the floor may address a question to another
Council member and that Council member may respond while the floor is still
held by the Council member asking the question. A Council member may opt not to
answer a question while another Council member has the floor.
   (E)   Limit deliberations to item at hand. Council members will limit their
comments to the subject matter, time or motion being currently considered by
the Town Council.
   (F)   Length of Council comments. Council members will govern themselves as
to the length of their comments or presentation. As a courtesy, the Town
Council President will signal by hand to a Council member who has been speaking
for over five minutes. This procedure is not meant to limit debate or to cut
comments short, but rather to assist Council members in their efforts to
communicate concisely.
   (G)   Obtaining the floor. Any member of the Town Council wishing to speak
must first obtain the floor by being recognized by the Town Council President.
The Town Council President must recognize any Council member who seeks the
floor when appropriately entitled to do so.
   (H)   Motions. Motions may be made by any member of the Town Council,
including the presiding officer (if not the Town Council President); provided
that, before the presiding officer offers a motion, the opportunity for making
a motion should be offered to other members of the Town Council. Any member of
the Town Council, other than the person offering the motion, may second a
motion.
   (I)   Procedures for motions. The following is the general procedure for
making motions.
      (1)   Before a motion can be considered or debated, it must be seconded.
      (2)   A Council member who wishes to make a motion should do so through a
verbal request to the Town Council President.
      (3)   A Council member who wishes to second a motion should do so through
a verbal request to the Town Council President.
      (4)   Once the motion has been properly made and seconded, the Town
Council President shall open the matter for discussion offering the first
opportunity to the moving party and, thereafter, to any Council member properly
recognized by the Town Council President.
      (5)   Once the matter has been fully discussed and the Town Council
President calls for a vote, no further discussion will be allowed; provided,
however, Council members may be allowed to explain their vote.
   (J)   Motion amendments. When a motion is on the floor and an amendment is
offered, the amendment should be acted upon prior to acting on the main motion.
No motion of a subject different from that under consideration shall be
admitted as an amendment. A motion to amend an amendment shall be in order, but
one to amend an amendment to an amendment shall not be in order. Action shall
be taken on the amended amendment prior to any other action to further amend
the original motion.
   (K)   Motion to continue. A motion to continue will leave the motion in its
present condition for consideration on a certain date and time.
   (L)   Motion to remove. A motion to remove will take the matter off the
agenda and will not be considered by the Council for an indefinite period of
time.
   (M)   Motion to postpone indefinitely. A motion to postpone indefinitely
will kill or reject the item under consideration.
   (N)   Motion to refer. A motion to refer forwards the item under
consideration to the named group, committee or board for further study.
   (O)   Motion to lay on the table. A motion to lay on the table will delay
consideration of the item being discussed by the Town Council and allows the
item to be temporarily set aside.
   (P)   Motion to take from the table. A motion to take from the table allows
the matter to be discussed again and would only be used in conjunction with a
motion to lay on the table at the same meeting.
   (Q)   Withdrawal of motion. A withdrawal of motion indicates a motion may be
withdrawn or modified by the Council member who originally made the motion at
any time prior to its passage. If the motion is modified, the Council member
who seconded the motion may withdraw his or her second.
   (R)   Motion for reconsideration. A motion for reconsideration may be made
at the same meeting or at the next succeeding meeting following a Town Council
action, as long as the reconsideration request complies with the requirements
of the state’s Open Door Law, being I.C. 5-14-1.5. A motion for reconsideration
may only be made by a Council member who voted with the majority of the Town
Council on the action proposed to be reconsidered by the Town Council. Any
member of the Town Council may second a motion for reconsideration.
   (S)   Voting.
      (1)   Abstention.
         (a)   If a Council member abstains because of a legal conflict, he or
she is not counted as present for quorum purposes and is not deemed to be
“voting” for purposes of determining whether there has been a “majority vote of
those voting and present”.
         (b)   When a Council member abstains or excuses himself or herself
from a portion of a Council meeting because of a legal conflict of interest,
the Council member may be given an opportunity to briefly state, on the record,
the nature of the conflict.
      (2)   Tie votes. A tie vote shall be broken by the town’s Clerk-
Treasurer.
      (3)   Statute voting requirements. Some actions taken by the Town Council
require more than a simple majority vote of approval as required by either town
ordinance or state statutes. Those established ordinances or state statutes
must be followed.
   (T)   Non-observance of rules. Rules adopted to expedite and facilitate the
transaction of the business of the Town Council in an orderly fashion shall be
deemed to be procedural only, and the failure to strictly observe any such
rules shall not affect the jurisdiction of, or invalidate any action taken by,
the Town Council.
   (U)   Public hearings.
      (1)   Continuance of hearings. Any public hearing being held, noticed or
ordered to be held by the Town Council may, by order, notice or motion, be
continued to any subsequent meeting.
      (2)   Public discussion at hearings. When a matter for public hearing
comes before the Town Council, the Town Council President will open the public
hearing. Upon opening the public hearing and before any motion is adopted
related to the merits of the issue to be heard, the Town Council President
shall inquire if there is anyone present who desires to speak on the matter
which is to be heard or to present evidence regarding the matter.
         (a)   Public member request to speak. Any person wishing to speak at a
public hearing scheduled on the agenda may complete a public meeting appearance
form prior to the matter being reached on the agenda and present it to the
town’s Clerk-Treasurer. Upon being recognized by the Town Council President,
the person may speak or present evidence relevant to the matter being heard. No
person may speak without first being recognized by the Town Council President.
All persons wishing to speak on the matter shall be limited to three minutes
each and there shall be a cumulative limit of 60 minutes for all those speaking
in favor of an item and a like limit for those speaking in opposition. The time
limit may be extended by a majority vote of the Town Council.
         (b)   Time limits. The Town Council President, with the concurrence of
the Town Council, may alter any of the enumerated time allocations based on the
complexity of the item and the number of persons wishing to speak on the item.
         (c)   Questions of speakers. Members of the Town Council who wish to
ask questions of the speakers or each other during the public hearing portion
may do so, but only after first being recognized by the Town Council President.
Interaction with the speaker shall be limited to a question or questions,
rather than an ongoing dialogue.
         (d)   Materials for public record. All persons interested in the
matter being heard by the Town Council shall be entitled to submit written
evidence or remarks, as well as other graphic evidence. All such evidence
presented will be retained by the Town Clerk-Treasurer’s office as part of the
record of the hearing, in accordance with the requirements of state law.
         (e)   Germane comments. During the public hearing, no person will be
permitted to speak about matters or present evidence which is not germane to
the matter being considered. A determination of relevance shall be made by the
Town Council President, but may be appealed to the full Town Council.
   (V)   Communications and petitions. Written communications and petitions
concerning the subject matter of the hearing will be noted, read aloud or
summarized by the Town Council President. A reading in full shall take place if
requested by any member of the Town Council.
   (W)   Addressing the Town Council.
      (1)   Staff presentations. Staff presentations will be concise and
provide factual background information on the item under discussion. The
presentation may, when requested, also include a recommendation to the Town
Council.
      (2)   Oral presentations by members of the public. The following
procedures will guide oral presentations by members of the public at Town
Council meetings.
         (a)   Prior to the meeting or during the meeting prior to a matter
being reached on the agenda, persons wishing to address the Town Council should
complete a public meeting appearance form and present it to the Town Clerk-
Treasurer.
         (b)   When called upon, the person should come to the podium state his
or her name and address for the record and, if speaking for an organization or
other group, identify the group represented.
         (c)   All remarks should be addressed to the Town Council as a whole,
not to individual members.
         (d)   Questions, if any, should be directed to the presiding officer
who will determine whether, or in what manner, an answer will be provided.
      (3)   Citizens’ comments. This portion of the Town Council meeting is set
aside for members of the public to address the Town Council on any item of
business that is not formally scheduled on the agenda or scheduled as a public
hearing. Members of the public should complete a public meeting appearance form
prior to the item being heard and present it to the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
         (a)   Timing. Citizens’ comments are generally permitted at the
beginning of the regular Town Council meeting, as specified on the agenda.
Presentations shall be limited to three minutes each, but may be extended for
an additional two minutes with approval of a majority of the Town Council.
Citizens’ comments shall be limited to a cumulative total not to exceed 15
minutes for all speakers.
         (b)   Town business. Presentations under citizens’ comments are
limited to items within the subject matter jurisdiction of the town.
         (c)   No Council deliberations. In compliance with the state’s Open
Door Laws, being I.C. 5-14-1.5, the Town Council may not deliberate or vote on
any matter raised in citizens’ comments, except for the purpose of determining
whether such matter should be placed on a future Town Council agenda. The Town
Council President, however, may request that the Town Superintendent provide
additional information on a matter of general interest to the full Town
Council, the public at large, and to the citizen making the comment.
      (4)   PowerPoint presentations. Members of the public may present a
PowerPoint software presentation to the Town Council utilizing the town’s
audio/visual equipment (if available) or their own equipment.
         (a)   All PowerPoint presentations must comply with applicable time
limits for oral presentations and cumulative time limits. Presentations should
be planned with flexibility to adjust to any changes in these time limits.
         (b)   All PowerPoint presentations must be submitted to the Town
Clerk-Treasurer, or appropriate staff, on disks already formatted in PowerPoint
no later than noon on the day of the Town Council meeting to allow for virus
checks and confirm compatibility with town equipment.
         (c)   Any disks submitted believed to contain viruses or are unable to
be scanned for viruses by town equipment will not be permitted to be used on
town equipment.
         (d)   If compatibility or viruses are at issue, a member of the public
may provide a printed hard copy of the PowerPoint presentation to be projected
onto the screen via a visual projector during the presentation or run the
PowerPoint presentation on their own equipment.
      (5)   Public meeting appearance forms. Public meeting appearance forms
may be used by members of the public who do not wish to or cannot verbally
address the Town Council during a meeting. A person may indicate his or her
comments and support or opposition for an agenda item on a public meeting
appearance form. During the public testimony regarding the item, the Town
Council President will indicate that the Town Council has received written
comments from (name of persons) in support of the project or issue and from
(name of persons) in opposition. The minutes will reflect the Town Council’s
receipt of written comments in support or opposition of the project or issue.
      (6)   Repetitious comments prohibited.
         (a)   A speaker shall not present the same or substantially the same
items or arguments to the Council repeatedly or be repetitious in presenting
their oral comments. Nothing in the foregoing precludes submission of comments
to the Town Council in writing, for such action or non-action as the Council,
in its discretion, may deem appropriate.
         (b)   In order to expedite matters and to avoid repetitious
presentations, the designation of a spokesperson is encouraged. Whenever any
group of individuals wishes to address the Council on the same subject matter,
those individuals are encouraged to designate a spokesperson to address the
Town Council. With the consent of the Town Council, the Town Council President
may extend the time allocation for a designated spokesperson.
   (X)   Waiver of rules. Any of the foregoing rules may be waived or suspended
by a majority vote of the Council members present when it is deemed that there
is good cause to do so, based upon the particular facts and circumstances
involved.
   (Y)   Non-exclusive rules. The rules set forth are not exclusive and do not
limit the inherent power and general legal authority of the Town Council, or of
its presiding officer, to govern the conduct of Town Council meetings as may be
considered appropriate from time to time, or in particular circumstances, for
purposes of orderly and effective conduct of the affairs of the town.
   (Z)   Council member administrative support.
      (1)   Mail. All general mail received at the Town Hall will be opened by
the Town Clerk-Treasurer and date stamped and distributed to individual Council
members.
         (a)   Letters addressed to the Town Council President and Town
Council. All letters addressed to the Town Council President and Town Council
requiring a response will be copied to all Council members with a note as to
which staff person will be preparing a response for the Town Council
President’s signature. A copy of the response, along with the original letter,
will be provided to each Council member. Letters addressed to the Town Council
President and Town Council that do not require a response but provide
information on Town Council agenda items or like matters are copied to the full
Town Council.
         (b)   Letters addressed to individual Council members. All letters
addressed to individual Council members requiring a response are copied to all
Council members with a note as to which person will be preparing a response for
the addressee’s signature. Copies of the responses, along with the original
letters, are provided to the full Town Council. Letters addressed to individual
Council members that do not require a response from staff, but provide
information on Town Council matters are copied to the full Town Council. Forms
and other Council member mail marked “personal” will not be opened and will not
be copied to the full Town Council.
      (2)   E-mail. The Town may provide email accounts for each Council member
who desires the same. The same shall be for the purpose of conducting town
business. The account and all associated mail, folders and correspondence shall
be in accordance with the rules and regulations established by the Huntington
City-County Information Systems.
      (3)   Town Council correspondence.
         (a)   All Council member cor-respondence prepared with town resources
(letterhead, typing, staff support, postage and the like) will reflect the
position of the full Town Council, not individual Council member’s positions.
         (b)   Town Council members will be provided individual stationery and
envelopes to use for official communications reflecting their individual
position as a Council member.
      (4)   Clerical support. The Town Clerk-Treasurer will coordinate the
typing of correspondence requested by individual Council members. All
correspondence typed for Council members will be on town letterhead and will
reflect the position of the full Town Council and will be copied to the full
Town Council.
      (5)   Master calendar. A master calendar of Town Council events,
functions or meetings will be maintained by the Town Clerk-Treasurer’s office
and provided to the full Town Council. Functions, events or meetings to be
attended by individual Council members will only be included on the master
calendar at the request of individual Council members.
      (6)   Requests for research or information. Council members may request
information or research from staff on a given topic through the Town Clerk-
Treasurer. Requests for policy direction will be brought to the full Town
Council at a regular or special meeting for consideration. All written products
will be copied to the full Town Council.
      (7)   Town Council notification of significant incidents. In conjunction
with the town’s public safety departments, the Town Clerk-Treasurer’s office
will coordinate the notification to the Town Council of major crime, fire or
other disasters or incidents which may have a significant negative impact on
the town or its citizens. The Clerk-Treasurer shall make reasonable attempts to
contact the current Council President, who shall in turn make reasonable
attempts to notify the remainder Council members.
   (AA)   Annual review of Town Council procedures. The Town Council will
review and revise this section as needed, and at a minimum, every year during
the Council organizational meeting.
   (BB)   Adherence to procedures. During Town Council discussions,
deliberations and proceedings, the Town Council President has been delegated
the primary responsibility to ensure that the Town Council, staff and members
of the public adhere to the Council’s adopted procedures.
   (CC)   Town Attorney as procedure advisor. The Town Attorney assists the
Town Council President and Town Council as a resource and as an advisor for
interpreting the Town Council’s adopted rules and procedures.
(Res. 2020-05, passed 9-1-2020)
§ 30.04 ELECTRONIC PARTICIPATION IN MEETINGS.
   (A)   (1)   The provisions of the Pub. Law No. 88-2021 (HEA 1437), § 5, as
amended by I.C. 5-14-1.5-1 et seq., including definitions, apply to this
section.
      (2)   This section shall be known as the “Electronic Meetings Policy” of
the Council and applies to the Council and any committee appointed directly by
the Council or its presiding officer.
   (B)   (1)   Subject to divisions (C) and (E) below, any member may
participate in a meeting by any electronic means of communication that:
         (a)   Allows all participating members of the governing body to
simultaneously communicate with each other; and
         (b)   Other than a meeting that is an executive session, allows the
public to simultaneously attend and observe the meeting.
      (2)   A member who participates by an electronic means of communication:
         (a)   Shall be considered present for purposes of establishing a
quorum; and
         (b)   May participate in final action only if the member can be seen
and heard.
      (3)   All votes taken during a meeting at which at least one member
participates by an electronic means of communication must be taken by roll call
vote.
   (C)   (1)   At least 50% of the members must be physically present at a
meeting at which a member will participate by means of electronic
communication. Not more than 50% of the members may participate by an
electronic means of communication at that same meeting.
      (2)   A member may not attend more than a 50% of the meetings in a
calendar year by an electronic means of communication, unless the member’s
electronic participation is due to:
         (a)   Military service;
         (b)   Illness or other medical condition;
         (c)   Death of a relative; or
         (d)   An emergency involving actual or threatened injury to persons or
property.
      (3)   A member may attend two consecutive meetings (a set of meetings) by
electronic communication. A member must attend in person at least one meeting
between sets of meetings that the member attends by electronic communication,
unless the member’s absence is due to:
         (a)   Military service;
         (b)   Illness or other medical condition;
         (c)   Death of a relative; or
         (d)   An emergency involving actual or threatened injury to persons or
property.
   (D)   The minutes or memoranda of a meeting at which any member participates
by electronic means of communication must:
      (1)   Identify each member who:
         (a)   Was physically present at the meeting;
         (b)   Participated in the meeting by electronic means of
communication; and
         (c)   Was absent.
      (2)   Identify the electronic means of communication by which:
         (a)   Members participated in the meeting; and
         (b)   Members of the public attended and observed the meeting if the
meeting was not an executive session.
   (E)   No member of the Council may participate by means of electronic
communication in a meeting at which the Council may take final action to:
      (1)   Adopt a budget;
      (2)   Make a reduction in personnel;
      (3)   Initiate a referendum;
      (4)   Impose or increase a fee;
      (5)   Impose or increase a penalty;
      (6)   Exercise the Council’s power of eminent domain; or
      (7)   Establish, impose, raise or renew a tax.
   (F)   (1)   If an emergency is declared by the following members are not
required to be physically present for a meeting until the emergency is
terminated:
         (a)   The Governor under I.C. 10-14-3-12; or
         (b)   The Council President under I.C. 10-14-3-29.
      (2)   Members may participate in a meeting by any means of communication;
provided that:
         (a)   At least a quorum of the members participate in the meeting by
means of electronic communication or in person;
         (b)   The public may simultaneously attend and observe the meeting
unless the meeting is an executive session;
         (c)   The minutes or memoranda of the meeting must comply with
division (D) above; and
         (d)   All votes taken during a meeting at which at least one member
participates by an electronic means of communication must be taken by roll call
vote.
(Res. 2021-02, passed 8-3-2021)
CHAPTER 31: RESERVED
CHAPTER 32: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
   
32.01   Volunteer Fire Company
   
32.02   Department of Parks and Recreation
   
32.03   Plan Commission
   
32.04   Town Marshal Deputy Reserve Force
   
32.05   Department of Redevelopment
§ 32.01 VOLUNTEER FIRE COMPANY.
   (A)   The town shall maintain and/or enter into agreements with a volunteer
fire company under applicable provisions of state law, including but not
limited to I.C. 36-8-12, for the primary purpose of answering fire alarms and
extinguishing fires, and to care for and maintain fire fighting equipment and
facilities in a state of readiness and to do all things reasonably related
thereto.
   (B)   The volunteer fire company will be expected to function as above set
out within the corporate boundaries of the town and outside of those boundaries
pursuant to one or more contracts and/or mutual aid agreements between and/or
among the town, the volunteer fire company and/or another governmental entity
when the contracts and/or agreements are entered into with a primary purpose of
enhancing the fire fighting and fire prevention ability of the volunteer fire
company within municipal limits.
   (C)   The town shall only enter into contracts and/or agreements in a
circumstance where the primary purpose of the town in doing so is as recited in
division (B) above and where materially all of the net monetary consideration
received by the town from any contract is applied and/or expended to accomplish
that primary purpose.
   (D)   The volunteer fire company’s roster of volunteer fire fighters shall
be submitted to and subject to the approval of the Council of the town from
time to time, and as directed by the Council.
   (E)   The town shall pay the volunteer fire company in a lump sum or by
individuals as determined from time to time as consideration for its services
an amount of money as is determined by negotiation between the town and that
company from time to time, which consideration shall include all amounts that
the town is required by law to pay in the circumstance for insurance premiums,
clothing, automobiles and/or other allowances.
   (F)   (1)   The town volunteer fire company in existence as of the adoption
of this section has formed Roanoke Volunteer Fire Department, Inc., which was
incorporated by the state on or about 8-22-1961. The corporate entity is in
existence and shall hereafter function only for certain recreational and fund
raising purposes.
      (2)   Further, it is expressly understood by and agreed by the town, the
volunteer fire company and the corporation, that the corporation is not a part
of the fire protection, fire prevention and/or fire fighting function performed
by the volunteer fire company for the town and/or any other governmental entity
pursuant to the provisions of this code.
   (G)   All of the firefighting facilities and apparatus, but not the personal
clothing or personal vehicles for which statutory allowances may be provided,
have been, and shall hereafter be, obtained and owned by the town.
   (H)   The town may contract and/or agree with that volunteer fire company
and/or another in arrangements similar to those anticipated in divisions (A)
through (G) above where the primary purpose of those arrangements is to enhance
the availability of emergency medical and/or rescue services within the town’s
municipal limits and otherwise according to applicable laws.
   (I)   (1)   Any volunteer fire company contracting with the town as set out
herein may operate under a constitution and/or by-laws and/or articles of
association, or similar documentation, which documentation is not inconsistent
with applicable law or the provisions of this code, or any contract and any
understanding between the volunteer fire company and the town. Any
documentation shall contain an express provision, and be subject to the
condition, that any amendment or addition shall be presented to the Town
Council for its approval or rejection, and the action of the Council shall be
final.
      (2)   A complete and current copy of any and all documentation shall be
promptly furnished to and maintained in a current status with the Clerk-
Treasurer of the town. The material shall be public documents and available to
members of the public as such.
(Prior Code, § 32.01) (Ord. 1986-5, passed 10-6-1986)
§ 32.02 DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION.
   (A)   There is hereby created a municipal Department of Parks and Recreation
for the town, under the provisions of I.C. 36-10-3.
   (B)   A Park and Recreation Board, or Board, is hereby created and composed
of four members appointed by the Town Council on the basis of their interest in
and knowledge of parks and recreation. No more than two members so appointed
shall be affiliated with the same political party.
   (C)   (1)   Upon establishment of the Board, the terms of the four members
initially appointed shall be:
         (a)   One member for a term of one year;
         (b)   One member for a term of two years;
         (c)   One member for a term of three years; and
         (d)   One member for a term of four years.
      (2)   The appointing entity shall identify which member serves for which
term in the document of appointment, which shall be in writing and filed with
the Clerk-Treasurer.
      (3)   As a term expires, each new appointment shall be made by the Town
Council for a term of four years. All terms expire on the first Monday in
January, but a member shall continue in office until his or her successor is
appointed. If an appointment for a new term is not made by the Town Council by
the first Monday in April, the incumbent shall serve another term. If a vacancy
occurs, the Town Council shall appoint a new member for the remainder of the
unexpired term.
   (D)   At its first regular meeting in each year, the
Board shall elect a President and Vice-President. The
Vice-President shall have authority to act as the President of the Board during
the absence or disability of the President. The Board may select a secretary
either from within or outside its own membership.
   (E)   The Board shall have the power to perform all acts necessary to
acquire and develop sites and facilities and to conduct the programs as are
generally understood to be park and recreation functions. The Board shall have
the powers and duties set out in I.C. 36-10-3, as it now exists and is
hereafter amended.
   (F)   The Board shall prepare and submit an annual budget in the same manner
as other departments of government as prescribed by the State Board of
Accounts. The Board may accept gifts, donations and subsidies for park and
recreation purposes.
(Prior Code, § 32.02) (Ord. 1985-3, passed 8-19-1985; Ord. 2011-4, passed 5-3-
2011)
Cross-reference:
   Parks and Recreation, see
Ch. 96
§ 32.03 PLAN COMMISSION.
   (A)   The County Plan Commission is hereby designated as the town’s Plan
Commission.
   (B)   When acting for the town, the County Plan Commission shall have all
powers and duties that a municipal plan commission has under advisory planning
law.
   (C)   As a result of designating the County Plan Commission to act as the
town’s Plan Commission, residents of the town are eligible to be appointed
citizen members of the County Plan Commission under I.C. 36-7-4-410(b).
   (D)   Upon acceptance of this designation and pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-410
(a), the County Plan Commission and the Countywide Department of Community
Development acting for the Plan Commission shall obtain the full amount of fees
and charges provided for in the applicable zoning ordinance and subdivision
control ordinance as payment for expenses properly chargeable for planning
services contemplated herein.
(Prior Code, § 32.03) (Ord. 1997-2, passed 3-4-1997)
§ 32.04 TOWN MARSHAL DEPUTY RESERVE FORCE.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Town Marshal Deputy Reserve Force, which
shall consist of no more than four deputy reserve officers at any time.
   (B)   Deputy reserve officers shall be appointed by the same authority that
appoints regular members of the Department.
   (C)   Deputy reserve officers may not be members of the regular Police
Department, but shall have the same police powers as regular members, except as
limited by rules of the Department.
   (D)   To the extent that sums for benefits are appropriated, deputy reserve
officers may:
      (1)   Receive a uniform allowance;
      (2)   Receive compensation for the time lost from other employment
because of court appearances; and
      (3)   Be insured for life, accident and sickness coverage.
   (E)   Deputy reserve officers are not eligible to participate in any pension
program provided for regular members of the Department.
   (F)   A deputy reserve officer may not be appointed until he or she has
completed the training and probationary period specified by rules of the
Department.
   (G)   Deputy reserve officers shall meet all minimum training requirements
provided by state law.
(Prior Code, § 32.04) (Ord. 4-82, passed - -1982)
§ 32.05 DEPARTMENT OF REDEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   The Town Council now deems it to be in the best interest of the town
and its citizens to afford a maximum opportunity for rehabilitation,
redevelopment or economic development of areas by private enterprise and the
town by establishing a department of redevelopment.
   (B)   The Town Council hereby establishes the Department of Redevelopment
(“Department”). The Department will be controlled by a board of five members
known as the Roanoke Redevelopment Commission (“Commission”).
   (C)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-14 and I.C. 36-7-25, all of the territory within
the corporate boundaries of the town, and all areas assigned to it in
accordance with I.C. 36-7-25, will be a special taxing district to be known as
the Roanoke Redevelopment District, for the purpose of levying and collecting
special benefit taxes for redevelopment and economic development purposes as
provided in I.C. 36-7-14 and I.C. 36-7-25. The Town Council finds and
determines that all of the taxable property within this special taxing district
will be considered to be benefitted by the redevelopment projects and economic
development projects carried out under the I.C. 36-7-14 and I.C. 36-7-25, to
the extent of the special taxes are levied under I.C. 36-7-14 and I.C. 36-7-25.
   (D)   (1)   The President of the Town Council shall appoint three of the
five members of the Commission.
      (2)   The Town Council shall appoint the other two members of the
Commission.
      (3)   The term of office of the members of the Commission shall commence
from the date of their appointment and expire on 1-1-2008.
(Prior Code, § 32.05) (Ord. 2006-11, passed 5-16-2006)
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND REVENUE; TAXATION
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Reserved
   
33.02   Enforcement fees and assessments
   
33.03   Beautification Donation Fund
   
33.04   Tax abatement for ERA designations
   
33.05   Clerk-Treasurer; collection of payments
   
33.06   Reserved
   
33.07   Water Utility Improvement and Maintenance Fund
   
33.08   Electronic funds transfers
Purchasing Policies
   
33.20   Purchasing procedures
   
33.21   Bids, proposals and quotes
   
33.22   Advance purchases; limitations
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 RESERVED.
§ 33.02 ENFORCEMENT FEES AND ASSESSMENTS.
   The town’s Marshal, Assistant Marshal or Deputy Marshal shall hereafter
charge, collect and remit to the Clerk-Treasurer the following fees which shall
be processed by the Clerk-Treasurer as stated.
   (A)   Vehicle inspections.
      (1)   A service charge or fee in the amount of $5 is hereby imposed and
shall be charged for each vehicle inspection hereafter made by a law
enforcement officer of the town, pursuant to or as specifically provided in
state law. The inspections may be, but are not limited to, those provided for
in I.C. 9-17-2-1 and 140 I.A.C. 6-1-3 and 6-1-9.
      (2)   The revenue from the fees established in division (A)(1) above
shall be receipted by the Clerk-Treasurer of the town or the Clerk-Treasurer’s
designee, and deposited in the town’s Vehicle Inspection Fund.
      (3)   The Town Council shall appropriate the monies in the Vehicle
Inspection Fund for law enforcement purposes, or other purposes, as may be then
permitted by applicable law.
   (B)   Accident and police reports.
      (1)   A fee of $5 shall be paid for each accident report and police
report furnished to a person entitled thereto.
      (2)   All such fees shall be deposited in the town’s previously
established Accident Report Fund, to be expended pursuant to applicable law.
(Prior Code, § 33.02) (Ord. 1992-6, passed 10-6-1992; Ord. 2006-13, passed 6-
20-2006; Ord. 2023-10, passed 11-7-2023)
§ 33.03 BEAUTIFICATION DONATION FUND.
   (A)   There is created the town’s Beautification Donation Fund, or herein
“Donation Fund”.
   (B)   The Donation Fund shall be established and administered as follows.
      (1)   Neither the Donation Fund, nor the return on the Donation Fund,
shall be subject to attachment or execution by creditors of the town or
available to satisfy judgments against the town.
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer, or the Clerk-Treasurer’s designee, is
authorized to accept gifts and grants of monies to be deposited into the
donation fund, in exchange for a receipt (Town Form #217). The original receipt
shall be given to the donor, while the duplicate copy is to be retained by the
Clerk-Treasurer, as required under Indiana Uniform System of Accounts.
      (3)   Monies received by the donation fund shall be expended only for the
betterment of the town, as determined and authorized by the then current Town
Council, in a public meeting, after reasonable opportunity for input and advice
from the public, including the Chamber of Commerce. The expenditures may
include, but need not be limited to: antique street lamps and related
construction costs, shade trees, tree maintenance, donation plaques, tree
grates, bricks, brick sidewalk inserts, park benches, trash receptacles,
banners and holiday decorations.
      (4)   The town’s Beautification Donation Fund shall be in existence by
authority of this section and shall be perpetual until terminated by the terms
of a subsequent duly enacted ordinance.
      (5)   Upon the termination of the donation fund, the fund balance shall
be deposited in and become a part of the town’s Revolving Development Fund.
(Prior Code, § 33.03) (Ord. 1993-4, passed - -1993)
§ 33.04 TAX ABATEMENT FOR ERA DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   The following schedule of abatement fees for ERA designations is
adopted.
      (1)   For a proposed improvement of $0 to $75,000, the fee shall be $150.
      (2)   For a proposed improvement of $75,001 to $500,000, the fee shall be
$300.
      (3)   For a proposed improvement of $500,001 and over, the fee shall be
$500.
   (B)   Fees will be in addition to any statutorily required publication costs
in connection with designating an area as an economic revitalization area which
shall be reimbursed to the town by the applicant.
   (C)   The fee shall be payable to the town within 30 days after final
approval of any Form SB-1 Statement of Benefits, and the value of the proposed
improvement shown on the Form SB-1 shall establish the above fee.
(Prior Code, § 33.04) (Res. 5-96, passed 6-24-1996)
§ 33.05 CLERK-TREASURER; COLLECTION OF PAYMENTS.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer may make claim payments in advance of Council
allowance for the following types of expenses:
      (1)   Property or services purchased or leased from United States
government, its agencies or its political subdivisions;
      (2)   License or permit fees;
      (3)   Insurance premiums;
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
      (5)   General grant programs where advance funding is not prohibited and
the contracting party posts sufficient security to cover the amount advanced;
      (6)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute;
      (7)   Maintenance or service agreements;
      (8)   Leases or rental agreements;
      (9)   Bond or coupon payments;
      (10)   Payroll; and
      (11)   State, federal or county taxes.
   (B)   Each payment of expenses must be supported by a fully itemized claim.
   (C)   The Town Council shall review and allow the claim at its next regular
or special meeting following the pre-approved payment of the expense.
(Prior Code, § 33.05) (Ord. 1992-2, passed 7-7-1992)
§ 33.06 RESERVED.
§ 33.07 WATER UTILITY IMPROVEMENT AND MAINTENANCE FUND.
   (A)   The Water Utility Improvement and Maintenance Fund (hereinafter
referred to as “fund”) is hereby established.
   (B)   The fund shall be funded by a transfer from town’s Water Utility
General Fund, as of the close of each calendar month, of that amount, if any,
on deposit in the Water Utility General Fund that exceeds the amount that will
be sufficient, in the informed judgment of the Clerk- Treasurer, to pay the
then expected regular, recurring and incidental operation, repair and
maintenance costs of the town water utility for next succeeding two calendar
months.
   (C)   There shall be no transfer to the fund as of the end of any month when
the balance in the Water Utility General Fund is not sufficient, in the
informed judgment of the Clerk-Treasurer, to fully pay those expected costs.
   (D)   Monies accumulated in the fund shall be expended only by authorization
of Council. It is intended that Council will protect and utilize fund assets,
and supplement those when the opportunity presents itself, in order that major
repair, maintenance and/or improvement projects of the water utility can be
accomplished as necessary and in the best interests of the community and the
utility’s rate payers.
   (E)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall so establish, implement and expend fund,
reporting particulars to Council periodically and upon request from Council.
(Prior Code, § 33.07) (Ord. 2006-7, passed 4-8-2006)
§ 33.08 ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFERS.
   (A)   Automatic clearing house (ACH) transactions. ACH Transactions are
hereby authorized for the Clerk Treasurer to make certain payments via ACH.
Authorized payments are payroll, bond payments and payments for monthly bills.
Also authorized are any funds received via ACH.
   (B)   Electronic funds transfers (ACH), including online transfers. EFT
Transfers are hereby authorized for the Clerk-Treasurer to make online
transfers for the purpose of transferring funds between accounts as it relates
to the Clerk- Treasurer duties.
   (C)   Documentation. The Clerk- Treasurer is required to maintain adequate
documentation of the above referenced transactions for future audits, as
provided by law.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 3-2-2021)
PURCHASING POLICIES
§ 33.20 PURCHASING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Council is hereby established as the purchasing agency for the
town with all of the powers and duties now and hereafter authorized under I.C.
5-22 for a purchasing agency and as may be hereafter supplemented by
ordinances, rules and/or policies adopted by the Council.
   (B)   The town’s Clerk/Treasurer is hereby designated as a Purchasing Agent
of Council, and is hereby authorized to purchase supplies or services in any
transaction where those supplies or services have an estimated cost of less
than $500 on the open market without inviting or receiving proposals, quotes or
bids.
   (C)   The Town Manager, Town Marshal, Town Superintendent and Fire Chief are
each hereby authorized to purchase supplies or services in any transaction
where those supplies or services have an estimated cost of less than $1,000 on
the open market without inviting or receiving proposals, quotes or bids.
   (D)   The following purchasing rules for the town are hereby adopted in
accordance with the requirements of state law:
      (1)   Supplies manufactured in the United States are specified and shall
be purchased for all town purchases unless the Council determines that:
         (a)   The supplies are not manufactured in the United States in
reasonably available quantities;
         (b)   The prices of the supplies manufactured in the United States
exceeds by an unreasonable amount the price of available and comparable
supplies manufactured elsewhere;
         (c)   The quality of the supplies manufactured in the United States is
substantially less than the quality of comparably priced available supplies
manufactured elsewhere; or
         (d)   The purchase of supplies manufactured on the United States is
not in the public interest.
      (2)   Supplies available from the Department of Corrections as
anticipated in I.C. 5-22-11 and/or the Rehabilitation Center as anticipated in
I.C. 5-22-12 shall be purchased from those entities, except as permitted by
then applicable law; and
      (3)   Additional purchasing rules and/or purchasing policies shall be
adopted and may, therefore, be modified or supplemented, by the Council by
resolution and/or ordinance as Council determines to be necessary or advisable
from time to time.
   (E)   The Purchasing Agent may purchase services in whatever manner and on
whatever terms and conditions that Purchasing Agent determines to be reasonable
that are not inconsistent with applicable provisions of state law, ordinances
of the town or rules, policies or directives from the Council.
   (F)   When specifically directed to do so by Council, the Clerk-Treasurer
shall purchase supplies in any transaction where those supplies have an
estimated cost of $500 or more, but less than $25,000, by inviting or receiving
proposals, quotes or bids in accordance with state law requirements for
purchases from $50,000 to $150,000 as presently provided by I.C. 5-22-8-3,
unless Council, having determined that a sufficient need exists and it is not
in violation of any applicable legal requirement to do so, expressly directs
the purchase be made on the open market without inviting or receiving
proposals, quotes or bids.
(Prior Code, § 33.15) (Ord. 1998-3, passed 7-7-1998)
§ 33.21 BIDS, PROPOSALS AND QUOTES.
   (A)   Publication of notices.
      (1)   Invitation for bids. All notices of invitation for bids shall be
published in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1. The Purchasing Agent shall schedule
the publication and any statutorily required posting of notice to provide a
reasonable amount of time for preparation and submission of bids. The notice
will be published two times, at least one week apart. The second publication
must occur at least ten days prior to the date the bids will be opened.
      (2)   Request for proposals and quotes. All notices of request for
proposals and quotes shall be published in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1. The
Purchasing Agent shall schedule the publication and any statutorily required
posting of notice to provide a reasonable amount of time for preparation and
submission of proposals and quotes. The notice will be published two times, at
least one week apart. The second publication must occur at least seven days
prior to the date the proposals and quotes will be opened.
      (3)   Request for specifications.
         (a)   All notices of request for specifications shall be published in
accordance with I.C. 5-3-1. The Purchasing Agent shall schedule the publication
and any statutorily required posting of notice to provide a reasonable amount
of time for preparation and submission of proposals and quotes. The notice will
be published two times, at least one week apart.
         (b)   The second publication must occur at least seven days prior to
the date the proposals and quotes will be opened.
      (4)   Electronic notices. Whenever a notice or other material, including
specifications, an invitation for bids, request for proposals and quotes or
request for specifications, is sent by mail, the Purchasing Agent may also send
the notice or other material by electronic means; provided that, the
transmission of the information is at least as efficient as mailing the
information.
   (B)   Receiving offers.
      (1)   Electronic receipt of offers. The Purchasing Agent may receive
electronic offers in response to an invitation to bid, request for proposals
and quotes, or request for specifications only if:
      (a)   The solicitation includes the procedure for electronic transmission
of the offer; and
      (b)   The Purchasing Agent receives the offer on a fax machine or other
system with a security feature that protects the contents of an electronic
offer with the same degree of protection as provided to an offer not
transmitted electronically.
      (2)   Opening of offers.
         (a)   Bids received in response to an invitation for bids must be
opened publicly in the presence of at least one or more witnesses at the time
and place designated in the invitation for bids.
         (b)   Proposals and quotes received in response to a request for
proposals and quotes must be opened so as to avoid disclosure of the contents
to competing offerers during the process of negotiation.
         (c)   Proposals and quotes received in response to a request for
specifications may be opened as specified in the request for specifications.
      (3)   Correction and withdrawal of bids.
         (a)   An offerer may correct inadvertent errors in a bid up to the
time at which bids will be opened by supplementing the erroneous bid and
submitting a revised bid. A bidder may not supplement an inadvertently
erroneous bid after the time at which the bids were opened.
         (b)   A bidder may withdraw a bid containing inadvertent errors up to
the time at which bids will be opened and for a period of not more than 24
hours after the time at which the bids were opened.
      (4)   Cancellation of solicitation. When the Clerk-Treasurer makes a
written determination that it is in the town’s best interests, the Clerk-
Treasurer may cancel a solicitation or reject all offers; provided that, the
solicitation included information concerning the procedure for cancellation.
(Prior Code, § 33.16) (Res. 1998-1, passed 7-7-1998)
§ 33.22 ADVANCE PURCHASES; LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   A purchasing agent of the town may allow advance payment for the
purchase of goods and services either directly or as part of a public works
project consistent with, and to the fullest extent permitted by law, and as
further limited by the purchasing agent for the purchase.
   (B)   The solicitation for a public works contract providing for advance
payments for contractors to purchase materials for public works projects under
I.C. 5-11-10-1.6 must include the following information:
      (1)   That the town will make advance payments to contractors to enable
contractors to purchase materials;
      (2)   Any limitations on the amount of advance payments that will be
made;
      (3)   Requirements for documentation relating to making advance payments
to contractors for materials;
      (4)   Any other information about advance payment for materials the town
considers useful to contractors that make offers.
   (C)   The town’s fiscal officer or the town fiscal officer’s designee must
do all of the following when advance payments are made for goods or services
prior to delivery of goods or completion of service:
      (1)   Track prepayments by defining the prepayment on a purchase order;
      (2)   Create a prepayment invoice that is associated with the purchase
order; and
      (3)   Require insurance or a surety bond in the amount of the prepayment
if the amount of the prepayment is more than $150,000.
   (D)   Advance payments made under divisions (A) and (B) may not exceed the
lesser of the following:
      (1)   Fifty percent of the entire cost of the contract; or
      (2)   Two million dollars.
(Ord. 2023-11, passed 12-5-2023)
CHAPTER 34: TOWN POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Nepotism in employment and contracting
   
34.02   Flood response and evacuation plan
   
34.03   Multi-hazard mitigation plan
   
34.04   Internal control standards
   
34.05   Disaster recovery plan
Inspection of Public Records
   
34.15   Request to inspect or copy public record
   
34.16   Fees
   
34.17   Deposit of fees
   
34.18   Unauthorized alteration of a public record; penalty
   
Appendix A:   Fee Schedule for Copying and Facsimiles
   
Appendix B:   Public Record Request Form
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 NEPOTISM IN EMPLOYMENT AND CONTRACTING.
   (A)   Minimum requirements.
      (1)   The town’s “Nepotism Policy” and “Contracting with the Town by
Certain Relatives Policy” are established hereby and do, and at all times
hereafter shall, comply with all then applicable requirements of state law as
to those matters; including, but not limited to, the provisions of I.C. 36-1-
20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21; which requirements and provisions are a part hereof as
if fully set out, and are hereby incorporated, herein.
      (2)   Further, two copies of I.C. 36-1-20.2 and 36-1-21, and as they are
hereafter supplemented or amended, are and shall continuously be maintained on
file in the office of the town’s Clerk-Treasurer for public inspection as may
be required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
   (B)   More stringent or detailed provisions regarding nepotism. Anti-
nepotism provisions which are more stringent or detailed than the provisions of
state law may be adopted and implemented by the town, except as otherwise
prohibited by applicable authority.
   (C)   Non-compliance. Failure to comply with the requirements and provisions
of this section may result in remedial and/or disciplinary action, as allowed
by law.
(Ord. 2015-12, passed 10-6-2015)
§ 34.02 FLOOD RESPONSE AND EVACUATION PLAN.
   The town supports the flood response and evacuation planning efforts and
wishes to adopt the county’s Flood Response and Evacuation Plan.
(Res. 2019-1, passed 1-15-2019)
§ 34.03 MULTI-HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN.
   The town supports the hazard mitigation planning efforts and wishes to adopt
the county’s Multi-Hazard Mitigation Plan.
(Res. 2018-3, passed 12-18-2017)
§ 34.04 INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS.
   (A)   The town finds that its objectives as related to an internal control
system are as follows:
      (1)   Operations objectives, which are designed to analyze operational
and performance goals, along with the effectiveness and efficiencies of the way
governmental services are performed and the safeguarding of assets;
      (2)   Reporting objectives, which are designed to consider the
dissemination of financial and non-financial information, internally and
externally; and
      (3)   Compliance objectives, which are designed to assure adherence to
applicable laws and regulations.
   (B)   The minimum requirements of I.C. 5-11-1-27 adopted by the town shall
specifically include the five components as described in the Uniform Internal
Control Standards for Indiana Political Subdivision guidance document from the
state’s Board of Accounts dated September 2015, and any subsequent version
thereof, which are the following:
      (1)   Control environment;
      (2)   Risk assessment;
      (3)   Control activities;
      (4)   Information and communication; and
      (5)   Monitoring.
   (C)   The town specifically adopts the following principles to effectuate
the five components above.
      (1)   Control environment.
         (a)   The oversight body and manage-ment demonstrate a commitment to
integrity and ethical values;
         (b)   The oversight body oversees the town’s internal control system;
         (c)   Management establishes an organizational structure, assigns
responsibility and delegates authority to achieve the town’s objectives;
         (d)   Management demonstrates a commitment to attract, develop and
retain competent individuals; and
         (e)   Management evaluates perfor-mance and holds individuals
accountable for their internal control responsibilities.
      (2)   Risk assessment.
         (a)   Management defines objectives clearly to enable the
identification of risks and defines risk tolerances;
         (b)   Management identifies, analyzes and responds to risk related to
achieving the defined objectives;
         (c)   Management considers the potential for fraud when identifying,
analyzing and responding to risks; and
         (d)   Management identifies, analyzes and responds to significant
changes that could impact the internal control system.
      (3)   Control activities.
         (a)   Management designs control activities to achieve objectives and
respond to risks;
         (b)   Management designs the town’s information system and related
control activities to achieve objectives and respond to risks; and
         (c)   Management implements control activities through policies.
      (4)   Information and communication.
         (a)   Management uses quality information to achieve the town’s
objectives;
         (b)   Management internally communi-cates the necessary quality
information to achieve the town’s objectives; and
         (c)   Management externally communi-cates the necessary quality
information to achieve the town’s objectives.
      (5)   Monitoring activities.
         (a)   Management establishes and operates monitoring activities to
monitor the internal control system and evaluate the results; and
         (b)   Management remediates identified internal control deficiencies
on a timely basis.
   (D)   The Town Council directs that the above principles be used to design,
implement, operate and modify current operations, reporting, and compliance
objectives, where necessary, to establish and ensure that the minimum internal
control standards and procedures are met or exceeded.
   (E)   The Town Council authorizes the Town Council President and Clerk-
Treasurer to review the current internal control system of the town and to
implement a policy that ensures that the minimum internal control standards and
procedures are met or exceeded in compliance with I.C. 5-11-1-27.
   (F)   The personnel whose official duties include receiving, processing,
depositing, disbursing or otherwise having access to funds that belong to the
federal government, state government, a political subdivision or another
governmental entity shall comply with the minimum internal control standards
and procedures and any other policy implemented to effectuate or surpass those
standards, and that they shall be trained at least once during a calendar year
and annually thereafter, unless on leave status, on the adopted and implemented
control standards and procedures.
   (G)   The Fiscal Officer of the town shall certify in writing that the
minimum internal control standards and procedures have been adopted by the town
and that the personnel, who are not otherwise on leave status, have received
training, which shall be filed annually with the state’s Board of Accounts at
the same time as the annual financial report required by I.C. 5-11-1-4(a).
   (H)   The town authorizes the Town Council President and Clerk-Treasurer to
determine which personnel must receive the required training and to notify such
personnel.
   (I)   All elected and appointed officials of the town are hereby directed to
abide by and to cooperate fully in the implementation and modification of the
internal control system.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed 6-7-20126)
§ 34.05 DISASTER RECOVERY PLAN.
   In the event the town’s computer and programs are destroyed by fire,
tornado, or other damage, various processing of accounting information such as
payment of bills, payroll, receipting of funds, mapping, etc. will need to
continue. The following is a plan of action that will be utilized for this
situation which will help ensure continued processing until computer resources
are again available.
   (A)   The Town Hall is located at 141 W. Third Street, Roanoke, Indiana in a
building previously occupied by the town’s court. The unaudited files, petty
cash, and undeposited payments are kept in locked filing cabinets. All other
town documents are in a locked office at 126 N. Main Street, Roanoke, Indiana
(also known as "Old Town Hall").
   (B)   Data from the Keystone software systems (utility, fund, and payroll)
is backed up on a memory stick daily. The most recent memory stick is taken
off-site at the end of the workday. This data is also sent to Keystone monthly.
All other data is saved daily to a portable external storage drive which is
taken off-site daily.
   (C)   The Superintendent of Operations is responsible for updating their
data daily on mapping and backing up to the Ziptility servers. The
Superintendent of Operations also backs up the data from his or her computer
daily on a cloud-based system called OneDrive.
   (D)   The Police Department computer data (including laptops in police
vehicles) are backed up through Huntington County Dispatch using Spillman
Technologies.
   (E)   The town office has acquired a generator in the event the power is
unavailable for a period of time. At the time of this section, it has not been
installed.
   (F)   Should the town be the target/victim of a cyber-security event, the
town’s Primary Reporter of Cyber Security Incidents, or their designee, shall,
within 48 hours of the incident occurring, contact the state Office of
Technology and file a report. The official reporting website address is https:/
/soi.formstack.com/forms/incident_reporting_form and the phone contact is
(317)234-3434.
   (G)   This written disaster recovery plan shall be reviewed and updated
regularly.
(Ord. 2022-09, passed 9-20-2022)
INSPECTION OF PUBLIC RECORDS
§ 34.15 REQUEST TO INSPECT OR COPY PUBLIC RECORD.
   (A)   Any person may inspect and copy the public records of the town during
the regular business hours, unless such records are otherwise excepted from
disclosure requirements as provided under I.C. 5-14-3-4 or other applicable
state or federal law.
   (B)   A request for inspection or copying must:
      (1)   Identify with reasonable particularity the record being requested;
and
      (2)   Be in writing or in a form provided by the town, unless such a
requirement is otherwise waived by the department or office receiving the
request.
   (C)   The town department or office which is in possession of a public
record and has reasonable access to a machine capable of reproducing the record
must provide at least one copy of the record to the person, based on the fees
set forth pursuant to §
34.16 of this chapter. The compilation and copying of any such public documents
will be provided within a reasonable period of time after the request is made,
but may not unreasonably interfere with the operations of the town department
or office. If the town department or office does not have reasonable access to
a machine capable of reproducing the record, the person is only entitled to
inspect and manually transcribe the record.
(Prior Code, § 34.01) (Ord. 2000-8, passed 9-5-2000)
§ 34.16 FEES.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 5-14-3-8, a town department or office may not charge
any fee under this subchapter to inspect a public record; or to search for,
examine or review a record to determine whether the record may be disclosed.
   (B)   Town departments and offices shall charge a uniform fee as set forth
in Appendix A: Fee Schedule, for the certification, copying or facsimile
machine transmission of public records.
   (C)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) or (B) above, a town department or
office shall collect any certification, copying or facsimile machine trans-
mission or search fee that is specified by statue or is ordered by a court.
   (D)   (1)   The town department or office in possession of a public record
shall require payment of the fees in advance.
      (2)   If the exact fee cannot be determined at the time the request is
made, an estimated fee shall be paid in advance, and the balance due prior to
delivery of the public documents.
      (3)   Any overpayment of fees will be refunded to the person making the
request at the time of delivery.
   (E)   A town department head or office manager shall have the authority to
waive any fee when the total fee is less than $1.
(Prior Code, § 34.02) (Ord. 2000-8, passed 9-5-2000)
§ 34.17 DEPOSIT OF FEES.
   Unless otherwise designated, all fees received from a person by a town
department or office pursuant to this subchapter shall be deposited into the
General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 34.03) (Ord. 2000-8, passed 9-5-2000)
§ 34.18 UNAUTHORIZED ALTERATION OF A PUBLIC RECORD; PENALTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person having or obtaining access to a
public record to alter the content of the public record from its original state
without the prior written authorization from the town.
   (B)   Any person violating division (A) above shall be subject to a fine not
exceeding $2,500 for each offense. A complaint for violation seeking the
imposition of a fine may be filed with any court of competent jurisdiction in
the county.
(Prior Code, § 34.04) (Ord. 2000-8, passed 9-5-2000)
APPENDIX A: FEE SCHEDULE FOR COPYING AND FACSIMILES
   The following fees have been established by the Town of Roanoke, Indiana,
Town Council on 11-7-2023:
      1.   Copies per page: $0.10
      2.   Facsimile transmissions and receptions: $                   
(Prior Code, Ch. 34, App. A) (Ord. 2000-8, passed 9-5-2000; Ord. 2023-10,
passed 11-7-2023)
APPENDIX B: PUBLIC RECORD REQUEST FORM
 
Town of Roanoke
P.O. Box 328
Roanoke, Indiana 46750
(219) 672-8116
PUBLIC RECORD REQUEST FORM
DEPARTMENT (x By Appropriate Department)
__________ Clerk-Treasurer’s Office __________ Street/Sewer Department __________Town
Council
Type and/or Description of Records Requested:
_______________________________________________________________________________________
_______________________________________________________________________________________
_______________________________________________________________________________________
Requested by: _________________________________________________________________________
   Printed Name                        Signature
______________________________________________________________________________________
To be filled in by Town Representative:
Date Requested: ___________________
Number of Copies: _________________
Charge: __________________________
If denied, Reason:
_______________________________________________________________________
Name/Title of Town Representative denying request:
____________________________________________
If granted, date copies of record(s) available:
__________________________________________________
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 34, App. B) (Ord. 2000-8, passed 9-5-2000)
CHAPTER 35: ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
Section
   
35.01   Establishment; purpose; right to trial
   
35.02   Administrator; location
   
35.03   Application
   
35.04   Schedule of offenses
   
35.05   Procedures
   
35.06   Payment of penalties and continued enforcement
   
35.07   Forms
   
Appendix A:   Citation
   
Appendix B:   Denial of Violation
   
Appendix C:   Failure to Admit or Deny Violation
§ 35.01 ESTABLISHMENT; PURPOSE; RIGHT TO TRIAL.
   (A)   Establishment. There is hereby established an Ordinance Violations
Bureau (“OVB”) for the town, pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 33-36-2-1, as
amended.
   (B)   Purpose.
      (1)   The purpose of the OVB shall be to receive, during regular business
hours or such other hours as may be established, fines and fees imposed
pursuant to the code for violations thereof, except for moving traffic
violations, as a means of resolving a citation.
      (2)   However, the OVB is not a court and the Administrator has no
authority to compromise penalty amounts.
   (C)   Right to trial. A person charged with an ordinance or code violation
is entitled to a trial before a court as provided by law, unless the person
waives the right to trial and enters an admission of the violation with the
Violations Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 35.01) (Ord. 2003-5, passed 10-21-2003; Ord. 2023-09, passed 11-
7-2023)
§ 35.02 ADMINISTRATOR; LOCATION.
   (A)   Administrator. The town’s duly elected and sitting Clerk-Treasurer is
appointed and shall serve as the Violations Bureau’s Clerk and Administrator,
to act with regard to ordinance violations as provided by the applicable law,
including but not limited to accepting payment of civil penalties of not more
than $250.
   (B)   Location. The Ordinance Violations Bureau shall be located in the
office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 35.02) (Ord. 2003-5, passed 10-21-2003; Ord. 2023-09, passed 11-
7-2023)
§ 35.03 APPLICATION.
   (A)   This chapter shall not apply to moving traffic violations. The
penalties set forth in this chapter amend all specific or general monetary
penalty sections of the code only as they relate to the specific offenses set
out in §
35.04 of this chapter.
   (B)   Otherwise, this chapter does not amend any monetary or non-monetary
penalty or remedial rights or enforcement right provisions of the code.
(Prior Code, § 35.03) (Ord. 2003-5, passed 10-21-2003; Ord. 2023-09, passed 11-
7-2023)
§ 35.04 SCHEDULE OF OFFENSES.
   The following may be subject to admission of violation before the OVB:
   CODE/ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS
Code Reference Violation Penalty First Penalty Second Penalty Third
Code Reference Violation             Penalty First Penalty Second Penalty Third
51.04          Approved containers;  $25           $50            $100
               location
51.06          Burning rubbish       $25           $50            $100
Chapter 71     Parking Regulations   $5            $5             $25
Chapter 74     Parking Schedules     $5            $5             $25
72.15—       Golf Carts/UTV’s    $25           $50            $100
72.27
Chapter 91     Animals               $25           $50            $100
Chapter 92     Health and            $25           $50            $100
               Sanitation; Nuisances
Chapter 93     Streets, Sidewalks    $25           $50            $100
               and Public Property
110.02         Hawkers and peddlers  $25           $50            $100
130.01         Youth protection      $25           $50            $100
130.02         Obscenity regulations $25           $50            $100
 
(Prior Code, § 35.04) (Ord. 2003-5, passed 10-21-2003; Ord. 2023-09, passed 11-
7-2023)
§ 35.05 PROCEDURES.
   Upon receiving a citation:
   (A)   Alleged code violators may admit the violation and/or pay the
appropriate fine amount;
   (B)   Alleged code violators may deny the citation and request a trial for
the alleged violation by submitting a written denial; and
   (C)   Alleged code violators who do neither divisions (A) nor (B) above
shall be deemed to have denied the violation and a trial will be requested.
(Prior Code, § 35.05) (Ord. 2003-5, passed 10-21-2003; Ord. 2023-09, passed 11-
7-2023)
§ 35.06 PAYMENT OF PENALTIES AND CONTINUED ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   A separate and distinct violation of any of the code provisions
referenced in §
35.04 constitutes a separate offense that may result in multiple violations and
increasing penalties as indicated.
      (1)   In circumstances where there exists a continuing act or omission,
or a continuing existing condition that constitutes a violation, every day that
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   The payment of the penalty for the violation of any of the above
provisions shall not excuse the violation or permit it to continue.
      (3)   Nor shall such payment prevent the enforced correction of any
prohibited act, omission or condition as appropriate under other sections of
the code and/or state law.
   (B)   The payment of the penalty for any code violation as provided in this
chapter shall not relieve the violator from liability for personal injury or
property damage arising out of the violating act, omission or condition. The
town or third persons may pursue any and all other appropriate legal remedies
for such injury or damage.
(Prior Code, § 35.06) (Ord. 2003-5, passed 10-21-2003; Ord. 2023-09, passed 11-
7-2023)
§ 35.07 FORMS.
   With the Town Council’s consent, the OVB’s Administrator shall prepare and
use forms to assist in the administration and prosecution of code violations
under this chapter including those attached and incorporated herein as
Appendices
A,
B, and
C.
(Prior Code, § 35.07) (Ord. 2003-5, passed 10-21-2003; Ord. 2023-09, passed 11-
7-2023)
APPENDIX A: CITATION
 
   Citation No. ___________
   Citation Date __________
   CITATION
   Roanoke Code
The undersigned, being duly sworn upon his oath, says that he has probable cause to believe that:
Name:                                                                                                                                              
Address:                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                                           
Did violate the following Section(s) of the Roanoke Code:
Chapter/Title                                               Section                                                                             
by                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                       
Said violation(s) took place at                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                                         
at approximately                   a.m./p.m., on the            day of                                                    , 20          .
Issued by:                                                                                                                                          
Roanoke Department of                                                                                                                         
For said violation(s), you are ordered to pay a fine of:
                           $25                     $50                  $100
SEE REVERSE SIDE FOR YOUR LEGAL RIGHTS
For fines of $100 of less, you must pay the assessed fine or appear (in person or in writing) within ten (10) days at the Town of Roanoke Clerk/Treasurer/Ordinance Violations Bureau, 141 West Third Street, Roanoke, Indiana 46783.
_________________________________________________________________________________________________
LEGAL RIGHTS
1.   You may admit the violation of the Roanoke Code and pay the fine. If you admit and pay the fine within ten (10) days of the Citation Date noted on the reverse side, no further action will be taken against you.
2.   You have the right to a trial for your offenses. If you want a trial, you must appear before the Roanoke Clerk/Treasurer and deny the violation or send a written denial to either within ten (10) days of the Citation Date noted on the reverse side.
3.   If you deny the violation or you fail to deny or admit the violation, then the Town Attorney will initiate further legal proceedings in the Huntington Superior Court for the alleged violation.
4.   Your signature below is an admission of the violation and a waiver of your right to a trial. If you sign and mail this form, you must enclose payment for the fine by the date noted on the reverse side. Failure to enclose payment will subject you to further legal proceedings.
Signature                                                                                                                                      
Address                                                                                                                                        
City                                                                       State                                Zip                                    
Date                                                                   
 
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 35, App. A) (Ord. 2003-5, passed 10-21-2003; Ord. 2023-09,
passed 11-7-2023)
APPENDIX B: DENIAL OF VIOLATION
 
   DENIAL OF VIOLATION
   I,                                                                         , hereby deny violation of the Town Code for the Town of Roanoke, Indiana, listed on the attached Citation from the Town of Roanoke.
   I request a trial for my alleged offense.
Date:                                                                                                                                                                                  Signature
                                                                                                             
                           Witness - Title
 
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 35, App. B) (Ord. 2003-5, passed 10-21-2003; Ord. 2023-09,
passed 11-7-2023)
APPENDIX C: FAILURE TO ADMIT OR DENY VIOLATION
 
   FAILURE TO ADMIT OR DENY VIOLATION
   I,                                                                                                                 , hereby certify that                                                                                  has failed to admit or deny the violation of the Town Code for the
Town of Roanoke, Indiana, listed on the attached Citation from the Town of Roanoke.
Date:                                                                                                                                              Signature                                Title                                                               
 
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 35, App. C) (Ord. 2003-5, passed 10-21-2003; Ord. 2023-09,
passed 11-7-2023)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL UTILITY PROVISIONS
      
51.   GARBAGE
      
52.   WATER
      
53.   SEWERS
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL UTILITY PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Utility bills; payment
   
50.02   Request for termination of utility services
§ 50.01 UTILITY BILLS; PAYMENT.
   (A)   Payment for utility services shall be due when bills are issued and
any amount not paid on or before the sixth day of the calendar month following
billing shall be assessed a penalty as follows:
        (1)   Water. Water bills shall be assessed a penalty of 10% of the
first $3, and 3% of the balance;
      (2)   Wastewater. Wastewater bills shall be assessed 10% of the
delinquent bill; and
      (3)   Sanitation. Sanitation bills shall be assessed 10% of the
delinquent bill.
   (B)   Those locations having amounts past due on or before the sixth day of
the second calendar month following the initial billing may, thereafter, have
service discontinued without further notice. All then unpaid bills and a re-
connection fee of $18.75 must be paid in full before services will be
reinstated.
(Prior Code, § 50.01) (Ord. 1997-1, passed 2-18-1997)
§ 50.02 REQUEST FOR TERMINATION OF UTILITY SERVICES.
   Users of town utilities shall request termination of such services, in
writing, on a form approved by Council available at the Clerk-Treasurer’s
office.
(Prior Code, § 50.02) (Ord. 2004-11, passed 11-16-2004)
CHAPTER 51: GARBAGE
Section
   
51.01   Purpose
   
51.02   Definitions
   
51.03   Collection and termination
   
51.04   Approved containers; location
   
51.05   Hauling trash over streets
   
51.06   Burning rubbish; restrictions
   
51.07   Rates and charges
§ 51.01 PURPOSE.
   In order to promote the health and general welfare of the people of the
town, the following program is hereby established as a separate operating
division of the town’s sewage utility for the collection and disposition of
garbage and rubbish, and to pay the costs thereof.
(Prior Code, § 51.01) (Ord. 1994-7, passed - - 1994)
§ 51.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTIVE COLLECTION UNIT.
      (1)   Unless otherwise established in a written contract to which the
town is a party, each under construction and newly constructed unit shall not
be an ACTIVE COLLECTION UNIT or charged for collection hereunder until
occupied.
      (2)   Except for the circumstance of division (1) of this definition
above, if town water or sewer is connected and being billed by the town, that
unit is an ACTIVE COLLECTION UNIT and the charges under this chapter shall be
made and due unless and to the extent that collection unit expressly notifies
the Clerk- Treasurer in writing that the unit has made other arrangements for
collection and disposition of garbage and rubbish. Each notice shall be
continuing and non-revocable without the prior written consent of the town,
except in accordance with division (2)(b) of this definition below:
         (a)   Within 30 days of this chapter’s adoption; or
         (b)   Within ten days of a change of occupancy of the collection unit
documented to the reasonable satisfaction of the town and a change of
designation of that town’s customer for water or sewer service to that
collection unit.
   APPROVED BUNDLE. This shall not exceed three feet in length, be more than
two feet in width or depth or less than one cubic foot in volume. An APPROVED
BUNDLE may not weigh more than 60 pounds and must not come apart when handled.
   APPROVED CONTAINER. A water-tight covered receptacle, not exceeding 35
gallons, and neither larger, nor heavier, than an approved bundle, and must not
come apart when handled.
   COLLECTION UNIT. A single-family dwelling unit occupied by one person or a
single family or one governmental, business or professional enterprise and any
comparable situation outside of the town which asks to be included and are
expressly approved by the Council, pending further Council action.
   COMPOSTABLES. All leaves, grass, brush, limbs, not trees and similar
vegetable matter, yard waste and COMPOSTABLE containers then accepted in the
town’s composting program, as provided in a duly adopted policy of the Town
Council.
   GARBAGE. All and every refuse accumulation of animal, fish, fowl, fruit or
vegetable matter that results from the preparation, use, cooking, retail or
wholesale dealing in, or storing of meat, fish, fowl, fruit or vegetable and
shall include garbage wrapped in paper or its equivalent. It shall further mean
and include tin cans, glass, bottles and broken crockery which have been used
as food or beverage holders, also old bottles, glass, china and crockery.
   RECYCLABLE.
      (1)   Newspaper, mixed paper, corrugated cardboard, plastic containers,
aluminum, tin cans and glass bottles and jars and other items then accepted in
the town’s waste recycling program, as established, and policies as are adopted
and published as legal notices from time to time by the Town Council.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the foregoing definitions of garbage and rubbish,
items included in this definition shall take precedence, with the effect that
the items so described shall be RECYCLABLES.
   RUBBISH. Material other than garbage, resulting from ordinary household
operations including such items as tin cans, glass, bottles, ashes, papers,
magazine and news prints, boxes, rags, old shoes and small cartons. Burning
barrels will not be emptied, but empty burning barrels will be taken.
(Prior Code, § 51.02) (Ord. 1994-7, passed - - 1994)
§ 51.03 COLLECTION AND TERMINATION.
   (A)   (1)   Multiple units served by one water and/or sewer connection may
elect collection or termination of collection hereunder in writing as of the
end of any water utility billing cycle.
      (2)   The collection/termination shall be for each then occupied unit
served by that connection, at a rate of 90% of the then current monthly charge
per active collection unit.
   (B)   It shall be that water/sewer customer’s obligation to notify the
Clerk-Treasurer in writing within three business days of occupancy of a greater
number of units than then being charged for collection, and that greater number
of units shall thereafter be charged as active collection units as above set
out. Upon occupancy of a less number of units than then being charged, that
customer may notify the Clerk-Treasurer in writing and thereafter only the
lesser number of units shall be so charged.
   (C)   Each notice of the activation/deactivation of units shall result in a
$5 processing fee being assessed to that customer.
(Prior Code, § 51.03) (Ord. 1995-1, passed 8-1-1995)
§ 51.04 APPROVED CONTAINERS; LOCATION.
   (A)   All governmental, business, professional and residential recyclables,
compostables, garbage and rubbish to be collected pursuant to this chapter
shall be placed for collection by the owners or producers thereof in approved
bundles or approved containers which shall then be placed conveniently for the
collection at ground level, within five feet adjoining an improved and passable
alley, where there is an alley, or if there is not an alley at an easily
accessible spot within five feet of the front curb line at times and on
collection days to be established by town.
   (B)   (1)   No more than six approved containers, bundles of garbage and/or
rubbish need be collected from any unit on any single collection day.
      (2)   All recyclables shall be reasonably clean and free of foreign
matter and placed for collection by the owners or producers thereof in approved
recycling containers which shall also be placed for periodic collection as
provided in division (A) above, and otherwise in accordance with those then in
force related policies as are adopted and published as legal notices from time
to time by the Town Council.
   (C)   Approved bundles and approved containers shall not be placed for
collection earlier than 5:00 p.m. on the day prior to the day established.
   (D)   Approved containers shall not remain at the collection point after 6:
00 p.m. on the day of collection.
(Prior Code, § 51.04) (Ord. 1994-7, passed - - 1994) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.05 HAULING TRASH OVER STREETS.
   No person shall convey or haul over the streets, alleys or public places of
the town any garbage or rubbish unless the vehicle containing it has a box
bottom with tight fitting ends, sides and bottom, properly closed and tight
fitting, and covered with a lid, screen, wire mesh, tarpaulin or other cover
which is sufficient to prevent its contents from falling or blowing upon the
streets, alleys or other public or private property in the town.
(Prior Code, § 51.05) (Ord. 1994-7, passed - - 1994) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.06 BURNING RUBBISH; RESTRICTIONS.
   No person shall burn or cause to be burned in the open air outside of a
dwelling house or other building within town limits unless the material so
burned is burned in an Environmental Protection Agency or State Department of
Environmental Management approved incinerator of a type and construction as
shall prevent any ash or embers from it from flying or scattering and becoming
a fire hazard and endangering surrounding property to damage by fire.
(Prior Code, § 51.06) (Ord. 1994-7, passed - - 1994) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.07 RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   A service charge and administrative fee shall be made monthly for the
availability of the service in the collection and disposal of garbage and
rubbish and recyclables per each active collection unit as follows:
      (1)   For 2024, a service charge of $16.25, plus a $0.50 administrative
fee;
      (2)   For 2025, a service charge of $16.74, plus a $0.50 administrative
fee;
      (3)   For 2026, a service charge of $17.24, plus a $0.50 administrative
fee.
   (B)   Any collection unit, other than single family residential, desiring
regular garbage and/or rubbish and/or recyclable disposal service in excess
amounts or of differing material than hereinabove provided for a collection
unit, may negotiate for an express written agreement with the town, or the
town’s designated representative, to pay an additional charge for that service.
An additional charge shall be established by the Town Council and bear a
reasonable relationship to and defray the costs, including indirect costs, of
the additional service.
   (C)   Any active collection unit having an unusual non-recurring need for
garbage and/or rubbish and/or recyclable collection and disposal may negotiate
and make a separate one time arrangement with the collection service, if any,
under contract to the town to provide the services contemplated by this
chapter.
   (D)   The charge for any collection unit as set forth in this chapter for
garbage and rubbish and/or recyclable disposal shall be the obligation of the
owner and any occupant of that collection unit.
   (E)   Any situation not fairly and adequately addressed by the above rate
shall be equitably determined by the Town Council.
   (F)   All charges shall be due and payable by the fifteenth day of the month
in which the collection service for which the charge is being made is rendered.
For example, payment for January collections are due and payable on January 15.
If not paid by the fifteenth day following the date due, a 10% penalty shall be
added to the delinquent amount.
   (G)   Pursuant to applicable provisions of this code and/or state law,
unpaid delinquent charges may:
      (1)   Upon not less than ten days’ written notice personally delivered or
mailed to the last known billing address of the collection unit, result in the
disconnection of water and/or sewer service provided to that collection unit by
the town; and/or
      (2)   Be filed as a lien against the real estate of the collection unit.
(Prior Code, § 51.07) (Ord. 1994-7, passed - - 1994; Ord. 2004-3, passed 6-15-
2004; Ord. 2007-8, passed 10-16-2007; Ord. 2021-01, passed 1-19-2021; Ord.
2023-12, passed 12-19-2023)
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
   
52.01   Cross-connection control
   
52.02   Water meters; requirements
   
52.03   Ground water system construction
   
52.04   Tap-in charges
   
52.05   Rates and charges
   
52.06   Billing; disconnections
   
52.07   Reserved
§ 52.01 CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL.
   (A)   No entity shall establish or maintain, or permit to be established or
maintained, any cross-connection. A CROSS-CONNECTION is defined as any physical
connection or arrangement between two otherwise separate systems, one of which
contains potable water from the town’s water system, and the other, water from
a private source, water of unknown or questionable safety, or steam, gases or
chemicals, whereby there may be a flow from one system to the other, the
direction of flow depending on the pressure differential between the two
systems.
   (B)   No interconnection shall be established whereby potable water from a
water supply other than the regular public water supply of the town may enter
the supply or distribution system unless other supply and the method of
connection and use of other supply is approved by the Council and by the
Environmental Management Board in accordance with all applicable authority
including 327 I.A.C. 8, as those provisions now exists or are hereafter
amended.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the town to cause inspections to be made from
time to time of all property served by the public water system where cross-
connections and/or interconnections of any type with the public water system is
deemed possible.
   (D)   (1)   Upon presentation of credentials, the representative of the town
shall have the right to request entry at any reasonable time to examine any
property served by a connection to the public water system of the town for
cross-connections and/or interconnections. On request, the owner, lessee or
occupant of any property so served shall furnish to the inspection agency any
pertinent information in detail regarding the piping system or systems on the
property.
      (2)   The refusal of access or refusal of requested pertinent information
shall be deemed evidence of the presence of cross- connections and/or
interconnections in violation of this section.
   (E)   The town’s water utility shall discontinue water service to any
property wherein any connection in violation of this section exists, and shall
take other precautionary measures deemed necessary to eliminate any danger of
contamination of the public water system. Water service shall be discontinued
only after reasonable notice is served on the owner, lessee or occupants of the
property or premises where a violation is found or suspected to exist. Water
service to the property shall not be restored until the connection in violation
of this section has been eliminated.
   (F)   If it is deemed by the town that a connection in violation of this
section or an emergency endangers public health, safety or welfare and requires
immediate action, and a written finding to that effect is filed with the Clerk-
Treasurer and delivered to the consumer’s premises, service may be immediately
discontinued. The consumer shall have an opportunity to a hearing within ten
days of the emergency discontinuance.
   (G)   All consumers using toxic or hazardous liquids, all hospitals,
mortuaries, wastewater treatment plants, laboratories and all other hazardous
users interconnected in any way at any point directly, indirectly and/or
remotely with the town’s municipal water system shall install and maintain a
reduced-pressure-principle back flow preventer in the main water line serving
each building on the premises. The back flow preventer must be installed in an
easily accessible and inspectable location not subject to flooding or freezing.
   (H)   This section does not supersede the state’s Uniform Plumbing Code or
any other provision of the town code, but is supplementary to them.
(Prior Code, § 52.01) (Ord. 1986-1, passed 4-21-1986; Ord. 2017-1, passed 1-17-
2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.02 WATER METERS; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   As soon as practical hereafter, each separate location served by the
town water utility shall be metered by town-owned water meters with remote
readers, of a quality, at a location and installed in accordance with the
town’s specifications as they then exist.
   (B)   (1)   Hereafter, upon the initial installation, or when non-emergency
replacement is made necessary other than by the negligence of the town, water
metering meeting the requirements of this section may be accomplished by the
customer if specifications for same, both meter, remote reader and
installation, are approved by the town in writing within 30 days after the
customer is notified by mail (addressed to that customer’s address as shown on
the books and records of the utility), and thereafter installed without expense
to the town in accordance with those specifications to the express written
satisfaction of the town within 30 days after the town provides the approval of
the specifications.
      (2)   If the metering is not so accomplished, then division (C) below
shall apply.
   (C)   (1)   Should the applicable time period set out in division (B) above
pass without either being extended in writing by the town to allow for
inclement weather or other good cause or the written approval or express
written satisfaction, as appropriate, or should an emergency exist and be
established to the satisfaction of the Water Utility Superintendent after a
consultation with the President of the Town Council, then, in any circumstance,
the town shall have the right, without need for additional notice, consultation
or approval, to obtain and install a suitable water meter and/or remote reader
at that customer location.
      (2)   The customer shall be assessed and pay to the town a charge equal
to the cost of the labor and material required in the installation, including
the cost of the town-owned meter and any remote reader, all as reasonably
determined by the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (D)   Divisions (A) through (C) above are intended to apply to the initial
and replacement of obsolete meters and remote readers for existing service and
not to initial tap-ins to the water system, which initial tap-ins are otherwise
provided for.
(Prior Code, § 52.02) (Ord. 3-83, passed 7-5-1983)
§ 52.03 GROUND WATER SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Not less than 60 days before the construction or enlargement of any
ground water system is commenced, the owner of the land upon which the proposed
system is located shall file written documentation of particulars with the
Clerk-Treasurer. The particulars shall include the following:
      (1)   A plat drawing with an appropriate written description sufficient
to locate each new or enlarged well site;
      (2)   Written permission from all necessary so that upon at least 12
hours’ notice, town representatives may inspect and examine the system site for
any and all appropriate purposes;
      (3)   The name, address and telephone number of:
         (a)   The person from whom additional information concerning the
proposed system may be sought and promptly obtained; and
         (b)   The entity to be responsible for installing the well from
commencement through completion.
      (4)   The purposes for the system;
      (5)   The average monthly gallonage, highest monthly gallonage and
highest daily gallonage anticipated to be drawn from the well;
      (6)   The diameter of any well and rated capacity of any pump to be
installed; and
      (7)   Particulars of the system which will remain exposed to view from
beyond the owner’s premises after completion.
   (B)   The landowner or landowner’s duly authorized representative under
division (A)(2) above shall, within five days of the information being
requested, fully and completely respond to requests from the town made at any
time, or from time to time, for additional particulars of the project.
   (C)   Not less than three days before the proposed commencement date set out
in the documentation filed with the Clerk-Treasurer under division (A) above,
the duly designated representative of the Council may direct, by written notice
to the owner of the proposed system site either by personal delivery,
registered mail or prominent posting at the system site, that the well not be
constructed if it has been determined by the town that the construction would
have a materially adverse impact upon the available water supply of the town’s
municipal water utility, and unnecessarily and unacceptably diminish the
quantity and/or quality of potable water available thereafter to the customers.
(Prior Code, § 52.03) (Ord. 1987-3, passed 5-4-1987)
§ 52.04 TAP-IN CHARGES.
   The presently effective schedule of the waterworks’ tap-in charges to its
water customers at new locations should be, and are, hereby modified and
reestablished as follows.
   (A)   (1)   Each entity desiring to become a customer of the town’s water
utility at a particular location not then served by that utility (user) shall
first complete and submit a written application to connect to the town’s water
utility on the town’s form then available and approved for that purpose.
      (2)   The permit shall be issued by the Clerk-Treasurer’s office when all
applicable charges, including the following initial tap-in charge, have been
paid, and the user is found to be in compliance with all then applicable town
requirements for its water utility customers, and prior to the physical
connection of the tap-in.
   (B)   (1)   Each user at the time of initial tap-in to the waterworks system
shall pay a charge to cover the costs of: excavating and tapping the main;
furnishing and installing service pipe from the main to the customer service
shutoff; furnishing and installing stop cocks and meter cock (if outside), yoke
and meter, which shall not be less than the following.
         (a)   The short connection does not cross a public roadway.
         (b)   The long connection does.
 
Meter Size     Short  Long
5/8 - 3/4-inch $975   $1,400
3/4-inch       $1,015 $1,440
1-inch         $1,040 $1,460
1-1/2-inch     $1,465 $1,865
2-inch         $1,685 $2,060
 
      (2)   The charge for a tap larger than two inches shall be the cost of
labor, materials, power machinery, transportation and overhead incurred for
installing the tap, but shall not be less than the charge for connection
through a two-inch meter.
      (3)   The charge for a tap which is particularly costly for reasons other
than the fault of the town (such as, crossing a four-lane highway) shall be the
cost of labor, materials, power machinery, transportation and overhead incurred
for installing the tap, but shall not be less than the above charge for that
meter size.
   (C)   (1)   The following are tap-in charges for installations made by
others and approved by the town water utility.
 
Meter Size     Connection
5/8 - 3/4-inch $336
3/4-inch       $376
1-inch         $398
1-1/2-inch     $592
2-inch         $736
 
      (2)   In addition to the appropriate tap charge determined as above set
out, each new connection will be assessed a service availability fee of $649.
(Prior Code, § 52.04) (Ord. 1999-2, passed 7-20-1999; Ord. 2004-4, passed 7-6-
2004)
§ 52.05 RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Schedule of rates and charges. Rates and charges for the use of and
service rendered by the waterworks system of the town, based upon water
availability and/or the receipt of water supplied by that waterworks shall be
as follows.
   (B)   Security deposit required for a service turn on. A customer commencing
or restarting utility service (water and/or sewer) to a single connection point
shall first establish, and thereafter maintain, a security deposit of $175, to
be held by the town for the shorter of either five continuous years of that
customer’s satisfactory payment history with town utilities measured prior to
and/or following that commencement or restart as reasonably determined by the
Clerk-Treasurer; or the duration of that service availability to that customer
at that connection point.
   (C)   Metered rates per monthly billing period. The water meter shall be
read at the conclusion of each (approximately monthly) billing period,
conditions permitting, and when otherwise, billing shall be based on estimated
water usage.
      (1)   The first 10,000 gallons shall be $10.75 per 1,000 gallons.
      (2)   The next 6,500 gallons shall be $5.34 per 1,000 gallons.
      (3)   Over 16,500 gallons shall be $2.94 per 1,000 gallons.
   (D)   Minimum charge per monthly billing period.
      (1)   Each user shall pay a minimum charge in accordance with the
following chart based upon the size of meter installed for which the user will
be entitled to the appropriate quantity of water computed in accordance with
the above schedule of rates.
      (2)   Each user shall also pay a minimum fire protection surcharge in
accordance with the following chart.
Meter Size Gallons Min. Monthly Rate
Meter Size Gallons Min. Monthly Rate
5/8-inch   2,000   $21.50
3/4-inch   3,000   $32.25
1-inch     5,000   $53.75
1-1/2-inch 10,000  $107.50
2-inch     16,000  $139.54
3-inch     30,000  $181.90
4-inch     50,000  $240.70
6-inch     100,000 $387.70
 
   (E)   Fire protection service rates; private hydrants.
      (1)   Service under these rates shall consist of stand-by service for
fire emergencies and all water taken through the hydrants shall be restricted
to fire emergencies unless other use is specifically authorized in advance by
the Water Superintendent.
      (2)   The annual rate for private hydrants is $714.94.
   (F)   Fire protection service rate; sprinklers.
      (1)   Service under this rate shall consist of stand-by service for fire
emergencies and all water taken through the connections shall be restricted to
fire emergencies only.
      (2)   The town reserves the right to install/remove monitoring devices
such as flow detectors from time to time.
 
Size of Line at Connection Annual Rate Per Connection
2-inch                     $192.28
3-inch                     $402.50
4-inch                     $717.81
6-inch                     $1,627.90
8-inch                     $2,666.14
 
   (G)   Temporary users. Water furnished to temporary users such as
contractors, and the like, shall be charged not less than the rates
hereinbefore set forth and additional charges and fees as are reasonably
determined to be necessary to recover the town’s costs and expenses in
furnishing the water, all pursuant to the in-force policy of this town.
   (H)   Connection charge.
      (1)   Each user at the time of initial connection with the waterworks
system shall pay a charge to cover the costs of excavating and tapping the
main, furnishing and installing service pipe from the main to the lot line,
furnishing and installing corporation and stop cocks, and furnishing and
installing meter crock, if outside, yoke and meter.
      (2)   The charge for a five- eighths-inch meter tap shall be $196. The
charge for a tap larger than the five-eighths-inch meter tap shall be the
charge listed in the rate schedule in §
52.04(C)(1) of this chapter, but shall not be less than the charge for a five-
eighths-inch meter tap.
   (I)   Re-connection and disconnection. During regular hours, re-connection
and disconnection shall be $18.75. During overtime hours, re-connection and
disconnection shall be $31.25/hour.
   (J)   Meter tampering. For the first and second time, the fee for each
customer shall be the town’s cost of parts, labor, equipment and overhead, plus
the town’s estimate of cost of water used and not metered.
For the third time, the fee for each customer shall be the same as above, plus
discontinuation of service.
   (K)   Collection and deferred payments charge. All bills for water service
not paid by the due date as stated in the bills shall be subject to the
collection, or deferred payment, charge of 10% on the first $3 and 3% on the
excess over $3.
(Prior Code, § 52.05) (Ord. 1994-8, passed 12-20-1994; Ord. 2010-7, passed 1- -
2011; Ord. 2013-2, passed 4-16-2013; Ord. 2014-6, passed 8-19-2014; Ord. 2022-
07, passed 7-19-2022)
§ 52.06 BILLING; DISCONNECTIONS.
   (A)   All bills for water service shall be rendered about the fifteenth, and
before the twentieth, day of each calendar month and shall be due and payable
when rendered. Any amount not paid before the first day of the first calendar
month following billing shall be assessed a penalty as follows:
      (1)   Water. Water bills shall be assessed a penalty of 10% of the first
$3, and 3% of the balance;
      (2)   Wastewater. Wastewater bills shall be assessed 10% of the
delinquent bill; and
      (3)   Sanitation. Sanitation bills shall be assessed 10% of the
delinquent bill.
   (B)   Those locations having bills past due as of the first day of the
second calendar month following billing may thereafter have service
discontinued without further notice. All then unpaid billings and a re-
connection fee of $50 must be paid in full before water service will be
reinstated.
   (C)   All non-temporary water customers, excepting those who have owned the
premises so served by the water utility for five years and have paid the water
bills regularly and promptly, shall maintain on deposit with the town’s water
utility a security deposit of $62.50. The deposit shall be refunded without
interest, less any amounts owing by the customer, when the above exception
applies or when service terminates.
   (D)   The Clerk-Treasurer may demand payment in advance for the amount of
water estimated to be required by any temporary user.
   (E)   Water service may be disconnected at the option of the town for any of
the following reasons:
      (1)   The wasting or improper use of water through the use of defective
piping, fixtures or otherwise;
      (2)   Failure to pay water or sewer utility bills promptly;
      (3)   For interference or tampering with the water meter, meter box,
meter seals or any service or appliance of the water work system used for
controlling or regulating the supply of water;
      (4)   Failure to apply for service in the name of a new entity where the
water user at a premises changes; and/or
      (5)   In any other manner defrauding the water utility of the town.
   (F)   Should any water utility meter fail to properly register the quantity
of water passing through it, the water customer shall be charged at the rate of
average water consumption registered by that meter (for a similar period as
determined by the Clerk-Treasurer) before it malfunctioned.
   (G)   Any water customer vacating premises without paying all billings for
water service up to the time of the vacation, shall not thereafter be supplied
with water through any service until all of those amounts are paid.
   (H)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized and directed to issue
billings and cause the town’s employees to shut off and reinstate water service
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 52.06) (Ord. 1983-6, passed 7-25-1983; Ord. 2023-05, passed 6-6-
2023)
§ 52.07 RESERVED.
CHAPTER 53: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
53.01   Definitions
   
53.02   Destruction prohibited; tampering
   
53.03   Administration; inspections
   
53.04   Prohibited dumping
   
53.05   Violations
   
53.06   Rates and charges
Connections
   
53.20   Suitable facilities; sewer availability
   
53.21   Permit required
   
53.22   Connection charges
Regulations
   
53.35   Definitions
   
53.36   Qualifying waste
   
53.37   Prohibited discharges
   
53.38   Quality and capacity surcharge
   
53.39   Dilution of discharge
   
53.40   Inspection and sampling; pretreatment
   
53.41   Termination of service; cost recovery
   
53.42   Metering and testing; rates
   
53.43   Legal action and upsets
   
53.44   Special agreements
   
53.45   Copies of reports and tests required
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOD or BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in parts per million by weight.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   GARBAGE.
      (1)   Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of food
and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
      (2)   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE is the wastes from the preparation,
cooking and dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all
particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing
in public sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in dimension.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial processes as
distinguished from sanitary sewers.
   INSPECTOR. The person or persons duly authorized by the town, through the
Town Council to inspect and approve the installation of building sewers and
their connection to the public sewer system.
   MAY. The act is permissive.
   NATURAL OUTLETS. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or ground water.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen loss in grams
per liter of solution.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water- carried wastes from residences,
businesses, buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together
with ground, surface and storm water as may be present.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
      (1)   BUILDING SEWER. The extensions from the building drain to the
public sewer or other place of disposal.
      (2)   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
      (3)   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties
have equal rights and is controlled by public authority.
      (4)   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm,
surface and ground waters are not intentionally permitted.
      (5)   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A sewer which carries storm and surface
waters and drainage, but excludes sewage and polluted industrial wastes.
   SHALL. The act is mandatory.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the municipal sewage works of the
town, or his or her authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, continuously or
intermittently.
(Prior Code, § 53.01)
§ 53.02 DESTRUCTION PROHIBITED; TAMPERING.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the municipal sewage works. Any person violating
this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly
conduct.
(Prior Code, § 53.02) (Ord. 3-62, passed 11-26-1962) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.03 ADMINISTRATION; INSPECTIONS.
   The Superintendent, Inspector and any other duly authorized employees of the
town bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter
upon all properties for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling and testing, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 53.03) (Ord. 3-62, passed 11-26-1962)
§ 53.04 PROHIBITED DUMPING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in an unsanitary manner upon public or private property within the
town, or in any area that is under the jurisdiction of the town, any human or
animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable wastes.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet, under the
jurisdiction of the town, any sanitary sewage, industrial waste or other
polluted waters, except where suitable treatment had been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 53.04) (Ord. 3-62, passed 11-26-1962) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.05 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter, except
§
53.02 of this chapter, shall be served by the town with a written notice
stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for
the satisfactory connection thereof. The offender shall, within the period of
time stated in the notice, permanently cease all violations.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the town for any expense, loss or damage occasioned by reason
of the violation.
(Prior Code, § 53.05) (Ord. 3-62, passed 11-26-1962)
§ 53.06 RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   For the use of service rendered by the sewage disposal works, rates
and charges shall be collected from the owners of each and every lot, parcel of
real estate or building that is connected to the town’s sanitary sewage system
or otherwise discharges sanitary sewage, industrial waste, water or other
liquids, either directly or indirectly. Rates and charges shall, except as
expressly provided, be based on water consumption attributable to the lot,
parcel of real estate or building, and are payable, and shall be in an amount
determinable, as follows.
      (1)   The schedule of monthly rates measured by water consumption metered
according to town specifications for individuals is as follows:
         (a)   The first 2,000 gallons is included in a monthly minimum charge
of $59.82;
         (b)   The rate per 1,000 gallons for the next 1,300 gallons is $4.60;
         (c)   The rate per 1,000 gallons for the next 2,700 gallons is $2.77;
         (d)   The rate per 1,000 gallons for the next 1,000 gallons is $2.35;
         (e)   The rate per 1,000 gallons for the next 1,500 gallons is $1.84;
and
         (f)   The rate for 1,000 gallons over 8,500 gallons is $1.59.
      (2)   A minimum charge for mobile home parks, apartments, and multiple
non-residential users of one line will be calculated by multiplying the number
of users (family units or businesses) served by the line, by $59.82 per month.
   (B)   Provisions dealing with quantity and quality surcharges shall be as
set forth by future ordinance or resolution.
   (C)   (1)   Users of the town’s sanitary sewage system who (which) discharge
material quantities of water, which was not acquired from this town’s water
utility into this town’s sanitary sewage system, shall install at that user’s
source for that water and at that user’s expense, a water meter furnished and
owned by this town. The installation shall be in accordance with town
specifications and at a location which permits reasonable access by town
personnel for all proper purposes, including reading that meter for data to be
used to determine the sewer utility charges to that user as otherwise provided
in this chapter.
      (2)   Further, as required by the town from time to time, particular
users of the town’s sanitary sewage system shall install and maintain metering
and/or monitoring devices and/or access points at the user’s expense, all to
the reasonable satisfaction of the town, so that accurate accounts can be
maintained of the amount, strength and/or character of each user’s discharges
into the system.
      (3)   In addition to other available remedies, non-compliance by any user
with the applicable provisions may result in the disconnection of any user from
the sanitary sewer system without further notice.
   (D)   Any industrial user may, at its own expense and subject to prior
approval by the town of all equipment and meters installed, install outfall
meters or other measuring devices to more accurately determine effluent
delivered to the town’s sanitary sewage system by the industrial user.
Measurement so obtained shall be subject to all the volume charges, surcharges,
minimums and other conditions hereinbefore set forth.
   (E)   For the services rendered to the town, the town shall be subject to
the same rates and charges as hereinbefore provided, or to rates and charges
established in harmony therewith.
   (F)   Any special condition not covered by the above rates shall be
determined in a manner as the Council may direct.
   (G)   (1)   In order that the rates and charges may be justly right to base
its charges on the strength and character of the sewage and waste which it is
required to treat and dispose of.
      (2)   The town shall have the right to measure and determine the strength
and content of all sewage and waste discharged, either directly or indirectly,
into the town’s sanitary sewage system in a manner and by a method as may be
deemed practical in the light of the conditions and attending circumstances of
the case, in order to determine the proper charge.
   (H)   (1)   Any and all commercial and industrial installations shall be so
controlled and/or treated as to the sewage strength that their effluent
discharged to the town’s sewers shall have a BOD not to exceed 350 parts per
million and suspended solids not to exceed 350 parts per million at any time,
which provisions are in general agreement with the recommendations contained in
Manual No. 3 of the Federation of Sewage Works Association, entitled Municipal
Sewer Ordinances - 1949.
      (2)   The town is authorized to prohibit the dumping of wastes into the
town’s sewage system which, in its discretion are deemed harmful or detrimental
to the operation of the sewage lagoon of the town, or to require methods of
pretreatment of the wastes to reduce the characteristics of the waste
satisfactory to the town.
(Prior Code, § 53.06) (Ord. 2-62, passed - -1962; Ord. 1993-1, passed 3-16-
1993; Ord. 1993-3, passed 9-21-1993; Ord. 1994-6, passed 9-6-1994; Ord. 2006-
10, passed 6-6-2006; Ord. 2008-3, passed 7-1-2008; Ord. 2023-05, passed 6-6-
2023)
CONNECTIONS
§ 53.20 SUITABLE FACILITIES; SEWER AVAILABILITY.
   (A)   (1)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to
construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other
facilities intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
      (2)   The owners of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes situated within the town,
and abutting any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located or
may be located a public sewer or combined sewer of the town, is hereby required
at his or her expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein and to
connect the facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter, within 90 days after the date of official
notice to do so; provided that, the public sewer is within 100 feet of the
property line.
   (B)   (1)   Where a public sanitary sewer or combined sewer is not available
under the provisions of §
53.21 of this chapter, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
sewage disposal system complying with all recommendations of the state’s Board
of Health.
      (2)   At the time a public sewer becomes available served by private
sewage disposal system as provided in §
53.21 of this chapter, a direct connection shall be made in the public sewer in
compliance with this chapter and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar
private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned.
      (3)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the town.
      (4)   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed to
interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the local
health officer.
(Prior Code, § 53.20) (Ord. 3-62, passed 11-26-1962) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.21 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   (1)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
         (a)   For residential and commercial service; and
         (b)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
      (2)   In either case, the owner or agent shall make application on a
special form furnished by the town. The permit applications shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information considered
pertinent in the judgement of the Inspector. A permit and inspection fee of $40
for each sewer permit whether residential, commercial or industrial and shall
be paid to the Clerk-Treasurer at the time the application is filed.
   (C)   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner or the person
installing the building sewer for the owner shall indemnify the town from any
loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the
installation.
   (D)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except where the building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and the private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining court, yard or driveway, the building sewer
from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the whole
considered as one building sewer.
   (E)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when found on examination and testing by the Inspector to meet all requirements
of this chapter.
   (F)   The building sewer shall be cast iron soil pipe, ASTM specification or
equal, vitrified clay sewer pipe, ASTM specification or equal, or other
suitable material approved by the Inspector. The sewer shall be tight and
water-proof. Any part of the building sewer that is located within ten feet of
a water service pipe shall be constructed of cast iron soil pipe with leaded
joints. Cast iron pipes with leaded joints may be required by the Inspector
where the building sewer is exposed to damage by tree roots. If installed in
filled or unstable ground, the building sewer shall be of cast iron soil pipe;
except that, non-metallic material may be accepted if laid on a suitable
concrete bed or cradle as approved by the Inspector.
   (G)   The size and slope of the building sewers shall be subject to the
approval of the Inspector, but in no event shall the diameter be less than six
inches. The slope of the six-inch pipe shall not be less than one-eighths inch
per foot.
   (H)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. No building sewer shall be laid
parallel to or within three feet of the bearing wall, which might thereby be
weakened. The depth shall be sufficient to afford protection from the frost.
The building sewer shall be laid at a uniform grade and in straight alignment
insofar as possible. Changes in direction shall be made only with properly
curved pipes and fittings.
   (I)   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit
gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by the drains shall
be lifted by approved artificial means and discharged to the building sewer. No
water- operated sewage ejector shall be used.
   (J)   All excavations required for the installation of a building sewer
shall be open trench work unless otherwise approved by the Inspector. Pipe
laying and backfill shall be performed in accordance with ASTM specifications,
except that no backfill shall be placed until the work has been inspected by
the Inspector or his or her representative.
   (K)   (1)   All joints and connections shall be made gas-tight and water-
tight. Cast iron pipe joints shall be firmly packed with oakum or hemp and
filled with molten lead, according to federal specification QQ-L-156, not less
than one- inch deep. Lead shall be run in one pouring and caulked tight. No
paint, varnish or other coating shall be permitted on the joining material
until after the joint has been tested and approved.
      (2)   All joints in vitrified clay pipe or between the pipe and metals
shall be made with approved jointing material in accordance with the latest
edition of Volume III, Plumbing Rules and Regulations of the Administrative
Building Council of the State of Indiana.
      (3)   Other jointing materials and methods may be used only with the
approval of the Inspector.
   (L)   (1)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
be made at the “Y” branch, if the branch is available at a suitable location.
If the public sewer is 12 inches in diameter or less and no properly located
“Y” branch is available, the owner shall, at his or her expense, install a “Y”
branch in the public sewer at the location specified by the Inspector.
      (2)   Where the public sewer is greater than 12 inches in diameter and no
properly located “Y” branch is available, a neat hole may be cut in the public
sewer to receive the building sewer, with entry in the downstream direction at
an angle of about 45 degrees. A 45-degree ell may be used to make the
connection with the spigot and cut so as not to extend past the inner surface
of the public sewer. A smooth neat joint shall be made secure and water-tight
by encasement in concrete. Special fittings may be used for the connection only
when approved by the Inspector.
   (M)   (1)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the
Inspector when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the
public sewer.
      (2)   The connection shall be made under the supervision of the Inspector
or his or her representative.
   (N)   (1)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be
adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from
hazard.
      (2)   Streets, sidewalks, parkways and public property disturbed in the
course of work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the town.
(Prior Code, § 53.21) (Ord. 3-62, passed 11-26-1962; Ord. 2006-10, passed 6-6-
2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.22 CONNECTION CHARGES.
   (A)   (1)   Each entity desiring to become a customer of the town’s
Wastewater Department at a particular location not then served by that
department shall first complete and submit a written application to connect to
the town’s wastewater collection and treatment system on the town’s form then
available and approved for that purpose.
      (2)   The permit shall be issued by the Clerk-Treasurer’s office when all
applicable charges, including the following initial connection charge, have
been paid, the user is found to be in compliance with all then applicable town
requirements for its Wastewater Department customers, and prior to the physical
connection to the town’s system.
   (B)   An initial charge shall be collected from each user in the amount of
$1,600 per equivalent dwelling unit, or EDU, for that connection.
   (C)   An equivalent dwelling unit, or EDU, shall be equal to or mean one
single family living unit, a residential house, apartment or condominium, that
can reasonably be expected to discharge not in excess of 310 gallons per day
into the town’s wastewater collection and treatment system.
(Prior Code, § 53.22) (Ord. 1999-3, passed 7-6-1999; Ord. 1999-4, passed 8-17-
1999; Ord. 2006-10, passed 6-6-2006)
REGULATIONS
§ 53.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOD or BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The quantity of dissolved oxygen in
milligrams per liter that is required during stabilization of the decomposable
organic matter by aerobic biochemical action under standard laboratory
procedures for five days at 20°C.
   COD or CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. A measure of the oxygen equivalent of that
portion of the organic matter in a sample that is susceptible to oxidation by a
strong chemical oxidant.
   INTERFERENCE. The inhibition or disruption of the POTW treatment processes
or operations. The term includes prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal by
the POTW.
   pH. The reciprocal of the logarithm of the hydrogen ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions in grams per liter of solution.
   POTW. Publicly-owned treatment works.
   RECEIVING WATER. The watercourse, stream or body of water receiving the
waters finally discharged from the wastewater treatment plant.
   SLUG LOAD. Any substances released in a discharge at a rate and/or
concentration which causes interference to a POTW.
   STANDARD METHODS. The laboratory methods set forth in the latest edition, at
the time of analysis, of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater prepared and published jointly by the American Public Health
Association, the American Water Works Association, and the Water Pollution
Control Federation.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. Those substances referred to in § 307(a) of the Clean Water
Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317(a), as well as any other known potential substances
capable of producing toxic effects.
(Prior Code, § 53.35) (Ord. 5-83, passed 11-21-1983)
§ 53.36 QUALIFYING WASTE.
   (A)   No user shall discharge or deliver any substance into the town’s
municipal sewer system that is not qualifying waste, which is hereby defined as
that waste which complies with present and hereafter existing requirements of
applicable authority (including, but not limited to, then existing ordinances,
rules and regulations of the town and/or standards applicable to and/or
defining prohibited discharges into the system, and/or unacceptable volumes
and/or strengths of the substances).
   (B)   Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, qualifying waste
shall not include:
      (1)   Any material having a temperature higher than 65°C, or which may
solidify or become viscous at temperature between 0° and 65°C, or any
wastewater having a temperature which will inhibit biological activity in the
POTW resulting in interference. In no case, wastewater with a temperature at
the introduction into the POTW which exceeds 40°C or 104°F;
      (2)   Any material which contains more than 100 parts per million, by
weight, of fat, wax, oil or grease, whether emulsified or not;
      (3)   Any flammable or explosive material;
      (4)   Any material capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers
or other interference with the proper operation of the sewage works;
      (5)   Any material having a pH lower than 6.0 or higher than 9.0, or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment, operation and/or personnel of the system;
      (6)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance which will probably
create a public nuisance;
      (7)   Storm, surface, ground or cooling water, roof run off or subsurface
drainage;
      (8)   Any matter containing toxic or poisonous substance in sufficient
quantity, or containing suspended solids of the character and quality, as to be
likely to result in the injury or interference with any treatment process then
being used by system, or constituting a hazard to living things, or to the
receiving waters of the treatment facility, or requiring unusual attention or
expense to handle the materials at the treatment facility. Without limiting the
generality of the foregoing, the same shall include:
         (a)   Any material containing strong acid iron pickling wastes, or
concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not;
         (b)   Any material containing toxic pollutants, or wastes exerting an
excessive chlorine requirement, to the degree that any material received in the
composite sewage at the treatment facility exceeds the limits established by
applicable authority for the materials. Without limiting the generality of the
foregoing, qualifying waste shall not contain any of the following:
            1.   More than 0.10 parts per million of cadmium;
            2.   More than 2.32 parts per million of chromium;
            3.   More than 0.20 parts per million of copper;
            4.   More than 0.22 parts per million of cyanide;
            5.   More than 0.40 parts per million of lead;
            6.   More than 4.1 parts per million of nickel;
            7.   More than 4.2 parts per million of zinc; and
            8.   Other corrosive substances capable of causing damage or hazard
to structures, equipment and/or personnel of the sewage utility.
         (c)   Any material containing phenols or other taste or odor producing
substances, in concentrations exceeding limits which may be established by
applicable authority as appropriate, after treatment of the composite sewage,
to meet the requirements of public agencies of jurisdiction for the discharge
to the receiving waters of the treatment facility; and
         (d)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of the half life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by applicable authority.
      (9)   Any pollutant, including oxygen demanding pollutants (BOD, and the
like) released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration
which will cause interference with the POTW; and
      (10)   Any substance with objectionable color not removed in the
treatment process.
(Prior Code, § 53.35) (Ord. 5-83, passed 11-21-1983; Ord. 1986-6, passed 12-15-
1986) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.37 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff, sub-surface drainage or unpolluted
industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   (1)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be
discharged to the sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or
storm sewers or to a natural outlet approved by the Superintendent.
      (2)   Industrial cooling waters may be discharged, upon approval of the
Superintendent, to a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural outlet.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall discharge or cause to
be discharged, any of the following described waters or wastes to any public
sewer:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F;
      (2)   Any water or waste which may contain more than 100 parts per
million, by weight, of fat, oil and grease;
      (3)   Any water or waste which may contain more than 25 parts per
million, by weight, of soluble oils;
      (4)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel; oil or flammable or explosive
liquid, solid or gas;
      (5)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded;
      (6)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, paunch manure or any other solid or viscous
substance capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other
interference with the proper operation of the sewage works;
      (7)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.0 or higher than 9.0,
or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and personnel of the sewage works;
      (8)   Any waters or wastes containing a toxic or poisonous substance in
sufficient quantity to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process,
constitute a hazard to humans or animals or create any hazard in the receiving
waters of the sewage treatment plant;
      (9)   Any waters or wastes containing suspended solids of the character
and quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle the
materials at the sewage disposal plant; and
      (10)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a
public nuisance.
   (D)   (1)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Inspector, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid
wastes containing grease in an excessive amount or any flammable wastes, sand
or other harmful ingredients, except that the interceptors shall not be
required for living quarters or dwelling units.
      (2)   All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the
Superintendent and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for
cleaning and inspection.
      (3)   Grease and oil interceptors shall be constructed of impervious
materials capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature.
They shall be of a substantial construction, water-tight and equipped with
easily removable covers which when bolted in place shall be gas-tight and
water-tight.
   (E)   Where installed, all grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be
maintained by the owner, at his or her expense, in continuously efficient
operation at all times.
   (F)   (1)   The review and approval of the Superintendent is needed for the
admission into the public sewers any of the following waters or wastes having
or containing:
         (a)   A five-day BOD greater than 350 parts per million by weight;
         (b)   More than 350 parts per million by weight of suspended solids;
         (c)   Any quantity of substances having the characteristics described
in division (C) above; or
         (d)   An average daily flow greater than 2% of the daily sewage flow
of the town.
      (2)   Where necessary, in the opinion of the Superintendent, the owner
shall provide, at his or her expense, the preliminary treatment as may be
necessary to:
         (a)   Reduce the BOD to 350 parts per million and the suspended solids
to 350 parts per million by weight;
         (b)   Reduce objectionable character-istics or constituents to within
the maximum limits provided for in division (C) above; or
         (c)   Control the quantities and rates of discharge of the waters or
wastes.
      (3)   Plans, specifications and any other pertinent information relating
to proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the
approval of the Superintendent and of the state’s Board of Health and no
construction of facilities shall be commenced until the approval is obtained in
writing.
   (G)   Where preliminary treatment facilities are provided for any waters or
wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective
operation by the owner at his or her expense.
   (H)   When required by the Superintendent, the owners of any property served
by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and
measurement of the wastes. The manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and
safely located and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her
expense and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible
at all times.
   (I)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in divisions (C) and (F) above shall be
determined in accordance with Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Sewage and shall be determined at the control manhole provided for in division
(H) above or upon suitable samples taken at the control manhole. In the event
that no special manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be
considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the
point at which the building sewer is connected.
   (J)   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the town and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the town for treatment, subject to payment therefor by the
industrial concern.
(Prior Code, § 53.37) (Ord. 3-62, passed 11-26-1962) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.38 QUALITY AND CAPACITY SURCHARGE.
   In addition to otherwise applicable rates and charges for the availability
and service of the system as hereinbefore established, and so that the
utility’s rates and charges are more equitable and just, the town does hereby
establish quality and capacity surcharges as follows:
   (A)   Limitations on the composition of discharges into the system require,
and there is hereby established, a quality surcharge equal to an additional
100% of the then applicable per gallon treatment charge of discharge into the
system will be assessed by the town, and paid by the responsible customer to
the town, on the volume of material that is not qualifying waste as defined
above in this chapter; and
   (B)   Limitations on volume of flow, so that the material in the system can
be properly processed require, and there is hereby established, a capacity
surcharge equal to an established percent of the then applicable per gallon
treatment charge of discharge into the system that would have applied to the
excess had it been within the volume limitations, times the number of gallons
by which the metered flow exceeded the maximums, all as determined by the town,
shall be assessed by and paid to the town by the responsible customer as shall
be established.
(Prior Code, § 53.38) (Ord. 5-83, passed 11-21-1983)
§ 53.39 DILUTION OF DISCHARGE.
   No discharger is allowed to increase the use of potable or process water in
any way, nor mix separate waste streams for the purpose of diluting a discharge
as a partial or complete substitute for adequate treatment to achieve
compliance with applicable standards.
(Prior Code, § 53.39) (Ord. 5-83, passed 11-21-1983) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.40 INSPECTION AND SAMPLING; PRETREATMENT.
   (A)   (1)   To implement this chapter, the town shall have the right to
measure and determine the strength and content of all discharges into the
system, in whatever manner and method that the town determines to be practical.
      (2)   The determination and assessment of the foregoing surcharges shall
be based upon analysis of samples taken from time to time by the town and
analyzed in accordance with standard methods.
   (B)   (1)   The discharger shall allow the town’s representatives to enter
discharger’s premises upon demand for the purpose of inspection, sampling or
records examination.
      (2)   The town has the right to set up, and provide adequate assurances
against tampering for, any equipment that the town determines to be necessary
to conduct sampling, inspection, compliance monitoring and/or metering
operations on the discharger’s property.
   (C)   (1)   Industrial users must provide wastewater treatment as required
to comply with this chapter and applicable state and federal pretreatment
standards within the time limitations as specified by the applicable federal or
state authority.
      (2)   Any facilities that are required to treat wastewater to a level
acceptable to the town must be provided, operated and maintained at that user’s
expense.
      (3)   All plans and operating procedures must be submitted to the town
before construction of pretreatment facilities.
(Prior Code, § 53.40) (Ord. 5-83, passed 11-21-1983)
§ 53.41 TERMINATION OF SERVICE; COST RECOVERY.
   (A)   Should anything other than qualifying waste, or non-qualifying
material, be discharged into the system, the entity so discharging or causing
same to be discharged shall immediately stop any ongoing discharge upon
becoming aware of same, or upon oral or written notification from the town to
do so, and shall confirm the fact of the stoppage specifically and in writing
within 24 hours of the notification to the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   Should the entity fail to so stop or fail to provide the confirmation,
the town may, at the entity’s cost, and without additional notice, act as the
town determines to be appropriate to stop accepting a part or all future
transmission from the entity until it is established, to the reasonable
satisfaction of the town, that it is probable that the non-qualifying material
will no longer be transmitted.
   (C)   Additionally, should the non- qualifying material, cause damage to any
part of the system, or otherwise damage the town and/or others, the entity
responsible shall reimburse and repay the town, and any others damaged as a
result thereof, to the full extent of damages, including, but not limited to,
attorney fees and costs of enforcing this provision.
(Prior Code, § 53.41) (Ord. 5-83, passed 11-21-1983)
§ 53.42 METERING AND TESTING; RATES.
   (A)   (1)   The town may install, and in the event of the installation, the
affected user shall pay the costs of the installation, the metering, monitoring
and/or access and sampling locations and devices as are reasonably determined
by the town to be adequate and appropriate to measure the rate of flow, volume
and strength and character of waste material delivered into that town’s
sanitary sewer system by any user.
      (2)   The town shall maintain, repair and periodically test and calibrate
the devices, at the town’s expense. The devices shall be owned by and under the
control of the town. The precise location and specifications of the measuring
devices shall initially be the subject of, and in accordance with, the
recommendation of the town’s consultant engineers and state regulatory
authority.
      (3)   Sampling may be conducted in a manner and as frequently as the town
deems appropriate. Parameters to be tested may include pH, suspended solids,
COD, BOD, phosphorous, metal ion, total nitrogen and other testing as required
to reasonably satisfy the appropriate regulatory authorities.
      (4)   Material samples as received from the sampling devices shall be
available both to the town and to the customer whose effluent is being sampled,
and the results of testing samples shall be promptly forwarded by that testing
party to the other, upon completion of testing.
      (5)   The cost incurred by the town in the testing shall be billed to the
customer so tested, and promptly reimbursed to the town by that customer.
   (B)   (1)   The rates and charges for availability and use of the system may
be billed to the occupant of the premises served, unless otherwise requested in
writing by the owner of those premises, but billings shall not relieve the
owner from liability if timely payment is not made.
      (2)   During normal business hours of the Clerk-Treasurer, the owner
shall have the right to examine the collection records of the town to determine
whether the rates and charges have been paid.
   (C)   (1)   Should any customer fail to pay any billing from the town for
obligations owing to its sewer utility, the customer water service may be
suspended, all pursuant to applicable law.
      (2)   The town may also cease accepting the delinquent customer’s waste
material until the default is cured, and all delinquent and current amounts
owed by that customer are paid in full.
(Prior Code, § 53.42) (Ord. 5-83, passed 11-21-1983)
§ 53.43 LEGAL ACTION AND UPSETS.
   (A)   If any entity discharges sewage, industrial wastes or other wastes
into the town’s wastewater disposal system contrary to any ordinance of the
town or any federal or state pretreatment requirements, the Town Attorney may
commence an action for appropriate legal and/or equitable relief.
   (B)   (1)   Any discharger that experiences an upset in operations which
places its discharge in non-compliance with this chapter must inform the town
within 24 hours of the upset occurrence. When the information is given orally,
a written report must be sent to the town within two business days. The report
must specify:
         (a)   Description of the upset, the cause and the upset’s impact on
the discharger’s compliance status;
         (b)   Duration of non- compliance, including times and dates of non-
compliance; and
         (c)   Steps taken or to be taken to reduce, eliminate and prevent
recurrence of an upset.
      (2)   A documented and verified operating upset may mitigate the
consequences of an enforcement action brought by the town against a discharger
for non-compliance.
   (C)   Any person who knowingly makes any false statement, representation or
certification in any application, report or other document required by this
chapter or other applicable regulations, or who tampers with or knowingly
renders inaccurate any monitoring device, will, upon conviction, be punished by
the imposition of a civil penalty as appropriate under local and/or state
statutes.
(Prior Code, § 53.43) (Ord. 5-83, passed 11-21-1983) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.44 SPECIAL AGREEMENTS.
   No part of this chapter shall be construed to prevent an individualized
agreement between the town and any user of its sewer utility by which waste of
unusual strength or character is or may be accepted by the town for treatment
in exchange for payment of related costs therefor by the entity responsible for
delivery of the material to the system.
(Prior Code, § 53.44) (Ord. 5-83, passed 11-21-1983)
§ 53.45 COPIES OF REPORTS AND TESTS REQUIRED.
   Except as waived in writing and in advance by a duly authorized agent of the
town, each industrial user of the municipal sewer system shall furnish the town
with an exact and complete copy of each and every report, test and/or test
result required by or actually filed with an agency of the state or federal
government relating to the handling and/or disposition of waste material which
it is intended will ultimately be discharged into the municipal sewage system
of the town. Those copies shall be filed with the town at the same time as
filed with the agencies.
(Prior Code, § 53.45) (Ord. 5-83, passed 11-21-1983)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
72.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
      
75.   OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS AND UTILITY TASK VEHICLES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
   
70.01   Hazardous streets and areas; U-turns
   
70.02   Traffic signs and signals
   
70.03   Construction signage
   
70.04   Special events
§ 70.01 HAZARDOUS STREETS AND AREAS; U-TURNS.
   (A)   The Town Marshal, in conjunction with the Street Superintendent, shall
cause the curbing at areas of streets, which they determine to be potentially
hazardous, to be painted yellow.
   (B)   The Town Marshal, in conjunction with the town’s Clerk-Treasurer shall
maintain a record on file in the Clerk-Treasurer’s office, and upon request
provide same to Council members and the public, of the location of the
potentially hazardous areas, and the curbing painted yellow.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle shall not turn the vehicle upon any street so
as to proceed in the opposite direction within the town. The Marshal shall post
appropriate signage before, and as a condition of, enforcement of this section.
(Prior Code, § 70.01) (Ord. 1985-4, passed 10-7-1985) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.02 TRAFFIC SIGNS AND SIGNALS.
   The construction, design and placement of all traffic signs and signals
erected shall be in compliance with current provisions of the Indiana Manual on
Uniform Traffic Control Devices, as provided by I.C. 9-21-4-2 and supplements
and/or successor provisions of law. All signs and signals shall be maintained
according to same.
(Prior Code, § 70.02) (Ord. 1990-5, passed 8-7-1990)
§ 70.03 CONSTRUCTION SIGNAGE.
   In the interest of public safety, the protection of public property and
convenience and to protect thoroughfares, yards and easements from unnecessary
damage, “NO CONSTRUCTION” traffic signs will be posted at the direction of the
Town Council, on thoroughfares where and for the duration as Council determines
the signs are desirable and/or necessary to achieve those ends.
(Prior Code, § 70.03) (Ord. 1998-5, passed 11-17-1998)
§ 70.04 SPECIAL EVENTS.
   During a special event within the town, in a contained area within the town,
there not be allowed any bike or skateboard traffic during the time of the
event and no pets of any kind unless the event requires a pet.
(Res. 2014-3, passed 7-1-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Method of parking
   
71.02   Prohibited parking; moving vehicles
   
71.03   Blocking alleys prohibited
   
71.04   Handicapped parking; authorization
   
71.05   Temporary signs; posting
   
71.06   Parking restrictions in residential districts
§ 71.01 METHOD OF PARKING.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle on any street or alley within
the town, other than parallel with the curb or edge of the street or alley
headed in the direction of lawful traffic movement and with the right-hand
wheels of the vehicle within 12 inches of the curb or edge.
(Prior Code, § 71.01) (Ord. 1997-3, passed 4-15-1997) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.02 PROHIBITED PARKING; MOVING VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in any of the following
places inside the town limits:
      (1)   On a sidewalk;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
      (5)   On a crosswalk;
      (6)   Within ten feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and on
the side of a street, opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75 feet
of the entrance (when properly sign posted);
      (7)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (8)   Upon any bridge; or
      (9)   At any place where an official sign prohibits stopping.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any prohibited area or away from a curb a distance as is unlawful.
   (C)   Parking shall not be permitted along the yellow curbs at the hazardous
locations painted yellow at any time, except at the direction of a police
officer.
(Prior Code, § 71.02) (Ord. 1997-3, passed 4-15-1997; Ord. 1985-4, passed 10-7-
1985) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.03 BLOCKING ALLEYS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park a vehicle upon an alley in a manner, or under
conditions, as to block the driveway entrance of any abutting property, or to
leave available less than ten feet of the width of the alley for free movement
of vehicular traffic.
(Prior Code, § 71.03) (Ord. 1997-3, passed 4-15-1997) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.04 HANDICAPPED PARKING; AUTHORIZATION.
   No person shall park in any designated handicapped parking space unless
proper authorization is displayed on the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 71.04) (Ord. 1997-3, passed 4-15-1997) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.05 TEMPORARY SIGNS; POSTING.
   The Town Marshal is hereby authorized to determine and designate by
temporary signs, areas in which the stopping, standing or parking of vehicles
would create an especially hazardous condition or would cause unusual delay to
traffic. When the temporary official signs are erected, no person shall stop,
stand or park a vehicle in any designated place, and the Town Marshal shall
report particulars of the posting to the next duly called meeting of the Town
Council.
(Prior Code, § 71.05) (Ord. 1997-3, passed 4-15-1997)
§ 71.06 PARKING RESTRICTIONS IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   Only motorized vehicles, including a passenger automobile, a pickup, with or
without camper attached, a van/truck, or a truck of less than one ton capacity
whose height from ground to the highest attached component, does not exceed
eight feet or does not exceed more than 22 feet in length from front bumper to
the rear-most point of attached component, shall be parked on a street or alley
in a residential district in the same location for other than: (1) in case of
an emergency; (2) for health or safety reasons; (3) in case of a requested
service repair call; or (4) for active loading and unloading. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, the exception for active loading and unloading shall be limited
to one 48 hour period and the motor vehicle must be attended during this time
so that it can be moved in the event of an emergency.
(Ord. 2022-08, passed 8-16-202) Penalty, see §
35.04
CHAPTER 72: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Snowmobiles
   
72.01   Permitted operation
   
72.02   Prohibited operation
   
72.03   Routes; temporary closure
Golf Carts
   
72.15   Definitions
   
72.16   Unlawful operation of a golf cart
   
72.17   Local registration required
   
72.18   Driver’s license required
   
72.19   Financial responsibility requirement
   
72.20   Time of operation and nighttime restrictions
   
72.21   Slow-moving vehicle reflective sign required
   
72.22   Prohibited places of operation
   
72.23   Traffic laws and ordinances
   
72.24   Occupants
   
72.25   No towing
   
72.26   Exceptions
   
72.27   Revocation of registration and eligibility to operate golf cart
 
   
72.99   Penalty
SNOWMOBILES
§ 72.01 PERMITTED OPERATION.
   Snowmobiles are hereby permitted to operate within the following boundaries
of the town only:
   (A)   On the right side of a highway, street or right-of-way (the entire
width between the boundary lines of every way publicly maintained when any part
is available to the public for vehicular travel), by a person holding a current
valid motor vehicle driver’s license, which permits that person to lawfully
drive on state highways; and
   (B)   To take that snowmobile from its storage location by the most direct
route to one of the following designated streets, and then upon that designated
street out of town, or to return along that route to the storage location
(riding back and forth continually will be a violation of this section).
(Prior Code, § 70.04) (Ord. 1985-1, passed 2-4-1985)
§ 72.02 PROHIBITED OPERATION.
   In accordance with all laws, ordinances and regulations pertaining to the
operation of motor vehicles and, where more restrictive and not otherwise
prohibited by controlling authority, within the following standards and
limitations as well:
   (A)   Driven at speeds of no more than ten mph;
   (B)   Headlights and taillights on and working at all times;
   (C)   Operator and passengers wearing approved helmets;
   (D)   Safety flags mounted on the vehicle so as to be easily seen above the
highest point of the machine and rider; and
   (E)   Snowmobiles in Roanoke Park shall be driven only on the driveway from
the public way to the ball diamonds, and in the field west of the most easterly
ball diamond. Also, no snowmobiles shall operate south or west of the creek in
the park.
(Prior Code, § 70.04) (Ord. 1985-1, passed 2-4-1985) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 ROUTES; TEMPORARY CLOSURE.
   Extraordinary and unusual situations may result in the Town Marshal
temporarily designating other snowmobile routes as designated streets, which
designation shall only be in writing, posted in the front window of the Town
Hall building easily visible and readable from the street, and shall be in
effect only so long as the posted notice remains.
(Prior Code, § 70.04) (Ord. 1985-1, passed 2-4-1985)
GOLF CARTS
§ 72.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this subchapter, the following terms shall have the
definitions provided.
   GOLF CART. A four-wheeled motor vehicle originally and specifically designed
and intended to transport one or more individuals and golf clubs for the
purpose of playing the game of golf on a golf course.
   FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY. The meaning given in I.C. 9-25-4-1 et seq., as it
now reads or is subsequently amended.
   OPERATE. To exercise any control over the function or movement of a golf
cart.
   SLOW MOVING VEHICLE REFLECTIVE SIGN. A triangle-shaped, reflective sign of
the same type required under state law.
   STATE HIGHWAY. Any street under the control of and maintained by the state
and shall include, but not be limited to, Highway 24.
   TOWN STREET. The entire width between the boundary lines of every publicly
maintained way, when any part of the way is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicle travel within the corporate limits of the town. TOWN STREET
includes, but is not necessarily limited to, streets, alleys, roads, highways
and thoroughfares.
(Prior Code, § 72.01) (Ord. 2010-2, passed 3-2-2010)
§ 72.16 UNLAWFUL OPERATION OF A GOLF CART.
   It shall be unlawful to operate a golf cart on any town street, except as
specifically authorized by this subchapter. Any person who operates a golf cart
in violation of this subchapter shall be subject to penalty as set forth in
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 72.02) (Ord. 2010-2, passed 3-2-2010) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.17 LOCAL REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Local registration required.
      (1)   Any golf cart operated on a town street shall be registered at the
Police Department.
      (2)   The annual registration certificate will be valid from March 1
until November 30 of the year in which it is issued.
      (3)   The then current registration certificate shall be maintained on or
about the golf cart at all times that it is in operation.
   (B)   Registration fee.
      (1)   Each registrant shall provide the vehicle identification number and
proof of financial responsibility, and shall pay a registration fee of $25 for
each golf cart to be registered for that year or the remaining portion thereof.
      (2)   A temporary registration may be purchased for a period of time not
to exceed five consecutive days for a fee of $10.
(Prior Code, § 72.03) (Ord. 2010-2, passed 3-2-2010)
§ 72.18 DRIVER’S LICENSE REQUIRED.
   The operator of a golf cart on a town street must have a valid driver’s
license issued by the State of Indiana or any other state of the United States
of America, and must possess that license while operating a golf cart.
(Prior Code, § 72.04) (Ord. 2010-2, passed 3-2-2010) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.19 FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REQUIREMENT.
   No person may operate a golf cart on any town street unless financial
responsibility is in effect with respect to the golf cart as provided under
I.C. 9-25-4-4, as it now reads or is subsequently amended.
(Prior Code, § 72.05) (Ord. 2010-2, passed 3-2-2010) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.20 TIME OF OPERATION AND NIGHTTIME RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No golf cart shall be operated on a town street between the time of
one-half hour after sunset and one-half hour before sunrise, unless the golf
cart is registered under this subchapter and equipped with two headlamps, two
tail lamps, front and rear turn lamps, and rear brake lamps, all of which must
be visible from a distance of at least 500 feet.
   (B)   Registered golf carts shall only be operated on town streets between
March 1 and November 30 during any calendar year.
(Prior Code, § 72.06) (Ord. 2010-2, passed 3-2-2010) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.21 SLOW-MOVING VEHICLE REFLECTIVE SIGN REQUIRED.
   No golf cart shall be operated on a town street unless the golf cart is
equipped with a properly displayed slow-moving vehicle reflective sign clearly
visible from behind.
(Prior Code, § 72.07) (Ord. 2010-2, passed 3-2-2010) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.22 PROHIBITED PLACES OF OPERATION.
   No golf cart shall be operated on or at any of the following:
   (A)   Any town street or any portion of any town street where the speed
limit in effect at the place of operation is greater than 30 mph;
   (B)   Any town street designated as a state highway (U.S. 24), except to
cross any state highway at intersections perpendicular to the state highway;
and/or
   (C)   Any sidewalk, public trail or public greenway not specifically
designated for use by a motor vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 72.08) (Ord. 2010-2, passed 3-2-2010) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.23 TRAFFIC LAWS AND ORDINANCES.
   The operator of a golf cart on a town street shall comply with all then
effective traffic laws, ordinances, rules and regulations adopted by the state
and the town.
(Prior Code, § 72.09) (Ord. 2010-2, passed 3-2-2010)
§ 72.24 OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   Number and seating of occupants.
      (1)   The number of occupants of a golf cart shall be limited to the
lesser of the number of persons for whom factory seating is installed on the
golf cart or six persons.
      (2)   The operator and occupants shall be properly seated at all times,
and no part of the body of the operator or occupants shall extend outside the
perimeter of the golf cart while the golf cart is in operation; excepting that
the operator shall use proper traffic hand signals when required.
   (B)   Minor as operator. If the operator of a golf cart is under 18 years of
age, no more than two additional persons under the age of 18 are permitted to
occupy that golf cart.
   (C)   Infants prohibited. No one under the age of two years shall be
permitted as an occupant of a golf cart on a town street.
(Prior Code, § 72.10) (Ord. 2010-2, passed 3-2-2010) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.25 NO TOWING.
   No golf cart shall be used to tow any type of trailer or other vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 72.11) (Ord. 2010-2, passed 3-2-2010) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.26 EXCEPTIONS.
   Upon receipt of written authorization from the Roanoke Fall Festival Board,
golf carts operated in connection with the town’s annual Fall Festival shall be
exempted from specified requirements of this subchapter for operation within
the confines of that portion of the downtown in which festival activity is
taking place; except that, the operator of a golf cart must still be a licensed
driver, and financial responsibility must be in effect with respect to the golf
cart.
(Prior Code, § 72.12) (Ord. 2010-2, passed 3-2-2010)
§ 72.27 REVOCATION OF REGISTRATION AND ELIGIBILITY TO OPERATE GOLF CART.
   Any unsafe operation, multiple violations, failure to maintain financial
responsibility, or failure to pay fines in accordance to this subchapter, as
reasonably determined by the Police Chief, or the Police Chief’s authorized
designee, may result in the revocation of a golf cart registration and the
violator’s eligibility to operate a golf cart within the town for up to one
calendar year.
(Prior Code, § 72.13) (Ord. 2010-2, passed 3-2-2010)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Failure to comply with §§
72.15 through
72.27 of this chapter will result in fines and penalties as follows:
         (a)   First offense: $25 fine;
         (b)   Second offense: $50 fine; and
         (c)   Each additional offense: $100 fine.
      (2)   An OFFENSE is defined as each separate violation of §§
72.15 through
72.27 of this chapter that occurs while operating a golf cart.
(Prior Code, § 72.99) (Ord. 2010-2, passed 3-2-2010)
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limits
      
II.   Stop streets
      
III.   Four-way stop intersections
      
IV.   Yield intersections
      
V.   Snowmobiles
      
VI.   Weight and size limits
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   The town’s Street Department is hereby authorized and directed to erect and
maintain speed limit signs in accordance with the following. It shall be
unlawful to drive at speeds surpassing the following:
Location Speed Limit (mph)
                                                                             Speed
Location                                                                     Limit
                                                                             (mph)
All streets in Roanoke Village                                               20
All streets in Hillside Estates                                              20
All streets in Oak Park Addition                                             20
All streets in Crestwood, Subdivisions I and II                              20
All streets within the boundaries of Roanoke Park                            15
All streets which are not either federal or state highways in Roanoke        20
Village
All streets which are not either federal or state highways in Hillside       20
Estates
All streets which are not either federal or state highways in Oak Park       20
Addition
All streets which are not either federal or state highways in Crestwood      20
All streets which are neither federal nor state highways within the town’s 30
corporate limits, other than above
All alleys within the town’s corporate limits                              15
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 72, Schd. I) (Ord. 1990-5, passed 8-7-1990; Ord. 1994-5,
passed 6-7-1994; Ord. 1998-5, passed 11-17-1998; Ord. 2000-6, passed 8-15-2000)
Penalty, see §
10.99
SCHEDULE II. STOP STREETS.
   The town’s Street Department is hereby authorized and directed to erect and
maintain stop signs as follows. It shall be unlawful to pass through one of the
following intersections without stopping:
Street Stop Intersection
Street                                Stop Intersection
805 N                                 At its intersection with S. Main Street
Aaron Corner                          At its intersection with Hillside Avenue
Artemis Wood                          At its intersection with Nordyke Drive
Branson Boulevard                     At its intersection with the eastern
                                      right of Helms Orange
Branson Boulevard (one-way eastbound) At its intersection with Nancyk Crossing
Branson Boulevard                     At its intersection with South Main
                                      Street
Canal Street                          At its intersection with Vine Street
Chadings Drive                        At its intersection with Rockwell Avenue
Clark Street                          At its intersection with Seminary Street
Coe Street                            At its intersection with U.S. 24 - West
Coe Street                            At its intersection with Main Street
Commercial Street                     At its intersection with Second Street
Crestwood Drive                       At its intersection with Seminary Street
Eighth Street                         At its intersection with Main Street
Eighth Street                         At its intersection with Seminary Street
Fifth Street                          At its intersection with Commercial
                                      Street
Fifth Street                          At its intersection with Main Street
Fifth Street                          At its intersection with Seminary Street
First Street                          At its intersection with Seminary Street
First Street                          At its intersection with U.S. 24 - West
Fourth Street                         At its intersection with Commercial
                                      Street
Fourth Street                         At its intersection with Main Street
Frederick Crossing (north of Branson  At its intersection with Branson
Boulevard)                            Boulevard
Frederick Crossing (south of Branson  At its intersection with Branson
Boulevard)                            Boulevard
Glen Dee Lane                         At its intersection with Seminary Street
                                      At its intersection with the southern
Helms Orange                          right-of-way of Branson Boulevard and
                                      Nordyke Drive
High Street                           At its intersection with Second Street
High Street                           At its intersection with Vine Street
Hillside Avenue (eastbound traffic    At its intersection with Lowry Way
only)
Hillside Avenue                       At its intersection with Nordyke Drive
Hillside Avenue                       At its intersection with South Main
                                      Street
Locust Drive                          At its intersection with U.S. 24 - West
Lowry Way                             At its intersection with Hillside Avenue
Nancyk Crossing (north of Branson     At its intersection with Branson
Boulevard)                            Boulevard
Nancyk Crossing (south of Branson     At its intersection with Branson
Boulevard)                            Boulevard
Nathan Place                          At its intersection with Hillside Avenue
Nordyke Drive                         At it intersection with the western
                                      right of Helms Orange
Oak Park Drive                        At its intersection with North Main
                                      Street
Park Access Road                      At its intersection with Seminary Street
Park Access Road                      At its intersection with Vine Street
Park Access Road                      Pedestrian walkway at front ball diamond
Posey Hill                            At its intersection with Seminary Street
Posey Hill Trailer Park, East Drive   At its intersection with Posey Hill
Posey Hill Trailer Park, West Drive   At its intersection with Posey Hill
Putnam Place                          At its intersection with Rockwell Avenue
Roanoke Road                          At its intersection with Main Street
Roanoke Park, County Creek entrance   At its intersection with Seminary Street
Second Street                         At its intersection with Seminary Street
Second Street                         At its intersection with U.S. 24 - West
Seminary Street                       At its intersection with Eighth Street
Seminary Street                       At its intersection with Fourth Street
Seminary Street                       At its intersection with Vine Street
Seventh Street                        At its intersection with Commercial
                                      Street
Seventh Street                        At its intersection with Main Street
Seventh Street                        At its intersection with Seminary Street
Sixth Street                          At its intersection with Commercial
                                      Street
Sixth Street                          At its intersection with Main Street
Sixth Street                          At its intersection with Seminary Street
Smith Street                          At its intersection with Crestwood Drive
Third Street                          At its intersection with Main Street
Third Street                          At its intersection with Seminary Street
Vine Street                           At its intersection with U.S. 24 - West
Western Avenue                        At its intersection with Vine Street
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 72, Schd. II) (Ord. 1990-5, passed 8-7-1990; Ord. 2002-4,
passed 5-8-2002; Ord. 2002-9, passed 12-4-2002; Ord. 2003-3, passed 9-16-2003;
Ord. 2004-8, passed 9-21-2004; Ord. 2008-7, passed 10-21-2008; Ord. 2011-5,
passed 10-18-2011; Ord. 2017-3, passed 4-18-2017; Ord. 2019-4, passed 4-19-
2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
SCHEDULE III. FOUR-WAY STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   The town’s Street Department is hereby authorized and directed to erect and
maintain four-way stop signs at the following intersections. It shall be
unlawful to pass through one of the following intersections without stopping:
Street Intersection
Street             Intersection
Canal Street       At its intersection with Washington Street
Clark Street       At its intersection with Smith Street
First Street       At its intersection with High Street
First Street       At intersection with Main Street
Helms Orange Drive At its intersection with Branson Boulevard and Nordyke Drive
Helms Orange Drive At its intersection with Rockwell Drive
Hillside Avenue    At its intersection with Nordyke Drive
Main Street        At its intersection with Second Street
Main Street        At its intersection with Vine Street
Seminary Street    At its intersection with County Road 1000 North
Washington Street  At its intersection with Canal Street
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 72, Schd. III) (Ord. 1990-5, passed 8-7-1990; Ord. 2002-9,
passed 12-4-2002; Ord. 2003-3, passed 9-16-2003; Ord. 2008-7, passed 10-21-
2008; Ord. 2016-9, passed 9-20-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
SCHEDULE IV. YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   The town’s Street Department is hereby authorized and directed to erect and
maintain yield signs as follows. It shall be unlawful to not yield at the
following intersections:
Street Yield Intersection
Street         Yield Intersection
Allen Street   At its intersection with Clark Street
Canal Street   At its intersection with High Street
Fifth Street   At its intersection with Commercial Street
Fourth Street  At its intersection with Commercial Street
Glen Court     At its intersection with Crestwood Drive
High Street    At its intersection with Coe Street
Home Street    At its intersection with Main Street
Home Street    At its intersection with High Street
Home Street    At its intersection with Canal Street
Seventh Street At its intersection with Commercial Street
Sixth Street   At its intersection with Commercial Street
Steven Court   At its intersection with Clark Street
Warren Street  At its intersection with Eighth Street
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 72, Schd. IV) (Ord. 1990-5, passed 8-7-1990; Ord. 2002-4,
passed 5-8-2002; Ord. 2004-8, passed 9-21-2004; Ord. 2008-7, passed 10-21-2008)
Penalty, see §
10.99
SCHEDULE V. SNOWMOBILES.
   The following streets are designated streets for snowmobiles. The only
exceptions to these streets will be in the case of extreme conditions
determined by the Town Marshal:
Designated Street Location
Designated Street Location
Coe Street         
Commercial Street  
Eighth Street      
High Street       North of Vine Street
North Main Street From Eighth Street to town limits
North Main Street From Old 24 North
Posey Hill         
Seminary Street    
South Main Street North to Vine Street only
South Main Street South to Old 24
Vine Street       West from Main Street
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 72, Schd. V) (Ord. 1985-1, passed 2-4-1985) Penalty, see §
10.99
SCHEDULE VI. WEIGHT AND SIZE LIMITS.
   Except for local pick-up and delivery, the following vehicles are prohibited
on the town roads listed below:
 
Street      Weight, Size Limit               Penalty
            Class 8* truck traffic (33,001
            lbs. and over GVW - 6 tires or   $100 (each violation is a separate
Vine Street more)                            offense)
            *as defined by the Federal Motor
            Carrier Safety Administration
 
(Ord. 2019-7, passed 5-21-2019)
CHAPTER 74: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Restricted parking
SCHEDULE I. RESTRICTED PARKING.
   No person shall park a vehicle in any of the following locations:
Street Location Direction(s)
Street          Location                                           Direction(s)
                For a distance of 70 feet east from the
Eighth Street   intersection of the north edge of Eighth Street    North
                with the east edge of Warren Street
Eighth Street   From its intersection with Seminary Street         South
                eastwardly with Main Street
                From its point of intersection with the northerly
High Street     right-of-way line of First Street northwardly      East
                along the east side a distance of 125 feet
Hillside Avenue From its intersection with Main Street to its      North
                intersection with Aaron Corner
                Between First and Third streets, or on either side
Main Street     of First, Second or Third streets within one block Both
                of Main Street after 8:00 a.m. and before 6:00
                p.m.
                From its intersection with Vine Street to its
                intersection with Second Street; excepting the two
Main Street     parking spaces in front of 117 N. Main Street      Both
                (U.S. Post Office); two-hour maximum between 8:00
                a.m. and 6:00 p.m., Monday through Saturday
                From the beginning point on the easterly curb line
                of Main Street 43 feet northerly from the easterly
Main Street     curb line of First Street to a point 68 feet       East
                northerly along the easterly curb line of Main
                Street, encompassing three parking spaces; 30-
                minute maximum between 8:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.
                The two parking spaces in front of 117 N. Main
Main Street     Street (U.S. Post Office); 15 minute maximum       North
                between 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., Monday through
                Saturday
Posey Hill      From its beginning at CR 950 N to its termination  South
                at Seminary Street
Second Street   From its intersection with High Street eastwardly  South
                with Main Street
Vine Street                                                       Both
Vine Street     Between U.S. 24 and the western town limits        Both
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 73, Schd. I) (Ord. 1986-2, passed 6-16-1986; Ord. 1991-4,
passed 8-6-1991; Ord. 1996-1, passed 6-4-1996; Ord. 1997-3, passed 4-15-1997;
Ord. 2014-9, passed - -2014; Ord. 2022-06, passed 6-28-2022; Ord. 2022-13,
passed 11-1-2022) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 75: OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS AND UTILITY TASK VEHICLES
Section
   
75.01   Definitions
   
75.02   Unlawful operation of golf carts or utility task vehicles
   
75.03   Requirement of local registration
   
75.04   Requirement of driver’s license
   
75.05   Requirement of financial responsibility
   
75.06   Time of operation and nighttime restrictions
   
75.07   Slow moving vehicle reflective sign
   
75.08   Place of operation
   
75.09   Traffic laws and ordinances
   
75.10   Occupants
   
75.11   No towing
   
75.12   Exceptions
   
75.13   Revocation of registration and eligibility to operate golf carts or
utility task vehicles
 
   
75.99   Penalty
§ 75.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRIVER’S LICENSE. A valid license to operate a motor vehicle issued by the
state of Indiana or any other state.
   FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY. Liability insurance coverage on a golf cart and
UTV in an amount not less than required by state law for motor vehicles
operated on public highways in the state, the meaning given in I.C. 9-25-4-1 et
seq. as it now reads or is subsequently amended.
   GOLF CART. A four-wheeled motor vehicle originally and specifically designed
and intended to transport one or more individuals and golf clubs for the
purpose of playing the game of golf on a golf course.
   OPERATE. To exercise any control over the function or movement of a golf
cart or UTV.
   SLOW MOVING VEHICLE REFLECTIVE SIGN. A triangle shaped reflective sign of
the same type required under state law.
   STATE HIGHWAY. Any street under the control of and maintained by the state
shall include, but not be limited to, Highway 24.
   TOWN STREET. The entire width between the boundary lines of every publicly
maintained way when any part of the way is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel within the corporate limits of the town. TOWN
STREET includes but is not necessarily limited to streets, alleys, roads,
highways, and thoroughfares.
   UTILITY TASK VEHICLE (UTV). A small, two to six person, four-wheel, off-road
vehicle with a steering wheel as opposed to handlebars, sometimes referred to
as a side by side, utility terrain vehicle, or recreational off-highway
vehicle. Examples include Polaris and Gator. It does not include a farm vehicle
being used for farming, including, but not limited to, a farm wagon; a vehicle
used for military or law enforcement purposes; a construction, mining, or other
industrial related vehicle used in the performance of the vehicle’s common
function, including, but not limited to, a farm wagon; a snowmobile; a
registered aircraft; any other vehicle properly registered by the Bureau of
Motor Vehicles; and any watercraft that is registered under state statutes.
(Ord. 2023-04, passed 4-4-2023)
§ 75.02 UNLAWFUL OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS OR UTILITY TASK VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful to operate a golf cart or UTV on any town street except
as specifically authorized by this chapter. Any person who operates a golf cart
or UTV in violation of this chapter shall be subject to penalty as set forth in
this chapter.
(Ord. 2023-04, passed 4-4-2023)
§ 75.03 REQUIREMENT OF LOCAL REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Local registration required.
      (1)   Any golf cart or UTV operated on a town street must be registered
at the town Police Department.
      (2)   The annual registration certificate will be valid from January 1
until December 31 of the year in which it is issued.
      (3)   The current registration certificate shall be displayed at a
location on or about the golf cart or UTV at all times that it is in operation
where it can be seen easily.
   (B)   Registration fee. Each registrant shall provide the vehicle
identification number and proof of financial responsibility and shall pay a
registration fee of $25 for each golf cart or UTV to be registered for that
year or the remaining portion thereof.
(Ord. 2023-04, passed 4-4-2023)
§ 75.04 REQUIREMENT OF DRIVER’S LICENSE.
   The operator of a golf cart or UTV on a town street must have a valid
driver’s license issued by the state of Indiana or any other state and must
possess that license while operating the golf cart or UTV.
(Ord. 2023-04, passed 4-4-2023)
§ 75.05 REQUIREMENT OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   No person may operate a golf cart or UTV on any town street unless financial
responsibility is in effect with respect to the golf cart or UTV as provided
under I.C. 9-25-4-4, as it now reads or is subsequently amended.
(Ord. 2023-04, passed 4-4-2023)
§ 75.06 TIME OF OPERATION AND NIGHTTIME RESTRICTIONS.
   No golf cart or UTV shall be operated on a town street between the time of
half-hour after sunset and half-hour before sunrise, unless the golf cart or
UTV is registered under this chapter and equipped with two headlamps, two tail
lamps, front and rear turn lamps, and rear brake lamps, all of which must be
visible from a distance of at least 500 feet. Golf carts and UTVs shall only be
operated on town streets from March 1 to November 30 during any calendar year.
(Ord. 2023-04, passed 4-4-2023)
§ 75.07 SLOW MOVING VEHICLE REFLECTIVE SIGN.
   No golf cart or UTV shall be operated on a town street unless the golf cart
or UTV is equipped with a properly displayed slow moving vehicle reflective
sign clearly visible from behind.
(Ord. 2023-04, passed 4-4-2023)
§ 75.08 PLACE OF OPERATION.
   No golf cart or UTV shall be operated on or at any of the following:
   (A)   An operator of a golf cart or UTV must operate said golf cart or UTV
at a rate of speed which is not greater than is reasonable and proper, having
due regard for the conditions then existing, shall obey posted speed limits,
and may not operate said golf cart or UTV in excess of 30 mph. An operator of a
golf cart or UTV shall abide by all traffic laws and signs governing the
operation of motor vehicles in the town and as set forth in state code.
   (B)   No golf cart or UTV may be operated on a highway, as defined herein,
except for the purpose of crossing a highway, perpendicularly, at an
intersection within a town street.
   (C)   No golf cart or UTV shall be driven or parked on any private property
without the consent of the property owner or on a sidewalk, public trail, or
public greenway not specifically designated for use by a motor vehicle.
   (D)   No gas-powered golf cart or UTV shall be operated unless the vehicle
is equipped with a muffler in good working order and in constant operation to
prevent excessive or unusual noise and annoying smoke.
   (E)   Any and all operators and riders of a UTV who are under the age of 18
years shall wear helmets at all times while said UTV is in operation.
   (F)   No golf cart or UTV shall be operated within 100 feet of a dwelling
between 9:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. except on the individual’s own property or
property under the individual’s control or as an invited guest.
(Ord. 2023-04, passed 4-4-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law, see I.C. 14-16-1-23
§ 75.09 TRAFFIC LAWS AND ORDINANCES.
   The operator of a golf cart or UTV on a town street shall comply with all
then effective traffic laws, ordinances, rules, and regulations adopted by the
state and the town.
(Ord. 2023-04, passed 4-4-2023)
§ 75.10 OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   Number and placement. The number of occupants of a golf cart or UTV
shall be limited to the lesser of six persons or the number of persons for whom
factory seating is installed on the golf cart or UTV. The operator and
occupants shall be properly seated at all times, and no part of the body of the
operator or occupants shall extend outside the perimeter of the golf cart or
UTV while the golf cart or UTV is in operation, except that the operator shall
use proper traffic hand signals when required.
   (B)   Minor as operator. If the operator of a golf cart or UTV is under 18
years of age, no more than two additional persons under the age of 18 are
permitted to occupy that golf cart or UTV.
   (C)   Infants prohibited. No one under the age of two years shall be
permitted as an occupant of a golf cart or UTV on a town street.
(Ord. 2023-04, passed 4-4-2023)
§ 75.11 NO TOWING.
   No golf cart or UTV shall be used to tow any type of trailer or other
vehicle.
(Ord. 2023-04, passed 4-4-2023)
§ 75.12 EXCEPTIONS.
   The town Police Department shall have the authority to specifically permit
the use of golf carts or UTVs by identified persons at special events without
compliance with specifically specified provisions of this chapter, provided,
however, that permission must be written, the operator of the golf cart or UTV
must be a licensed driver, and financial responsibility must be in effect with
respect to the golf cart or UTV.
(Ord. 2023-04, passed 4-4-2023)
§ 75.13 REVOCATION OF REGISTRATION AND ELIGIBILITY TO OPERATE GOLF CARTS OR
UTILITY TASK VEHICLES.
   Any unsafe operation, multiple violations, failure to maintain financial
responsibility, or failure to pay fines in accordance with this chapter may, as
reasonably determined by the Town Marshal or the Town Marshal’s authorized
designee, result in the revocation of a golf cart or UTV registration and the
violator’s eligibility to operate a golf cart or UTV on town streets for up to
one calendar year.
(Ord. 2023-04, passed 4-4-2023)
§ 75.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Failure to comply with this chapter will result in fines and penalties
as follows:
      (1)   First offense: $25 fine;
      (2)   Second offense: $50 fine; and
      (3)   Each additional offense: $100 fine.
   (B)   An offense is defined as each separate violation of this chapter which
occurs while operating a golf cart or UTV.
   (C)   The golf cart or UTV may be impounded by the law enforcement officer.
In the event of impoundment, the golf cart or UTV shall not be released until
the basis of the violation has been corrected and all towing and impoundment
fees incurred as a result of the impoundment of the golf cart or UTV have been
paid by the owner or operator of the golf cart or UTV.
(Ord. 2023-04, passed 4-4-2023)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
93.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC PROPERTY
      
94.   FAIR HOUSING
      
95.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
      
96.   PARKS AND RECREATION
CHAPTER 90: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
90.01   Authority
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Removal and disposal of abandoned vehicles
   
90.04   Responsibility of vehicle and property owner
   
90.05   Exempted vehicles
§ 90.01 AUTHORITY.
   State law provides that in order to facilitate the removal of abandoned
vehicles, the Town Council may establish, by ordinance, procedures to
accomplish that removal.
(Prior Code, § 90.01) (Ord. 1989-5, passed 6-6-1989)
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE.
      (1)   A vehicle located on public property illegally;
      (2)   A vehicle left on public property continuously without being moved
for three days;
      (3)   A vehicle located on public property in a manner as to constitute a
hazard or obstruction to the movement of pedestrian or vehicle traffic on a
public right-of-way;
      (4)   A vehicle that has remained on private property without the consent
of the owner of that private property, or person in control, for more than 48
hours;
      (5)   A vehicle from which there has been removed the engine,
transmission or differential or that is otherwise partially dismantled or
inoperable and left on public property;
      (6)   A vehicle that has been removed by a towing service or an agency
upon request of an officer enforcing this chapter or other statute, if the
vehicle once impounded is not claimed or redeemed by the owner or his or her
agent within 15 days of its removal; or
      (7)   A vehicle that is six or more model years old and mechanically
inoperable, and is left on private property continuously in a location visible
from public property for more than 30 days.
   AGENCY. The individual or party given responsibility by the Town Council for
removal, storage and disposal of abandoned vehicles.
   OFFICER.
      (1)   A regular member of the State Police;
      (2)   A Town Marshal or Town Marshal Deputy;
      (3)   A regular member of the county police force; or
      (4)   An individual of an agency designated by the Town Council.
   OWNER. The last known record titleholder of the vehicle according to the
records of the state’s Bureau of Motor Vehicles.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. All property other than public property.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. A public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park or
other state, county or municipal property.
   VEHICLE. An automobile, motorcycle, truck, trailer, semi-trailer, tractor,
bus, school bus, recreational vehicle or motorized bicycle.
(Prior Code, § 90.02) (Ord. 1989-5, passed 6-6-1989)
§ 90.03 REMOVAL AND DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   (A)   An officer who finds on public property a vehicle believed to be
abandoned shall attach in a prominent place a notice tag containing the
following information:
      (1)   The date, time, officer’s name, agency and address and telephone
number to contact for information;
      (2)   The vehicle is considered abandoned;
      (3)   The vehicle will be removed after 72 hours;
      (4)   The owner will be held responsible for all costs, not to exceed
$100, incidental to the removal, storage and disposal, and if not paid, the
owner’s registration privileges will be suspended on the car; and
      (5)   The owner may avoid costs by removal of the vehicle within 72
hours.
   (B)   An officer who finds on private property a vehicle believed to be
abandoned shall:
      (1)   Notify the owner of the property and the owner of the vehicle of
the officer’s findings;
      (2)   Notify the owner or owners that they have 30 days to:
         (a)   Remove the vehicle from the property; or
         (b)   Have the vehicle mechanically operable and legally licensed
according to state statutes.
      (3)   Notify the owner or owners that failure to do so shall result in
the officer, by use of an agency, removing the vehicle while the costs, not to
exceed $100, shall be charged to the owner; and
      (4)   Log all pertinent information concerning the abandoned vehicle,
including the date, time, officer’s name, agency, make and model of the
vehicle. The information shall be kept up to date and available for public
inspection.
   (C)   Upon removal of an abandoned and unclaimed vehicle, the vehicle shall
be sold at a public sale after notice as required by law.
   (D)   All proceeds from the sale of the abandoned vehicle shall be deposited
with the County Treasurer and placed in the Abandoned Vehicle Account.
   (E)   The proceeds of an abandoned vehicle sale shall be credited against
all costs incident to the removal, storage and disposal of the vehicle and paid
for from the Abandoned Vehicle Account.
   (F)   (1)   If the vehicle is not removed within the requisite time period,
and should the officer determine that market value of the abandoned vehicle to
be less than $100, the officer shall prepare a written abandoned vehicle report
of the vehicle including information on the condition, missing parts and other
facts that might substantiate that market value. Photographs shall be taken to
describe the condition of the vehicle.
      (2)   Upon completion of the report, the officer shall immediately
dispose of the vehicle to an automobile scrap yard.
(Prior Code, § 90.03) (Ord. 1989-5, passed 6-6-1989)
§ 90.04 RESPONSIBILITY OF VEHICLE AND PROPERTY OWNER.
   (A)   (1)   The owner of an abandoned vehicle is responsible for the
abandonment and is liable for all the costs, not to exceed $100, incidental to
the removal, storage and the disposal of the vehicle.
      (2)   Should the owner or lien holder fail to claim the abandoned
vehicle, the costs incidental to removal, storage and disposal of the vehicle
shall be paid from the Abandoned Vehicle Account.
   (B)   Neither the owner, lessee or occupant of the property from which an
abandoned vehicle is removed, nor an agency, towing service or scrap yard is
liable for loss or damage to the vehicle during its removal, storage or
disposition, as provided by Indiana law.
(Prior Code, § 90.04) (Ord. 1989-5, passed 6-6-1989)
§ 90.05 EXEMPTED VEHICLES.
   This chapter does not apply to:
   (A)   A vehicle in operable condition specifically adapted or constructed
for operation on a privately-owned raceway;
   (B)   A vehicle stored as the property of a member of the Armed Forces of
the United States who is on active duty assignment;
   (C)   A vehicle located on a vehicle sale lot or at a commercial vehicle
servicing facility;
   (D)   A vehicle located upon property licensed or zoned as an automobile
scrap yard; or
   (E)   A vehicle registered and licensed under state law as an antique
vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 90.05) (Ord. 1989-5, passed 6-6-1989)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Animal Warden
   
91.03   Keeping of domestic farm animals, exotic animals and vicious animals
   
91.04   Exception to keeping of domestic farm animals
   
91.05   Maximum number of dogs and/or cats per household
   
91.06   Maltreatment of domestic pets
   
91.07   Lost, stray or unattended animals; disposition
   
91.08   Vaccination of dogs
   
91.09   Animal welfare and treatment
   
91.10   Owner held responsible
   
91.11   Owner responsible for removing animal waste
   
91.12   Impounding animals
   
91.13   Redemption and release
   
91.14   Redemption fees
   
91.15   Owner unable to pay redemption fees; notification
   
91.16   Notice of violation
   
91.17   Citations; hearings before the Town Council
   
91.18   Variances to regulations
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONMENT. To deposit, leave, drop off or otherwise dispose of any live
animal without providing immediate human care on any public or private
property.
   ANIMAL. Any non-human vertebrate creature, whether domestic, wild or exotic.
   AT-LARGE. An animal found to be located off the property of and not under
restraint of its owner.
   DOMESTIC FARM ANIMAL. Includes any animal that is one of the following:
      (1)   Cattle;
      (2)   Horse;
      (3)   Donkey or mule;
      (4)   Swine;
      (5)   Sheep;
      (6)   Goats;
      (7)   Ox;
      (8)   Llama;
      (9)   Poultry;
      (10)   Bison;
      (11)   Ostrich;
      (12)   Elk;
      (13)   Deer; or
      (14)   Alpaca.
   DOMESTIC PET. Any animal which is kept for pleasure rather than utility and
is a member of one of the following species:
      (1)   Dog (Canis Familiaris);
      (2)   Cat (Felis Cattus or Felis Domesticus);
      (3)   Rabbit (Oryctolagus Cuniculus);
      (4)   Mouse (Mus Musculus);
      (5)   Rat (Rattus Rattus);
      (6)   Reptile (Repilis), as defined herein;
      (7)   Guinea Pig (Cavis Porcellus);
      (8)   Chinchilla (Chinchilla Laniger);
      (9)   Hamster (Mesocricetus Auratus);
      (10)   Gerbil (Gerbillus Gerbillus); and
      (11)   Ferret (Mustela Putorius Furo).
   EXOTIC ANIMAL. Any animal whose normal native habitat is not indigenous to
the continental United States, excluding Alaska and Hawaii, except fish and
fur-bearing animals commercially bred for the furrier trade and birds defined
under federal regulations and non- poisonous snakes and reptiles.
   GUIDE DOG. A service animal.
   HARBORING. An owner permitting an animal to habitually remain, lodged or fed
within his or her property. An animal shall be presumed to be HARBORED at any
locations where it is fed or sheltered.
   OWNER. A person:
      (1)   Having the right of property or custody of an animal or a person
keeping or harboring an animal; or
      (2)   That permits and/or encourages an animal to remain on or about any
premises occupied by that person, and includes a person over 18 years of age
authorized to act on his, her or their behalf.
   PROPERTY. A lot or parcel of real estate including, including the
improvements constructed within their respective boundaries, all of the grounds
lying between the property lines and the improved portion of adjacent streets
or alleys.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any animal which:
      (1)   Interferes with passers-by or passing vehicles;
      (2)   Attacks other animals or persons;
      (3)   Is at large;
      (4)   Damages private or public property;
      (5)   Causes frequent or loud continued noises or other sounds common to
its species, which disturbs the comfort or repose of any person in the
immediate neighborhood; or
      (6)   Causes foul or noxious odors, which offends residents in the
neighborhood.
   RESTRAINT. Securing an animal by leash, tether or lead, or confining it
within the property of its owner.
   STRAY. Any animal brought to the animal shelter by the Town Marshal, an
Animal Warden, someone other than the owner or any animal for which no owner is
known.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any animal that has, without provocation, attacked a human
being or other animal and includes any animal that by its behavior or physical
condition constitutes an immediate and serious physical or health threat to
human beings or animals, or an animal that has previously attacked or bitten
humans or another animal.
   WILD ANIMAL. An animal of any species or variety which predominately exists
and propagates in nature, without usual or substantial human care, regardless
of the whether a particular animal was born in captivity or tamed, and is not
defined as a “domestic pet”.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 3-5-2019)
§ 91.02 ANIMAL WARDEN.
   (A)   The Town Council shall have the authority to appoint an Animal Warden
with the power to enforce this chapter within the corporate limits of the town.
   (B)   The Town Council and the Animal Warden shall establish a clearinghouse
site for the receipt of complaints and procedures regarding animals and the
handling, storage cataloguing and claiming of animals.
   (C)   The Town Council shall authorize for a suitable animal shelter for the
safekeeping of impounded animals. The Town Council may contract with any entity
for the impounding, keeping, feeding, caring for and disposition of impounded
dogs and cats on those terms as the Town Council deems proper.
   (D)   The Animal Warden and the Town Marshal shall act in cooperation to
address animal-related problems with in the town.
   (E)   No provision of this chapter shall restrict the Town Marshal or an
employee of the town’s Police Department from having the authority to enforce
this chapter.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 3-5-2019)
§ 91.03 KEEPING OF DOMESTIC FARM ANIMALS, EXOTIC ANIMALS AND VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or permit to be kept any
domestic farm animals or exotic animals within the corporate limits of the
town.
   (B)   Every vicious animal shall be confined by its owner within a building
or secure enclosure and shall be securely muzzled or caged whenever off the
property of its owner.
   (C)   An animal reasonably determined to be a vicious animal and in
violation of §
91.07 of this chapter may be impounded.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 3-5-2019) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 EXCEPTION TO KEEPING OF DOMESTIC FARM ANIMALS.
   Owners with property of four or more contiguous acres within the corporate
limits of the town are permitted to keep domestic farm animals.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 3-5-2019)
§ 91.05 MAXIMUM NUMBER OF DOGS AND/OR CATS PER HOUSEHOLD.
   (A)   No person shall keep more than four dogs and/or cats over the age of
six months per household within the town. This restriction means four dogs or
cats, whatever the combination and, by way of example, a person may have four
dogs and no cats, three dogs and one cat, or two dogs and two cats, or three
cats and no dog, or four cats and no dogs.
   (B)   A person will have ten days to reduce the number of dogs and/or cats
in the household to the stated limit, if found to be over the limit.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 3-5-2019) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 MALTREATMENT OF DOMESTIC PETS.
   Pursuant to I.C. 35-46-3-12, it is unlawful for any person to kill,
maltreat, injure, trap, poison, pursue or maintain, in a way dangerous to its
health, any domestic pet within the town.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 3-5-2019) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.07 LOST, STRAY OR UNATTENDED ANIMALS; DISPOSITION.
   (A)   Owners of lost animals, or persons locating an animal which they
believe to be lost or stray, shall immediately inform the Animal Warden or the
Town Marshal and shall provide a description of the animal and time and place
of its loss or location, if known, as well the name, address and telephone
number of the owner, if available.
   (B)   The Animal Warden, or other duly authorized representative, upon
impounding an at-large animal, shall first consult the catalogue of lost or
stray animals and make reasonable efforts to locate any person reasonably
believed to be the owner, if available.
   (C)   If no owner can be located in the catalogue of lost or stray animals,
then the impoundment provisions contained hereinafter in this chapter shall be
followed.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 3-5-2019) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.08 VACCINATION OF DOGS.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 35-46-3-1, it shall be unlawful for the owner of any
dog to keep or maintain a dog over six months of age unless it shall have been
vaccinated by a licensed veterinarian with the anti-rabies vaccine.
   (B)   Each dog shall be current on vaccinations, and the owner shall
maintain proof of the vacation.
   (C)   Failure to have a dog properly vaccinated may result in the
impoundment of the animal in addition to the penalties contained in §
91.99 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 3-5-2019) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.09 ANIMAL WELFARE AND TREATMENT.
   Every owner within the town shall see that his, her or their animal is:
   (A)   Kept in a clean, sanitary and healthy manor;
   (B)   Has sufficient and wholesome food and water which is proper and
nutritional for that species of animal;
   (C)   Has a proper and adequate structure; provided that, will protect the
animal from all elements of the weather and will allow that animal to stand,
sit and lie down without restriction;
   (D)   If ill, diseased or injured, the animal must receive proper medical
care as necessary to prevent the transmittal of a disease to other animals or
humans and be segregated from other animals;
   (E)   Not beaten, cruelly ill-treated, overloaded, overworked or otherwise
abused by any animal or human, or cause, instigate or permit any fight or other
combat between animals, or between animals and humans;
   (F)   Not physically altered in any manner by anyone other than a
veterinarian with the exception of tattooing and grooming;
   (G)   Not abandoned, neglected or tortured;
   (H)   Properly vaccinated and licensed if required by local, state or
federal law;
   (I)   Not a public nuisance as defined in §
91.01 of this chapter;
   (J)   Not left in a vehicle when the condition of the vehicle or weather
would constitute a health hazard to the animal inside the vehicle; and
   (K)   Properly restrained.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 3-5-2019) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.10 OWNER HELD RESPONSIBLE.
   The owner of the animal shall be held responsible for every behavior of the
animal and its compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 3-5-2019)
§ 91.11 OWNER RESPONSIBLE FOR REMOVING ANIMAL WASTE.
   The owner shall immediately remove the animal’s excrement from public or
private property, excepting a handicapped person working with a guide dog.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 3-5-2019) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.12 IMPOUNDING ANIMALS.
   (A)   General. The Animal Warden may impound any animal:
      (1)   Found to be at-large;
      (2)   Found in violation of this chapter;
      (3)   Which in the discretion of the Animal Warden, is believed to
constitute a threat to the public’s safety; or
      (4)   Which in the discretion of the Animal Warden, impoundment would be
in the animal’s best interest.
   (B)   Notice of impounding. The Animal Warden shall promptly send written
notice, by first class mail, of the impounding of any animal to the owner.
   (C)   Registry. A registry of impounded animals shall be kept providing a
general description of each animal. A copy of that registry shall be available
at the designated clearinghouse site, and a physical copy shall be open to
inspection at reasonable times within the Town Hall.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 3-5-2019)
§ 91.13 REDEMPTION AND RELEASE.
   (A)   Any impounded animal may be redeemed by the owner thereof upon
reasonable proof of ownership and by payment to the animal shelter of the fees
hereinafter established.
   (B)   No dog shall be released unless the owner thereof shall present proof
that dog had been immunized for rabies within the previous 365 days. When proof
is not available, the dog may be released only if the owner enters into an
immunization contract with the animal shelter whereby the owner agrees to have
the dog immunized for rabies and pay a deposit of $25, or such fees as
hereafter established, to be applied to the fee of a licensed veterinarian of
the owner’s choice for the immunization.
   (C)   After an animal has been impounded, the required notice has been
issued, and the animal remains unredeemed for a period of ten business days,
the animal becomes property of the animal shelter. The animal may thereafter be
disposed of by the town or shelter facility by:
      (1)   Adopting it out to an individual who there is a reasonable basis to
believe will provide it a humane home and who will agree to by contract to
neuter the animal if the animal has not been neutered; or
      (2)   Euthanization.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 3-5-2019)
§ 91.14 REDEMPTION FEES.
   A redemption fee of $25 shall be collected for the first time a particular
animal is impounded. The redemption fees shall be $35 for the second and each
subsequent impounding of the same animal. The costs of feeding and caring for
the animal during the period of its impoundment shall be added to the
redemption fee assessed.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 3-5-2019)
§ 91.15 OWNER UNABLE TO PAY REDEMPTION FEES; NOTIFICATION.
   An owner shall notify the Clerk-Treasurer that the owner is unable to pay
any or all of the assessed fees to redeem the animal. Thereafter, the owner
shall be given the opportunity to appear before the Town Council to seek
assistance by entering into a payment arrangement with the town. At that
hearing, the Town Council can provide for any other terms of repayment,
including community service. If, during the period of the agreement, it is
determined that the owner has obtained the ability to pay the fees, the owner
and Council will determine the residual balance due to the town, which shall be
payable within ten days.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 3-5-2019)
§ 91.16 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   A person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be served,
via certified mail, return receipt requested, a notice requesting immediate
compliance.
   (B)   That notice shall contain:
      (1)   The date, name and address of the owner;
      (2)   A description of the animal in violation of this chapter;
      (3)   The code sections violated, the nature of the violation and
location of the violation;
      (4)   The name of the person issuing the notice;
      (5)   The address and telephone number of the Animal Control Officer and
Clerk- Treasurer;
      (6)   The applicable monetary penalties for future violations; and
      (7)   A conspicuous notification that the owner is responsible for
payment for redemption fees, care, feeding and storage of the animal in the
animal shelter.
   (C)   A copy of the notice of violation shall also be issued via first class
mail.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 3-5-2019)
§ 91.17 CITATIONS; HEARINGS BEFORE THE TOWN COUNCIL.
   (A)   Any person issued a notice, but failing to comply, shall be issued a
citation.
   (B)   Citations shall contain the following:
      (1)   The date, name and address of the owner;
      (2)   A description of the animal in violation of this chapter;
      (3)   The code sections violated, the nature of the violation and
location of the violation;
      (4)   The name of the person issuing the citation;
      (5)   The address and telephone number of the Animal Control Officer and
Clerk-Treasurer;
      (6)   The date the initial notice was issued;
      (7)   The applicable monetary penalties for violations; and
      (8)   A conspicuous notification that the owner is responsible for
payment for redemption fees and the care, feeding and storage of the animal in
the animal shelter.
   (C)   The citation shall be issued in the same manner as the notice of
violation.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 3-5-2019)
§ 91.18 VARIANCES TO REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Town Council may grant a variance in a particular case to any
provision of this chapter for persons requesting permission to have animal(s)
for a 4-H project or State Fair project.
   (B)   Residents requesting a variance shall make a written request for a
variance to the Town Council. Requests for an animal control variance must file
the appropriate forms. Variance requests are available at the Town Hall.
Residents can request variances in March of the said year and will no longer be
granted after June of the same year.
   (C)   Animals allowed under the variance must be removed after participation
in the County 4-H Fair. Consideration and extensions shall be given to projects
that qualify to attend the State Fair. Participants of the State Fair must
remove animals after participation in the State Fair.
   (D)   Residents denied a variance can appeal the decision to the Town
Council within 30 days of the denial. All appeals shall be in writing
explaining the reason for the appeal and why they should receive a variance to
this chapter for such projects.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 3-5-2019)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of chapter shall be fined not less than
$25 for the first offense, $50 for the second offense and $100 for each
subsequent offense.
   (B)   The fines collected for these violations shall be deposited in the
town’s General Fund.
   (C)   Violators, upon conviction, may be given the opportunity to work in a
community service program such as a humane society or participate in human
education program, if so recommended by the court.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 3-5-2019)
CHAPTER 92: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Purpose; administration
   
92.02   Definitions
   
92.03   Incorporation of state law
   
92.04   Duty to maintain property
   
92.05   Conditions constituting a public nuisance
   
92.06   Authority of town to make inspections
   
92.07   Violations; notice to abate
   
92.08   Citation for failure to abate nuisance
   
92.09   Abatement by town
   
92.10   Abatement costs
   
92.11   Appeal of notice of violation, citation or abatement costs
Fireworks
   
92.25   Use of consumer fireworks
   
92.26   Enforcement
Engine Braking
   
92.35   Definition
   
92.36   Prohibition; exclusions
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 PURPOSE; ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to protect the public health, safety
and welfare and enhance the environment of the people of the town by:
      (1)   Prohibiting public nuisances, as defined in §
92.05 of this chapter; and
      (2)   Restricting the use of consumer fireworks as defined in §
92.02 of this chapter.
   (B)   This chapter is to be administered by the Council and its duly
authorized representative.
(Ord. 2016-2, passed - -2016)
§ 92.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONSUMER FIREWORK.
      (1)   A small firework that is designed primarily to produce visible
effects by combustion, and that is required to comply with the construction,
chemical composition and labeling regulations promulgated by the United States
Consumer Product Safety Commission under 16 C.F.R. part 1507, as it now exists
and in hereafter amended, modified or superseded. The term also includes some
small devices designed to produce an audible effect, such as whistling devices,
ground devices containing 50 milligrams or less of explosive composition, and
aerial devices containing 130 milligrams or less of explosive composition.
Propelling or expelling charges consisting of a mixture of charcoal, sulfur and
potassium nitrate are not considered as designed to produce an audible effect.
      (2)   CONSUMER FIREWORK includes:
         (a)   Aerial devices, which include sky rockets, missile type rockets,
helicopter or aerial spinners, roman candles, mines and shells;
         (b)   Ground audible devices, which include firecrackers, salutes and
chasers; and
         (c)   Firework devices containing combinations of the effects
described in divisions (1) and (2) of this definition above.
      (3)   CONSUMER FIREWORK does not include the following:
         (a)   Dipped sticks or wire sparklers for which the total pyrotechnic
composition may not exceed 100 grams per item; and, devices containing chlorate
or perchlorate salts may not exceed five grams per item;
         (b)   Cylindrical fountains;
         (c)   Cone fountains;
         (d)   Illuminating torches;
         (e)   Wheels;
         (f)   Ground spinners;
         (g)   Flitter sparklers;
         (h)   Snakes or glow worms;
         (i)   Smoke devices; and
         (j)   Trick noisemakers that include party poppers, booby traps,
snappers trick matches, cigarette loads and auto burglar alarms.
   DEBRIS. The remains of something broken down, demolished or destroyed such
as rough broken bits and pieces of stone, glass, wood, building materials or
concrete, bits and pieces of rubbish or litter, or a heap of such materials or
rock fragments.
   GARBAGE. Rejected food waste including, but not limited to, any animal,
fruit or vegetable matter used or intended for food or used in the preparation,
use, cooking, sale or storage of meat, fish, fowl, vegetables or fruits.
   GRAFFITI. Any unauthorized inscription, word, figure, painting or other
defacement that is written, marked, etched, scratched, sprayed, drawn, painted
or engraved on or otherwise affixed to any surface of public or private
property that was not expressly authorized by the owner.
   JUNK. Any article in any form consisting of discarded, abandoned or cast-off
materials. The term JUNK includes, but is not limited to, rags, tin, metals,
residue from burning, broken glass, clothing, rubber, plastics, synthetic
substances and fabrics, bottles, and household items such as furniture,
mattress and appliances not intended for exposure to rain and other inclement
weather.
   OWNER. The owner of record of the subject property, as indicated in the
records of the County Auditor, and the purchaser or purchasers of the subject
property under any contract for the conditional sale thereof.
   RANK VEGETATION. Plant life which grows excessively and unmanaged upon the
land and has no, or limited, public value.
   TRASH. Rubbish and matter such as ashes, cans, metalware, broken glass,
crockery, paper, cardboard, foul and filthy substances, dirt, sweepings, boxes,
wood, grass, weeds and waste matter of any kind.
   WEED. A plant that has no, or limited, public value, which tends to overgrow
or choke out more desirable plants, and is often growing plentifully and
detrimentally upon the land, including, but not limited to, ragweed, goldenrod,
milkweed, Canadian thistle, dandelions, plantain and other broadleaf plants,
buckthorn, poison ivy, poison sumac and burdock.
(Ord. 2016-2, passed - -2016)
§ 92.03 INCORPORATION OF STATE LAW.
   It is the intent of this chapter that:
   (A)   Its prohibition of public nuisances, exclusive of the growth of weeds,
grass or other rank vegetation, be adopted in accordance with and incorporate
herein the requirements of I.C. 36-1-6, as it now exists and is hereafter
amended, modified or superseded;
   (B)   Its regulation of the growth of weeds, grass or other rank vegetation
be adopted in accordance with and incorporate herein the requirements of I.C.
36-7-10.1, as it now exists and is hereafter amended, modified or superseded;
   (C)   Its restrictions on the use of consumer fireworks be adopted in
accordance with and incorporate herein the requirements of I.C. 22-11-14, as it
now exists and is hereafter amended, modified or superseded; and
   (D)   Any conflict between this chapter and I.C. 36-1-6, I.C. 36-7-10.1 or
I.C. 22-11-14 shall not invalidate the remaining non-conflicting sections of
this chapter.
(Ord. 2016-2, passed - -2016)
§ 92.04 MAINTENANCE OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of any person owning or controlling any private
premises to maintain such private premises in a clean and orderly manner.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of any person owning or controlling any public
place to keep the premises clean of all junk, trash, garbage and debris and to
take measures, including daily cleanup of the premises, to prevent the
accumulation of the above listed materials or movement by the elements to
adjoining properties.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the owner and contractor in charge of any
construction site shall maintain the construction site in such manner as to
avoid the accumulation of junk trash, garbage and debris and no junk trash,
garbage and debris shall be allowed to be carried by the elements to adjoining
properties. All junk, trash, garbage and debris from construction or related
activities shall be picked up at the end of each work day and placed in a
container for regular removal.
(Ord. 2016-2, passed - -2016) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 CONDITIONS CONSTITUTING A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   (A)   The following conditions shall constitute a public nuisance for the
purpose of this chapter because of the danger to health by providing places for
vermin and insects to harbor, the fire hazard danger caused by the accumulation
of discarded materials, and the risk caused by the attraction of children to
it:
      (1)   Garbage;
      (2)   Junk;
      (3)   Trash;
      (4)   Debris;
      (5)   Open excavations, uncovered or improperly covered holes, whether
lined or unlined, and dirt piles on any open or unfenced real property within
the town, including open foundations freely accessible from any public street,
alley or sidewalks;
      (6)   Storage of construction materials that are:
         (a)   Not in good useable condition;
         (b)   Not kept in an orderly fashion;
         (c)   Not actively being used in a construction process on the parcel
where the materials are located; or
         (d)   In all circumstances, kept for a period exceeding 18 months.
      (7)   Structure affixed with graffiti;
      (8)   Any waste water, filth, offal, rubbish, animal waste or human
excrement which emits an unwholesome odor and is deposited, allowed or caused
to be upon real property;
      (9)   Fallen trees, stumps or dead trees;
      (10)   Any water or other substance which is caused or permitted to flow
onto or be deposited upon any public property or public way, except natural
surface water drainage;
      (11)   Any dead domestic or wild animal;
      (12)   The erection of a dam or any other obstruction by a private party
which prevents the natural flow of water and causes it to collect or pool upon
any public property;
      (13)   Any real or personal property which is infected with contagious
disease and is likely to cause a health hazard;
      (14)   The placement or accumulation, or permitting the placement or
accumulation, on or within any real or personal property of any matter which
attracts or may attract rodents, insects or other animals in such a manner as
to create a health hazard or unsanitary or dangerous condition;
      (15)   Any real or personal property used as a place of human residence
or habitation that is dangerous or detrimental to life or health due to the
lack of or defects in water, drainage, heating, plumbing or ventilation;
      (16)   Any dilapidated or condemned building, structure or dwelling that
constitutes a fire hazard liable to catch on fire or communicate fire to
surrounding properties;
      (17)   Any condition including, but not limited to, smoke, dust, noxious
odors or noise that emits from a premises which creates inconvenience,
annoyance or discomfort that interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of the
life and property of the surrounding inhabitants;
      (18)   The storage of explosive, combustible or other flammable material
which creates a safety, health or fire risk;
      (19)   Any obstruction to public ways or visual barriers for vehicular
traffic including, but not limited to trees, shrubbery, weeds, snow or fences;
      (20)   Any slaughter or dressing of animals;
      (21)   Any junk automobiles, automobile parts detached from the vehicle
as a whole, tires, broken concrete or scrap metal; and/or
      (22)   Except upon application to the Countywide Department of Community
Development for a land management plan approved in advance by the Plan
Commission, any growth of weeds, grass or other rank vegetation which is
either:
         (a)   Neglected, disregarded or not adequately managed or controlled,
cut, mown or removed;
         (b)   Has attained a height of eight inches or more; or
         (c)   Is actually or imminently detrimental to the public health,
safety or welfare.
   (B)   In addition to what is declared in this chapter to be a public
nuisance, those offenses which are known to the common law and the statutes of
the state as a public nuisance may, when found to exist within the town, be
treated as such and be proceeded against as provided in this chapter and code,
or in accordance with any other provisions of law. Whenever the word “nuisance”
is used in this chapter, it refers to a public nuisance.
   (C)   No owner, occupant, tenant or any other person having a substantial
interest in any real or personal property within the town, or agent thereof,
shall permit or allow to remain on or within the property or upon public ways
abutting the real property a public nuisance or any other condition which is
detrimental to the public health, comfort, safety or the aesthetic well-being
of the community. It shall be a violation of this chapter to abandon, neglect,
or disregard the condition or appearance of any premises so as to permit the
existence of a public nuisance.
(Ord. 2016-2, passed - -2016) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06 AUTHORITY OF TOWN TO MAKE INSPECTIONS.
   It is made the duty of all officers and employees of the town to report the
existence of a nuisance to the Town Marshal. For this purpose, the Town
Marshal, Deputy Marshals and other employees so designated by the Council shall
be permitted to visit any lot, grounds or premises within the limits of the
town to ascertain and discover any nuisance and to make examination thereof.
(Ord. 2016-2, passed - -2016)
§ 92.07 VIOLATIONS; NOTICE TO ABATE.
   Violations of §
92.05(C) of this chapter shall be addressed as follows.
   (A)   Graffiti. Upon receiving a report or other notice of the existence of
graffiti on private property in violation of the requirements of §
92.05(A)(7) of this chapter, the Town Marshal or Council’s designee shall
notify the owner and persons known to have a substantial interest in the
property, in writing sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, together
with a copy sent via first class mail, and demand that:
      (1)   The owner abate the graffiti within ten days of the date of such
notice at the owner’s sole expense; or
      (2)   The owner sign and return a waiver of liability to the Council
within ten days of such notice permitting the town to abate the graffiti at the
owner’s expense.
   (B)   Weeds and rank vegetation.
      (1)   When a violation of the requirements of §
92.05(A)(22) of this chapter is found to exist, the Town Marshal or Council’s
designee shall:
         (a)   Serve written notice to abate upon owner by certified mail,
return receipt requested, together with a copy sent via first class mail; or
         (b)   Utilize an equivalent service permitted under I.C. 1-1-7-1 to:
            1.   The owner of record of real property with a single owner; or
            2.   At least one of the owners of real property with multiple
owners; at the last address of the owner for the property as indicated in the
records of the County Auditor on the date of the notice, granting a minimum of
five calendar days to abate the nuisance.
      (2)   That notice shall contain:
         (a)   The address and telephone number of the Clerk-Treasurer;
         (b)   The penalty for failure to abate the nuisance; and
         (c)   A conspicuous notification that if the weeds, grass or rank
vegetation are not abated within five calendar days of that notice, the town
may abate the nuisance and seek recovery of its abatement costs incurred by the
town in bringing the property into compliance with this chapter, including
administrative fees, removal costs, and any penalties.
   (C)   All other public nuisances.
      (1)   When any other public nuisance, as defined in §
92.05 of this chapter, excluding those public nuisances addressed in divisions
(A) or (B) above, is found to exist, the Town Marshal or Council’s designee
shall notify the owner and persons known to have a substantial interest in the
property by certified mail, return receipt requested, together with a copy sent
via first class mail, to abate the public nuisance.
      (2)   The notice shall state the following:
         (a)   The nature of the nuisance;
         (b)   A description of the corrective action to be taken to abate the
public nuisance;
         (c)   The penalty for failure to abate; and
         (d)   The period of time allowed to abate, which, pursuant to I.C. 36-
1-6-2, shall not be less than ten days, nor more than 60 days.
   (D)   Emergency exception. When a public nuisance is found to exist which
consists of:
      (1)   Solid waste which could spread if not removed; or
      (2)   Dangerous items which pose a harm to the public, then the notice
requirements of §
92.07(C) of this chapter need not be followed and the town may abate the
nuisance immediately (§
92.09 of this chapter) and issue a citation (§
92.08 of this chapter) without first issuing a notice to abate.
(Ord. 2016-2, passed - -2016)
§ 92.08 CITATION FOR FAILURE TO ABATE NUISANCE.
   (A)   Graffiti. The Town Marshal or Council’s designee may cause to be
issued a citation consistent with the penalty provisions of §
92.99 of this chapter if an owner fails to either:
      (1)   Abate the graffiti within ten days of being notified; or
      (2)   Sign and return a waiver of liability within ten days of such
notice.
   (B)   Weeds and rank vegetation. The Town Marshal or Council’s designee may
cause to be issued a citation consistent with the penalty provisions of §
92.99 of this chapter if, after the expiration of the time period provided in
the notice specified in §
92.07(B) of this chapter, it determines that the owner has failed to abate the
nuisance.
   (C)   All other nuisances. The Town Marshal or Council’s designee may cause
to be issued a citation consistent with the penalty provisions of §
92.99 of this chapter if, after the expiration of the time period provided in
the notice specified in §
92.07(C) of this chapter, it determines that the owner has failed to abate the
nuisance.
(Ord. 2016-2, passed - -2016)
§ 92.09 ABATEMENT BY TOWN; CONTINUOUS ABATEMENT.
   (A)   The town may abate the nuisance in addition to the issuance of a
citation pursuant to §
92.08 of this chapter if, after providing the notice pursuant to §
92.07 of this chapter, the owner fails to abate the nuisance and either:
      (1)   No appeal has been made pursuant to §
92.11 of this chapter; or
      (2)   An appeal has been made pursuant to §
92.11 of this chapter, was considered by the Council, and the Council has so
directed.
   (B)   Emergency exception. The town, in its sole discretion, may act to
abate that nuisance which creates a safety or health hazard requiring immediate
abatement in order to protect public safety or health pursuant to §
92.07 of this chapter.
   (C)   Continuous abatement order for weeds and rank vegetation violations.
If the initial notice required under §
92.07(B) of this chapter was provided by certified mail, return receipt
requested, or an equivalent service permitted under I.C. 1-1-7-1 to:
      (1)   The owner of record of real property with a single owner; or
      (2)   At least one of the owners of real property with multiple owners;
at the last address of the owner for the property as indicated in the records
of the County Auditor on the date of the notice, then a continuous abatement
notice may be posted at the property at the time of abatement, which will serve
as notice to the owner that each subsequent violation during the same calendar
year for which the initial notice of violation was provided may be abated by
the town without any additional notice to the owner, at the owner’s expense, as
provided in §
92.10 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2016-2, passed - -2016)
§ 92.10 ABATEMENT COSTS.
   (A)   Notice of costs. Upon completion of abatement by the town, its agents
or contractors, a statement of costs shall be furnished to the Council.
Thereafter, the Clerk-Treasurer, or his or her designee, shall issue a bill to
each person required to be provided a notice under §
92.07 of this chapter for such abatement costs, including any administrative
costs. That bill shall be delivered by certified mail, return receipt
requested, together with a copy sent via first class mail, both sent to the
owner’s address as it appears in the records of the County Auditor. The owner
shall pay the amount of the bill to the Clerk-Treasurer within 30 days of the
date of that notice, unless, within that 30-day period, the owner notifies the
Clerk-Treasurer in writing of any objection to that bill (§ 
92.11(C) of this chapter).
   (B)   Lien for unpaid abatement costs.
      (1)   If that 30-day period has expired and either no timely objection to
the bill has been made or the Council has disallowed any timely objection, and
the bill is not paid in full, the Clerk-Treasurer shall prepare an instrument
for each lot or parcel of real property on which the costs are delinquent. Said
instrument shall specify the following:
         (a)   The name or names of the owner or owners of each lot or parcel
of real property on which fees are delinquent;
         (b)   A description of the premises, as shown in the records of the
County Auditor; and
         (c)   The amount of the delinquent costs and the penalty.
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall record a copy of each list or each
instrument with the County Recorder, who shall charge a fee for recording the
list or instrument under the fee schedule established in I.C. 36-2-7-10 and the
amount of a lien shall be placed on the tax duplicate by the County Auditor.
The total amount, including any accrued interest, shall be collected in the
same manner as delinquent taxes are collected and shall be disbursed to the
General Fund of the town.
   (C)   Lien unavailable. Abatement costs shall not be enforceable as a lien
against a subsequent owner of property unless the lien for the delinquent costs
and penalty was recorded with the County Recorder before conveyance to the
subsequent owner. If the property is conveyed before the lien is recorded, the
town shall notify the person who owned the property at the time the fee became
payable. The notice must inform the person that payment, including penalty fees
for delinquencies, is due not later than 15 days after the date of the notice.
If payment is not received within 180 days after the date of the notice, the
amount due may be considered a bad debt loss.
(Ord. 2016-2, passed - -2016)
§ 92.11 APPEAL OF NOTICE OF VIOLATION; CITATION OR ABATEMENT COSTS.
   (A)   Appeal of notice of violation. Within the time period specified for
the notice provided pursuant to §
92.07 of this chapter, an owner or persons known to have a substantial interest
in the property may notify the Clerk-Treasurer in writing of any specific
objection to that notice. No further abatement action shall be taken by the
town until the Council acts on the timely filed objection.
   (B)   Appeal of emergency exception citation. In the event that the town
abates a nuisance pursuant to §
92.07 of this chapter, an owner or persons known to have a substantial interest
in the property affected by the town’s action may appeal the citation and
abatement costs to the Clerk-Treasurer within 30 days of the date of the
citation.
   (C)   Abatement costs. Within the 30-day period specified in the notice of
costs provided pursuant to §
92.10(A) of this chapter, the owner or persons known to have a substantial
interest in the property may notify the Clerk-Treasurer in writing of any
objection to that bill. No further abatement action shall be taken by the town
until the Council acts on the timely filed objection.
(Ord. 2016-2, passed - -2016)
FIREWORKS
§ 92.25 USE OF CONSUMER FIREWORKS.
   No person within the corporate boundaries of the town shall use, ignite or
discharge or permit to be used, ignited or discharged any type of consumer
fireworks on any other day or time other than the following:
   (A)   June 29, June 30, July 1, July 2, July 3, July 5, July 6, July 7, July
8, July 9, between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and two hours after sunset;
   (B)   July 4 between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight; and
   (C)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. on December 31 and 1:00 a.m. on
January 1.
(Ord. 2016-2, passed - -2016) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.26 ENFORCEMENT.
   A person found in violation of this subchapter shall be issued a citation
consistent with the provisions of §
92.99 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2016-2, passed - -2016)
ENGINE BRAKING
§ 92.35 DEFINITION.
   ENGINE BRAKING, commonly known as “jake-braking”, shall mean the use or
operation of any mechanical exhaust device designed to aid in the braking,
decompression or deceleration of any motor vehicle which results in excessive,
loud, unusual, noxious, repugnant or explosive noise from such vehicle.
(Ord. 2017-10, passed 11-7-2017)
§ 92.36 PROHIBITION; EXCLUSIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any motor vehicle to use or to
operate or to cause to be used or operated, at any time and on any street or
road within the town limits, any mechanical exhaust or decompression device
which results in the practice known as engine braking, unless where necessary
for the protection of persons and/or property or when necessary for the health,
safety and welfare of the community and which cannot be avoided by application
of an alternative braking system. Sounds created by emergency equipment for
emergency purposes are also excluded from this section.
(Ord. 2017-10, passed 11-7-2017) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Anyone violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined
not less than $25 for the first offense, $50 for the second offense and $100
for each subsequent.
      (2)   Each subsequent day shall be a separate and chargeable offense.
      (3)   The fines collected for these violations shall be deposited in the
town’s General Fund.
   (B)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
92.36 of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of $100 for each violation.
(Ord. 2016-2, passed - -2016; Ord. 2017-10, passed 11-7-2017)
CHAPTER 93: STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC PROPERTY
Section
   
93.01   Permits for construction required
   
93.02   Construction specifications
   
93.03   Remaining rubbish prohibited
   
93.04   Owner responsibility; maintenance
   
93.05   Notice served; appeal procedure
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 PERMITS FOR CONSTRUCTION REQUIRED.
   Permits are required before construction or reconstruction commences and may
be obtained from the Department of Community Development, Courthouse.
(Prior Code, § 93.01) (Ord. 1998-4, passed 12-1-1998; Ord. 2023-10, passed 11-
7-2023)
§ 93.02 CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   All sidewalks hereafter constructed shall not be less than four
inches thick, not less than four feet in width and of a concrete mixture not
less than 4,000 p.s.i. mix. All sidewalks shall be of the same density
throughout, shall be constructed under the direction of the town’s Street
Superintendent and shall be laid to a grade fixed by a competent engineer,
surveyor or the Street Superintendent. Sidewalks shall have one-fourth inch of
fall per foot, towards the street and the joining of all walks on the same or
different grades shall be gradual and not abrupt.
      (2)   No person is prohibited from relaying to grade any sidewalk
heretofore constructed of brick. Sidewalks shall be saw cut every five feet,
with an expansion joint placed as directed by the Town Superintendent, but not
less than 40 feet.
      (3)   Approaches shall be a minimum of six inches thick.
   (B)   All sidewalks hereafter constructed shall be on the line with those
already constructed or on a line as the Street Superintendent may hereafter
direct. Inspection of the construction shall be by the Street Superintendent
prior to the pouring of cement.
   (C)   No person shall construct or maintain any drain so as to run water
onto any sidewalk.
   (D)   A problem is when any sidewalk shall be or become out of repair, that
are not of uniform height, containing offsets, holes or shall be obstructed by
dirt, soil, filth or any other obstruction, so as to not provide safe passage
by pedestrians walking or in a wheelchair. It shall be the duty of the Town
Marshal to order the owner of the land or lot to clear the sidewalk or to
repair the same forthwith.
(Prior Code, § 93.02) (Ord. 1998-4, passed 12-1-1998; Ord. 2004-5, passed 6-15-
2004) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 REMAINING RUBBISH PROHIBITED.
   (A) It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or owner of any
land or lot to permit any dirt, soil, filth or any obstruction to be or remain
upon the sidewalk in front of the land or lot. The owner shall keep sidewalks
free and clear for the use of the public and shall keep the sidewalk in
reasonable repair at all times.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or owner throw,
scatter or suffer to be thrown or scattered, any shavings, chips, papers, grass
clippings, leaves, refuse, trash or other material on any street or alley.
(Prior Code, § 93.03) (Ord. 1998-4, passed 12-1-1998; Ord. 2019-6, passed 5-21-
2019) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY; MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Sidewalks within the town shall be the responsibility of each
property/land/lot owner to maintain and be financially responsible for.
   (B)   The owner is required on the land/lot/ owner’s property along the
streets, when one or more of the following circumstances arise, all in
accordance with the requirements of applicable law, to maintain or repair the
sidewalk:
      (1)   When the area is primarily comprised of three or more lots per
gross acre;
      (2)   When the area is close to pedestrian generators, for example
schools, parks or retail areas;
      (3)   To continue a sidewalk on an existing street;
      (4)   To link together areas of development;
      (5)   To provide pedestrian access to future development; and/or
      (6)   When the Town Council determines to do a street upgrade and has the
majority in number of affected tracts and assessed valuation of the affected
record property owners’ express written approval.
(Prior Code, § 93.04) (Ord. 1998-4, passed 12-1-1998)
§ 93.05 NOTICE SERVED; APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Where a problem is believed to exist, the Marshal shall serve notice
upon the owner of the property on which the problem is occurring and/or any
other person believed to be causing the problem to abate that problem within a
reasonable time to be stated in the notice. The notice shall be served
personally or by registered or certified mail. Any notice so given shall be
promptly brought to the attention of the Town Council.
   (B)   The persons served a notice may appeal the determination that a
problem exists and should be abated, by notifying the Clerk-Treasurer of the
appeal in writing within three business days after being served with the
notice. The Clerk- Treasurer will schedule the appeal to be heard and
determined by the Town Council at its next regular meeting.
   (C)   If the problem is not appealed or is unsuccessfully appealed and not
abated within the time provided in division (B) above or the same number of
days after conclusion of an unsuccessful appeal to the Town Council as would
have been permitted if no appeal was taken, or as otherwise established by the
Town Council in ruling on the appeal, then:
      (1)   The Town Council may cause the problem to be abated and shall
notify the Clerk-Treasurer of the cost of the abatement. The Clerk-Treasurer
shall then bill the owner and/or other person responsible for the problem the
full amount of the costs of the abatement as specifically directed by Council;
and
      (2)   If the costs are not paid within 30 days, the Clerk-Treasurer shall
cause the costs to be placed on the tax duplicate of the property owner, or
take other appropriate action to collect same, all with attorney fees, costs
and other expenses incurred in the collection effort.
(Prior Code, § 93.05) (Ord. 1998-4, passed 12-1-1998)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Anyone violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined not less
than $25 for the first offense, $50 for the second offense and $100 for each
subsequent offense.
   (B)   Each subsequent day shall be a separate and chargeable offense.
   (C)   The fines collected for these violations shall be deposited in the
town’s General Fund.
(Ord. 2019-6, passed 5-21-2019)
CHAPTER 94: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
94.01   Policy statement
   
94.02   Definitions
   
94.03   Unlawful practice
   
94.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
94.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
94.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage service
   
94.07   Interference, coercion or intimidation
   
94.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
94.09   Exemptions
   
94.10   Administrative enforcement of chapter
§ 94.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the town to provide, within constitutional
limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for
under the Federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended, the Federal Housing and
Community Development Act of 1974, as amended, and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 94.01) (Ord. 2008-2, passed 3-4-2008)
§ 94.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-2)
   COMMISSION. The state’s Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-
9-1-4 et seq.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-3)
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-4)
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
94.04 through
94.08 of this chapter or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or part of a building or structure that
is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure or part of a building or
structure, that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a
residence by one or more families.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-8)
   FAMILIAL STATUS. One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18
years, being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of
such individual, or the written permission of such parent or other person. The
protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of FAMILIAL STATUS
shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process of securing
legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18 years.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual; with the status of such family being
further defined herein. (See FAMILIAL STATUS.)
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-9)
   HANDICAP.
      (1)   With respect to a person, means:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or
more of such person’s major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment; or
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment; and/or
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the Federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq.
      (2)   The term HANDICAP shall not include current illegal use of, or
addictions to, a controlled substance as defined in 21 U.S.C. § 802; nor does
the term HANDICAP include an individual solely because that individual is a
transvestite.
   PERSON. One or more individuals, corporations, partnerships, associations,
labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies, joint-stock
companies, trusts, non- incorporated organizations, trustees, trustees in cases
under U.S.C. Title 11, receivers and fiduciaries.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let or to otherwise grant for a
consideration the right to occupy the premises owned by the occupant.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-13)
(Prior Code, § 94.02) (Ord. 2008-2, passed 3-4-2008)
§ 94.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below, §
94.09 of this chapter and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against
discrimination in the sale or rental of housing set forth I.C. 22-9.5-5-1 and
in §
94.04 of this chapter shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings; except as exempted by division (B) below and I.C. 22-
9.5-3;
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) below, nothing in §
94.04 of this chapter shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that, in the sale of such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24-month period. The
private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or
reserved on his or her behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the
proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses
at any one time. The sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be
excepted from application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesperson, or any person in
the business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of
any such broker, agent or salesperson; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
94.04(C) of this chapter, but noting in this provision shall prohibit the use
of attorneys, escrow agents, abstracters, title companies and other such
professional assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title.
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) above, a person shall be deemed to be
IN THE BUSINESS OF SELLING OR RENTING DWELLINGS if:
      (1)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling, or any interest therein;
      (2)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
agent, other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in
providing sales or rental facilities or services in two or more transactions
involving the sale or rental of any dwelling, or any interest therein; or
      (3)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended
for occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Prior Code, § 94.03) (Ord. 2008-2, passed 3-4-2008)
§ 94.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
94.03 of this chapter, and except as exempted by §
94.03(B) and §
94.09 of this chapter, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status or national origin;
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services of
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin;
   (C)   To make, print or publish, or to cause to be made, printed or
published, any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or
rental of a dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation or
discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status
or national origin, or an intention to make any such preference, limitation or
discrimination;
   (D)   To represent to any person, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin, that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is in fact so
available;
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or prospective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status or national origin; and/or
   (F)   (1)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap
of:
         (a)   That buyer or renter;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (2)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a handicap of:
         (a)   That person; or
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (3)   For purposes of this division (F), DISCRIMINATION includes:
         (a)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person, if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises; except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may where it is reasonable to do so condition permission for a modification on
the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
         (b)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices or services, when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
         (c)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after 9-
13-1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a manner
that:
            1.   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
            2.   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
            3.   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
               a.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
               b.    Lights, switches, electrical outlets, thermostats and
other environmental controls in accessible locations;
               c.    Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
      (4)   Compliance with the appropriate requirements of the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq., and of the American
National Standard for Buildings and Facilities providing accessibility and
usability for physically handicapped people (commonly cited as “ANSI A117.1”),
suffices to satisfy the requirements of division (F)(3)(c)3. above.
      (5)   Nothing in this division (F) requires that a dwelling be made
available to an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to
the health or safety of other individuals, or whose tenancy would result in
substantial physical damage to the property of others.
(Prior Code, § 94.04) (Ord. 2008-2, passed 3-4-2008)
§ 94.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED
TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap or familial status.
(Prior Code, § 94.05) (Ord. 2008-2, passed 3-4-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICE.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers organization
or other service, organization or facility relating to the business of selling
or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her in the terms or
conditions of such access, membership or participation, on account of race,
color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
(Prior Code, § 94.06) (Ord. 2008-2, passed 3-4-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
94.03,
94.04,
94.05 or
94.06 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 94.07) (Ord. 2008-2, passed 3-4-2008)
§ 94.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under code or law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempts to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status or national origin, and because he or she is or has been
selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, contracting or negotiating
for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any dwelling, or
applying for or participating in any service, organization or facility relating
to the business of selling or renting dwellings; or
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A)
above; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection to participate.
   (C)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to
discourage such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, in
any of the activities, services, organizations or facilities described in
division (A) above, or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly
opposing any denial of the opportunity to participate, shall be fined according
to local, state and federal law; and if bodily injury results shall be fined
not more than $10,000 or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both; and, if
death results, shall be subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for
life.
(Prior Code, § 94.08) (Ord. 2008-2, passed 3-4-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.09 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter, including those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   (1)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association or society, or any non-profit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings that it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose, to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color or national
origin.
      (2)   Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in
fact open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or
purposes provides lodgings that it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to its members
or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   (1)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply
with respect to housing tor older persons.
      (2)   As used in this section, HOUSING FOR OLDER PERSONS means housing:
         (a)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary
of the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the state’s Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly persons (as defined in the state or federal program);
         (b)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, persons 62 years of age or
older; or
         (c)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55
years of age or older per unit.
(Prior Code, § 94.09) (Ord. 2008-2, passed 3-4-2008)
§ 94.10 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter, and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commissioner as set forth
in division (B) below, shall be vested in the chief elected official of the
town.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the town, because
of a lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under this chapter, herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of the articles of this
chapter by complainants to the state’s Civil Rights Commission, for
administrative enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6, and the chief
elected official of the town shall refer all such complaints to the Commission,
as provided for under division (A) above, for purposes of investigation,
resolution and appropriate relief as provided for under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the town shall administer
their departments, programs and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter,
and shall cooperate with the chief elected official and the Commission to
further such purposes.
   (D)   The chief elected official of the town, or the chief elected
official’s designee, shall provide information on remedies available to any
aggrieved person or complainant requesting such information.
(Prior Code, § 94.10) (Ord. 2008-2, passed 3-4-2008)
CHAPTER 95: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
   
95.01   Purpose; administration
   
95.02   Definitions
   
95.03   Incorporation of state law
   
95.04   Open burning prohibited
   
95.05   Exceptions
   
95.06   Application for variance
   
95.07   Regulations applicable to open burning
   
95.08   Violations and enforcement
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 PURPOSE; ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to protect the public health, safety
and welfare and enhance the environment of the people of the town by
restricting open burning within the town and providing an application process
for interested persons to obtain permission in advance for certain other fires.
   (B)   This chapter shall be enforced by the Chief of the town’s Fire
Department, Town Marshal or other law enforcement officers within the town,
acting on his or her own initiative or at the request of the Town Council.
(Ord. 2016-8, passed 10-18-2016)
§ 95.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OPEN BURNING. The burning of any materials wherein air contaminants
resulting from combustion are emitted directly into the air, without passing
through a stack or chimney from an enclosed chamber.
   OWNER. The owner of record of the subject property, as indicated in the
records of the County Auditor, and the purchaser or purchasers of the subject
property under any contract for the conditional sale thereof.
(Ord. 2016-8, passed 10-18-2016)
§ 95.03 INCORPORATION OF STATE LAW.
   It is the intent of this chapter that:
   (A)   Its prohibition of open burning be adopted in accordance with and
incorporate herein the requirements of I.C. 13-17-9 and 326 I.A.C. 4-1 et seq.,
as each now exist and are hereafter amended, modified or superseded; and
   (B)   Any conflict between this chapter and I.C. 13-17-9 or 326 I.A.C. 4-
1 et seq. shall not invalidate the remaining non-conflicting sections of this
chapter.
(Ord. 2016-8, passed 10-18-2016)
§ 95.04 OPEN BURNING PROHIBITED.
   No owner, occupant, tenant or any other person having a substantial interest
in any real or personal property within the town, or agent thereof, shall
start, kindle, cause, allow or maintain any form of open burning of any
materials on private or public property, except as specifically authorized by §
95.05 of this chapter or upon receipt of a variance pursuant to §
95.06 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2016-8, passed 10-18-2016) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.05 EXCEPTIONS.
   The following types of open burning are permitted:
   (A)   Recreational campfires which are:
      (1)   Surrounded with a barrier to contain fire from spreading such as a
fire-ring, stones or concrete blocks;
      (2)   Have a total fuel area no greater than 36 inches in diameter; and
      (3)   Have a fuel load not to exceed two vertical feet.
   (B)   The burning of charcoal, clean untreated wood, and other cooking fuels
customarily used in an outdoor grill, traditional food cooking devices or
campfires used for the preparation of food; and
   (C)   Other types of open burning which are approved in advance by the Town
Council upon a written application for variance.
(Ord. 2016-8, passed 10-18-2016)
§ 95.06 APPLICATION FOR VARIANCE.
   (A)   An interested person shall submit a written application for variance
to the Clerk-Treasurer. Upon receipt, the application for variance shall be
reviewed by the Chief of the town’s Fire Department, and his or her written
recommendation shall be provided to the Council. The application for variance
shall then be heard by the Town Council at a public meeting and only be
effective upon a majority vote of approval.
   (B)   A fire approved by a variance must have the original permit properly
authorized by the Town Council in proximity to the burn site at all times
during which the open burning is occurring.
   (C)   The Town Council cannot grant a variance for burning that would
otherwise violate the provisions of 326 I.A.C. 4-1 et seq. and by I.C. 13-17-9,
as each now exist and are hereafter amended, modified or superseded.
(Ord. 2016-8, passed 10-18-2016)
§ 95.07 REGULATIONS APPLICABLE TO OPEN BURNING.
   The following conditions apply to all open burning, whether permitted as an
exception or by variance.
   (A)   Burning shall not occur during high winds, temperature inversions, air
stagnation or when a pollution alert or ozone action day has been declared.
   (B)   Fires must be attended at all times until completely extinguished.
   (C)   Fires must be extinguished if they create a fire hazard, nuisance,
pollution problem or threat to public health.
   (D)   Firefighting equipment adequate for the size of the fire shall be on-
site and nearby during times of burning.
   (E)   Burning shall not be for disposal purposes.
   (F)   All burning shall comply with other federal, state and local laws,
rules and ordinances.
(Ord. 2016-8, passed 10-18-2016) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.08 VIOLATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any person found in violation of this chapter shall be subject to the
following procedures.
      (1)   Any person authorized in §
95.01 of this chapter shall issue a warning to a first-time violator stating
that he or she is in violation. The person must then correct the violation by
immediately extinguishing the fire. In the event that the violator is not the
owner, a copy of the warning shall be mailed to the owner.
      (2)   Failure or refusal to immediately extinguish the fire shall result
in a citation being issued and the Fire Department may enter upon the property
to extinguish the fire.
   (B)   Each subsequent starting, kindling, causing or allowing of a new fire
after a warning or citation has been issued, shall be considered a separate,
chargeable offense.
   (C)   A citation issued by any person authorized in §
95.01 of this chapter shall result in the imposition of the penalty prescribed
in §
95.99 of this chapter. In the event that the violator is not the owner, a copy
of the citation shall be mailed to the owner.
   (D)   Appeals of a citation may be made in a writing filed with the Clerk-
Treasurer not more than ten calendar days following the issuance of the
citation and shall be heard and decided by the Town Council at a public
meeting.
(Ord. 2016-8, passed 10-18-2016)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Anyone violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined not less
than $50 for the first offense, $100 for the second offense and $250 for each
subsequent offense.
   (B)   Each subsequent day shall be a separate and chargeable offense.
   (C)   The fines collected for these violations shall be deposited in the
town’s General Fund.
(Ord. 2016-8, passed 10-18-2016)
CHAPTER 96: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
96.01   Rules and regulations generally
   
96.02   Hours open to the public
   
96.03   Possession, sale or consumption of alcoholic beverages
   
96.04   Weapons prohibited
   
96.05   Fires; firewood
   
96.06   Swimming
   
96.07   Hunting; fishing
   
96.08   Pets
   
96.09   Vehicles; parking
   
96.10   Trash and garbage
   
96.11   Vandalism prohibited
   
96.12   Disorderly or disturbing conduct
   
96.13   Fastening of objects to trees prohibited
   
96.14   Roller-skating, rollerblading or skateboarding
   
96.15   Smoking
   
96.16   Amplified music
   
96.17   Fireworks
   
96.18   Exceptions
   
96.19   Fees
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 RULES AND REGULATIONS GENERALLY.
   The rules and regulations of this chapter are established for the management
and protection of Roanoke Park (“Roanoke Park”) and for the protection of the
persons lawfully entitled to use Roanoke Park. Roanoke Park is a drug-free
zone. The use of Roanoke Park and its facilities is at the user’s risk. The
town is not responsible for any injury, theft or accidents.
(Ord. 2015-9, passed 5-19-2015)
§ 96.02 HOURS OPEN TO THE PUBLIC.
   Roanoke Park shall be open to the public from 6:00 a.m. until 11:00 p.m. No
person, other than town employees on town business, shall be permitted to go or
remain in Roanoke Park, except when it is open. Overnight camping is
prohibited.
(Ord. 2015-9, passed 5-19-2015) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.03 POSSESSION, SALE OR CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   No intoxicants of any kind, including, but not limited to wine, beer, ale or
other alcoholic beverages, shall be possessed, consumed, sold or given away in
Roanoke Park.
(Ord. 2015-9, passed 5-19-2015) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.04 WEAPONS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall possess or use a weapon in Roanoke Park. The term WEAPON
means any device, equipment or other material that in the manner that it is
used or is ordinarily used is readily capable of causing serious bodily injury,
but does not mean firearms, ammunition and firearm accessories as those terms
are defined in I.C. 35-47-1, as it presently exists or is hereafter amended.
This prohibition excludes duly sworn town police officers or duly sworn police
officers located in the state.
(Ord. 2015-9, passed 5-19-2015) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.05 FIRES; FIREWOOD.
   (A)   Fires are permitted in Roanoke Park only in established fireplaces,
charcoal grills and ovens outside of pavilions and roofed structures, and
otherwise under circumstances where same do not constitute an unreasonable
danger.
   (B)   No firewood shall be gathered from park property.
(Ord. 2015-9, passed 5-19-2015) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.06 SWIMMING.
   No person shall bathe, wash or swim in any body of water or stream in
Roanoke Park.
(Ord. 2015-9, passed 5-19-2015) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.07 HUNTING; FISHING.
   No person shall shoot, throw stones at, set snares for or otherwise molest
any of the fish, water fowl or other animals within Roanoke Park.
(Ord. 2015-9, passed 5-19-2015) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.08 PETS.
   All pets are prohibited in Roanoke Park, except those caged or on a leash
and otherwise legal in accordance with applicable law.
(Ord. 2015-9, passed 5-19-2015) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.09 VEHICLES; PARKING.
   (A)   No person shall ride or drive a vehicle within Roanoke Park, except on
the improved roadways.
   (B)   The speed limit in Roanoke Park shall not exceed ten mph and shall be
slower than that where circumstances indicate, or where otherwise specifically
posted.
   (C)   Vehicle parking is permitted in Roanoke Park in designated parking
areas only. Vehicle parking is not permitted on the grass, on playgrounds or in
picnic areas. No vehicles shall be parked within Roanoke Park between the hours
of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
   (D)   Parking of vehicles in Roanoke Park when that park is not open to the
public is prohibited.
   (E)   No person shall operate a self-propelled vehicle designated to travel
on snow-covered surfaces and commonly known as a snowmobile, or any go-cart,
swamp buggy, race car, all-terrain vehicle (ATV) or any other type of motor
vehicle that is not registered with the Department of Motor Vehicles of the
state, within Roanoke Park.
(Ord. 2015-9, passed 5-19-2015) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.10 TRASH AND GARBAGE.
   Trash and/or garbage in Roanoke Park must be put in barrels provided by the
town or taken from the park by those who brought it when those persons leave.
(Ord. 2015-9, passed 5-19-2015) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.11 VANDALISM PROHIBITED.
   No person shall injure, deface, or damage any plants, buildings, fences,
benches, structures or statuary, or other public or private property within
Roanoke Park.
(Ord. 2015-9, passed 5-19-2015) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.12 DISORDERLY OR DISTURBING CONDUCT.
   No person shall disturb any picnic or gathering in Roanoke Park or intrude
upon same in a boisterous, vulgar, obscene and/or profane manner.
(Ord. 2015-9, passed 5-19-2015) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.13 FASTENING OF OBJECTS TO TREES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall mechanically fasten or attach a swing, tree house or any
other object to any tree located within Roanoke Park.
(Ord. 2015-9, passed 5-19-2015) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.14 ROLLER-SKATING, ROLLERBLADING OR SKATEBOARDING.
   No person shall roller-skate, rollerblade or skateboard on the tennis
courts, basketball courts, curbs, railings, walls, benches or tables located
within Roanoke Park.
(Ord. 2015-9, passed 5-19-2015) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.15 SMOKING.
   Smoking is prohibited within 20 feet of the concession stands.
(Ord. 2015-9, passed 5-19-2015) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.16 AMPLIFIED MUSIC.
   Amplification of music is prohibited in Roanoke Park.
(Ord. 2015-9, passed 5-19-2015) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.17 FIREWORKS.
   Unauthorized fireworks are prohibited in Roanoke Park.
(Ord. 2015-9, passed 5-19-2015) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.18 EXCEPTIONS.
   Reasonable exceptions to the application of the foregoing rules and
regulations of this chapter may be made pursuant to duly adopted resolutions of
the Town Council.
(Ord. 2015-9, passed 5-19-2015) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.19 FEES.
   Fees for Roanoke Park are as follows:
 Fee
           Fee
Pavilion (return of deposit is contingent upon inspection of facility
   4 hou$75
   Depos$25
Baseball field (fields will be raked and lines painted)
   4 hou$40 per field
   All d$80 per field
Soccer field (fields will have lines painted)
   4 hou$50
 
(Ord. 2202-01, passed 3-15-2022)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Anyone violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined $10 for
the first offense, $25 for the second offense and $100 for each subsequent
offense.
   (B)   Each day a violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2015-9, passed 5-19-2015)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   Adult establishments
   
110.02   Hawkers and peddlers
   
110.03   Liquor retailers
§ 110.01 ADULT ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of protecting the general health, welfare and peace
and quiet of the town, the Town Council hereby enacts this section regulating
the establishment of locations for massage parlors, adult book stores and
arcades.
   (B)   From and after the date of this section, no person shall erect,
construct, own, operate, establish, maintain or permit a massage parlor, adult
book store or arcade containing three or more pool or billiard tables or
devices operated by the insertion of money or tokens, the function of which is
to provide entertainment, if any portion of the perimeter is located within 500
feet of residentially zoned property, a park, a church or a community center
use previously established and in use within the town limits.
   (C)   This section shall not prohibit establishments in operation at the
date of this adoption, but the establishments may not expand or increase the
operations prohibited by division (B) above and in operation as of that
adoption.
(Prior Code, § 110.01) (Ord. 6-82, passed 10-4-1982) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.02 HAWKERS AND PEDDLERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to engage in
the business of hawking or peddling within the corporate limits of the town,
without first obtaining a license therefor and otherwise complying with the
provisions of this section, unless exempted by law therefrom.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the words PEDDLE and HAWK are defined
as meaning to sell, or offer to sell, any personal property directly to a user
or consumer, either by one going from house to house for the purpose of selling
and delivering the property, or for the purpose of taking orders for the future
delivery thereof, or by one selling and delivering the property from a vehicle,
pack or other container in any street, alley or other public place in the town,
except as hereinafter otherwise provided.
   (C)   The license fee required by each person desiring to engage in hawking
or peddling within the town, shall be as follows.
      (1)   For one day, the fee shall be $4.
      (2)   For one week, the fee shall be $20.
      (3)   For one year, the fee shall be $300.
   (D)   Any person desiring to secure a license for hawking or peddling in the
town, shall apply to the Clerk-Treasurer, and upon payment of the fee provided
herein, the Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a license, signed by the Clerk-
Treasurer and sealed with the seal of the town, for the period of time the
applicant desires to hawk or peddle within the town limits. Each license shall
be numbered and registered by the Clerk-Treasurer in a book kept for that
purpose.
   (E)   Any person engaged in peddling or hawking within the town shall carry
the license at all times while so engaged, and shall be required to exhibit the
same to any person or officer whenever called upon by them or any of them so to
do. Failure to comply with this division (E) shall constitute a violation of
this section.
   (F)   This section shall not apply to the sale of anything manufactured,
grown or produced by the labor of the person actually engaged in selling the
same, nor to sales made by salespersons at wholesale to local merchants for
resale in the town, nor to the sale of bibles or newspapers.
   (G)   Any license issued under the provisions of this section shall be
personal to the person, firm or corporation to which the same is issued, and
shall not be subject to assignment or transfer to any other person, firm or
corporation.
(Prior Code, § 110.02) (Ord. 9-53, passed 9-5-1953) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.03 LIQUOR RETAILERS.
   The consent of the town be and the same is hereby given and granted unto the
proper legal authorities of the state to issue liquor retailer’s permits for
the sale of alcoholic, spirituous beverages to applicants otherwise duly
qualified to premises within the town, all agreeable to the provisions of § 18
of an Act of the General Assembly of the State of Indiana, entitled “An Act
Concerning Alcoholic Beverages, Liquids and Substances, and to Promote
Temperance, Repealing Laws and Parts of Laws and Declaring an Emergency,”
approved 3-11-1935.
(Prior Code, § 110.03) (Ord. 68-1, passed 11-4-1968)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Youth protection; curfew
   
130.02   Obscenity regulations
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 YOUTH PROTECTION; CURFEW.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DIRECT ROUTE. The shortest reasonable path of travel, or a commonly used
route to reach a final destination without any detour or stop along the way.
      EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting
state that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited
to, a fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident or any situation
requiring immediate action to prevent serious property damage, bodily injury or
death. This term also shall include any action that is reasonably necessary in
order to respond to the medical needs of a family member of the juvenile,
regardless of whether the juvenile’s action is taken in order to prevent death
or serious bodily injury.
      ESTABLISHMENT. Any place of business operated for profit to which the
public has access or is invited, including, but not limited to, any place of
amusement or entertainment.
      JUVENILE. Any person under the age of 18 years of age.
      OWNER/OPERATOR. Any entity operating, managing or conducting any
establishment, and that entity’s employees, agents and representatives.
      PARENT. A person who is a natural parent, adoptive parent, foster parent
or step-parent of another person or a person to whom legal custody has been
given by court order.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any place that is generally open to and used by the public
or a substantial group of the public, whether it be publicly or privately
owned, including, but not limited to, streets, sidewalks, highways, alleys,
rights-of-way, public vehicular areas or parking lots, transportation
facilities, theaters, restaurants, shops, bowling alleys, schools and school
grounds, places of business and amusement, playgrounds, parks, similar areas
that are open to or accessible to the public.
      REMAIN. To linger or stay in a public place, or to fail to leave the
premises when requested to do so by a police officer, or to fail to leave the
premises of an establishment when requested to do so by the owner/operator or
employee of the premises.
      RESTRICTED HOURS.
         (a)   For a juvenile 15, 16 or 17 years of age:
            1.   After 11:00 p.m. on any Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday or
Thursday and before 5:00 a.m. on the following day; and
            2.   After 1:00 a.m. and before 5:00 a.m. on any Saturday or
Sunday.
         (b)   For a juvenile less than 15 years of age: after 11:00 p.m. or
before 5:00 a.m. on any day;
         (c)   For a juvenile in a cemetery or other facility used to
memorialize the dead within the town: after 9:00 p.m. or before 5:00 a.m. on
any day; and
         (d)   The time referred to herein is the prevailing standard of time,
then observed by the public in the town.
   (B)   Offenses. Except as provided in division (C) below, each of the
following offenses constitute a violation of this section:
      (1)   A juvenile being present in or remaining in any public place or on
the premises of any establishment within the town during the restricted hours;
      (2)   A parent of a juvenile who knowingly permits, or by insufficient
control allows that juvenile to remain in any public place or on the premises
of any establishment within the town during the restricted hours. The term
KNOWINGLY includes knowledge that a parent should reasonably be expected to
have concerning the whereabouts of a juvenile in that parent’s legal custody.
This requirement is intended to hold a neglectful or careless parent up to a
reasonable community standard of parental responsibility through an objective
test. It shall, therefore, be no defense that a parent was indifferent to the
activities or conduct or whereabouts of that juvenile;
      (3)   An owner/operator of an establishment knowingly allowing a juvenile
to remain upon the premises of the establishment during the restricted hours.
The term KNOWINGLY includes knowledge that an owner/operator should reasonably
be expected to have concerning the patrons of an establishment. The standard
for “knowingly” shall be whether a reasonable person in the owner/operator’s
position should have known that the patron was a juvenile in violation of the
terms of this section;
      (4)   Any person 18 years or older who aids and abets a juvenile in the
violation of this section; and
      (5)   A parent who refuses to take custody during the restricted hours of
a juvenile for whom the parent is responsible.
   (C)   Exceptions. A juvenile who is in a public place or establishment
during the restricted hours shall not be in violation of this section if the
juvenile is:
      (1)   Accompanied by his or her parent;
      (2)   Accompanied by an adult 18 years of age or older authorized by the
parent of such juvenile to take the parent’s place in accompanying the juvenile
for a designated period of time and purpose within a specified area;
      (3)   On an errand, using a direct route, at the direction of the
juvenile’s parent;
      (4)   Engaged in a lawful employment activity, or using a direct route to
or from a place of employment;
      (5)   Reacting or responding to an emergency or a circumstance reasonably
believed to be an emergency;
      (6)   Attending or traveling to or from, by direct route, a legal school,
political, religious or recreational activity that is supervised by adults and
sponsored by a school, governmental entity, political organization, civic
organization or another similar entity;
      (7)   Married or emancipated; and/or
      (8)   Exercising rights protected by the United States or Indiana
Constitution or other wholesome nighttime activities of a juvenile, which may
be inadequately provided for by other provisions of this section, in an
appropriate time, place and manner and in accordance with a written document
signed by the Marshal or his or her designee, which document shall be issued/
utilized as the circumstances warrant, consistent with the purposes of this
section and in accordance with the following:
         (a)   Carried on the person of the juvenile thus authorized, when a
written application signed by a juvenile and by a parent of the juvenile, if
feasible, is filed with the Town Marshal’s office, for the attention of the
Town Marshal. That application shall state:
            1.   The name, age and address of the juvenile;
            3.   The height, weight, sex, color of eyes and hair and other
physical characteristics of the juvenile;
            4.   The circumstances that warrant the juvenile remaining upon a
public place during the restricted hours otherwise applicable; and
            5.   The public place and the restricted hours involved.
         (b)   In circumstances similar to divisions (C)(8)(a) above, but
adapted to constitutional or other wholesome and legal restricted hour
activities of more juveniles than can readily be dealt with on an individually
issued written document. Where possible such documents for juveniles to be in
public places should be applied for sufficiently in advance, to permit
appropriate publicity through news media and through other agencies, and shall
identify:
            1.   The activity;
            2.   The scope of the use of the public places permitted; and
            3.   The period of time involved (not to extend more than one hour
beyond the time for termination of the activity).
   (D)   Defense. It is a defense to prosecution under division (B)(3) above
when the owner/operator, of an establishment promptly notified the Town
Marshal’s office that a juvenile was present on the premises of the
establishment during the restricted hours and refused to leave.
   (E)   Enforcement.
      (1)   Before taking material enforcement action against a juvenile under
this section, a police officer shall ask the apparent offender’s age and reason
for being in the public place or establishment during the restricted hours.
      (2)   The police officer shall not prepare a juvenile arrest report,
issue a citation or make an arrest under this section unless the officer
reasonably believes that a violation of the requirements of this section has
occurred.
(Prior Code, § 130.01) (Ord. 2000-9, passed 9-19-2000) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 OBSCENITY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   In addition to applicable provisions of federal and state law,
including, but not limited to, I.C. 35-49-3, from and after the effective date
of this section, no person shall own, operate, establish, maintain or permit
the distribution, to be defined as the transfer of possession for
consideration, of any matter, to be defined as any book, magazine, newspaper or
other printed or written material, any picture, drawing, photograph, motion
picture or other pictorial representation, any statue or other figure, any
recording, transcription or mechanical, chemical or electrical reproduction, or
any other articles, equipment, machines or materials, of which the material
either:
      (1)   Appeals to the prurient interest in sex or depicts or describes in
a patently offensive way, sexual conduct, when evaluated by contemporary
standards in the community; or
      (2)   Video material being more explicit than permitted by then
applicable standards for the “R” rating of the Motion Picture Association of
America.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any portion of the perimeter of the real
estate upon which the use is located to be within 500 feet of residentially
zoned property, a park, a church or a community center use previously
established and in use within the corporate limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 130.02) (Ord. 1985-6-82, passed 12-2-1985) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Anyone who violates any provisions of §
130.01 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $25 for the first offense,
and $50 for each such violation of this section which occurs within 90 days of
any other admitted violation or conviction of a violation under §
130.01 of this chapter.
      (2)   Upon admission or conviction, the matter and circumstances shall be
referred by the Town Marshal’s office to the appropriate juvenile authorities,
for such additional attention as is warranted under applicable authority.
(Prior Code, § 130.01) (Ord. 2000-9, passed 9-19-2000)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
151.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
CHAPTER 150: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
150.01   Reserved
   
150.02   Flood regulations adopted by reference
   
150.03   Subdivision regulations adopted by reference
   
150.04   Zoning regulations adopted by reference
§ 150.01 RESERVED.
§ 150.02 FLOOD REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The Town Council adopts the county’s Floodplain Ordinance in order to
comply with all federal and state flood plain regulation requirements in order
to stay compliant with the National Flood Insurance Program. As part of the
adoption of the ordinance, the Town Council recognizes that the county planning
officials or their designees shall have the obligation and duty to review all
developments and to ensure compliance.
(Prior Code, § 150.03)
   (B)   The Town Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance, adopted via Ord. 2022-11,
is hereby adopted by reference and incorporated fully as if set out herein.
(Ord. 1992-5, passed 9-1-1992; Ord. 2022-04, passed 6-7-2022; Ord. 2022-11,
passed 10-4-2022)
§ 150.03 SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The subdivision regulations for the town are hereby adopted by
reference and incorporated fully as if set out herein.
   (B)   Two copies of the subdivision regulations shall be made available to
the public and filed at the office of the Clerk-Treasurer. One copy of each
shall be maintained in the office of the Countywide Department of Community
Development, Room 208, Court House, Huntington, Indiana.
(Prior Code, § 150.04) (Ord. 1997-5, passed 8-5-1997; Ord. 2000-3, passed 5-16-
2000; Ord. 2005-3, passed 3-15-2005; Ord. 2005-8, passed 4-5-2005; Ord. 2005-
10, passed 11-15-2005; Ord. 2005-14, passed 11-15-2005; Ord. 2012-2, passed 11-
5-2012; Ord. 2012-9, passed 11-20-2012; Ord. 2012-9, passed 11-20-2012; Ord.
2014-2, passed 2-18-2014; Ord. 2015-12, passed 7-7-2015; Ord. 2021-05, passed
4-20-2021; Ord. 2021-06, passed 4-20-2021; Ord. 2021-07, passed 4-20-2021; Ord.
2021-11, passed 4-20-2021; Ord. 2021-16, passed 9-7-2021)
§ 150.04 ZONING REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The zoning regulations for the town are hereby adopted by reference
and incorporated fully as if set out herein.
   (B)   Two copies of the zoning regulations and map shall be made available
to the public and filed at the office of the Clerk-Treasurer. One copy of each
shall be maintained in the office of the Countywide Department of Community
Development, Room 208, Court House, Huntington, Indiana.
(Prior Code, § 150.05) (Ord. 1997-6, passed 8-5-1997; Ord. 2000-4, passed 6-6-
2000; Ord. 2001-16, passed 8-7-2001; Ord. 2005-2, passed 11-1-2005; Ord. 2005-
4, passed 3-15-2005; Ord. 2005-5, passed 4-5-2005; Ord. 2005-9, passed 4-19-
2005; Ord. 2005-11, passed 4-19-2005; Ord. 2005-12, passed 11-15-2005; Ord.
2005-13, passed 5-3-2005; Ord. 2005-15, passed 5-3-2005; Ord. 2005-16, passed
11-1-2005; Ord. 2005-17, passed 5-5-2005; Ord. 2006-1, passed 3-7-2006; Ord.
2006-2, passed 3-7-2006; Ord. 2006-3, passed 3-7-2006; Ord. 2006-4, passed 3-7-
2006; Ord. 2006-5, passed 3-7-2006; Ord. 2006-9, passed 5-16-2006; Ord. 2006-
18, passed 12-5-2006; Ord. 2009-1, passed 4-21-2009; Ord. 2010-1, passed 2-9-
2010; Ord. 2010-04, passed - -2010; Ord. 2012-10, passed 11-20-2012; Ord. 2012-
10, passed 11-20-2012; Ord. 2013-4, passed 5-7-2013; Ord. 2013-3, passed 9-17-
2013; Ord. 2013-6, passed 11-5-2013; Ord. 2015-1, passed 5-5-2015; Ord. 2016-4,
passed 7-5-2016; Ord. passed - -2018; Ord. 2018-1, passed - -2018; Ord. 2018-3,
passed - -2018; Ord. 2020-04, passed 8-4-2020; Ord. 2020-11, passed 12-15-2020;
Ord. 2020-12, passed 12-15-2020; Ord. 2020-13, passed 12-15-2020; Ord. 2020-14,
passed 12-15-2020; Ord. 2020-15, passed 12-15-2020; Ord. 2020-16, passed 12-15-
2020; Ord. 2020-17, passed 12-15-2020; Ord. 2020-18, passed 12-15-2020; Ord.
2020-19, passed 12-15-2020; Ord. 2020-20, passed 12-15-2020; Ord. 2021-08,
passed 4-20-2021; Ord. 2021-09, passed 4-20-2021; Ord. 2021-10, passed 4-20-
2021; Ord. 2021-17, passed 9-7-2021; Ord. 2021-18, passed 9-7-2021; Ord. 2021-
19, passed 9-7-2021; Ord. 2021-20, passed 9-7-2021; Ord. 2021-21, passed 9-7-
2021; Ord. 2021-22, passed 9-7-2021; Ord. 2021-23, passed 9-7-2021; Ord. 2021-
24, passed 9-7-2021 ; Ord. 2022-12, passed 10-4-2022; Ord. 2023-3, passed 4-4-
2023)
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Building numbering system
Building Code
   
151.15   Title
   
151.16   Purpose
   
151.17   Definitions
   
151.18   Authority
   
151.19   Scope
   
151.20   Adoption of rules by reference
   
151.21   Building Code
   
151.22   Electrical Code
   
151.23   Plumbing Code
   
151.24   Fence Code
   
151.25   Swimming Pool Code
   
151.26   Availability of state law
   
151.27   Access to property; inspections
   
151.28   Discretionary authority
   
151.29   Fire Department inspections
   
151.30   Emergency measures
   
151.31   Violations; notice
   
151.32   Appeals of administrative decisions
   
151.33   Withholding issuance of permit
Unsafe Buildings
   
151.45   Unsafe Building Law; definitions
   
151.46   Availability of state law
   
151.47   Appeals of administrative decisions
   
151.48   Access to property; inspections
   
151.49   Emergency measures
   
151.50   Violations
 
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 BUILDING NUMBERING SYSTEM.
   (A)   Buildings and building sites along each of the public ways, streets,
alleys or roads in the town shall each be numbered in accordance with the
following system. It shall be the duty of the owner of each, now and hereafter,
improved building site to promptly confirm the correct number with the duly
designated town representative and then promptly cause that number to be
conspicuously affixed to the principal improvement on that site near, and
readable from, the public way easement which that entrance faces.
   (B)   Each unimproved building site, as determined by the town, may, at the
discretion of the town, be assigned a number in the system by measurement to
the center of that site, which number, if assigned, shall be disclosed by the
town to the public upon request. Those numbers so assigned need not be changed
upon alteration or improvement of the site, except as hereafter ordered by the
Town Council, even though the location of the principal improvement may not
thereafter be fully consistent with this system.
   (C)   First Street and Main Street shall constitute and be the base lines
from which the numbering shall begin, and the intersection of those streets
shall, for purposes of the system, be referred to as the center of town.
   (D)   When facing away from the center of town on any public way, the even
numbers shall be on the right, and the uneven numbers on the left.
   (E)   Each five-foot increment of the grid resulting from the applications
of divisions (C) and (D) above shall be eligible for a separate number, except
that where town blocks, or squares, exist or are platted, 100 numbers shall be
allocated to each block or square and the first number of each block moving
away from the center of town shall be evenly divisible by 100.
   (F)   Where a public way intersection exists on a one-sided public way and
not on the other, the numbering system shall be applied as if the intersection
existed on both sides of the street, so long as it does not result in a
building site being unnumberable under the system.
(Prior Code, § 150.01) (Ord. 1987-2, passed 5-4-1987)
BUILDING CODE
§ 151.15 TITLE.
   This subchapter, and all ordinances supplemental or amendatory hereto, shall
be known as the “Building Code of the Town of Roanoke, Indiana”, may be cited
as such and will be referred to herein as “this subchapter”.
(Ord. 2017-6, passed 9-5-2017)
§ 151.16 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide minimum standards for the
protection of life, health, environment, public safety and general welfare, and
for the conservation of energy in the design and construction of buildings and
structures.
(Ord. 2017-6, passed 9-5-2017)
§ 151.17 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURAL BUILDING. A structure principally utilized for the storage of
machinery used for purposes of crop production or for the shelter and feeding
of livestock.
   BUILDING COMMISSIONER. Includes individuals employed by the Countywide
Department of Community Development that are authorized to represent the
Building Commissioner.
   CLASS 1 STRUCTURE. The meaning ascribed thereto in I.C. 22-12-1-4.
   CLASS 2 STRUCTURE. The meaning ascribed thereto in I.C. 22-12-1-5.
   CONSTRUCTION. The meaning ascribed thereto in I.C. 22-12-1-7.
   DECORATIVE FENCE. Any fence constructed of boards or similar material no
greater than three inches in width, with the spacing between those boards or
pieces of material being no less than three inches. This term shall also
include wire and chain-link fencing which do not contain privacy slats.
   FENCE. Any above grade enclosure, barrier or boundary wall made of posts,
boards, wire, concrete, stakes or rails, including, but not limited to,
entrance and exit gates designed and constructed for the purpose of enclosure,
screening, marking a boundary or ingress and egress.
   INDUSTRIALIZED BUILDING SYSTEM. The meaning ascribed thereto in I.C. 22-12-
1-14.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. The meaning ascribed thereto in I.C. 22-12-1-16.
   MOBILE STRUCTURE. The meaning ascribed thereto in I.C. 22-12-1-17.
   PERSON. The meaning ascribed thereto in I.C. 22-12-1-18.
   PRIVACY FENCE. Any opaque enclosure, barrier or boundary wall designed and
constructed for the purpose of enclosure or screening. If constructed of boards
or similar material, the spacing between those boards or pieces of material is
less than three inches.
   STRUCTURE. Both Class 1 and Class 2 structures, unless specifically stated
otherwise.
   SWIMMING POOL. The meaning ascribed thereto in the state’s Swimming Pool
Code.
(Ord. 2017-6, passed 9-5-2017)
§ 151.18 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Countywide Department of Community Development (hereinafter
referred to as “Department”) is hereby authorized and directed to administer
and enforce all of the provisions of this subchapter and the Building
Commissioner, (as Building Commissioner, Electrical Inspector and Plumbing
Inspector) shall act on behalf of the Department for these purposes on a non-
exclusive basis.
   (B)   The Building Commissioner, after having been designated as the officer
of the Department to administer and enforce building regulations by mutual
agreement by and between the town and the county, shall be authorized to issue
building permits, collect permit fees, perform inspections, order connection of
violations and authorize occupancy of buildings and structures situated within
the corporate limits of the town.
   (C)   The Building Commissioner shall not engage in, or have a pecuniary
interest in, any business of building construction, either directly or
indirectly, which operates in the jurisdiction of the Building Commissioner.
   (D)   The Building Commissioner is hereby authorized and directed to
administer and enforce the following:
      (1)   All of the provisions of this subchapter;
      (2)   Variances granted in accordance with I.C. 22-13-2-11; and
      (3)   Orders issued under I.C. 22-12-7.
(Ord. 2017-6, passed 9-5-2017)
§ 151.19 SCOPE.
   (A)   All construction shall be accomplished in compliance with the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-6, this subchapter shall not apply to
industrialized building systems or mobile structures certified under I.C. 22-
15-4; however, the provisions of this subchapter and the rules promulgated by
the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission do not apply to any
construction related to an industrialized building system or mobile structure
not certified under I.C. 22-15-4.
   (C)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-9, this subchapter is not applicable to
regulated amusement devices, regulated boilers, regulated pressure vessels or
regulated lifting devices,
(Ord. 2017-6, passed 9-5-2017)
§ 151.20 ADOPTION OF RULES BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-3(b), the following rules of the state’s Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission as set out in the following articles
of I.A.C. Title 675 are hereby incorporated by reference in this code and shall
include any later amendments to those rules:
      (1)   Article 13, Building Codes;
      (2)   Article 14, Indiana Residential Code;
      (3)   Article 16, Indiana Plumbing Code;
      (4)   Article 17, Indiana Electrical Code;
      (5)   Article 18, Indiana Mechanical Code;
      (6)   Article 19, Indiana Energy Conservation Code;
      (7)   Article 20, Indiana Swimming Pool Code;
      (8)   Article 22, Indiana Fire Code;
      (9)   Article 24, Supplementary Fire Safety Rules;
      (10)   Article 25, Indiana Fuel Gas Code; and
      (11)   Article 28, NFPA Standards.
   (B)   Copies of adopted building rules, codes and standards shall be on file
with the Department.
(Ord. 2017-6, passed 9-5-2017)
§ 151.21 BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   Application for permits; record.
      (1)   A building permit shall be obtained for:
         (a)   Construction or location of new Class 1 and Class 2 structures;
         (b)   Construction of additions to Class 1 and Class 2 structures
including, but not limited to, rooms, porches, decks or enclosure of existing
structures;
         (c)   Construction or location of accessory structures and additions
to accessory structures including, but not limited to, garages, carports,
sheds, storage buildings, pergolas or gazebos;
         (d)   Replacement of any existing structure which, if new, would
require a building permit under this section;
         (e)   Construction of new roof projections or structural changes to a
roof;
         (f)   Location of a manufactured home; and
         (g)   Work which requires state design release, including, but not
limited to, interior commercial renovation.
      (2)   (a)   A building permit is not required for:
            1.   Construction or location of an agricultural building on a
tract of land greater than or equal to ten acres in size;
            2.   Construction or location of a livestock building if the
livestock operation is registered with the Department;
            3.   Construction or location of a grain bin; and
            4.   Construction or location of an accessory structure under 200
square feet in size.
         (b)   In the absence of a building permit, an improvement location
permit is still required in accordance with the town’s Zoning Ordinance.
      (3)   (a)   All applications for building permits shall be filed with the
Department on forms provided by the Department, with one set of plans and
specifications showing and describing the work to be done.
         (b)   The plans and specifications shall include all items necessary
for the Department to determine the compliance of the proposed work with
applicable land use and building regulations, including:
            1.   A site plan of the property upon which, or to which, the
building or structure shall be constructed or placed, showing all property line
dimensions; streets, alleys and other rights-of-way; recorded easements;
utility and telephone lines (both overhead or underground); legal drains or
open ditches; existing and proposed buildings and structures; all setback
lines; height, width and depth of the proposed building or structure; parking
areas; and landscaping when required by town ordinances;
            2.   Building floor plans, showing the location of all walls,
electrical outlets, plumbing fixtures, doors and windows; and
            3.   Any additional information requested by the Department which
relates to compliance review, which may include engineered plans.
      (4)   No building permit shall be issued for any building or structure
which requires plan review by the office of the state’s Department of Homeland
Security (IDHS), Fire and Building Safety Division, until a copy of the
approved design release, along with an electronic and/or hard copy of the full
set of building plans, are submitted to the Department.
      (5)   The Department shall endeavor to review, and make a determination
on all applications within 72 hours of filing. The review period may extend
beyond 72 hours where circumstances require additional review.
      (6)   Upon receipt of the completed permit application with required
state approvals and releases, payment of permit foes as required by this
subchapter and, if the proposed project otherwise conforms to applicable law, a
building permit shall be issued in the name of the applicant. The applicant
shall then be provided a building permit card authorizing the work to commence,
and to be utilized by the Building Commissioner to record completed
inspections. The building permit card shall be prominently posted on the
property at all times, protected from the elements, and no inspection shall be
completed in the absence of such posting.
      (7)   A permit, when issued, shall be for such installation or
construction as is described in the application and no deviation shall be made
from the installation so described.
      (8)   The Department shall keep a record of all permits issued within the
town.
      (9)   If the work described in the building permit has not been fully
completed within two years from the date of issuance, the permit shall expire.
Further work shall not proceed unless a new permit is obtained.
   (B)   Building permit fee schedule.
      (1)   All applicants for building permits shall, prior to the issuance of
such permit, pay fees as outlined in the building permit fee schedule, as
adopted and amended by the Town Council.
      (2)   Should any work which requires a permit commence prior to said
permit being issued, the regular permit fee shall be doubled. Violations of
this section are in addition to other remedies and penalties herein provided.
   (C)   Building inspections.
      (1)   The Building Commissioner shall be responsible for the completion
of all required inspections which shall be indicated on the building permit
card.
      (2)   The permittee shall contact the Department and schedule an
inspection when work, for which an inspection is required or requested by the
Building Commissioner, is complete and such notice shall be given as follows:
         (a)   Four hours prior to the earliest time an inspection is requested
for footers, foundations or concrete slabs;
         (b)   For all other inspections, notice must be provided no less than
24 hours before an inspection is requested; and
         (c)   Inspections of all framing, fire blocking, bracing, all pipes,
chimneys, rough electric, rough plumbing and all heating wires, pipes and
venting shall be performed during one inspection. The Department shall not
schedule inspections for any of the above mentioned components separately.
      (3)   The Department shall endeavor to schedule all inspections as
requested; however, priority is given to inspections which involve an immediate
life safety issue and on a first call-in basis.
      (4)   If a footer, foundation or slab inspection has not been completed
within one hour of the time set by the Department, the permittee may pour
concrete and continue work on the footer, foundation or slab; provided, the
work has been completed in compliance with applicable law.
      (5)   (a)   The Department may assess a re-inspection fee for:
            1.   Requested footer, foundation or slab inspections not cancelled
at least one hour prior to the earliest scheduled time requested for an
inspection;
            2.   Other requested inspections not canceled at least three hours
prior to the earliest scheduled time requested for an inspection;
            3.   Work not completed by the time requested for inspection; and
            4.   Work not in compliance with applicable codes.
         (b)   The re-inspection fee shall be paid prior to a re-inspection
being scheduled.
      (6)   The Building Commissioner shall note the passing of each
inspection, or the deficiencies and/or corrective work required, on the permit
card at the time of inspection. A re-inspection shall be requested by the
permittee once connective work is completed and must pass inspection prior to
any additional work being completed which would affect the completion of the
required inspection. The Building Commissioner may require engineering analysis
at the expense of the permittee to certify that the work has been completed in
compliance with applicable law.
   (D)   Certificate of occupancy.
      (1)   (a)   No change or expansion of use, or of occupancy, of any
existing or newly constructed building or structure shall take place without a
certificate of occupancy issued by the Department. This provision shall not
apply to changes in occupancy that relate only to ownership or possession
rights and do not otherwise affect usage.
         (b)   All new businesses occupying tenant space shall contact the
Department to schedule an inspection for a certificate of occupancy for the new
business/commercial use.
      (2)   A temporary certificate of occupancy may be issued for a period not
exceeding six months upon a determination by the Building Commissioner that a
need exists and there is no immediate danger to the public health, safety and
welfare. The Building Commissioner may impose reasonable conditions as a part
of the temporary approval. Reasonable conditions shall include only those
requirements of applicable law, which have not been completed by the permittee
and/or property owner when a certificate of occupancy is requested.
      (3)   If a building permit has been issued in connection with a change
covered by this section, no additional fee shall be assessed for the
certificate of occupancy. If no permit is required for the change, no fee shall
be assessed for the certificate of occupancy. Should a change which requires a
certificate of occupancy occur without a certificate of occupancy being issued,
the Department may assess a penalty of $15.
      (4)   No certificate of occupancy shall be issued, except after
compliance with all applicable state and local law as determined by the
Building Commissioner after required inspections.
(Ord. 2017-6, passed 9-5-2017)
§ 151.22 ELECTRICAL CODE.
   (A)   Electrical Inspector; powers and duties.
      (1)   The Building Commissioner shall serve as Electrical Inspector for
the town to enforce and administer state and local law relating to electrical
work.
      (2)   The Electrical Inspector shall not engage in, or have a pecuniary
interest in, any business of electrical contracting, either directly or
indirectly, which operates in the jurisdiction of the Electrical Inspector.
   (B)   Electrical contractor’s license required; exemption.
      (1)   No person, firm or corporation shall engage in the business of
installing, or altering within the town any electrical wiring, devices or
equipment when such installation, or alteration work requires a permit, unless
such person, or a person employed within the firm or corporation, shall have
received an electrical contractor’s license and certificate thereof.
      (2)   Nothing in these rules and regulations shall be construed to
prevent a person who owns and occupies a single- or two-family residence from
securing an electrical permit, when required by division (H) below, for work in
the residence or in other buildings on the property where the residence is
located.
   (C)   License classifications. Two classes of license shall be issued by the
Board of Electrical Examiners: Class I - Master Electrician and Class II-
Journeyman Electrician.
      (1)   A Class I Master Electrician License shall entitle the license
holder to install, repair, alter, add to or change any electrical wires,
fixtures, appliances, apparatus, raceways, conduit or any part thereof, which
generates, transmits, transforms or utilizes electrical energy in any form for
light, heat, power or communications. A Master Electrician may secure permits
for the installation or alteration of any electrical wiring, devices or
equipment. The holder of such a license may either do the work or employ a
Class II Journeyman. If a Class I Master employs a non-license holder for the
purpose of installing or altering electrical devices or equipment, the non-
license holder shall require the direct on-the-job supervision of a Class I
Master or a Class II Journeyman at all times when the non-licensed holder is at
work. Any individual who makes application for a Class I license must have
worked for a period of at least two years as a Class II Journeyman and have
worked a minimum of 4,000 hours.
      (2)   A Class II Journeyman Electrician shall entitle the license holder
to undertake the work of installing, or altering electrical wiring, devices and
equipment in the employ of a Class I Master Electrician. Any individual who
makes application for a Journeyman’s license must show written proof of having
worked full-time as an apprentice electrician or in an equivalent position, for
a period of two years or 4,000 hours.
   (D)   Application for electrical license; reciprocity; examination of
applicants.
      (1)   Application. Application for an electrical license shall be made to
the Board of Electrical Examiners on a form provided by the Department. The
application shall be accompanied by written proof of required experience
acceptable to the Board of Electrical Examiners. Paycheck stubs, payroll
records and/or other electrical licenses held by the applicant shall be
acceptable written proof of experience.
      (2)   Reciprocity.
         (a)   Any applicant who holds a current electrical license from a
jurisdiction other than the county (out of area license) wherein the Prometric
Electrical Exam was taken to obtain the license, or wherein a comparable exam
was taken to obtain the license, may be exempt from the requirement of taking
the license examination as required in division (D)(3) below. Any
interpretation of whether an out of area license examination qualifies for
reciprocity shall be made by the Board of Electrical Examiners. A record of
those out of area licenses or examinations which are accepted for reciprocity
shall be maintained by the Department.
         (b)   Any applicant who holds an out of area license which is accepted
for reciprocity shall submit the required proof of experience to the Board of
Electrical Examiners as required in division (D)(1) above.
         (c)   If an out of area license qualifies for reciprocity, all license
fees for the issuance of a comparable license under this section shall be due
and payable in the same manner as all other such licenses.
      (3)   Examination.
         (a)   Application for a license shall include a $50 fee paid to the
Department. Once the fee is paid, the application will be reviewed by the Board
of Electrical Examiners to determine if the qualifications required to obtain
the license requested have been met. If met, the Department will certify the
applicant as eligible to take the applicable Prometric Electrical Exam.
         (b)   License examination shall be administered by Prometric, and all
applicable examination fees shall be paid to Prometric.
   (E)   Board of Electrical Examiners established; meetings.
      (1)   Establishment.
         (a)   There is hereby established a Board of Electrical Examiners
which shall consist of the following members:
            1.   Electrical Inspector;
            2.   Two Class I or Class II contractors, one appointed by the
Mayor and one appointed by the county’s Board of Commissioners; and
            3.   Two citizen members, one appointed by the Mayor and one
appointed by the county’s Board of Commissioners.
         (b)   Appointments shall serve at the pleasure of the Mayor and the
Board of County Commissioners, as the case may be, and shall be for a term of
one year. Appointed Board members may be removed by the appointing authority
with or without cause.
      (2)   Meetings.
         (a)   For the purpose of reviewing applications, grading examinations
and conducting general business, the Board will meet on an as-needed basis in
the Department office.
         (b)   The Electrical Inspector may call special meetings of the Board
for the purpose of examining applicants for licenses or transacting other
business.
         (c)   Three members of the Board of Electrical Examiners present at
any meeting shall constitute a quorum and a majority vote of members present
shall be required for official action.
   (F)   Issuance of license; fees; renewal.
      (1)   Upon proper application and successful completion of the
examination, an appropriate certificate of license shall be issued to the
applicant by the Board of Electrical Examiners. The certificate shall be valid
until January 1 of the following year. The examination fee includes the cost of
the license for the year in which the first certificate of license was issued.
If the license was issued due to reciprocity, the license fee for the year of
issuance shall be $20.
      (2)   (a)   Each certificate of license, and any renewal, shall be valid
for a period of one year and shall expire on January 1 each year. Any license
may be renewed by written request to the Department by the licensee at any time
within 30 days from the date of expiration. No electrical permits will be
issued to, or on account of, any electrical contractor with an expired license.
         (b)   The annual renewal fee for any license issued shall be $20.
         (c)   A penalty of $20 may be assessed for any renewal requested and
issued after expiration. No license shall be renewed without re-examination if
the license has been expired for more than two years.
      (3)   All Class I contractors shall provide a certificate of liability
insurance for a minimum of $1,000,000. No permit will be issued without a
certificate of insurance on file with the Department which states a policy term
that includes the expected work period for the permit.
      (4)   No license or certificate issued in accordance with the provisions
of this division (F) shall be assignable or transferable.
   (G)   License to be available at job site. An appropriate certificate of
license shall be available for inspection on each job site by the Electrical
Inspector. The Electrical Inspector may issue a stop work order on a job site
until the ce1tificate is made available to the Electrical Inspector for
inspection.
   (H)   Electrical permit required. An electrical permit shall be obtained
for:
      (1)   Construction of new Class 1 structures, Class 2 structures and
agricultural buildings;
      (2)   Construction of additions to Class 1 and Class 2 structures;
      (3)   Construction of accessory structures and additions to accessory
structures, when electrical wiring, devices or equipment are installed;
      (4)   Class 1 structure interior renovations;
      (5)   Upgrade of service, installation of new service entrance conductor
or relocation of service entrance conductor;
      (6)   Temporary service connection;
      (7)   Connection of service to a manufactured or mobile home;
      (8)   Replacement of service panel; and
      (9)   Installation of a generator which connects directly to the
electrical utility.
   (I)   Permit application; issuance.
      (1)   All applications for electrical permits shall be filed with the
Department on forms provided by the Department. The application shall be
accompanied by such plans, specifications and schedules as may be necessary to
determine compliance with applicable law.
      (2)   (a)   No permit for the installation or alteration of any electric
wiring, devices or equipment shall be issued to any person, firm or corporation
unless such person, or a person employed within the firm or corporation, is the
holder of a license entitled to secure permits for and to execute the work
described in the application for the permit. Application for electrical permits
shall be signed by the individual who holds the license. The license holder may
submit to the Department a signed affidavit listing those individuals
authorized to sign an application on their behalf.
         (b)   A person who owns and occupies a single- or two-family residence
may secure an electrical permit, when required by division (H) below, for work
in the residence, or in other buildings located on the property where the
residence is located.
      (3)   Upon receipt of the completed application, and payment of permit
fees as required and, if the proposed project otherwise conforms to applicable
law, an electrical permit shall be issued in the name of the applicant.
      (4)   A permit, when issued, shall be for such installation as is
described in the application and no deviation shall be made from the
installation so described without the approval of the Electrical Inspector.
      (5)   If the work described in the electrical permit has not been fully
completed within two years of the date of issuance, the permit shall expire.
Further work shall not proceed unless a new permit is obtained.
   (J)   Electrical permit fee schedule.
      (1)   All applicants for electrical permits shall, prior to the issuance
of such permit, pay fees as outlined in the electrical permit fee schedule, as
adopted and amended by the Town Council.
      (2)   Should any work which requires a permit commence prior to said
permit being issued, the regular permit fee shall be doubled. Violations of
this division (J) are in addition to other remedies and penalties herein
provided.
   (K)   Electrical inspections.
      (1)   The Electrical Inspector shall be responsible for the completion of
all required inspections which shall be indicated on the permit card.
      (2)   The permittee shall contact the Department and schedule an
inspection when work, for which an inspection is required or requested by the
Electrical Inspector, is complete, and such notice shall be given 24 hours
before an inspection is requested.
      (3)   The Department shall endeavor to schedule all inspections as
requested; however, priority is given to inspections which involve an immediate
life safety issue and on a first call-in basis.
      (4)   When any part of a wiring installation is to be hidden from view by
permanent placement of parts of the building, no parts of the wiring
installation shall be concealed until they have been inspected and approved by
the Electrical Inspector. On large installations, the person, firm or
corporation installing the wiring may request the Electrical Inspector to
complete periodic inspections of the work to allow the concealment of
electrical work which has passed inspection.
      (5)   The Department may assess a re-inspection fee for requested
inspections, not cancelled at least three hours prior to the earliest scheduled
time requested for an inspection, where work is not completed by the time
requested for inspection or for work not in compliance with applicable law.
      (6)   The Electrical Inspector shall note the passing of each inspection,
or the deficiencies and/or corrective work required, on the building permit
card at the time of inspection. A re-inspection shall be requested by the
permittee once corrective work is completed and must pass inspection prior to
any additional work being completed which would require a separate inspection.
An approval sticker will be placed on all electrical equipment needing
electrical power hook-up which has passed inspection. No service connection is
permitted without an inspection sticker or approval from the Electrical
Inspector.
   (L)   Reconnection of power; condemnation of electrical installation.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to make
service connection from a source of supply of electrical energy to any
electrical wiring, devices or equipment which has been disconnected or ordered
disconnected by the Electrical Inspector. The Electrical Inspector, in cases of
emergency, shall be the only individual authorized to order a reconnection of
power. If an emergency connection is made on a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday
or as a result of severe storm damage, such connection shall be reported to the
Electrical Inspector for inspection within five business days after the
connection. If such notification is not reported to the Electrical Inspector
within five business days after connection, the permit fee shall be doubled.
      (2)   When the Electrical Inspector condemns all or part of any
electrical installation the owner may, within five days after receiving written
notice from the Electrical Inspector, file a petition in writing for review of
the action of the Electrical Inspector with the Board of Electrical Examiners,
upon receipt of which the Board shall at once proceed to determine whether the
electrical installation complies with this section and within five days make a
decision in accordance with its findings.
   (M)   Liability. This section shall not be construed to relieve from or
lessen the responsibility or liability of any person, firm or corporation
owning, operating, controlling or installing any electric wiring, devices or
equipment for damages to person or property caused by a defect therein, nor
shall the county or town assume any such liability by reason of the inspection
authorized herein, or certificate of approval issued as herein provided or the
license and certificate issued as herein provided.
   (N)   Enforcement; revocation of license. The Electrical Inspector may issue
all order requiring action relative to any electrical work, and may revoke an
electrical license upon a determination that the license holder willfully or
repeatedly violated any applicable state or local law relating to electrical
work.
(Ord. 2017-6, passed 9-5-2017)
§ 151.23 PLUMBING CODE.
   (A)   Plumbing Inspector.
      (1)   The Building Commissioner shall serve as Plumbing Inspector for the
town to enforce and administer state and local law relating to plumbing work.
      (2)   The Plumbing Inspector shall not engage in, or have a pecuniary
interest in, any business of plumbing contracting, either directly or
indirectly, which operates in the jurisdiction of the Plumbing Inspector.
   (B)   License required; exemption.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to operate
as a plumbing contractor in the town without having first obtained a state
plumbing contractor license.
      (2)   No permit for plumbing work shall be issued to any person, firm or
corporation unless such person, or a person employed within the firm or
corporation, holds a state plumbing contractor license and provides proof of
same to the Department.
      (3)   Nothing in these rules and regulations shall be construed to
prevent a person who owns and occupies a single- or two-family residence from
securing a plumbing permit, when required by division (C) below, for work in
the residence, or in other buildings located on the property where the
residence is located.
   (C)   Permit for plumbing work required. A plumbing permit shall be obtained
for:
      (1)   Construction of new Class 1 structures, Class 2 structures and
agricultural buildings, when plumbing lines or fixtures are installed;
      (2)   Construction of additions to Class 1 and Class 2 structures;
      (3)   Construction of accessory structures and additions to accessory
structures, when plumbing lines or fixtures are installed; and
      (4)   Class 1 structure interior renovations.
   (D)   Application for permits.
      (1)   All applications for plumbing permits shall be filed with the
Department on forms provided by the Department. The application shall be
accompanied by such plans, specifications and information as may be necessary
to determine whether the installation as described will be in conformity with
applicable law.
      (2)   Applications for plumbing permits shall be signed by the individual
who holds the plumbing contractor license. The license holder may submit to the
Department a signed affidavit listing those individuals authorized to sign an
application on his, her or their behalf.
      (3)   Upon receipt of the completed application, and payment of permit
fees as required and, if the proposed project otherwise conforms to applicable
law, a plumbing permit shall be issued in the name of the applicant.
      (4)   A permit, when issued, shall be for such installation as is
described in the application and no deviation shall be made from the
installation so described without the approval of the Plumbing Inspector.
      (5)   If the work described in the plumbing permit has not been fully
completed within two years of the date of issuance, the permit shall expire.
Further work shall not proceed unless a new permit is obtained.
   (E)   Plumbing permit fee schedule.
      (1)   All applicants for plumbing permits shall, prior to the issuance of
such permit, pay fees as outlined in the plumbing permit fee schedule, as
adopted and amended by the Town Council.
      (2)   Should any work which requires a permit commence prior to said
permit being issued, the regular permit fee shall be doubled. Violations of
this division (E) are in addition to other remedies and penalties herein
provided.
   (F)   Plumbing inspections.
      (1)   The Plumbing Inspector shall be responsible for the completion of
all required inspections which shall be indicated on the permit card.
      (2)   The permittee shall contact the Department and schedule an
inspection when work, for which an inspection is required or requested by the
Plumbing Inspector, is complete, and such notice shall be given 24 hours before
an inspection is requested.
      (3)   The Department shall endeavor to schedule all inspections as
requested; however, priority is given to inspections which involve an immediate
life safety issue and on a first call-in basis.
      (4)   When any part of a plumbing installation is to be hidden from view
by permanent placement of parts of the building, no parts of the plumbing
installation shall be concealed until they have been inspected and approved by
the Plumbing Inspector. On large installations, the firm or corporation
installing the plumbing may request the Plumbing Inspector to complete periodic
inspections of the work to allow the concealment of plumbing work which has
passed inspection.
      (5)   The Department may assess a re-inspection fee for requested
inspections, not cancelled at least three hours prior to the earliest scheduled
time requested for an inspection, where work is not completed by the time
requested for inspection, or for work not in compliance with applicable law.
      (6)   The Plumbing Inspector shall note the passing of each inspection,
or the deficiencies and/or corrective work required, on the building permit
card at the time of inspection. A re-inspection shall be requested by the
permittee once corrective work is completed and must pass inspection prior to
any additional work being completed which would require a separate inspection.
(Ord. 2017-6, passed 9-5-2017)
§ 151.24 FENCE CODE.
   (A)   Application for fence permits.
      (1)   No fence shall be constructed, erected or moved without a permit
issued by the Department. Application for a permit shall be filed with the
Department on forms provided by the Department and shall include a site plan of
the property showing all property lines; location of buildings; rights-of-way
including streets and alleys; location and size of the proposed fence; and any
additional information deemed necessary to review the application.
      (2)   A fence permit shall not be required for decorative or non-privacy
fencing on agriculturally zoned parcels provided that the proposed fence meets
all other applicable provisions of this subchapter and applicable provisions of
the town’s Zoning Ordinance. Privacy fencing on agriculturally zoned parcels
shall require a fence permit.
      (3)   No fee shall be assessed for a fence permit.
      (4)   Should any work which requires a permit commence prior to said
permit being issued, a penalty of $20 shall be assessed. Violations of this
division (A) are in addition to other remedies and penalties herein provided.
   (B)   Obstruction of visibility at intersection prohibited. On a corner lot,
no fence, plant, tree or shrubbery shall be erected, placed or planted or
allowed to grow in such a manner as to impede vision. Privacy fences shall be
prohibited within a radius of seven feet from the intersection of any rights-
of-way, including, but not limited to, streets, alleys and thoroughfares.
   (C)   Encroachment of fence. It shall be unlawful for any privacy fence
taller than three feet to encroach into any front yard setback. Fences placed
on any side or rear property line shall be kept two feet from any alley to
allow ample space for snow plows, garbage trucks and service trucks.
   (D)   Certain fences unlawful. Except in agricultural, and suburban
residential, open space and manufacturing zoned areas, it shall be unlawful to
construct or erect in the town, a fence equipped with or having an electrical
charge, spikes, barbed wire or any similar device.
   (E)   Disputes concerning boundaries. Any civil dispute concerning legal
property boundaries shall be resolved at the expense of the property owners.
The county or town shall not be responsible for determining or establishing
legal lot lines.
(Ord. 2017-6, passed 9-5-2017) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.25 SWIMMING POOL CODE.
   (A)   Pool permit required; permit fee.
      (1)   No person shall construct, erect or alter any swimming pool until a
permit to do so is obtained from the Department. All applications for a permit
shall be filed with the Department on forms provided by the Department,
together with the plans and specifications for the pool. The Department shall
examine the plans and specifications to determine whether or not the pool
conforms with applicable law. A fee as outlined in the building permit fee
schedule, as adopted and amended by the Town Council, shall be paid prior to
the issuance of the permit.
      (2)   No permit is required for an on-ground pool which is less than 42
inches in water depth. A permit is required for all in-ground pools, regardless
of water depth or size.
      (3)   Should any work which requires a permit commence prior to said
permit being issued, the regular permit fee shall be doubled. Violations of
this division (A) are in addition to other remedies and penalties herein
provided.
   (B)   Pool safety features. A residential pool shall provide safety features
in accordance with 675 I.A.C. 20.
   (C)   Lights. Lights used to illuminate any pool shall be so arranged and
shaded as to reflect light away from adjoining premises and public streets.
(Ord. 2017-6, passed 9-5-2017) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.26 AVAILABILITY OF STATE LAW.
   The Department shall maintain a current copy of 675 I.A.C. on file in the
Department office.
(Ord. 2017-6, passed 9-5-2017)
§ 151.27 ACCESS TO PROPERTY; INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Building Commissioner, Electrical Inspector, Plumbing Inspector
and designated persons acting on their behalf may inspect any building,
structure or lot in the town at any reasonable time for the purpose of
inspection, or for administering and enforcing applicable law, relating to the
subject matter of this subchapter.
   (B)   By making applications for permits as provided in this subchapter, the
applicants certify that the applicant is acting for herself, himself, itself
and as agent for the property owner(s) to receive notice as to matters relating
to the project, and relating to access to the project site for the purposes
referred to herein. Any permit issued by the Department also grants full access
rights to Department representatives to any portion of the project for purposes
relating to inspection, administration and enforcement and requires the
permittee and property owner to cooperate and do all things necessary to allow
access as requested by the Department.
(Ord. 2017-6, passed 9-5-2017)
§ 151.28 DISCRETIONARY AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Whenever, in this subchapter, it is provided that an activity must be
accomplished subject to the approval of, or at the direction of the Department
or the Building Commissioner, the Building Code shall be construed to grant
only that discretion which is necessary to determine whether provisions of this
subchapter have been fulfilled.
   (B)   The discretionary authority provided in this subchapter shall be used
as follows.
      (1)   The discretionary authority shall be utilized to determine
compliance with this subchapter.
      (2)   The discretionary authority shall not be utilized in an arbitrary,
capricious or discriminatory manner.
      (3)   The discretionary authority shall not be utilized to impose greater
restrictions than are required by this subchapter.
(Ord. 2017-6, passed 9-5-2017)
§ 151.29 FIRE DEPARTMENT INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Building Commissioner and the Fire Department having jurisdiction
shall work cooperatively to conduct inspections and investigations to promote
compliance with fire safety laws.
   (B)   The Fire Department has independent authority to conduct inspections
and take enforcement actions under I.C. 36-8-17.
(Ord. 2017-6, passed 9-5-2017)
§ 151.30 EMERGENCY MEASURES.
   The Building Commissioner, Electrical Inspector, Plumbing Inspector and
designated persons acting on their behalf shall have the authority to order and
implement the following emergency measures necessary for safety to persons or
property:
   (A)   Disconnection of electrical service, water service, gas service and
other utility services;
   (B)   Evacuation of a building or premises due to an unsafe condition(s)
relative to the building(s) or premises; and
   (C)   The securing of an unsafe building or unsafe premises.
(Ord. 2017-6, passed 9-5-2017)
§ 151.31 VIOLATIONS; NOTICE.
   (A)   (1)   No person, firm or corporation, whether as owner, lessee, sub-
lessee, occupant, contractor, subcontractor or licensee shall erect, construct,
reconstruct, enlarge, expand, alter, move, convert, use, occupy or maintain any
building or structure in the town, or cause or permit the same to exist or to
be done contrary to or in violation of any condition imposed by the Department,
and provision of this subchapter or any other applicable law.
      (2)   Upon a violation set forth in this division (A), the Department may
impose any one or all of the following remedies:
         (a)   A stop work order whereby all work on the building or structure
shall cease at the time of posting. A written stop work order shall be posted
prominently on the building, structure or otherwise at the project site, and
state thereon the reasons for the stop work order. The Department shall attempt
to notify the permittee, property owner, contractor and other appropriate
individuals as to what action is necessary to release the stop work order. A
time limitation, not to exceed 90 days shall be indicated on the stop work
order when posted and shall be included on the notice sent to the appropriate
individual. All corrective work or action necessary to release the stop work
order shall be completed within the stated time limitation. Failure to adhere
to this time limitation is a violation of this subchapter and is subject to the
fines and penalties as outlined in §
151.99(B) of this chapter;
         (b)   A revocation of a certificate of occupancy or any permit issued
under this subchapter after giving notice in the manner described in division
(B) below and upon a determination by the Department that a permit or
certificate of occupancy has been issued upon false, incorrect or misleading
information, or upon a material or repeated violation of applicable law, or, as
to temporary permits and certificates of occupancy, a failure to strictly
adhere to any condition of the temporary permit or certificate imposed by the
Department;
         (c)   Impose fines and penalties as provided in §
151.99(B) of this chapter; and
         (d)   Any other remedy or penalty provided for herein, or by other
applicable law.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever the Building Commissioner determines that there are
reasonable grounds to believe that there has been a violation of any provision
of this subchapter, the Building Commissioner shall give notice of such alleged
violation to the person responsible therefor.
      (2)   The notice shall:
         (a)   Be in writing;
         (b)   Include a statement which indicates the precise reason for the
issuance of notice;
         (c)   Indicate a reasonable time for the performance of any act
required to bring the situation into compliance;
         (d)   Be served upon the person responsible, or the occupant, or the
landowner, as the case may be; provided that, such notice shall be deemed to be
properly served upon such person, occupant or landowner, if a copy thereof is
posted in a conspicuous place in or about the area affected by the notice, or
if he or she is served with such notice by any other method authorized or
required under the laws of the state;
         (e)   Such notice must contain an outline of remedial action which, if
taken, will effect compliance with the provisions of this subchapter; and
         (f)   Such notice shall also contain the procedures to appeal the
notice of violation.
(Ord. 2017-6, passed 9-5-2017)
§ 151.32 APPEALS OF ADMINISTRATIVE DECISIONS.
   (A)   Any determination or decision made by the Department, Board of
Electrical Examiners, Building Commissioner, Plumbing Inspector and/or
Electrical Inspector, or their respective designee, is subject to review as
provided for in this section and applicable state law.
   (B)   Except as required by state law, no person, firm, or corporation shall
be entitled to review of an administrative decision under this subchapter
unless a written request for review is received by the Department within ten
days following the date of the decision, or posting or notice thereof if
posting or notice is required by this subchapter. The request must describe the
decision to be reviewed and the relief requested.
   (C)   Upon receipt of any request for review, the Department shall issue a
notice of review to all interested parties containing the name(s) of the person
(s) aggrieved by the administrative decision; a description of the decision to
be reviewed; and a statement of the time and place of a hearing before the Town
Council, not earlier than five days from the issuance of the notice, wherein
aggrieved persons are entitled to appear with or without legal counsel, present
evidence, cross-examine opposing witnesses and present arguments in opposition
to the administrative decision.
   (D)   At any hearing before the Town Council to review any administrative
decision, the hearing authority shall make findings of fact and affirm, rescind
or modify the administrative decision. If, at a hearing to review an
administrative decision, a person, firm or corporation aggrieved by the
decision requests an additional period of time to accomplish any action
required by the decision, and shows good cause for the request to be granted,
the hearing authority may grant the request.
   (E)   (1)   Any final action taken by the Town Council, except as provided
in division (F) below, is subject to review by the County Circuit or Superior
Court on request of any person who has a substantial property interest relating
to the property affected by the administrative decision, or any person
otherwise directly affected by the decision. A person requesting judicial
review must file a verified complaint with the appropriate court within ten
days after the date final action was taken by the hearing authority.
      (2)   A judicial review is an action de novo and the court may affirm,
modify or reverse the action taken by the hearing authority.
   (F)   Review of an order of the Building Commissioner pursuant to I.C. 36-7-
9 shall be made first to the Town Council and then to the state’s Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission in accordance with I.C. 22-13-2-7 and
I.C. 4-21.5-3-7.
(Ord. 2017-6, passed 9-5-2017)
§ 151.33 WITHHOLD ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Whenever an applicant for a permit owes fees (including checks
returned for insufficient funds) to the Department, the Building Commissioner
may withhold the issuance of subsequently requested permits until such time
that the debt is satisfied.
   (B)   Whenever a person applies for a permit for a structure that is not
being used or constructed in conformance with applicable provisions of the
town’s Zoning Ordinance, the Building Commissioner is authorized to withhold
the issuance of requested permits until such time that the property is brought
into conformance with applicable ordinances.
   (C)   (1)   Whenever an applicant for a permit or a specific property is in
violation of this subchapter, the Building Commissioner may withhold the
issuance of subsequently requested permits for the applicant or property until
such time that all outstanding violations are corrected.
      (2)   This does not apply to situations wherein a permit is required to
correct violations of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2017-6, passed 9-5-2017)
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 151.45 UNSAFE BUILDING LAW; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Under the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9, there is hereby established the
“Roanoke Unsafe Building Law”.
   (B)   I.C. 36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-29 are hereby incorporated by reference.
All proceedings within the jurisdiction of the town for the inspection, repair,
demolition and removal of unsafe buildings shall be governed by that law and
the provisions of this subchapter. In the event the provisions of this
subchapter conflict with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9, then the provisions of
the state statute shall control.
   (C)   The “Department” authorized to administer this subchapter is the
Countywide Department of Community Development and the chief administrative
officer of the Department is its Executive Director. The Executive Director, or
his or her designee, is the “enforcement authority”. The enforcement authority
shall be authorized to administer and to proceed under the provisions of this
subchapter in ordering the inspection, repair, demolition or removal of any
buildings found to be unsafe as specified therein or as specified hereafter.
   (D)   The “hearing authority”, relative to this subchapter, is the Town
Council.
   (E)   The definition of “known or recorded substantial property interest”
set forth in I.C. 36-7-9-2 is hereby incorporated by reference herein as if
copied in full.
   (F)   The definition of “substantial property interest” set forth in I.C.
36-7-9-2 is hereby incorporated by reference herein as if copied in full.
   (G)   The description of an unsafe building contained in I.C. 36-7-9-4 is
hereby supplemented to provide minimum standards for building condition or
maintenance in the town, by adding the following definition. As used in this
subchapter, UNSAFE BUILDING means any building or structure which has any or
all of the conditions or defects hereinafter described; provided that, such
conditions or defects exist to the extent that life, health, property or safety
of the public or its occupants are endangered:
      (1)   Whenever any door, aisle, passageway or other means of exit is not
of sufficient width or size or is not so arranged as to provide safe and
adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic;
      (2)   Whenever the walking surface of any aisle, passageway, stairway or
other means of exit is so warped, worn, loose, torn or otherwise unsafe as to
not provide safe and adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic;
      (3)   Whenever the stress in any materials, member or portion thereof,
due to all dead and live loads, is more than one and one-half times the working
stress or stresses allowed for new buildings of similar structure, purpose or
location;
      (4)   Whenever any portion thereof has been damaged by fire, earthquake,
wind, flood or by any other cause, to such an extent that the structural
strength or stability thereof is materially less than it was before such
catastrophe and is less than the minimum requirements for new buildings of
similar structure, purpose or location;
      (5)   Whenever any portion, member or appurtenance thereof is likely to
fall, to become detached or dislodged, or to collapse and thereby injure
persons or damage property;
      (6)   Whenever any portion of a building, or any member, appurtenance or
ornamentation on the exterior thereof is not of sufficient strength or
stability or is not so anchored, attached, fastened in place so as to be
capable of resisting a wind pressure of one-half of that specified for new
buildings of similar structure, purpose or location without exceeding the
working stresses permitted for such buildings;
      (7)   Whenever any portion thereof has cracked, warped, buckled or
settled to such an extent that walls or other structural portions have
materially less resistance to winds or earthquakes than is required in the case
of similar new construction;
      (8)   Whenever the building or structure, or any portion thereof, because
of dilapidation, deterioration or decay; faulty construction; the removal,
movement or instability of any portion of the ground necessary for the purpose
of supporting such building; the deterioration, decay or inadequacy of its
foundation; or any other cause, is likely to partially of completely collapse;
      (9)   Whenever, for any reason, the building or structure, or any portion
thereof, is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is being used;
      (10)   Whenever the exterior walls or other vertical structural member
list, lean or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the
center of gravity does not fall inside the middle one-third of the base;
      (11)   Whenever the building or structure, exclusive of the foundation,
shows 33% or more damage or deterioration of its supporting member or members,
or 50% damage or deterioration of its non-supporting members, enclosing or
outside walls or coverings;
      (12)   Whenever any building or structure has been so damaged by fire,
wind, earthquake or flood or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated so as to
become an attractive nuisance to children, or freely accessible to persons for
the purpose of committing unlawful acts;
      (13)   Whenever any building or structure has been constructed, exists or
is maintained in violation of any specific requirement or prohibition
applicable to such building or structure provided by the building regulations
of the town, or of any law or ordinance of the state relating to the condition,
location or structure of buildings;
      (14)   Whenever any building or structure which, whether or not erected
in accordance with all applicable laws and ordinances has in any non-supporting
part, member or portion less than 66% of the strength, fire-resistant qualities
or characteristics or weather-resisting qualities or characteristics required
by law In the case of a newly constructed building of like area, height and
occupancy in the same location;
      (15)   Whenever a building or structure, used or intended to be used for
dwelling purposes, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction or arrangement, Inadequate light, air or sanitation
facilities or otherwise, is determined by the county’s Health Sanitarian to be
unsanitary, unfit for human habitation or in such a condition that is likely to
cause sickness or disease;
      (16)   Whenever any building or structure, because of dilapidated
condition, deterioration, damage, inadequate exits, lack of sufficient fire-
resistive construction is determined by the Fire Chief, or appointed designee,
to be a fire hazard; and
      (17)   Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on a site
after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure or whenever
any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six months so
as to constitute such building or portion thereof an attractive nuisance or
hazard to the public.
   (H)   All buildings or portions thereof within the town which are
determined, after inspection by the enforcement authority to be unsafe as
defined in this section are hereby declared to be public nuisances and shall be
abated by repair, rehabilitation, demolition or removal.
   (I)   Wherever in the building regulations of the town or county or the
town’s Unsafe Building Law, it is provided that anything must be done to the
approval of or subject to the direction of the enforcement authority, or
authorized agent, this shall be construed to give such officer only the
discretion of determining whether the rules and standards established by this
section have been complied with; and no such provisions shall be construed as
giving any officer discretionary powers as to what such regulations or
standards shall be, power to require conditions not prescribed by ordinance, or
to enforce ordinance provisions in an arbitrary or discretionary manner.
   (J)   (1)   All work for the reconstruction, repair or demolition of
buildings for other structures shall be performed in a good workmanlike manner
according to the accepted standards and practices in the trade.
      (2)   The provisions of the building laws, as defined in I.C. 22-12-1-3,
adopted as rules of the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission, shall
be considered standard and acceptable practice for all matters covered by this
section or orders issued pursuant to this subchapter.
   (K)   An Unsafe Building Fund is hereby established in accordance with the
provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-14.
   (L)   No person, firm or corporation, whether as owner, lessee, sub-lessee
or occupant, shall erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve,
remove, demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building or premises, or
cause or permit the same to be done, contrary to or in violation of any of the
provisions of this section or any order issued pursuant to this subchapter.
   (M)   Violations of this section are subject to the penalties provided for
in §
151.99(C) of this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-10, passed 10-21-2014) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.46 AVAILABILITY OF STATE LAW.
   The Department shall maintain a current copy of I.A.C. Title 675 on file in
the Department office.
(Ord. 2014-10, passed 10-21-2014)
§ 151.47 APPEALS OF ADMINISTRATIVE DECISIONS.
   (A)   At any hearing before the hearing authority to review any
administrative decision, the hearing authority shall make findings of fact and
affirm, rescind or modify the administrative decision. If, at a hearing to
review an administrative decision, a person, firm or corporation aggrieved by
the decision requests an additional period of time to accomplish any action
required by the decision, and shows good cause for the request to be granted,
the hearing authority may grant the request.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-9-8, any final action taken by the Hearing
Authority is subject to review by the Huntington Circuit or Superior Court on
request of any person who has a substantial property interest relating to the
property affected by the administrative decision or any person to whom that
order was issued. A person requesting judicial review must file a verified
complaint with the appropriate court within ten days after the date final
action was taken by the hearing authority. A judicial review is an action de
novo and the court may affirm, modify or reverse the action taken by the
hearing authority.
(Ord. 2014-10, passed 10-21-2014)
§ 151.48 ACCESS TO PROPERTY; INSPECTIONS.
   The enforcement authority and designated persons acting on his or her
behalf, may inspect any building, structure or lot in the town at any
reasonable time for the purpose of inspection, or for administering and
enforcing applicable law, relating to the subject matter of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2014-10, passed 10-21-2014)
§ 151.49 EMERGENCY MEASURES.
   (A)   The enforcement authority and designated persons acting on his or her
behalf shall have the authority to order and implement the following emergency
measures necessary for safety of persons or property:
      (1)   Disconnect electrical service, water service, gas service and other
utility service;
      (2)   Evacuate a building or premises due to an unsafe condition(s)
relative to the building or premises;
      (3)   Securing an unsafe building or unsafe premises; and
      (4)   Demolish a structure damaged as a result of structure failure,
fire, wind, flood or any other casualty.
   (B)   The Department, acting through the enforcement authority, may recover
the costs incurred by the enforcement authority in taking emergency action, by
filing a civil action in the County Circuit or Superior Court against the
persons who held a fee interest, life estate interest or equitable interest of
a contract purchaser in the unsafe premises at the time the enforcement
authority found it necessary to take emergency action.
(Ord. 2014-10, passed 10-21-2014)
§ 151.50 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation, whether as owner, lessee, sub-lessee,
occupant, contractor, subcontractor or licensee shall erect, construct,
reconstruct, enlarge, expand, alter, move, convert, use, occupy or maintain any
building or structure in the town, or cause or permit the same to exist or to
be done, contrary to or in violation of any condition imposed by the
Department, any provision of this subchapter, or any other applicable law.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-9-13 and 36-7-9-13.5, the Department may recover
the costs incurred by the enforcement authority in taking corrective action
regarding an unsafe premises.
   (C)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-9-17 and 36-7-9-18, the Department may file a
civil action in the County Circuit or Superior Court against the persons who
held a fee interest, life estate interest or equitable interest of a contract
purchaser in the unsafe premises.
(Ord. 2014-10, passed 10-21-2014)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
151.15 through
151.33 of this chapter shall be deemed to have committed a violation and, upon
conviction, shall be fined not more than $100 for the first violation, and not
more than $200 for the second and each subsequent violation. Each day a
violation continues after the expiration of the time set forth by legal notice
specified in §
151.31(B) of this chapter constitutes a separate violation.
      (2)   Any person in violation of §§
151.15 through
151.33 of this chapter shall be liable to the county for any expenses and
costs.
   (C)   (1)   The following fines shall be imposed for each violation of §§
151.45 through
151.50 of this chapter:
         (a)   First violation: $50;
         (b)   Second violation: $100; and
         (c)   Subsequent violations: $250.
      (2)   The fines and penalties provided for in this division (C) shall be
in addition to all other remedies and penalties provided for herein and by law
and, except where otherwise provided, every day any violation continues shall
constitute a separate violation.
(Ord. 2014-10, passed 10-21-2014; Ord. 2017-6, passed 9-5-2017)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
      
II.   FUNDS
      
III.   REDEVELOPMENT AREAS
      
IV.   PUBLIC HEALTH AND WELFARE
      
V.   ANNEXATIONS
TABLE I: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
2011-3        3-15-2011   Rezoning particular real estate from SR (Suburban
                          Residential) to R-4 (Medium-Density Residential)
                          Rezoning particular real estate from R-8 (High-
2012-2        3-20-2012   Density Residential) and M-1 (Light Manufacturing) to
                          GB (General Business)
                          Rezoning particular real estate from R-8 (High-
2012-3        3-20-2012   Density Residential) and M-1 (Light Manufacturing) to
                          GB (General Business)
2012-5        7-17-2012   Rezoning particular real estate from SR (Suburban
                          Residential) to R-4 (Medium-Density Residential)
                          Rezoning particular real estate from GB (General
2013-5        5-21-2013   Business), M-1 (Light Manufacturing) and R-8 (High-
                          Density Residential) to CB (Central Business)
                          Rezoning particular real estate from A (Agricultural)
2014-1        2-4-2014    and R-4 (Medium-Density Residential) to GB (General
                          Business)
                          Rezoning particular real estate from A (Agricultural)
2018-4        - -2018     with an EZ (Employment Zoning) Overlay to A
                          (Agricultural)
                          Rezoning particular real estate from GB (General
2018-5        - -2018     Business) and an EZ (Employment Zoning) Overlay to GB
                          (General Business)
2020-05       7-21-2020   Rezoning particular real estate from A (Agricultural)
                          to GB (General Business)
2020-06       9-1-2020    Rezoning particular real estate from R-8 (High-
                          Density Residential) to CB (Central Business)
2020-07       9-1-2020    Rezoning particular real estate from A (Agricultural)
                          to R-8 (High- Density Residential)
2020-08       9-1-2020    Rezoning particular real estate from A (Agricultural)
                          to R-8 (Residential High Density)
2020-09       9-1-2020    Rezoning particular real estate from A (Agricultural)
                          to R-8 (High- Density Residential)
2020-21       12-15-2020  Rezoning particular real estate from R-8 (High-
                          Density Residential) to CB (Central Business)
2023-6        8-1-2023    Rezoning particular real estate from R-8 (High-
                          Density Residential) to CB (Central Business)
2023-7        8-1-2023    Rezoning particular real estate from R-8 (High-
                          Density Residential) to GB (General Business)
                         
 
TABLE II: FUNDS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
2014-3        3- -2014    Rental Reserve Fund
2016-1        - -2016     Non-reverting operating fund for the Department of
                          Parks and Recreation
2017-2        3-21-2017   Wastewater Operating Reserve Fund
2018-2        - -2018     Wastewater Operating Reserve Fund
2019-5        4-16-2019   Water Operating Reserve Fund
2021-13       5-4-2021    ARP Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Grant Fund
                          (Fund 176)
2021-26       12-7-2021   Amendment; Rainy Day Fund
2022-02       2-1-2022    Police K-9 Donations Fund
R. 2022-01    3-1-2022    Cumulative Capital Development Fund
2022-15       11-1-2022   Opioid Settlement Fund: Unrestricted
2022-16       11-1-2022   Opioid Settlement Fund: Restricted
                         
 
TABLE III: REDEVELOPMENT AREAS
 
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
R.    12-16- Approving the acquisition of certain real property (9061 N Highway
10-   2014   24-E) by the town’s Development Commission for economic development
2014
            
 
TABLE IV: PUBLIC HEALTH AND WELFARE
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
2020-03       5-5-2020    Public health response plan in reaction to COVID-19
                          emergency
2022-03       6-28-2022   Expenditure plan for use of ARPA Coronavirus Local
                          Fiscal Recovery Fund
                         
 
TABLE V: ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
                          Fiscal plan for annexation of a tract of land located
R. 2022-02    6-7-2022    in the Northeast Quarter of Section 22, T29N, R10E,
                          Huntington County, State of Indiana
                          Annexation of a tract of land located in the
2022-05       6-28-2022   Northeast Quarter of Section 22, T29N, R10E,
                          Huntington County, State of Indiana
                         
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Cite Code Section
I.C. Cite                  Code Section
1-1-1-5                    10.04
1-1-1-7                    10.12
1-1-1-8                    10.06
1-1-4-5                    10.05
1-1-5-1                    10.11
1-1-6-1                    10.08
1-1-7-1                    92.07;
                           92.09
4-21.5-3-7                 151.32
5-3-1                      33.21
5-11-1-4(a)                34.04
5-11-1-27                  34.04
5-11-10-1.6                33.22
5-14-1.5                   30.03
5-14-1.5-1 et seq.         30.04
5-14-3-4                   34.15
5-14-3-8                   34.16
5-22                       33.20
5-22-8-3                   33.20
5-22-11                    33.20
5-22-12                    33.20
9-17-2-1                   33.02
9-21-4-2                   70.02
9-25-4-1 et seq.           72.15,
                           75.01
9-25-4-4                   72.19,
                           75.05
10-14-3-12                 30.04
10-14-3-29                 30.04
13-17-9                    95.03;
                           95.06
14-16-1-23                 75.08
22-9-1-4 et seq.           94.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.           94.01
22-9.5-2-2                 94.02
22-9.5-2-3                 94.02
22-9.5-2-4                 94.02
22-9.5-2-8                 94.02
22-9.5-2-9                 94.02
22-9.5-2-11                94.02
22-9.5-2-13                94.02
22-9.5-3                   94.03
22-9.5-3 et seq.           94.09
22-9.5-4-8                 94.10
22-9.5-5                   94.02
22-9.5-5-1                 94.03
22-9.5-6                   94.02;
                           94.10
22-11-14                   92.03
22-12-1-3                  151.45
22-12-1-4                  151.17
22-12-1-5                  151.17
22-12-1-7                  151.17
22-12-1-14                 151.17
22-12-1-16                 151.17
22-12-1-17                 151.17
22-12-1-18                 151.17
22-12-7                    151.18
22-13-2-3(b)               151.20
22-13-2-6                  151.19
22-13-2-7                  151.32
22-13-2-9                  151.19
22-13-2-11                 151.18
22-15-4                    151.19
33-36-2-1                  35.01
35-46-3-1                  91.08
35-46-3-12                 91.06
35-47-1                    96.04
35-49-3                    130.02
36-1-3-8(a)(10)            10.99
36-1-5-4                   34.01
36-1-6                     92.03
36-1-6-2                   92.07
36-1-20.2                  34.01
36-1-21                    34.01
36-2-7-10                  92.10
36-5-2-2                   10.15
36-7-4-410(a)              32.03
36-7-4-410(b)              32.03
36-7-9                     151.32;
                           151.45
36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-29 151.45
36-7-9-2                   151.45
36-7-9-4                   151.45
36-7-9-8                   151.47
36-7-9-13                  151.50
36-7-9-13.5                151.50
36-7-9-14                  151.45
36-7-9-17                  151.50
36-7-9-18                  151.50
36-7-10.1                  92.03
36-7-14                    32.05
36-7-25                    32.05
36-8-12                    32.01
36-8-17                    151.29
36-10-3                    32.02
                           
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2022 Code
Prior Code        2022 Code
10.99             10.99
30.01             30.01
30.02             30.02
32.01             32.01
32.02             32.02
32.03             32.03
32.04             32.04
32.05             32.05
33.02             33.02
33.03             33.03
33.04             33.04
33.05             33.05
33.07             33.07
33.15             33.20
33.16             33.21
34.01             34.15
34.02             34.16
34.03             34.17
34.04             34.18
Ch. 34, App. A    Ch. 34, App. A
Ch. 34, App. B    Ch. 34, App. B
35.01             35.01
35.02             35.02
35.03             35.03
35.04             35.04
35.05             35.05
35.06             35.06
35.07             35.07
Ch. 35, App. A    Ch. 35, App. A
Ch. 35, App. B    Ch. 35, App. B
Ch. 35, App. C    Ch. 35, App. C
50.01             50.01
50.02             50.02
51.01             51.01
51.02             51.02
51.03             51.03
51.04             51.04
51.05             51.05
51.06             51.06
51.07             51.07
52.01             52.01
52.02             52.02
52.03             52.03
52.04             52.04
52.05             52.05
52.06             52.06
53.01             53.01
53.02             53.02
53.03             53.03
53.04             53.04
53.05             53.05
53.06             53.06
53.20             53.20
53.21             53.21
53.22             53.22
53.35             53.35;
                  53.36
53.37             53.37
53.38             53.38
53.39             53.39
53.40             53.40
53.41             53.41
53.42             53.42
53.43             53.43
53.44             53.44
53.45             53.45
70.01             70.01
70.02             70.02
70.03             70.03
70.04             72.01—
                  72.03
71.01             71.01
71.02             71.02
71.03             71.03
71.04             71.04
71.05             71.05
72.01             72.15
72.02             72.16
72.03             72.17
72.04             72.18
72.05             72.19
72.06             72.20
72.07             72.21
72.08             72.22
72.09             72.23
72.10             72.24
72.11             72.25
72.12             72.26
72.13             72.27
72.99             72.99
Ch. 72, Schd. I   Ch. 73, Schd. I
Ch. 72, Schd. II  Ch. 73, Schd. II
Ch. 72, Schd. III Ch. 73, Schd. III
Ch. 72, Schd. IV  Ch. 73, Schd. IV
Ch. 72, Schd. V   Ch. 73, Schd. V
Ch. 73, Schd. I   Ch. 74, Schd. I
90.01             90.01
90.02             90.02
90.03             90.03
90.04             90.04
90.05             90.05
93.01             93.01
93.02             93.02
93.03             93.03
93.04             93.04
93.05             93.05
94.01             94.01
94.02             94.02
94.03             94.03
94.04             94.04
94.05             94.05
94.06             94.06
94.07             94.07
94.08             94.08
94.09             94.09
94.10             94.10
110.01            110.01
110.02            110.02
110.03            110.03
130.01            130.01;
                  130.99
130.02            130.02
150.01            151.01
150.03            150.02
150.04            150.03
150.05            150.04
                  
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
1994-1   1-4-1994    30.02
5-96     6-24-1996   33.04
1998-1   7-7-1998    33.21
2014-3   7-1-2014    70.04
10-2014  12-16-2014  TSO Table III
2018-3   12-18-2017  34.03
2019-1   1-15-2019   34.02
2020-05  9-1-2020    30.03
2021-02  8-3-2021    30.04
2022-01  3-1-2022    TSO Table II
2022-02  6-7-2022    TSO Table V
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
9-53      9-5-1953    110.02
2-62      - -1962     53.06
                      53.02 
3-62      11-26-1962  53.05;
                      53.20;
                      53.21
68-1      11-4-1968   110.03
4-82      - -1982     32.04
6-82      10-4-1982   110.01
3-83      7-5-1983    52.02
1983-6    7-25-1983   52.06
5-83      11-21-1983  53.35 
                      53.45
                      72.01 
1985-1    2-4-1985    72.03;
                      72.99;
                      Ch. 73, Schd. V
1985-3    8-19-1985   32.02
1985-4    10-7-1985   70.01;
                      71.02
1985-6-82 12-2-1985   130.02
1986-1    4-21-1986   52.01
1986-2    6-16-1986   Ch. 74, Schd. I
1986-5    10-6-1986   32.01
1986-6    12-15-1986  53.36
1987-2    5-4-1987    151.01
1987-3    5-4-1987    52.03
1989-5    6-6-1989    90.01 
                      90.05
1990-3    7-17-1990   30.01
                      Ch. 73, Schd. I,
1990-5    8-7-1990    II,
                      III,
                      IV
1990-6    11- -1990   30.01
1991-4    8-6-1991    Ch. 74, Schd. I
1992-2    7-7-1992    33.05
1992-5    9-1-1992    150.02
1992-6    10-6-1992   33.02
1993-4    - -1993     33.03
1993-1    3-16-1993   53.06
1993-3    9-21-1993   53.06
                      51.01;
1994-7    - -1994     51.02;
                      51.04 
                      51.07
1994-5    6-7-1994    Ch. 73, Schd. I
1994-6    9-6-1994    53.06
1994-8    12-20-1994  52.04
1995-1    8-1-1995    51.03
1996-1    6-4-1996    Ch. 74, Schd. I
1997-1    2-18-1997   50.01
1997-2    3-4-1997    32.03
                      71.01 
1997-3    4-15-1997   71.05;
                      Ch. 74, Schd. I
1997-5    8-5-1997    150.02
1997-6    8-5-1997    150.02
1998-3    7-7-1998    33.20
1998-5    11-17-1998  70.03;
                      Ch. 73, Schd. I
1998-4    12-1-1998   93.01 
                      93.05
1999-3    7-6-1999    53.22
1999-2    7-20-1999   52.04
1999-4    8-17-1999   53.22
2000-3    5-16-2000   150.02
2000-4    6-6-2000    150.03
2000-6    8-15-2000   Ch. 73, Schedule I
2000-8    9-5-2000    34.15 
                      34.18
2000-9    9-19-2000   130.01;
                      130.99
2001-16   8-7-2001    150.03
2002-4    5-8-2002    Ch. 73, Schd. II,
                      IV
2002-9    12-4-2002   Ch. 73, Schd. II,
                      III
2003-3    9-16-2003   Ch. 73, Schd. II,
                      III
2003-5    10-21-2003  35.01 
                      35.07
2004-3    6-15-2004   51.07
2004-5    6-15-2004   93.02
2004-4    7-6-2004    52.04
2004-8    9-21-2004   Ch. 73, Schd. II,
                      IV
2004-11   11-16-2004  50.02
2005-3    3-15-2005   150.02
2005-4    3-15-2005   150.03
2005-5    4-5-2005    150.03
2005-8    4-5-2005    150.02
2005-9    4-19-2005   150.03
2005-11   4-19-2005   150.03
2005-13   5-3-2005    150.03
2005-15   5-3-2005    150.03
2005-17   5-5-2005    150.03
2005-18   7-18-2005   10.99
2005-2    11-1-2005   150.03
2005-16   11-1-2005   150.03
2005-10   11-15-2005  150.02
2005-12   11-15-2005  150.03
2005-14   11-15-2005  150.02
2006-1    3-7-2006    150.03
2006-2    3-7-2006    150.03
2006-3    3-7-2006    150.03
2006-4    3-7-2006    150.03
2006-5    3-7-2006    150.03
2006-7    4-8-2006    33.07
2006-9    5-16-2006   150.03
2006-11   5-16-2006   32.05
                      53.06;
2006-10   6-6-2006    53.21;
                      53.22
2006-13   6-20-2006   33.02
2006-18   12-5-2006   150.03
2007-8    10-16-2007  51.07
2008-2    3-4-2008    94.01 
                      94.10
2008-3    7-1-2008    53.06
                      Ch. 73, Schd. II,
2008-7    10-21-2008  III,
                      IV
2009-1    4-21-2009   150.03
2010-04   - -2010     150.03
2010-1    2-9-2010    150.03
                      72.15 
2010-2    3-2-2010    72.27;
                      72.99
2010-7    1- -2011    52.04
2011-3    3-15-2011   TSO Table I
2011-4    5-3-2011    32.02
2011-5    10-18-2011  Ch. 73, Schd. II
2012-2    3-20-2012   TSO Table I
2012-3    3-20-2012   TSO Table I
2012-5    7-17-2012   TSO Table I
2012-2    11-5-2012   150.02
2012-9    11-20-2012  150.02
2012-10   11-20-2012  150.03
2013-2    4-16-2013   52.05
2013-4    5-7-2013    150.03
2013-5    5-21-2013   TSO Table I
2013-3    9-17-2013   150.03
2013-6    11-5-2013   150.03
2013-7    11-5-2013   TSO Table I
2014-9    - -2014     Ch. 74, Schd. I
2014-1    2-4-2014    TSO Table I
2014-2    2-18-2014   150.02
2014-3    3- -2014    TSO Table II
2014-6    8-19-2014   52.05
                      151.45 
2014-10   10-21-2014  151.50;
                      151.99
2015-1    5-5-2015    150.03
                      96.01 
2015-9    5-19-2015   96.18;
                      96.99
2015-12   7-7-2015    150.02
2015-12   10-6-2015   34.01
2016-1    - -2016     TSO Table II
                      92.01 
                      92.11;
2016-2    - -2016     92.25;
                      92.26;
                      92.99
2016-3    6-7-2016    34.04
2016-4    7-5-2016    150.03
2016-9    9-20-2016   Ch. 73, Schd. III
                      95.01 
2016-8    10-18-2016  95.08;
                      95.99
2017-1    1-17-2017   52.01
2017-2    3-21-2017   TSO Table II
2017-3    4-18-2017   Ch. 73, Schd. II
                      151.15 
2017-6    9-5-2017    151.33;
                      151.99
                      92.35;
2017-10   11-7-2017   92.36;
                      92.99
-         - -2018     150.03
2018-1    - -2018     150.03
2018-2    - -2018     TSO Table II
2018-3    - -2018     150.03
2018-4    - -2018     TSO Table I
2018-5    - -2018     TSO Table I
                      91.01 
2019-03   3-5-2019    91.18;
                      91.99
2019-5    4-16-2019   TSO Table II
2019-4    4-19-2019   Ch. 73, Schd. II
2019-6    5-21-2019   93.03;
                      93.99
2019-7    5-21-2019   Ch. 73, Schd. VI
2020-03   5-5-2020    TSO Table IV
2020-05   7-21-2020   TSO Table I
2020-04   8-4-2020    150.03
2020-06   9-1-2020    TSO Table I
2020-07   9-1-2020    TSO Table I
2020-08   9-1-2020    TSO Table I
2020-09   9-1-2020    TSO Table I
2020-11   12-15-2020  150.02
2020-12   12-15-2020  150.03
2020-13   12-15-2020  150.04
2020-14   12-15-2020  150.04
2020-15   12-15-2020  150.04
2020-16   12-15-2020  150.04
2020-17   12-15-2020  150.04
2020-18   12-15-2020  150.04
2020-19   12-15-2020  150.04
2020-20   12-15-2020  150.04
2020-21   12-15-2020  TSO Table I
2021-01   1-19-2021   51.07
2021-03   3-2-2021    33.08
2021-05   4-20-2021   150.02
2021-06   4-20-2021   150.02
2021-07   4-20-2021   150.02
2021-08   4-20-2021   150.04
2021-09   4-20-2021   150.04
2021-10   4-20-2021   150.04
2021-11   4-20-2021   150.02
2021-13   5-4-2021    TSO Table II
2021-14   5-18-2021   30.02
2021-16   9-7-2021    150.02
2021-17   9-7-2021    150.04
2021-18   9-7-2021    150.04
2021-19   9-7-2021    150.04
2021-20   9-7-2021    150.04
2021-21   9-7-2021    150.04
2021-22   9-7-2021    150.04
2021-23   9-7-2021    150.04
2021-24   9-7-2021    150.04
2021-26   12-7-2021   TSO Table II
2022-02   2-1-2022    TSO Table II
2022-01   3-15-2022   96.19
2022-04   6-7-2022    150.02
2022-03   6-28-2022   TSO Table IV
2022-05   6-28-2022   TSO Table V
2022-06   6-28-2022   Ch. 74, Schd. I
2022-07   7-19-2022   52.05
2022-08   8-16-2022   71.06
2022-09   9-20-2022   34.05
2022-11   10-4-2022   150.02
2022-12   10-4-2022   150.04
2022-13   11-1-2022   Ch. 74, Schd. I
2022-14   10-18-2022  Adopting Ordinance
2022-15   11-1-2022   TSO Table II
2022-16   11-1-2022   TSO Table II
2023-01   1-3-2023    30.02
2023-3    4-4-2023    150.04
                      75.01—
2023-04   4-4-2023    75.13,
                      75.99
2023-05   6-6-2023    52.06,
                      53.06
2023-6    8-1-2023    TSO Table I
2023-7    8-1-2023    TSO Table I
                      35.01—
2023-09   11-7-2023   35.07, Ch. 35, App.
                      A—
                      C
                      33.02,
2023-10   11-7-2023   Ch. 34, App. A,
                      93.01
2023-11   12-5-2023   33.22
2023-12   12-19-2023  51.07
                     
 
 
