TOWN OF ROCKVILLE, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2022 S-1 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2021-06, passed 7-19-2021; and
State legislation current through Indiana Legislative Service,
2022 Acts, Pamphlet No. 3
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street Suite 310 Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
(800) 445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component codes, titles,
chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Rockville Town
Code”, for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified ordinances” or
“code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning, application
or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate meaning in
law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town of Rockville, Indiana.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council of the Town of Rockville, Indiana.
      COUNTY. Parke County, Indiana.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      STATE. The State of Indiana, in the senses analogous to those in which
the term “town” is used as described in the definition of “town” below.
      TOWN.
         (a)   When used in a governmental or corporate sense, means and refers
to the Civil Town of Rockville, Indiana, a municipal corporation and body
politic, organized under the laws of the state; and includes, with respect to
any particular matter, and by representation, its Town Council or such other
officials, boards, commissions, departments, agencies or other authorities by
which act of the Town Council or by general law are empowered to exercise
governmental or corporate authority on behalf of the Civil Town of Rockville
with respect to such particular matter.
         (b)   The term TOWN when used in a territorial or geographical sense,
means or refers to that area included within the lawful municipal boundaries of
the Civil Town of Rockville at that time in question, irrespective of the
boundaries in existence at the time this code or any included provision or
amendment takes effect; but with respect to any particular matter over which
the town exercises any governmental or corporate jurisdiction beyond such
municipal boundaries under authority of any law or an intergovernmental
cooperative agreement, the term shall also include the area within such
extraterritorial jurisdiction.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing or other modes of
representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
(1984 Code, § 1-2-1)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
non-severability provision, each division or part of every section is
severable. If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the
invalidity does not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a statute stating that the provisions of an act are
severable as provided in division (B) of this section does not affect the
operation of division (B) with respect to that act.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated, on the effective date of that ordinance or following the
effective date, the rights, powers, duties or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity, then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   (A)   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former
section or law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section
or law is not revived unless it so expressly provides.
   (B)   The repeal of any section shall not extinguish or release any penalty,
forfeiture or liability incurred under the section, unless the repealing
section so expressly provides. The section shall be treated as still remaining
in force for the purposes of sustaining any proper action or prosecution for
the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture or liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section.
   (C)   In addition to an indication thereof as may appear in the text of the
proposed ordinance, a caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the
ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the city published in 1984 and subsequently amended, the previous
code section number shall be indicated in the history by “(1984 Code, §
     ).”
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   (A)   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date
of this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those
laws.
   (B)   This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code.
   (C)   The liabilities, proceedings and rights are continued; punishments,
penalties or forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not
been enacted.
   (D)   In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway
rights-of-way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   Court costs as provided in I.C. 34-28-5-5 for any enforcement
action bought under I.C. 34-28-5 or 36-1-6-4, or both;
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (3)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   CODE ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURE
      
32.   ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
      
33.   FUNDS AND FINANCE
      
34.   IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION PROGRAM
      
35.   PERSONNEL POLICY
      
36.   TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Miscellaneous Provisions
   
30.01   Nonbusiness use of town-owned vehicles
   
30.02   Blanket bond
   
30.03   Electing Council members
   
30.04   Grievance procedures under the American with Disabilities Act
   
30.05   Disclosure of contracts with relatives
   
30.06   Nepotism prohibited
General Administrative Policy
   
30.15   Powers and duties of town officials
   
30.16   Official agency
   
30.17   General Fund as presumptive depository
   
30.18   Non-included official entities or funds
   
30.19   Tax abatement procedures
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 NONBUSINESS USE OF TOWN-OWNED VEHICLES.
   The Town Superintendent, or any employee acting in his or her stead, is
permitted to use a town-owned vehicle, designated by the Town Council, for
nonbusiness purposes, and said vehicle, shall be assigned to said town employee
until the use of said vehicle is restricted or revoked by the Council.
(Ord. 543, passed 10-1-1985)
§ 30.02 BLANKET BOND.
   There is hereby authorized a blanket bond to cover the faithful performance
of all employees, members of the Town Council and the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 567, passed 2-6-1990)
§ 30.03 ELECTING COUNCIL MEMBERS.
    The members of the Town Council shall be elected by all of the voters of
the town.
(1984 Code, § 10-1-2) (Ord. 2019-01, passed 9-9-2019)
§ 30.04 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES UNDER THE AMERICAN WITH DISABILITIES ACT.
   (A)   There is hereby established an ADA Coordinator. The ADA Coordinator
for the town shall be an employee designated by the Town Council. The ADA
Coordinator is responsible for ensuring this the plan is current and that
grievances are properly addressed and records maintained.
   (B)   There is hereby established the following grievance procedure:
      (1)   This grievance procedure is established to meet the requirements of
the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA). It may be used by anyone who
wishes to file a complaint alleging discrimination on the basis of disability
in the provision of services, activities, programs, or benefits by the town.
The town personnel policy governs employment-related complaints of disability
discrimination.
      (2)   Complaints about access to public services or facilities in the
town are received at the Rockville Town Hall, 103 West High Street, Rockville,
IN 47872. The complaints should be in writing and contain information about the
alleged discrimination such as name, address, phone number of complainant and
location, date, and description of the problem. Alternative means of filing
complaints, such as personal interviews or a tape recording of the complaint,
will be made available for persons with disabilities upon request. The
complaint should be submitted to the town as soon as possible, but no later
than 60 calendar days after the alleged violation.
      (3)   All complaints received by the town shall be delivered to the ADA/
504 Coordinator to be investigated and resolved. Within 15 calendar days after
receipt of the complaint, the ADA/504 Coordinator will meet with the
complainant to discuss the complaint and possible resolutions. Within 15
calendar days of the meeting, the ADA/504 Coordinator will respond in writing,
and where appropriate, in a format accessible to the complainant. The response
will explain the position of the town and offer options for substantive
resolution of the complaint.
      (4)   If the response by the ADA/504 Coordinator does not satisfactorily
resolve the issues, the complainant may appeal the decision within 15 calendar
days after receipt of the response to the Town Council.
      (5)   Within 15 calendar days after receipt of the appeal, the Town
Council shall meet with the complainant to discuss the complaint and possible
resolutions. Within 15 days after the meeting the Town Council shall respond in
writing, and where appropriate, in a format accessible to the complainant, with
a final resolution of the complaint.
      (6)   All written complaints received by the ADA/504 Coordinator, appeals
to the Town Council, and responses from these two offices shall be retained by
the town for at least three years.
      (7)   At any time, a complaint may be submitted directly to the U.S.
Department of Justice.
   (C)   The ADA/504 Transition plan is adopted a reference, a copy of which
can be found in the town office.
(Ord. 2013-1, passed 4-22-2013; Res. 2013-5, passed 4-22-2013)
§ 30.05 DISCLOSURE OF CONTRACTS WITH RELATIVES.
   (A)   Definitions.    For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ELECTED OFFICIAL. A member of the Town Council and the Clerk-Treasurer of
the town.
      RELATIVE. Any of the following:
         (a)   Spouse;
         (b)   Parent or step-parent;
         (c)   A child or step-child;
         (d)   Brother, sister, step-brother or step-sister;
         (e)   A niece or nephew;
         (f)   An aunt or uncle; or
         (g)   A daughter-in-law or son-in-law.
      An adopted child of an individual is treated as a natural child of the
individual. The terms “brother” and “sister” shall include a brother or sister
by half blood (a common parent).
   (B)   Application to certain contracts.
      (1)   The town may enter into a contract or renew a contract for the
procurement of goods and services or a contract for public works with and
individual who is a relative of an elected official or a business entity that
is wholly or partially owned by a relative of an elected official only if
disclosure requirements under this section are satisfied.
      (2)   Contracts in existence at the time the term of office of the
elected official begins are not affected until those contracts are renewed.
   (C)   Disclosure of contracts with relatives.
      (1)   An elected official whose relative enters into a contract with the
town shall file a full disclosure of that contract.
      (2)   Disclosure statement must be in writing, describe the contract or
purchase to be made by the town, describe the relationship that the elected
official has to the individual or business entity that contracts or purchases,
and be affirmed under penalty of perjury.
      (3)   Disclosure statement must be submitted to the Town Council and be
accepted in a public meeting prior to final action on the contract on or
purchase.
      (4)   Disclosure statement must be filed not later than 15 days after
final action on the contract or purchase with the State Board of Accounts, and
the Clerk of the Parke Circuit Court.
   (D)   Actions by Town Council. The Town Council shall make a certified
statement that the contract amount or purchase price was the lowest amount or
price bid or offered or make a certified statement of the reasons why the
vendor or contractor was selected.
   (E)   Certification by elected officers of the town. Each elected officer of
the town shall annually certify in writing, subject to the penalties for
perjury, that the officer has not violated this section. An elected officer
shall submit the certification to the Town Council not later than December 31
of each year.
(Ord. 2012-10, passed 6-25-2012)
§ 30.06 NEPOTISM PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DIRECT LINE OF SUPERVISION. An elected officer or employee who is in a
position to affect the terms and conditions of another individual’s employment,
including making decisions about work assignments, compensation, grievances,
advancement or performance evaluation. The term does not include the
responsibilities of the Town Council to make decisions regarding salary
ordinances, budgets or personnel policies of the county.
      EMPLOYED. An individual who is employed by the town on a full-time, part-
time, temporary, intermittent or hourly basis. The term does not include an
individual who holds only an elected office. The term includes an individual
who is a party to an employment contract with the town. The performance of the
duties of a precinct election officer (as defined in I.C. 3-5-2-40.1) that are
imposed by I.C. Title 3 is not considered employment by the town.
      RELATIVE. Any of the following:
         (a)   Spouse;
         (b)   Parent or step-parent;
         (c)   A child or step-child;
         (d)   Brother, sister, step-brother or step-sister;
         (e)   A niece or nephew;
         (f)   An aunt or uncle; or
         (g)   A daughter-in-law or son-in-law.
      An adopted child of an individual is treated as a natural child of the
individual. The terms “brother” and “sister” shall include a brother or sister
by half blood (a common parent).
   (B)   Nepotism prohibited.
      (1)   Individuals who are relatives shall not be employed by the town in
a position that results in one relative being in the direct line of supervision
of the other relative.
      (2)   An individual shall not be promoted to a position if the new
position would cause their relative to be in the direct line of supervision of
that individual.
   (C)   Exceptions to prohibition against nepotism. This section does not
abrogate or affect an employment contract with the town that an individual is a
party to and is in effect on the date the individual’s relative begins service
a term of an elected office of the town.
   (D)   Impact of section on those individuals employed by town on July 1,
2012. An individual who is employed by the town on July 1, 2012, is not subject
to this section unless the individual has a break in employment with the town.
The following are not considered a break in employment with the town:
      (1)   The individual is absent from the workplace while on paid or unpaid
leave, including vacation, sick, or family medical leave, or worker’s
compensation.
      (2)   The individual’s employment with the unit is terminated following
by immediate reemployment by the unit, without loss of payroll time.
   (E)   Certification by elected officers of the town. Each elected officer of
the town shall annually certify in writing, subject to the penalties for
perjury, that the officer has not violated this section. An elected officer
shall submit the certification to the Town Council not later than December 31
of each year.
(Ord. 2012-11, passed 6-25-2012)
GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICY
§ 30.15 POWERS AND DUTIES OF TOWN OFFICIALS.
   (A)   All officers, officials, boards, commissions or other official
entities of the town government shall be construed to have:
      (1)   All powers or duties prescribed for or conferred on any particular
such officer, official, board, commission or other official entity by statute;
      (2)   All powers or duties expressly prescribed or conferred thereon by a
provision of this code; and
      (3)   All powers or duties implied by the nature of and necessary or
dispensable to the proper and efficient fulfillment of their governmental or
corporate function or duties of office, including, but not necessarily limited
to, the power to prescribe administrative, rules or procedures for the
governance of their respective offices, departments, agencies or functions to
the extent not inconsistent with nor pre-empted by a provision of this code or
a statute, or by an applicable and mandatory state or federal administrative
regulation.
   (B)   To the extent provided by this section, the fact that a particular
power or duty is not expressly set forth in this code and conferred on an
officer, official, board, commission or other official entity does not of
itself imply that the power or duty does not exist or has been considerately
denied or withheld.
(1984 Code, § 1-4-1)
§ 30.16 OFFICIAL AGENCY.
   Any purely ministerial power or function vested in any officer, board,
commission or other entity by a provision of this code may be delegated to and
exercised or performed by a deputy or other authorized agent or representative
of the authority in whom the ministerial power or function is vested, except
that no person shall be permitted to receive or handle public funds or other
monies in the custody of the town unless they are properly bonded or expressly
so authorized by law. The delegation of a ministerial power or function does
not relieve the principal authority in whom it is vested of responsibility for
proper and timely performance. Any power or function vested in an officer,
board, commission or other entity which involves the exercise of official
discretion shall be performed or exercised only by or under the immediate
supervision of the authority in whom it was vested, and it may not be delegated
unless a provision of this code or law expressly so permits.
(1984 Code, § 1-4-2)
§ 30.17 GENERAL FUND AS PRESUMPTIVE DEPOSITORY.
   All monies received by the town, irrespective of source or intended use,
shall accrue to and be deposited in the General Fund of the town unless the
nature, source or intended use of such monies is such that a provision of this
code, or of law, or of an applicable state or federal administrative regulation
specifies that they accrue to and be deposited in some other fund.
(1984 Code, § 1-4-3)
§ 30.18 NON-INCLUDED OFFICIAL ENTITIES OR FUNDS.
   This code is not necessarily comprehensive and all-inclusive with respect to
existing governmental officers, officials, other official entities nor funds.
The fact that any such existing officer, official, other official entity or
fund is not created by or set forth by an expressed provision of this code does
not imply that the entity or fund does not lawfully exist nor that it is
intended to be terminated or abolished, and to the extent that any such entity
or fund is lawfully existent at the time of the adoption and taking effect of
this code, the same shall continue in existence thereafter unless expressly
terminated or abolished by subsequent action of the Town Council or other
authority competently empowered.
(1984 Code, § 1-4-4)
§ 30.19 TAX ABATEMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   All requests or petitions for real and/or personal property tax
abatements in the town shall first be reviewed by the Parke County
Redevelopment Commission.
   (B)   The Redevelopment Commission shall review all abatement requests and
make a recommendation to the Town Council as to whether said abatement request
should be granted. The Council, however, shall not be bound by the
Redevelopment Commission's recommendation.
   (C)   The Redevelopment Commission shall establish procedures for
considering and reviewing abatements and shall create general guidelines for
the public concerning abatements.
   (D)   That applicants for abatements will provide the Town Council with an
abatement calculation agreement for real property and/or personal property (as
appropriate) prior to final action by the Town Council on any abatement. Such
agreement shall be in substantially the form attached to Ordinance 2020-05A but
may be modified by the Town Council from time to time.
(Ord. 2020-05A, passed 9-14-2020)
CHAPTER 31: CODE ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURE
Section
   
31.01   General enforcement policy
   
31.02   Responsibility for enforcement; duty of Town Marshal
   
31.03   Enforcement by other officials, boards or commissions
   
31.04   Procedure for issuance of citation; service in person
   
31.05   Issuance and service of citation by mail
   
31.06   Notice to appear; refusal to sign; security for release
   
31.07   Conditional citation or offense with conditional penalties
   
31.08   Warning instead of official citation
   
31.09   Statute of limitations on issuance of citation
   
31.10   Form of citation and summons; traffic offenses; other offenses
   
31.11   Administrative procedure on issuance of citation
   
31.12   Procedure for fixing requested fine
   
31.13   Compromise and settlement of complaint without trial
   
31.14   Filing and prosecution of violation complaint
   
31.15   Appearance for defendant and for the town
   
31.16   Payment of fines, other costs and prosecutor’s fee
   
31.17   Records of conviction or compromise of violation
   
31.18   Further or collateral actions for enforcement or recovery
   
31.19   Allocation and deposit of receipted fines, fees and costs
   
31.20   Further rules and procedures for enforcement
§ 31.01 GENERAL ENFORCEMENT POLICY.
   (A)   Whenever any provision of this code requires or mandates any person to
perform some act or to bring about or maintain some circumstance or state of
affairs; or prohibits, restrains or regulates the behavior of any person or the
commission of any act or the bringing about or maintaining of any circumstance
or state of affairs on the part of any person; and a penalty of fine or some
other procedure to compel compliance with the provision is prescribed in this
code, then such provision shall be considered an enforcement provision.
   (B)   Unless some different procedure is expressly set forth and prescribed
by the particular chapter or section of this code containing the enforcement
provision, the enforcement of any such provision shall be administered in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(1984 Code, § 1-3-1)
§ 31.02 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ENFORCEMENT; DUTY OF TOWN MARSHAL.
   Unless some other official, board, commission or similar entity is expressly
designated as the primary enforcement officer or authority responsible for the
administration and enforcement of a particular enforcement provision, it is the
duty of the Town Marshal, acting himself or herself or through his or her
lawful deputies, to take all steps necessary for the effective enforcement and
bringing about of compliance with all enforcement provisions. Whenever the Town
Marshal, based upon, his or her own vigilance or upon the information or
complaint of any other official or any citizen, has probable cause to believe
that a violation or failure to comply, with any enforcement provision has
occurred or is occurring, he or she shall with due diligence investigate the
matter, ascertain the facts, and collect such testimony, information or other
evidence as in his or her judgment may be necessary to support the facts. If,
incident upon such investigation, the Town Marshal determines with a degree of
certainty sustained by a preponderance of the evidence that some known person
has violated or failed to comply with, or is violating or failing to comply
with, any enforcement provision, he or she shall issue and serve upon the
alleged offender, in person or by mail if so provided, a citation for the
violation comprising a complaint and summons to appear and answer to the charge
of the violation as hereafter prescribed in this chapter; or else he or she
shall initiate or cause to be initiated such other enforcement procedures as
may alternatively be prescribed in the event of a violation of the particular
enforcement provision.
(1984 Code, § 1-3-2)
§ 31.03 ENFORCEMENT BY OTHER OFFICIALS, BOARDS OR COMMISSIONS.
   Whenever in this code any official, board, commission or similar entity is
given responsibility instead of or concurrent with that of the Town Marshal for
the administration and enforcement of any enforcement provision, he or she or
they shall perform the same duties and functions with respect to the
enforcement of the provision as are prescribed for the Town Marshal under §
31.02, and the term ENFORCEMENT OFFICER shall mean and include such other
officials, boards, commissions or similar entities or their properly authorized
agents.
(1984 Code, § 1-3-3)
§ 31.04 PROCEDURE FOR ISSUANCE OF CITATION; SERVICE IN PERSON.
   (A)   Whenever an enforcement officer issues a citation for violation of any
enforcement provision, the enforcement officer may, pursuant to I.C. 34-4-32-2,
detain the person for a sufficient time to:
      (1)   Inform the person of the allegation;
      (2)   Obtain the person’s name, address and date of birth, or driver’s
license if in his or her possession, for purposes of identification; and
      (3)   Allow the person to execute a notice to appear in court to answer
the charges of the violation, except as provided in §
31.07.
   (B)   If the person being charged refuses to provide the information or
driver’s license as required by division (A)(2) above, the enforcement officer
shall inform the person that such refusal constitutes a violation of state law
and commits a Class C misdemeanor pursuant to I.C. 34-4-32-3, and may subject
the person to arrest and further penalties as may be provided for such offense.
      (1)   If the person continues to refuse to provide the information or
driver’s license, the enforcement officer, if a duly constituted police
officer, may immediately arrest the person on a charge of having committed a
Class C misdemeanor; if the enforcement officer is not a duly constituted
police officer authorized to exercise power of arrest, he or she shall continue
to detain the person for such period of time as is reasonably necessary to
summon such duly constituted police officer, who shall arrest the person on a
charge of having committed a Class C misdemeanor.
      (2)   If the person being charged with a violation is a corporation,
partnership, company or other organization other than a natural person, the
enforcement officer shall serve the citation upon the resident agent for a
service of process, a director, principal or principal officer of the
corporation, company or other organization having the power and authority under
the organizing documents, charter or rules of the corporation, company or other
organization to accept process and execute a notice to appear on behalf of the
organization. If the offense charged is one arising out of the condition or use
of any real or personal property for which the person owning or holding such
property is made liable, and such property is owned or held by more than one
person in joint tenancy or partnership, it shall be sufficient to issue and
serve the citation on any one of the joint tenants or partners.
      (3)   If the person being charged with a violation is a minor child and
in the opinion of the enforcement officer, the child is of such young age or
immature character so as not to fully understand the significance of the
citation and notice to appear and his or her responsibilities and obligations
thereunder, the enforcement officer, shall ascertain the name and address of a
parent or legal guardian of the child and shall serve the citation upon and
cause such parent or legal guardian to execute the notice to appear on behalf
of the child.
(1984 Code, § 1-3-4)
§ 31.05 ISSUANCE AND SERVICE OF CITATION BY MAIL.
   Whenever it is found by an enforcement officer that any identifiable person
has violated or is violating any enforcement provision, or is liable and
accountable for such violation, but said person cannot be conveniently
confronted and served in person with a citation as provided in §
31.04, then it is permissible for the enforcement officer to issue the citation
for violation and cause it to be served by registered or certified mail with
return receipt of delivery to the last known address of the alleged offender.
When a citation is served in this manner, the person upon whom it is served is
not required to execute a notice to appear nor to deposit any security as
guarantee for appearance as would or might otherwise be required pursuant to §
31.06, but in addition to any other information and notices to be included with
the citation as hereafter provided, a citation served by mail shall include a
statement that failure to appear in court at the time and place indicated to
answer the charge or to compromise and settle the complaint within the allotted
time may subject the offender to further proceeding and additional costs.
(1984 Code, § 1-3-5)
§ 31.06 NOTICE TO APPEAR; REFUSAL TO SIGN; SECURITY FOR RELEASE.
   (A)   Any person who is a resident of the state and is detained by an
enforcement officer for the purpose of issuing and serving a citation for
violation of an enforcement provision, and who provides the enforcement officer
with a satisfactory identification in accordance with §
31.04(A)(2) and executes a signed notice to appear in court in accordance with
§
31.04(A)(3), shall thereupon be released from such detention without other bond
or security for appearance; however, if the person is not a resident of the
state and/or refuses to sign a notice to appear in court, the following
additional procedures and requirements apply before the enforcement officer
releases the person from detention, as the appropriate case may be.
   (B)   If the person is a resident of the state and the offense charged is
violation of an enforcement provision constituting a moving traffic offense or
a nonmoving traffic offense required by law, or regulation to be reported to
the State Commissioner of Motor Vehicles, and the person refuses to sign the
notice to appear, the enforcement officer before releasing the person shall
inform him or her that notwithstanding his or her refusal to sign the notice,
he or she is obliged by law to appear at the time and place indicated in the
citation or to previously compromise and settle the complaint in the manner
hereafter provided, and that failure to do so will result in his or her arrest
on warrant of the court and/or suspension of his or her driver’s license in
accordance with I.C. 9-4-7-6(a) and I.C. 9-4-7-6(c), respectively.
   (C)   If the person is a nonresident of the state and the offense charged is
violation of an enforcement provision constituting a moving traffic offense or
a nonmoving traffic offense required by law or regulation to be reported to the
State Commissioner of Motor Vehicles, the enforcement officer shall, before
releasing the person:
      (1)   Require the person to deposit a security for appearance of the type
described by I.C. 9-4-1-131(b)(1), (b)(2) or (b)(3), and in the manner
prescribed by I.C. 9-4-1-131(d), (e) or (f) respectively, and also to execute a
security deposit agreement as described by I.C. 9-4-1-131(c), unless the person
is exempt from such requirement under I.C. 9-5-1.1; and
      (2)   If the person refuses to sign a notice to appear, the enforcement
officer shall also inform the person that notwithstanding his or her refusal to
sign the notice, he or she is obliged by law to appear at the time and place
indicated in the citation or to previously compromise and settle the complaint
in the manner hereafter provided, and that failure to do so will result not
only in the forfeiture of the security provided but will also cause the court
to notify the Commissioner of Motor Vehicles of his or her failure to appear
which will result in the suspension of driving privileges in the state, and
that a copy of the order of suspension will also be sent to the equivalent
authority of the person’s home state in accordance with I.C. 9-4-7-6(b) and
(c); or else
      (3)   The enforcement officer shall accompany the offender to the nearest
U.S. Postal Service receptacle and see that the offender mails to the Clerk of
the County Circuit Court:
         (a)   A copy of the citation with a signed admission of guilt; and
         (b)   A check or money order in the amount of fine requested, as
determined pursuant to §
31.12, plus court costs; thus compromising and settling the complaint in
accordance with §
31.13(B).
   (D)   (1)   If the person is a nonresident of the state, or is a resident of
the state, but refuses to sign a notice to appear in court, and the offense
charged is of a kind other than a moving traffic offense required to be
reported to the State Commissioner of Motor Vehicles, the enforcement officer
shall before releasing the person accompany the person to the office of the
Town Clerk-Treasurer, where the person shall be released upon either:
         (a)   Depositing with the Clerk-Treasurer a security as guarantee for
appearance, said security being a deposit of cash, traveler’s checks or other
valuable securities or property acceptable to the Clerk-Treasurer, and at least
equal in value to the amount of fine requested in the complaint exclusive of
costs which could be imposed by the court were the person to appear and be
convicted, for which security the Clerk-Treasurer shall provide the person with
a proper receipt and shall make an understanding and agreement with the person
that should he or she fail to appear to answer the charge or fail to compromise
and settle the complaint before such appearance as hereafter provided, the
security thus deposited will be forfeit in favor of the town and in settlement
of the complaint, but will be fully refunded or restored to the person if he or
she does appear at the place and time prescribed or does previously compromise
and settle the complaint; or
         (b)   Compromising and settling the complaint at the time in the
manner provided by §
31.13(A).
      (2)   However, if the office of the Clerk-Treasurer is not open for
business at the time the citation is served, the enforcement officer, in lieu
of the above procedure, shall accompany the person to the nearest United State
Postal Service receptacle and shall supply the person with a stamped envelope
addressed to the office of the Clerk-Treasurer, and shall ascertain that, the
person deposits therein and mails either a security for appearance and a signed
security deposit agreement of the type described in division (C)(1)(a) above,
or else his or her copy of the citation and an amount of payment necessary to
compromise and settle the complaint in accordance with §
31.13(A), and the enforcement officer shall thereupon release the person from
any further detention.
(1984 Code, § 1-3-6)
§ 31.07 CONDITIONAL CITATION OR OFFENSE WITH CONDITIONAL PENALTIES.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, whenever any
enforcement provision of this code stipulates that:
      (1)   A person cited for violation of the enforcement provision is
allowed some definite period of time to correct the violation and comply with
the enforcement provision before being subject to any penalty; or
      (2)   The person cited for the violation is entitled to an administrative
appeal or investigatory hearing before any administrative officer, board or
similar entity to determine whether the citation is valid and justified.
   (B)   Then the citation or a written notice attached thereto shall, as the
case may be, state the period of time permitted for compliance or the procedure
to be followed to exercise the right to the administrative appeal or
investigatory hearing, and the person shall not be required to execute a notice
to appear in court, nor shall the complaint be filed with the Clerk of the
Court, nor shall the time period permitted for compromise and settlement of the
complaint under §
31.13(A) commence until, as appropriate:
      (1)   The time period allowed for compliance has elapsed, and it is found
that the person has not complied;
      (2)   The person has waived the right to administrative appeal or
investigatory hearing, or has failed to invoke and exercise that right within
any applicable time period; or
      (3)   The administrative appeal proceeding or investigatory hearing has
been conducted and has affirmed the citation.
(1984 Code, § 1-3-7)
§ 31.08 WARNING INSTEAD OF OFFICIAL CITATION.
   (A)   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
31.02, if any enforcement officer has cause to believe that a person has
violated or is violating an enforcement provision of this code, but also has
cause to believe that the person is of law-abiding character and has not
knowingly, wantonly or repeatedly violated the provision, and the violation is
a minor violation not posing imminent jeopardy to life, limb, property or the
public welfare, the enforcement officer at his or her discretion may issue a
warning instead, of an official citation. The warning shall inform the person
that he or she is in violation of an enforcement provision and the enforcement
officer shall order the person to forthwith cease or correct the violation. At
the discretion of the enforcement officer, the warning may be either an
informal verbal warning or a formal written warning.
   (B)   A formal written warning shall be issued on the same form ordinarily
used for an official citation of the offense committed, but all copies thereof
shall be clearly marked “Warning Only”. Issuance of a warning shall not require
the offender to pay any fine or compromise and settlement, nor to appear in
court; however, if a formal written warning is issued, a copy shall be kept on
file for at least one year in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer and the office
of the enforcement officer. The issuance of a warning shall in no way bar the
subsequent issuance of an official citation for the same offense if it should
later be determined that the offender in fact did knowingly or wantonly violate
the enforcement provision, is a repeat offender, or has failed to comply with
the warning order.
(1984 Code, § 1-3-8)
§ 31.09 STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS ON ISSUANCE OF CITATION.
   Pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 34-4-32-1(c)(2), no citation for the
violation of any enforcement provision of this code shall be issued and served
if more than one year has elapsed since the alleged violation has occurred.
(1984 Code, § 1-3-9)
§ 31.10 FORM OF CITATION AND SUMMONS; TRAFFIC OFFENSES; OTHER OFFENSES.
   The form, of citation and summons used for an ordinance violation shall be
in accordance with this section, as appropriate to the nature of the violation.
   (A)   Traffic offenses: in all cases where a citation is issued and served
for the violation of an ordinance constituting a moving traffic offense or a
nonmoving traffic offense required by law or regulation to be reported to the
State Commissioner of Motor Vehicles, the form of complaint and summons
prescribed by I.C. 9-4-7-4(b) shall be used for the purpose of issuing the
citation; provided, however, that the enforcement officer shall clearly
indicate in the space provided on such form that the violation charged is a
violation of a town ordinance and not of state law, and provided further that
in that section of said form dealing with “Court Action and Other Orders” and
in that subsection thereof concerning the finding of the court, the enforcement
officer shall delete the word “state” and substitute the word “town” so that
the form shall read “Judgment for the Town” rather than “Judgment for the
State”, in the event that the form has not been already so modified and
preprinted.
   (B)   In all other cases where a citation is issued and served for violation
of an enforcement provision of this code, and in accordance with I.C. 34-4-32-1
(e), the form of complaint and summons prescribed by I.C. 9-4-7-4(b) may be
used for the purpose of issuing the citation, subject to the same stipulations
and modifications as when the form is used for a traffic offense as described
above; however, if the traffic citation form is not deemed suitable and
convenient for use with respect to any other enforcement provision, the chief
officer of the department or other agency responsible for enforcement may
prescribe an alternative form of complaint and summons to be used for issuing
the citation; provided that any such alternative’ form of complaint and summons
shall consist of at least four copies as required for the administration of §
31.11, and that such form shall be examined and approved by the Town Attorney
who shall ascertain that it is of proper legal form and satisfies all
necessities for judicial processing in accordance with the rules and
regulations of the court for the filing of ordinance violation complaints, and
that it meets all administrative requirements as stipulated in this chapter or
in the particular enforcement provision to which it pertains.
(1984 Code, § 1-3-10)
§ 31.11 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE ON ISSUANCE OF CITATION.
   (A)   Whenever a citation is issued for violation of any enforcement
provision of this code, the enforcement officer issuing the citation shall
provide one copy thereof to the offender, including or accompanied by such
notices as prescribed in §§
31.07 and
31.13, as appropriate shall retain one copy for the records of his or her own
department or agency; and as soon after issuance as possible shall deliver all
other copies to the Clerk-Treasurer for the purpose of administering the
further provisions of this section. The Clerk-Treasurer shall examine each such
citation so received and shall determine from the records available whether or
not the person charged with the violation has previously been convicted of or
has admitted guilt to a violation of the same provision or of a substantially
similar provision of any ordinance in effect prior to the implementation of
this code, and shall note this information on the citation for the information
of the court, and shall accordingly fix or adjust., as may be necessary, the
amount of fine to be requested in the complaint pursuant to I.C. 34-4-32-4(d)
(1), and in accordance with §
31.12, if such amount has not been previously determined accurately and entered
in the citation by the enforcement officer issuing the same. The amount of fine
so determined shall be entered on the complaint form by the enforcement officer
or by the Clerk-Treasurer in the space provided, if any, or else shall be
clearly noted and firmly attached to the copies of the complaint to he filed
with the court and kept by the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   Thereupon:
      (1)   If the violation cited in the complaint is a violation of any
enforcement provision other than a moving traffic offense or a nonmoving
traffic offense required by a law or regulation to be reported to the State
Commissioner of Motor Vehicles, the Clerk-Treasurer shall retain the citation
for the period of time allowed for the offender to compromise and settle the
complaint as provided by §
31.13(A), and if the complaint is not compromised and settled within such
period of time, the Clerk-Treasurer shall as soon as possible thereafter tender
the complaint for prosecution in accordance with §
31.14; or
      (2)   If the violation cited in the complaint is a violation of an
enforcement provision constituting a moving or nonmoving traffic offense
required by law or regulation to be reported to the State Commissioner of Motor
Vehicles, the Clerk-Treasurer shall forthwith tender the complaint for filing
with the court in accordance with §
31.14.
(1984 Code, § 1-3-11)
§ 31.12 PROCEDURE FOR FIXING REQUESTED FINE.
   (A)   When an enforcement officer issues and serves a citation, other than a
warning citation, for the violation of any enforcement provision, he or she
shall, if practicable, determine from the records available the status of the
person under this section, and shall determine and fix a fine to be requested
in accordance with the provisions of this section, and shall enter the amount
of such fine on the copy of the citation given to the offender or on a written
attachment thereto and also on all other copies of the citation; however, if it
is not practicable for the enforcement officer to check the available records
at the time, or if doing so would require detaining the person cited for an
unreasonable period of time, the enforcement officer may inquire of the person
being cited if he or she has previously been convicted or has admitted guilt,
to the same offense being charged (exclusive of similar offenses committed in
other jurisdictions), and the enforcement officer may rely on the response of
the person for the purpose of this section until such time as the available
records can be consulted by the enforcement officer or by the Clerk-Treasurer
pursuant to §
31.11; however, should it subsequently prove that the person has given the
enforcement officer inaccurate information as to his or her previous
convictions or admissions of guilt, the enforcement officer or the Clerk-
Treasurer shall adjust the fine requested to accord with the provisions of this
section, and the Clerk-Treasurer shall mail to the offender written notice of
such adjustment.
   (B)   The amount of fine to be requested in the complaint shall be
determined in the following manner:
      (1)   If any provision of this code, including but not limited to §
32.03, establishes a fixed penalty for violation of the provision or of a
related provision, then the amount of fine requested in the complaint shall be
the fixed amount so specified; however, if no fixed amount is specified but a
minimum and maximum penalty are provided, then;
      (2)   If the violation is a first offense against the provision, the fine
requested in the complaint, shall be the minimum penalty so established or $1,
whichever is greater;
      (3)   If the violation is a second offense in violation of the same
provision, then the fine requested in the complaint shall be the minimum
penalty so established plus 50% of the difference between the maximum penalty
provided for violation of the provision and the minimum penalty; and
      (4)   If the violation is a third or subsequent offense in violation of
the same provision, then the fine requested in the complaint shall be the
maximum penalty provided for violation of the provision.
   (C)   However, should any person commit two or more separate offenses
against any one enforcement provision by virtue of any singular and
substantially simultaneous act or circumstance, and such singular and
simultaneous act or circumstance is the person’s first or second instance of
committing any offense against the particular provision, then each such
separate offense shall be severally treated as a first offense or as a second
offense, as the case may be, for purposes of fixing a requested fine for each
offense in accordance with this section, irrespective of the other offenses
concurrently committed.
(1984 Code, § 1-3-12)
§ 31.13 COMPROMISE AND SETTLEMENT OF COMPLAINT WITHOUT TRIAL.
   Any person who has been cited for violation of any provision of this code
that is subject to the jurisdiction of the Ordinance Violation Bureau shall
have the right to compromise and settle the complaint without trial or
appearance in court in accordance with the rules and procedures of the
Ordinance Violation Bureau.
(1984 Code, § 1-3-13)
§ 31.14 FILING AND PROSECUTION OF VIOLATION COMPLAINT.
   When a citation has been issued for violation of an enforcement provision of
this code and the violation is a traffic offense as described in §
31.11(B), or is some other kind of offense and the time period allowed for
compromise and settlement of the complaint as provided by §
31.13(A) and §
31.07 has elapsed, the Clerk-Treasurer shall deliver a copy of the complaint
and summons to the Town Attorney, who shall file such complaint in the name of
the town with the Clerk of the County Circuit Court or other court of competent
jurisdiction, and prosecute the complaint in accordance with I.C. 34-4-32-1(b)
and applicable rules of the court; however, the Town Attorney may prescribe a
different procedure for filing the complaint with respect to any class of
violation if he or she deems such an alternative procedure more suitable and
expedient. For the services and functions of the Town Attorney as provided in
this section, the court, upon conviction of the offender, shall assess as part
of the judgment in favor of the town, and in addition to any fine imposed, a
municipal prosecutor’s fee in the amount prescribed by I.C. 33-10.5-8-8(3). The
prosecutor’s fee shall be assessed whether or not the Town Attorney actually
makes a personal appearance at the trial of the cause of the complaint.
(1984 Code, § 1-3-14)
§ 31.15 APPEARANCE FOR DEFENDANT AND FOR THE TOWN.
   (A)   Unless the court pursuant to I.C. 9-4-11-31(g) or other applicable law
orders otherwise, the defendant in the trial for violation of an enforcement
provision may appear in person or by attorney, and an appearance by attorney
satisfies any notice to appear signed by the defendant.
   (B)   Appearance on behalf of the town may be made by the Town Attorney
personally or, with his or her consent and approval, any of the following
persons shall be competent to appear for and represent the town:
      (1)   Another attorney retained by the Town Attorney for that purpose, or
who is retained as counsel by any board, commission or similar authority
responsible for the enforcement of the enforcement provision;
      (2)   The enforcement officer originally issuing the citation for the
violation;
      (3)   The chief executive or other chief officer of the department or
other agency responsible for the enforcement; and/or
      (4)   A member of the Town Council.
   (C)   However, if any person described in divisions (B)(2), (B)(3) or (B)(4)
above is designated to appear for the town, the Town Attorney, as necessary,
shall advise the person on the procedures of the court and the evidence it will
be necessary to present in order to sustain the charge of the violation.
(1984 Code, § 1-3-15)
§ 31.16 PAYMENT OF FINES, OTHER COSTS AND PROSECUTOR’S FEE.
   Whenever a court enters judgment in favor of the town in the trial of an
ordinance violation complaint, the court shall fine the violator in an amount
not exceeding the penalty requested in the complaint; however, the Judge of the
court shall have discretion to impose a lesser fine than that requested if, in
the judgment of the court, there exist extenuating or mitigating circumstances
warranting a lesser penalty; but if the judgment is entered by the Clerk of the
court upon waiver of trial and admission of guilt by the defendant, the Clerk
does not have discretion to impose a lesser penalty, unless so ordered by the
Judge. The court shall also tax and assess as part of the judgment in favor of
the town the municipal prosecutor’s fee as prescribed by §
31.14 and by law, and any other costs incurred and stipulated by the town in
connection with the filing and prosecution of the complaint and which are
recoverable pursuant to I.C. 33-10.5-8-9. In accordance with the provisions of
I.C. 33-10.5-8-11, the Clerk of the court shall each month pay to the Clerk-
Treasurer all fines, costs and that portion of the municipal prosecutor’s fees
owing to the town and collected by the court, and the Clerk-Treasurer shall
allocate and deposit such monies in accordance with §
31.19.
(1984 Code, § 1-3-16)
§ 31.17 RECORDS OF CONVICTION OR COMPROMISE OF VIOLATION.
   Whenever a person is charged with the violation of an enforcement provision
and either compromises and settles the complaint pursuant to §
31.13, or is found guilty by a court in accordance with §
31.16, the Clerk-Treasurer shall make and keep a record of such compromise or
conviction, organized for reference by name of the offender and according to
any other means of identification which the Clerk-Treasurer deems dispensable
for the purpose fo administering §
31.12. The record constitutes presumptive evidence of guilt of any violation
whether or not the offender has made any admission to a violation for purposes
of fixing a fine pursuant to §
31.12, and no such offender shall be permitted to plead for a lesser fine than
any subsequently requested on the advent of a repeat violation on the grounds
that he or she was not in fact guilty of any prior offense which be has
compromised or of which he or she has had judgment entered against him or her
by a court.
(1984 Code, § 1-3-17)
§ 31.18 FURTHER OR COLLATERAL ACTIONS FOR ENFORCEMENT OR RECOVERY.
   (A)   The compromise and settlement of a complaint for the violation of any
enforcement provision of this code pursuant to §
31.13, or an action upon such complaint initiated and prosecuted pursuant to §
31.14, and any fines, fees or costs imposed and collected in connection
therewith are in consequence of the penal violation of the respective
enforcement provision per se, and the compromise and settlement of any such
complaint or judgment of a court in favor of the town does not prevent the town
from initiating and pursuing any or all of the following further or collateral
civil actions:
      (1)   An action to recover costs incurred by the town to bring any
property or the use thereof into compliance with an enforcement provision
pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-2;
      (2)   An action seeking a civil injunction against a violator to ensure
current or future enforcement of and compliance with any enforcement provision
pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-4;
      (3)   An action to recover damages to town property or any other
pecuniary loss to the town arising out of the violation of any enforcement
provision; and/or
      (4)   An action to recover stipulated costs incurred by the town in any
action described in divisions (A)(1), (A)(2) or (A)(3) above, including, but
not limited to, attorney’s fees and any filing fees paid by the town in any
such action pursuant to I.C. 33-10.5-8-7.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Town Attorney if so instructed by the Town
Council to initiate and prosecute any such further actions as the case may
warrant.
(1984 Code, § 1-3-18)
§ 31.19 ALLOCATION AND DEPOSIT OF RECEIPTED FINES, FEES AND COSTS.
   When the Clerk-Treasurer for violation of an enforcement, provision receives
payment of any fines, fees or costs pursuant to §§
31.13,
31.16,
31.18(A) or (B); or possesses, on behalf of the town any forfeited security
deposit as undischarged bond for appearance pursuant to §
31.06(B)(1) or (C)(1); or receives payment of recovered damages or loss
pursuant to §
31.18(A)(3) and to the extent that any such payment does not escheat to an
insurance company which has previously made compensatory payment to the town;
the monies or property so received shall be administered and allocated by the
Clerk-Treasurer in accordance with the following provisions of this section.
   (A)   In the case of monies paid as fines for penal violations of any
enforcement provisions, such monies shall be deposited in the General Fund
unless the particular enforcement provision stipulates that any fines be
deposited in some other designated fund.
   (B)   In the case of any forfeited security deposit, the Clerk-Treasurer
shall record the complaint as having been compromised and settled upon taking
possession thereof, and shall make disposition of the possessed security as
provided in this division (B), if the deposit has been made and forfeited
pursuant to §
31.06(C)(1), and:
      (1)   The security is a deposit of cash or a directly depositable cash
instrument such as a traveler’s check or certified check, then the Clerk-
Treasurer shall allocate and deposit the possessed security as though it were
an ordinary payment of the fine owing, in the same manner as provided in
division (A) above, and notwithstanding the fact that the cash value of the
security deposit may exceed the amount of fine originally requested in the
complaint; or if
      (2)   The security deposit is a negotiable instrument such as a bond,
note or debenture, having a convertible cash value but which is not directly
depositable, the Clerk-Treasurer shall proceed to convert the instrument, or
may sell the instrument on the securities market for such price as it will
bring, and the net proceeds from such conversion or sale after deduction of any
applicable sale commissions or transaction fees shall be allocated and
deposited as though they were an ordinary payment of the fine owing, in the
same manner as provided in division (A) above, and notwithstanding the fact
that, such net proceeds may exceed the amount of fine originally requested in
the complaint; provided further, however, that if such security is an
investment instrument of the kind which it is lawful for the town to own and
hold as an investment of public funds pursuant to I.C. 5-13-1 or any other law
authorizing the investment of public funds, and the Clerk-Treasurer shall
determine that it would be of greater financial advantage and benefit to the
town, the Clerk-Treasurer may keep the security as an investment asset of the
town instead of converting or selling the security, and the principal amount
thereof shall be allocated and credited to the appropriate fund or funds to
which a cash receipt would be allocated and deposited pursuant to division (A)
above, and the interest or other earnings therefrom shall be allocated and
deposited in such fund or funds as would ordinarily be the case for other town
investments; or if
      (3)   The security deposit is any other valuable personal or real
property, the Clerk-Treasurer shall provide for the same to be offered for sale
as surplus property of the town in accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-1-
11, and the net proceeds of such sale after deduction of the costs of
conducting the sale shall be allocated and deposited as though they were an
ordinary payment of the fine owing in the same manner as provided in division
(A) above, and notwithstanding the fact that such net proceeds of the sale may
exceed the amount of fine originally requested in the complaint.
   (C)   In the case of payment of an amount attributable to the town’s portion
of the municipal prosecutor’s fees owing and paid by the Clerk of the Court
pursuant to I.C. 33-10.5-11(1), the Clerk-Treasurer shall deposit such amount
in the General Fund.
   (D)   In the case of a payment of stipulated costs recovered pursuant to §§
31.16,
31.18(A)(1) or (A)(4), such payments shall be allocated and deposited into the
fund or funds from which the stipulated costs themselves were originally paid
or obligated.
   (E)   In the case of a payment for recovery of damage or loss occasioned by
the violation of an enforcement provision pursuant to §
31.18(A)(3), any such payment shall be proportionally allocated to the fund or
funds from which:
      (1)   Payment will or has been made to repair or replace the damaged
property, or to the General Fund if the property will not be repaired or
replaced; or
      (2)   Any other pecuniary loss has occurred, has or will be debited, or
from which such loss has or will be made up, if such specific fund or funds are
identifiable; and if not, to the General Fund.
(1984 Code, § 1-3-19)
§ 31.20 FURTHER RULES AND PROCEDURES FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   The Clerk-Treasurer, the Town Attorney, the Town Marshal and the chief
officer of any other department, board, commission or similar agency which has
been given responsibility for the administration and enforcement of any
enforcement provision of this code, may stipulate or prescribe any other rules
or procedures, not inconsistent with law, applicable state regulations, court
procedures or the expressed provisions of this chapter, as they may deem
necessary or desirable to promote the orderly, efficient and expeditious
carrying out of their respective enforcement duties; and the rules and
procedures so stipulated and prescribed by such officers shall have the same
effect and force as if they had been expressly adopted and made a part of the
provisions of this chapter.
(1984 Code, § 1-3-20)
CHAPTER 32: ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
Section
   
32.01   Creation
   
32.02   Violations Clerk
   
32.03   General provisions
§ 32.01 CREATION.
   There shall be created an Ordinance Violations Bureau pursuant to I.C. 33-
36-2-1 et seq., as amended, for the town.
(Ord. 2009-742, passed - -2009)
§ 32.02 VIOLATIONS CLERK.
   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is appointed and shall serve as the Violations
Clerk and shall administer the Bureau.
(Ord. 2009-742, passed - -2009)
§ 32.03 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer and his or her staff, as his or her agents, shall
accept written appearances, waivers of trial, admissions of violations and
payments of civil penalties of not more than $250 in ordinance violations
cases.
   (B)   (1)   The following schedule of the town code (hereinafter “code”)
provisions and ordinances (hereinafter “Ord.”) shall be subject to the
jurisdiction of the Ordinance Violations Bureau and thereby subject to
admission of violations before the Violations Clerk:
Town Code Citation Type of Violation Civil Penalty
Town Code    Type of   Civil Penalty
Citation     Violation
                       $15 first offense; increases to $25 if not paid within 5 days; increases to
             Downtown  $50 if not paid within 10 days of the date of a letter from the Clerk
Ch. 75, Sch. vehicle   Summons to Court, and increases to not less than $50 fine and court costs if
IX           parking   not paid within 30 days of the violation. Any vehicle found in violation for
                       two or more successive days shall be impounded and towed at violator’s
                       expense
Class of     Minimum   Maximum Penalty
Violation    Penalty
Class 2: Other Parking/nonmoving Regulations
A) Overtime
Parking      $5        $10
(Sign or
Meter)
B) Loading
Zone         $5        $10
Violation
C) Special
Vehicle
Parking
Restrictions $15       $25
(Trucks,
Buses, Rvs,
Trailers and
the Like)
Class 3: Miscellaneous Town Regulations
A) Quiet
Zone         $5        $10
Violation
B)
Unauthorized
Operation in $10       $20
Restricted
Area
 
      (2)   When the schedule of ordinance violations and penalties as set
forth in division (B)(1) above refers to first and second offenses of a
particular violation, it shall mean the first and second offense in the same
calendar year.
   (C)   (1)   The penalties described in division (B) above only apply when
and alleged violator elects to admit an ordinance violation and pays the
prescribed fine to the Ordinance Violations Clerk.
      (2)   If the alleged violator elects not to admit an ordinance violation,
the town shall have the right to bring suit against the alleged violator
seeking fines greater than those permitted under division (B) above, which are
otherwise authorized by the town code and/or state law.
   (D)   Civil penalties shall be paid to, receipted and accounted for by the
Clerk-Treasurer under procedures provided by the State Board of Accounts.
   (E)   Payment of civil penalties may be made in person or by mail to the
Clerk-Treasurer.
   (F)   Upon a person waiving the right to trial and entering an admission of
a violation with the Clerk-Treasurer, the Clerk shall assess and receive from
the violator the amount prescribed by the schedule set forth in division (B)
above.
   (G)   This chapter hereby repeals all other town code and ordinance
provisions inconsistent herewith. All other provisions of the town code not
affected by this chapter shall remain in full force and effect.
(Ord. 2009-742, passed - -2009)
CHAPTER 33: FUNDS AND FINANCE
Section
General Funds and Finance Provisions
   
33.01   Cash Reserve Fund created; transfers; use
   
33.02   Dishonored checks
   
33.03   Economic development income tax funds
   
33.04   Cumulative Capital Development Fund
   
33.05   Rainy Day Fund
   
33.06   Investment of town monies
   
33.07   Cumulative Capital Improvement Fund
Purchasing Rules; Purchasing Agency
   
33.20   Purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States
   
33.21   Purchasing rules, generally
   
33.22   Purchasing agency
   
33.23   Pre-approval of payment of certain claims by Clerk-Treasurer
GENERAL FUNDS AND FINANCE PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 CASH RESERVE FUND CREATED; TRANSFERS; USE.
   (A)   Creation. Pursuant to I.C. 8-1.5-3-11, there is hereby created a Cash
Reserve Fund for the town’s electric light and water utility.
(1984 Code, § 6-3-1)
   (B)   Transfers to Cash Reserve Fund; use. There shall be transferred to
said Cash Reserve Fund, out of any surplus cash earnings of the utility in
amounts not to exceed the limits set forth in I.C. 8-1.5-3-11, as determined by
the governing body of the utility, to be available for the use of the General
Fund of the town and for such other purposes as are permitted by statute.
(1984 Code, § 6-3-2)
(Ord. 442, passed 1-18-1960)
§ 33.02 DISHONORED CHECKS.
   (A)   When the town office of the town receives a check that is not honored
when presented for payment, is authorized to collect a protest fee of up to $20
for each dishonored check received.
   (B)   The office of the County Prosecuting Attorney is hereby authorized to
collect a service fee up to $20 for each dishonored check which it processes
for collection.
   (C)   All protest fees collected for the town office of the town and service
fees collected are to be considered General Fund miscellaneous revenue, subject
to the normal appropriation process by the town fiscal body, and shall be
remitted directly to the Clerk-Treasurer of the town.
(Ord. 92-585, passed 6-16-1992)
§ 33.03 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT INCOME TAX FUNDS.
   (A)    In the event Council adopts the proposed ordinance which imposes an
economic development income tax upon the county taxpayer, then Unit does hereby
designate Commissioners as the recipient of its entire share of each and every
certified distribution of E.D.I.T. funds which Unit would be entitled to
receive by reason of the imposition of such tax and distribution of funds
collected.
   (B)   There shall be established the County Economic Development Income Tax
Fund.
   (C)    Unit authorizes the Auditor and Treasurer of the county,
respectively, to confirm such designation by the deposit of the entire share of
the certified distribution due Unit to the County Economic Development Income
Tax Fund to be under the direct control of Commissioners and Unit confirms the
County Treasurer shall transfer such share directly to Commissioners.
   (D)   Commissioners agree to utilize the funds received by reason of this
designation in conjunction with all other E.D.I.T. funds so designated by other
taxing units in the county for the construction, acquisition and financing of a
county jail.
   (E)   Council shall assume by the execution of this designation that Unit
favors the adoption of an ordinance which imposes an economic development
income tax upon the taxpayers of the county.
   (F)   This agreement shall become binding in the event of adoption of the
proposed ordinance by Council, and shall remain in full force and effect so
long as a certified distribution of E.D.I.T. funds are utilized for the
construction, acquisition, financing or debt retirement of the county.
   (G)   The undersigned represent that they have full authorization to execute
this agreement in order to bind Council, Commissioners and Unit to the terms
hereof. This agreement shall be binding upon the parties, their agents,
successors and assigns. This agreement shall be controlled and construed
pursuant to state law, and it shall not be modified except by written
instrument signed by all parties.
(Ord. passed 3-15-1995)
§ 33.04 CUMULATIVE CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby re-established a Town Cumulative Capital Development
Fund.
   (B)   An ad valorem property tax levy will be imposed and the revenues from
the levy will be retained in the Town Cumulative Capital Development Fund.
   (C)   The maximum rate of levy under division (B) above will not exceed a
$0.05 per $100 assessed valuation.
   (D)   The Town Cumulative Capital Development Fund is re-established for the
years 2010 and thereafter.
   (E)   The funds accumulated in the Town Cumulative Capital Development Fund
will be used for capital improvements as described in I.C. 36-9-16-2 or I.C.
36-19-16-3.
   (F)   Notwithstanding division (D) above, funds accumulated in the Town
Cumulative Capital Development Fund may be spent for purposes other than the
purposes stated in division (D) above, if the purpose is to protect the public
health, welfare or safety in an emergency situation which demands immediate
action. Money may be spent under the authority of this section only after the
Town Council President issues a declaration that the public health, welfare or
safety is in immediate danger that requires the expenditure of money in the
fund.
   (G)   This fund takes effect upon approval of the Department of Local
Government and Finance.
(Ord. 2009-740, passed 6-23-2009)
§ 33.05 RAINY DAY FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Rainy Day Fund to receive transfers of
unused and unencumbered funds under I.C. 36-1-8-5.
   (B)   Not more than 10% of any fiscal year’s total budget shall be
transferred into the Rainy Day Fund.
   (C)   The Rainy Day Fund shall be subject to the same appropriation process
as other funds that receive tax money.
   (D)   The Town Council hereby intends to utilize its decision-making power
regarding fiscal affairs and set priorities for allocation and expenditure of
the Rainy Day Fund as deemed necessary to best serve the residents of the town
which could include appropriation for enhancement of technical support,
computers and communications systems, along with addressing safety concerns,
and other issues as deemed appropriate.
(Ord. 2010-756, passed 1-12-2010)
§ 33.06 INVESTMENT OF TOWN MONIES.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer may invest surplus monies of, or on deposit with,
the town and not required for immediate expenditure.
   (B)   Investments may be made in any security or investment instrument
authorized by I.C. 5-13-9, or any other applicable statute, but subject to any
public depository distribution requirements as provided by I.C. 5-13-9, or any
other applicable statute, if applicable to the investment.
   (C)   Investment shall be made in instruments having sufficient liquidity to
permit the town to meet its expenditure requirements in a timely manner, and
shall not be made in any security maturing in more than one year from the date
of the investment unless the Clerk-Treasurer determines on a reasonable basis
that all monies so invested are not likely to be required for a longer period
of time.
   (D)   The Clerk-Treasurer may sell or otherwise liquidate an investment if
the investment monies should prove to be needed to pay the expenses of the
town, in order to make a more advantageous investment, or to forestall
principal devaluation.
   (E)   Unless otherwise provided by law, applicable state or federal
administrative regulations, or town ordinance, investments shall be made from
total monies on deposit rather than by specific fund, and all earnings or
amounts of capital gain realized from the investment shall accrue to the
General Fund, and only the amount of original principal shall be returned to
the fund of origin.
   (F)   To the extent not inconsistent with the foregoing requirements of this
section, monies from different funds may be combined and put in a single
investment if a financial advantage to the town would result. When any
investment is made in accordance with this section and applicable laws, the
Clerk-Treasurer shall not be held personally liable for any loss of principal
which may incidentally result from the making or necessary sale or liquidation
of the investment.
(1984 Code, § 10-4-1)
§ 33.07 CUMULATIVE CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT FUND.
   (A)   In accordance with the requirements of I.C. 6-7-1-31.1, there is
hereby created a special fund to be known as the Cumulative Capital Improvement
Fund, into which the cigarette taxes allotted to the town by reason of I.C. 6-
7-1-30.1 shall be deposited. Said fund shall be a cumulative fund and all of
the monies deposited into said fund shall be appropriated and used solely for
capital improvements as hereinafter defined, and none of such monies shall
revert to the General Fund or be used for any purposes other than capital
improvements.
   (B)   The term CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT means the construction or improvements of
any property owned by the town; purchase of land, easements or rights-of-way;
purchase of buildings; and retirement of general obligation bonds issued for
any of the foregoing purposes; however, the Town Council may at any time, by
ordinance or resolution, transfer any monies in the Cumulative Capital
Improvement Fund to the General Fund, and appropriate such monies for other
purposes.
(1984 Code, § 10-4-2)
PURCHASING RULES; PURCHASING AGENCY
§ 33.20 PURCHASE OF SUPPLIES MANUFACTURED IN THE UNITED STATES.
   (A)   Rules. The following are the required purchasing rules of the town.
   (B)   Purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States. Supplies
manufactured in the United States shall be specified for all town purchases and
shall be purchased, unless the town determines that:
      (1)   The supplies are not manufactured in the United States in
reasonably available quantities;
      (2)   The prices of the supplies manufactured in the United States
exceeds by an unreasonable amount the price available and comparable supplies
manufactured elsewhere;
      (3)   The quality of the supplies manufactured in the United States is
substantially less than quality of comparably priced available supplies
manufactured elsewhere; or
      (4)   The purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States is not
in the public interest.
   (C)   Effective date. This section is effective upon passage and signing by
the presiding officer.
(Ord. 1998-636, passed 7-7-1998)
§ 33.21 PURCHASING RULES, GENERALLY.
   The following are the purchasing rules for the town.
   (A)   Protection of offers; status of documents as public records.
      (1)   Protection of offers prior to opening. The purchasing agent shall
retain all offers received in a secure location prior to the date and time at
which offers will be opened in order to prevent disclosure of the contents
prior to the opening of the offers.
      (2)   Unobstructed evaluation of offers. After offers have been opened,
the purchasing agent shall be responsible for maintaining the offers in such a
manner as to permit evaluation of the offers by the persons responsible for
evaluating the offers.
      (3)   Public records status for bids. Bids submitted in response to an
invitation for bids must be made available for public inspection and copying
after the time of the bid opening.
   (B)   Evidence of financial responsibility.
      (1)   Purchases less than $25,000. The purchasing agent may choose to not
require evidence of financial responsibility when the estimated cost of a
purchase is less than $25,000.
      (2)   Purchases over $25,000. The solicitation shall include a
requirement that an offeror provide evidence of financial responsibility and
must indicate the kind of evidence that will be acceptable. If a bond or
certified check is required, it may not exceed 10% of the estimated cost of the
purchase.
      (3)   Small business set-asides. The purchasing agent may determine that
no evidence of financial responsibility shall be required for a small business
set-aside purchase.
   (C)   Use of “request for proposals” for purchases of designated types of
supplies.
      (1)   The town determines that:
         (a)   It is either not practicable or not advantageous to purchase
certain types of supplies by sealed competitive bidding; and
         (b)   Receiving proposals is the preferred method for purchasing the
following types of supplies:
      (2)   And any other types of supplies designated in writing by the
purchasing agency. A request for proposals must include:
         (a)   The factors or criteria that will be used to evaluate the
proposals;
         (b)   A statement concerning the relative importance of price and the
other evaluation factors;
         (c)   A statement concerning whether the proposal must be accompanied
by a certified check or other evidence of financial responsibility, which may
be imposed in accordance with rules adopted by the purchasing agency; and
         (d)   A statement concerning whether discussions may be conducted with
responsible offerors who submit proposals determined to be reasonably
susceptible of being selected for award.
      (3)   Notice of a request for proposals must be given in accordance with
I.C. 5-3-1, two times, at least one week apart, with the second publication
occurring at least ten days prior to the date the proposals will be received.
      (4)   Proposals must be opened so as to avoid disclosure of contents to
competing offerors during the process of negotiations.
      (5)   A register of proposals must be prepared and open for public
inspection after a contract award. The register must include:
         (a)   A copy of the request for proposals;
         (b)   A list of all persons to whom copies of the request for
proposals were given;
         (c)   A list of all proposals received, including the following
information:
            1.   The names and addresses of all offerors;
            2.   The dollar amount of each offer; and
            3.   The name of the successful offeror and the dollar amount of
that offeror’s offer.
         (d)   The basis on which the award was made; and
         (e)   The entire contents of the contract file except the proprietary
information included with an offer, such as trade secrets, manufacturing
processes and financial information that was not required to be made available
for public inspection under the terms of the request for proposals.
      (6)   As provided in the request for proposals, or under the rules or
policies of the purchasing agency, discussions may be conducted with, and best
and final offers obtained from, responsible offerors who submit proposals
determined to be reasonably susceptible of being selected for an award.
   (D)   Contract award.
      (1)   A contract shall be awarded to the responsible offeror whose
proposal is determined in writing to be the most advantageous to the
governmental body, taking into consideration price and the other evaluation
factors set forth in the request for proposals.
         (a)   If provided for in the request for proposals, contracts may be
awarded to more than one offeror whose proposals are determined in writing to
be the most advantageous to the governmental body, taking into consideration
price and the other evaluation factors.
         (b)   The only factors or criteria that may be used in the evaluation
of proposals are those specified in the request for proposals.
      (2)   Offerors must be accorded fair and equal treatment with respect to
any opportunity for discussion and revision of proposals.
      (3)   In conducting discussions with an offeror, information derived from
proposals submitted by competing offerors may not be disclosed.
   (E)   Modification and termination of contracts.
      (1)   Price adjustments. The purchasing agency may include provisions to
permit price adjustments in a purchase contract. The following provisions for
price adjustments may be included:
         (a)   Price adjustments must be computed by agreement on a fixed price
adjustment before the beginning of the pertinent performance or as soon after
the beginning of performance as possible;
         (b)   Price adjustments must be computed by unit prices specified in
the contract or subsequently agreed upon;
         (c)   Price adjustments must be computed by costs attributable to the
events or situations under such clauses with adjustment of profit or fee, all
as specified in the contract or subsequently agreed upon;
         (d)   Price adjustments must be computed in such other manner as the
contracting parties may mutually agree upon; or
         (e)   In the absence of agreement by the parties, price adjustments
must be computed by a unilateral determination by the purchasing agency body of
the costs attributable to the events or situations under such clauses with
adjustment of profit or fee, all as computed by the purchasing agency in
accordance with applicable rules adopted by the purchasing agency.
      (2)   Adjustments in time performance. The purchasing agency may include
provisions in a purchase contract concerning adjustments for time of
performance under the contract.
      (3)   Unilateral rights of town. The purchasing agent may include in a
purchase contract provisions dealing with the unilateral rights of the town to
order changes in the work within the scope of the contract or to order
temporary work stoppage or delays in time of performance.
      (4)   Quantity variations. The purchasing agency may include in a
purchase contract provisions dealing with variations between the estimated
quantities of work in a contract and the actual quantity delivered.
   (F)   Purchases from the department of correction.
      (1)   The purchasing agency or a purchasing agent shall purchase supplies
and services produced or manufactured by the Department of Correction as listed
in the department’s printed catalog, unless the supplies and services cannot be
furnished in a timely manner.
      (2)   Supplies and services purchased from the Department of Correction
must meet the specifications and needs of the purchasing governmental body, and
be purchased at a fair market price.
      (3)   If these requirements are not met, the governmental body is not
required to purchase supplies from the Department of Correction.
   (G)   Purchase of rehabilitation center products.
      (1)   The purchasing agency or a purchasing agent shall purchase articles
produced by the state rehabilitation center for the blind and visually impaired
under the same conditions as articles produced by the Department of Correction
under I.C. 5-22-11, unless similar articles are produced by the town.
      (2)   Whenever an article listed in the catalog, provided by the
Department of Correction is needed, the purchasing agency or purchasing agent:
         (a)   Shall give the bureau a reasonable time to produce or supply the
article;
         (b)   Except for an article produced by the Department of Correction,
may not elsewhere:
            1.   Contract for;
            2.   Purchase; or
            3.   Pay a bill for.
         (c)   An article described in the catalog unless the article cannot be
furnished by the bureau.
      (3)   The purchasing agency or purchasing agent may contract elsewhere
for the purchase of an article described in the catalog if the bureau provides
a written statement that the bureau cannot furnish the article.
      (4)   Supplies purchased from the bureau must: meet the specifications
and needs of the purchasing agency or agent; and be purchased at a fair market
price.
      (5)   If these requirements are not met, the purchasing agency or agent
is not required to purchase supplies from the bureau.
   (H)   Purchase of services. The town purchasing agency may purchase services
in whatever manner determined to be reasonable.
   (I)   Small purchases.
      (1)   The town purchasing agency may purchase supplies with a cost of
less than $25,000 on the open market without inviting or receiving quotes.
      (2)   A purchasing agent may purchase supplies with a cost of less than
$5,000 on the open market without inviting or receiving quotes.
      (3)   Purchases between $25,000 and $75,000:
         (a)   The purchasing agency may purchase supplies by inviting quotes
from at least three persons known to deal in the lines or classes of supplies
to be purchased.
         (b)   The purchasing agency or a purchasing agent at the direction of
the purchasing agency shall mail an invitation to quote at least seven days
before the time fixed for receiving quotes.
         (c)   If the purchasing agency receives a satisfactory quote, the
purchasing agency shall award a contract to the lowest responsible and
responsive bidder for each line or class of supplies quoted.
         (d)   The purchasing agency may reject all quotes.
         (e)   If the purchasing agency does not receive a quote from a
responsible and responsive offeror, the purchasing agency may purchase the
supplies using methods for special purchases under I.C. 5-22-10-10.
(Ord. 1998-637, passed 7-7-1998)
§ 33.22 PURCHASING AGENCY.
   (A)   The Town Council is established as the purchasing agency for the city.
   (B)   The Town Council shall have all the powers and duties authorized under
I.C. 5-22, as may be supplemented from time to time by ordinance adopted by the
Town Council and policies adopted by the purchasing agency.
   (C)   The Town Council shall act as the purchasing agency for every agency,
board, office, branch, bureau, commission, council, department or other
establishment of the town.
   (D)   The Town Council may designate in writing, any employee of the town as
a purchasing agency.
(Ord. 98-703, passed 10-18-2005)
§ 33.23 PRE-APPROVAL OF PAYMENT OF CERTAIN CLAIMS BY CLERK-TREASURER.
   (A)   In accordance with I.C. 36-5-4-12, notwithstanding any provision of
this section, expenditures may not take place without an appropriation of funds
for that purpose.
   (B)   Upon complying with the provisions of I.C. 5-11-10-1.6(c)(l)-(4), the
Clerk/Treasurer may make claim payments in advance of Town Council approval for
the following claims:
      (1)   Property or services purchased or leased from:
         (a)   The United States government; or
         (b)   An agency or a political subdivision of the United States
government;
      (2)   License fees or permit fees;
      (3)   Insurance premiums;
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
      (5)   Federal grant programs if:
         (a)   Advance funding is not prohibited; and
         (b)   The contracting party provides sufficient security for the
amount advanced;
      (6)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute;
      (7)   Maintenance agreements or service agreements;
      (8)   Lease agreements or rental agreements;
      (9)   Principal and interest payments on bonds and promissory notes;
      (10)   Payroll;
      (11)   State, federal or county taxes;
      (12)   Expenses that must be paid because of emergency circumstances;
and/or
      (13)   Credit card payments, payments on installment agreements, or
accounts arising in the ordinary course of the town’s business which must be
paid in order to avoid a late fee or penalty.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer may make meal expense advances to a town employee
who is authorized to travel on official town business and who will be out of
town for more than 24 hours. The maximum amount of such advance shall be $50
per day of travel. The advance may only be made if the employee first signs a
written agreement stating that he/she shall submit receipts along with an
expense report for all meals to the Clerk-Treasurer within three business days
of his/her return from the trip. All receipts must show itemization of
purchases, and that the cost of alcohol shall not be reimbursed. The agreement
signed by the employee must further state that the employee allows the town to
withhold from his/her wages the amount of any advances that he/she fails to
substantiate with the required receipts and expense report specified herein
(I.C. 5-1-10-1.6).
   (D)   Each payment under this section must be supported by a fully itemized
claim. A majority of the Council shall review and allow or disallow the claim
at the next regular Town Council meeting.
(Ord. 2012-15, passed - -2012)
CHAPTER 34: IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION PROGRAM
Section
   
34.01   Short title
   
34.02   Purpose
   
34.03   Definitions
   
34.04   Findings
   
34.05   Process of establishing a covered account
   
34.06   Access to covered account information
   
34.07   Credit card payments
   
34.08   Sources and types of red flags
   
34.09   Prevention and mitigation of identity theft
   
34.10   Updating the program
   
34.11   Program administration
   
34.12   Outside service providers
   
34.13   Treatment of address discrepancies
   
34.14   Methods of confirming consumer addresses
Cross-reference:
   Public works provisions, see Title V
§ 34.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This policy shall be known as the Identity Theft Prevention Program
(hereinafter “Program”).
(Ord. 737, passed - -2009)
§ 34.02 PURPOSE.
   This policy is adopted to comply with the Fair and Accurate Credit
Transactions Act and federal regulations promulgated at 16 C.F.R. § 681.2 in
order to detect, prevent and mitigate identity theft by identifying and
detecting identity theft red flags and by responding to such red flags in a
manner that will prevent identity theft.
(Ord. 737, passed - -2009)
§ 34.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COVERED ACCOUNT.
      (1)   An account that a financial institution or creditor offers or
maintains, primarily for personal, family or household purposes, that involves
or is designed to permit multiple payments or transactions, such as a credit
card account, mortgage loan, automobile loan, margin account, cell phone
account, utility account, checking account or savings account; and
      (2)   Any other account that the financial institution or creditor offers
or maintains for which there is a reasonably foreseeable risk to customers or
to the safety and soundness of the financial institution or creditor from
identity theft, including financial, operational, compliance, reputation or
litigation risks.
   CREDIT. The right granted by a creditor to a debtor to defer payment of debt
or to incur debts and defer its payment or to purchase property or services and
defer payment therefore.
   CREDITOR. Any person who regularly extends, renews or continues credit; any
person who regularly arranges for the extension, renewal or continuation of
credit; or any assignee of an original creditor who participates in the
decision to extend, renew or continue credit and includes utility companies and
telecommunications companies.
   CUSTOMER. A person that has a covered account with a creditor.
   IDENTITY THEFT. A fraud committed or attempted using identifying information
of another person without authority.
   NOTICE OF ADDRESS DISCREPANCY. A notice sent to a user by a consumer
reporting agency pursuant to 15 U.S.C. § 1681(c)(h)(1), that informs the user
of a substantial difference between the address for the consumer that the user
provided to request the consumer report and the address(es) in the agency’s
file for the consumer.
   PERSON. A natural person, a corporation, government or governmental
subdivision or agency, trust, estate, partnership, cooperative or association.
   PERSONAL IDENTIFYING INFORMATION. A person’s credit card account
information, debit card information bank account information and drivers’
license information and for a natural person includes their social security
number, mother’s birth name and date of birth.
   RED FLAG. A pattern, practice or specific activity that indicates the
possible existence of identity theft.
   SERVICE PROVIDER. A person that provides a service directly to the city.
(Ord. 737, passed - -2009)
§ 34.04 FINDINGS.
   (A)   The Town Utility Department (known hereafter as the Utility
Department) is a creditor pursuant to 16 C.F.R. § 681.2 due to its provision or
maintenance of covered accounts for which payment is made in arrears.
   (B)   Covered accounts offered to customers for the provision of services
include sewer utility and stormwater utility.
   (C)   The Utility Department’s previous experience with identity theft
related to covered accounts is as follows: no known incidents.
   (D)   The processes of opening a new covered account, restoring an existing
covered account, making payments on such accounts and providing account
information, access in person or via phone or website have been identified as
potential processes in which identity theft could occur.
   (E)   The Utility Department limits access to personal identifying
information to those employees responsible for or otherwise involved in opening
or restoring covered accounts or accepting payment for use of covered accounts.
Information provided to such employees is entered directly into the Utility
Department’s computer system and is not otherwise recorded.
   (F)   The Utility Department determines that there is a low risk of identity
theft occurring in the following ways (if any):
      (1)   Use by an applicant of another person’s personal identifying
information to establish a new covered account;
      (2)   Use of a previous customer’s personal identifying information by
another person in an effort to have service restored in the previous customer’s
name;
      (3)   Use of another person’s credit card, bank account or other method
of payment by a customer to pay such customer’s covered account or accounts;
and
      (4)   Use by a customer desiring to restore such customer’s covered
account of another person’s credit card, bank account or other method of
payment.
(Ord. 737, passed - -2009)
§ 34.05 PROCESS OF ESTABLISHING A COVERED ACCOUNT.
   As a precondition to opening a covered account, each applicant shall provide
name, address, telephone number, owner of property and occupancy date with
personal identifying information of the customer. Such information shall be
entered directly into the Utility Department’s computer system and shall not
otherwise be recorded. Each account shall be assigned an account number and
personal identification number (PIN) which shall be unique to that account. The
Utility Department may utilize computer software to randomly generate assigned
PINs and to encrypt account numbers and PINs.
(Ord. 737, passed - -2009)
§ 34.06 ACCESS TO COVERED ACCOUNT INFORMATION.
   (A)   Access to customer accounts shall be password protected and shall be
limited to authorized personnel.
   (B)   Such password(s) shall be changed on a regular basis by each
individual user, shall be at least eight characters in length, and shall
contain letters, numbers and symbols.
   (C)   Any unauthorized access to or other breach of customer accounts is to
be reported immediately to the Utility Billing Supervisor and the password
changed immediately.
   (D)   Personal identifying information included in customer accounts is
considered confidential, (to the extent allowed by law) and any request or
demand for such information shall be immediately forwarded to the Utility
Billing Supervisor.
(Ord. 737, passed - -2009)
§ 34.07 CREDIT CARD PAYMENTS.
   (A)   In the event that credit card payments that are made over the Internet
are processed through a third party service provider, such third party service
provider shall certify that it has an adequate identity theft prevention
program in place that is applicable to such payments.
   (B)   All credit card payments made over the telephone or the town’s website
shall be entered directly into the customer’s account information in the
computer data base.
   (C)   Account statements and receipts for covered accounts shall include
only the last four digits of the credit or debit card or the bank account used
for payment of the covered account.
(Ord. 737, passed - -2009)
§ 34.08 SOURCES AND TYPES OF RED FLAGS.
   (A)   All employees responsible for or involved in the process of opening a
covered account, restoring a covered account, or accepting payment for a
covered account shall check for red flags as indicators of possible identity
theft.
   (B)   Such red flags shall include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Alerts from consumer reporting agencies, fraud detection agencies
or service providers. Examples of such alerts are:
         (a)   A fraud or active duty alert that is included with a consumer
report;
         (b)   A notice of credit freeze in response to a request for a
consumer report; and
         (c)   A notice of address discrepancy discovered through the Hancock
County Geographic Information System.
      (2)   Suspicious documents. Examples of suspicious documents include:
         (a)   Documents provided for identification that appear to be altered
or forged;
         (b)   Identification on which the photograph or physical description
is inconsistent with the appearance of the applicant or customer;
         (c)   Identification on which the information is inconsistent with
information provided by the applicant or customer;
         (d)   Identification on which the information is inconsistent with
readily accessible information that is on file, such as a signature card or a
recent check; or
         (e)   An application that appears to have been altered or forged, or
appears to have been destroyed and reassembled.
      (3)   Suspicious personal identifying information.
         (a)   Examples include:
            1.   Personal identifying information that is inconsistent with
external information sources used by the financial institution or creditor. For
example: the address does not match any address in the consumer report; or
            2.   Personal identifying information or a phone number or address,
is associated with known fraudulent applications or activities as indicated by
internal or third-party sources used by the financial institution or creditor.
         (b)   Other information provided, such as fictitious mailing address,
mail drop addresses, jail addresses, invalid phone numbers, pager numbers or
answering services, is associated with fraudulent activity;
         (c)   The SSN provided is the same as that submitted by other
applicants or customers;
         (d)   The address or telephone number provided is the same or similar
to the account number or telephone number submitted by an unusually large
number of applicants or customers;
         (e)   The applicant or customer fails to provide all required personal
identifying information on an application or in response to notification that
the application is incomplete;
         (f)   Personal identifying information is not consistent with personal
identifying information that is on file with the financial institution or
creditor; and
         (g)   The applicant or customer cannot provide authenticating
information beyond that which generally would be available from a wallet or
consumer report.
      (4)   Unusual use of or suspicious activity relating to a covered
account. Examples include:
         (a)   Shortly following the notice of a change of address for an
account, there is a request for the addition of authorized users on the
account;
         (b)   A new revolving credit account is used in a manner commonly
associated with known patterns of fraud patterns, such as where the customer
fails to make the first payment or makes an initial payment but no subsequent
payments;
         (c)   An account is used in a manner that is not consistent with
established patterns of activity on the account, such as: nonpayment when there
is no history of late or missed payments;
         (d)   Mail sent to the customer is returned repeatedly as
undeliverable although transactions continue to be conducted in connection with
the customer’s account;
         (e)   The Utility Department is notified that the customer is not
receiving paper account statements;
         (f)   The Utility Department is notified of unauthorized charges or
transactions in connection with a customer’s account; and
         (g)   The Utility Department is notified by a customer, law
enforcement or another person that it has opened a fraudulent account for a
person engaged in identity theft.
      (5)   Notice from customers, law enforcement, victims or other reliable
sources regarding possible identity theft or phishing relating to covered
accounts
(Ord. 737, passed - -2009)
§ 34.09 PREVENTION AND MITIGATION OF IDENTITY THEFT.
   (A)   In the event that any employee responsible for or involved in
restoring an existing covered account or accepting payment for a covered
account becomes aware of red flags indicating possible identity theft with
respect to existing covered accounts, such employee shall use his or her
discretion to determine whether such red flag or combination of red flags
suggests a threat of identity theft.
      (1)   If, in his or her discretion, such employee determines that
identity theft or attempted identity theft is likely or probable, such employee
shall immediately report such red flags to the Town Police Department.
      (2)   If, in his or her discretion, such employee deems that identity
theft is unlikely or that reliable information is available to reconcile red
flags, the employee shall convey this information to the Utility Billing
Supervisor, who may in his or her discretion determine that no further action
is necessary.
      (3)   If the Utility Billing Supervisor in his or her discretion
determines that further action is necessary, one or more of the following
responses as determined to be appropriate by the Utility Billing Supervisor
shall be performed:
         (a)   Contact the customer;
         (b)   Make the following changes to the account if, after contacting
the customer, it is apparent that someone other than the customer has accessed
the customer’s covered account:
            1.   Change any account numbers, passwords, security codes or other
security devices that permit access to an account; or
            2.   Close the account.
         (c)   Cease attempts to collect additional charges from the customer
and decline to sell the customer’s account to a debt collector in the event
that the customer’s account has been accessed without authorization and such
access has caused additional charges to accrue;
         (d)   Notify law enforcement in the event that someone other than the
customer has accessed the customer’s account causing additional charges to
accrue or accessing personal identifying information; or
         (e)   Take other appropriate action to prevent or mitigate identity
theft.
   (B)   In the event that an employee responsible for or involved in opening a
new covered account becomes aware of red flags indicating possible identity
theft with respect to an application for a new account, such employee shall use
his or her discretion to determine whether such red flag or combination of red
flags suggests a threat of identity theft.
      (1)   If, in his or her discretion, such employee determines that
identity theft or attempted identity theft is likely or probable, such employee
shall immediately report such red flags to the Town Police Department.
      (2)   If, in his or her discretion, such employee deems that identity
theft is unlikely or that reliable information is available to reconcile red
flags, the employee shall convey this information to the Utility Billing
Supervisor, who may in his or her discretion determine that no further action
is necessary.
      (3)   If the Utility Billing Supervisor in his or her discretion
determines that further action is necessary, one or more of the following
responses as determined to be appropriate by the Utility Billing Supervisor
shall be performed:
         (a)   Request additional identifying information from the applicant;
         (b)   Deny the application for the new account;
         (c)   Notify law enforcement of possible identity theft; or
         (d)   Take other appropriate action to prevent or mitigate identity
theft.
(Ord. 737, passed - -2009)
§ 34.10 UPDATING THE PROGRAM.
   (A)   The Utility Department shall annually review and, as deemed necessary,
update the Identity Theft Prevention Program along with any relevant red flags
in order to reflect changes in risks to customers or to the safety and
soundness of the Utility Department and its covered accounts from identity
theft.
   (B)   In so doing, the Utility Department shall consider the following
factors and exercise its discretion in amending the program:
      (1)   The Utility Department experiences with identity theft;
      (2)   Updates in methods of identity theft;
      (3)   Updates in customary methods used to detect, prevent and mitigate
identity theft;
      (4)   Updates in the types of accounts that the Utility Department offers
or maintains; and
      (5)   Updates in service provider arrangements.
(Ord. 737, passed - -2009)
§ 34.11 PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Utility Billing Supervisor is responsible for oversight of the
program and for program implementation.
   (B)   The Utility Billing Supervisor is responsible for reviewing reports
prepared by staff regarding compliance with red flag requirements and with
recommending material changes to the program, as necessary in the opinion of
the Utility Billing Supervisor, to address changing identity theft risks and to
identify new or discontinued types of covered accounts.
   (C)   Any recommended material changes to the program shall be submitted to
the Town Manager.
   (D)   The Utility Billing Supervisor will report to the Town Manager at
least annually on compliance with the red flag requirements.
   (E)   The report shall be due no later than December 31 each year and shall
address material matters related to the program and evaluate issues, including,
but not limited to:
      (1)   The effectiveness of the program policies and procedures in
addressing the risk of identity theft in connection with the opening of covered
accounts and with respect to existing covered accounts;
      (2)   Service provider arrangements;
      (3)   Significant incidents involving identity theft and management’s
response; and
      (4)   Recommendations for material changes to the Program.
   (F)   The Utility Billing Supervisor is responsible for providing training
to all employees responsible for or involved in opening a new covered account,
restoring an existing covered account or accepting payment for a covered
account with respect to the implementation and requirements of the Identity
Theft Prevention Program.
   (G)   The Utility Billing Supervisor shall exercise his or her discretion in
determining the amount and substance of training necessary.
(Ord. 737, passed - -2009)
§ 34.12 OUTSIDE SERVICE PROVIDERS.
   In the event that the Utility Department engages a service provider to
perform an activity in connection with one or more covered accounts the Utility
Billing Supervisor shall exercise his or her discretion in reviewing such
arrangements in order to ensure, to the best of his or her ability, that the
service provider’s activities are conducted in accordance with policies and
procedures, agreed upon by contract, that are designed to detect any red flags
that may arise in the performance of the service provider’s activities and take
appropriate steps to prevent or mitigate identity theft.
(Ord. 737, passed - -2009)
§ 34.13 TREATMENT OF ADDRESS DISCREPANCIES.
   In the event that the Utility Department receives a notice of address
discrepancy, the employee responsible for verifying consumer addresses for the
purpose of providing the service or account sought by the consumer shall
perform one or more of the following activities, as determined to be
appropriate by such employee:
   (A)   Compare the information in the consumer report with:
      (1)   Information the Utility Department obtains and uses to verify a
consumer’s identity in accordance with the requirements of the Customer
Information Program rules implementing 31 U.S.C. § 5318(1);
      (2)   Information the Utility Department maintains in its own records,
such as applications for service, change of address notices, other customer
account records or tax records; or
      (3)   Information the Utility Department obtains from third-party sources
that are deemed reliable by the relevant employee.
   (B)   Verify the information in the consumer report with the consumer.
(Ord. 737, passed - -2009)
§ 34.14 METHODS OF CONFIRMING CONSUMER ADDRESSES.
   The employee charged with confirming consumer addresses may, in his or her
discretion, confirm the accuracy of an address through one or more of the
following methods:
   (A)   Verifying the address with the consumer;
   (B)   Reviewing the Utility Department records to verify the consumer’s
address;
   (C)   Verifying the address through third party sources; or
   (D)   Using other reasonable processes.
(Ord. 737, passed - -2009)
CHAPTER 35: PERSONNEL POLICY
Section
   
35.01   Adoption
§ 35.01 ADOPTION.
   The personnel policy of the town, as amended, is hereby adopted by reference
and incorporated into this code as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. 2004-684, passed 4-6-2004; Ord. 722-2007, passed 9-19-2007; Ord. 2009-
736, passed 5-12-2009; Ord. 2011-771, passed 4-26-2011)
CHAPTER 36: TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Economic Development Commission
   
36.01   Creation; powers
   
36.02   Appointment of Commissioners; initial terms; qualifications
   
36.03   Successive terms; manner of appointment; vacancies
   
36.04   Removal of Commissioner from office; cause; appeal
   
36.05   Annual organizational meeting; election of officers; other meetings
   
36.06   Conflict of interest; voidance of transactions; exception
Police Reserves Unit
   
36.20   Appointment of reserve deputies; number
   
36.21   Duties of reserve deputies
   
36.22   Compensation; uniforms and insignia
Police Department
   
36.35   Full-time police officers
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION
§ 36.01 CREATION; POWERS.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Town Economic Development Commission,
which said Commission shall be the Department of Economic Development of the
town.
   (B)   This Commission shall have three members, all to be appointed in the
manner provided in the following section. The Town Economic Development
Commission is hereby granted all of the powers and duties set out in I.C. 36-7-
12.
   (C)   The Commission shall adopt such by-laws and regulations as it may deem
necessary for the proper conduct of its proceedings.
(1984 Code, § 9-1-1) (Ord. 497, passed 8-3-1976)
§ 36.02 APPOINTMENT OF COMMISSIONERS; INITIAL TERMS; QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Members of the Town Economic Development Commission shall be appointed
by the President of the Town Council in the following manner:
      (1)   One of the members shall be selected by the President of the Town
Council;
      (2)   One member shall be nominated by the County Council; and
      (3)   One member shall be nominated by the Town Council.
   (B)   The nominations made by the County Council and the Town Council shall
be transmitted to the Town Council President in writing within ten days from
August 3, 1976.
   (C)   No person shall be appointed as a Commissioner who is not either a
resident of the town, employed in the town, or an owner of a business in the
town.
   (D)   If any Commissioner shall cease to qualify in one of the above
categories, his or her appointment on the Commission shall thereby terminate,
and his or her office shall become vacant.
   (E)   The Commissioners shall take office upon their appointment and their
terms shall run the following numbers of years from February 1, 1977, following
their original appointment: the Commissioner selected by the President of the
Town Council shall serve for three years; the Commissioner nominated by the
Town Council shall serve for two years; and the Commissioner nominated by the
County Council shall serve for one year.
   (F)   Each Commissioner, before entering upon his or her duties, shall take
and subscribe an oath of office in the usual form, to be endorsed upon a
certificate of his or her appointment, which shall be promptly filed with the
Clerk-Treasurer of the town.
(1984 Code, § 9-1-2) (Ord. 497, passed 8-3-1976)
§ 36.03 SUCCESSIVE TERMS; MANNER OF APPOINTMENT; VACANCIES.
   At the expiration of the respective terms of each of the Commissioners,
their respective successors shall be selected and nominated in the same manner
as the original appointee, each of which nominee shall be appointed by the Town
Council President within ten days after receiving the nomination, and each
succeeding member after the original appointees, shall serve for a term of four
years. In the event any person appointed shall fail to qualify within ten days
after the mailing to him or her of notice of his or her appointment, or if any
member after qualifying shall die, resign or vacate said office, or be removed,
a new member shall be chosen and appointed to fill the vacancy in the same,
manner as provided for the member in respect to whom such vacancy occurs and
the member so chosen and appointed shall serve for the remainder of the vacated
term.
(1984 Code, § 9-1-3) (Ord. 497, passed 8-3-1976)
§ 36.04 REMOVAL OF COMMISSIONER FROM OFFICE; CAUSE; APPEAL.
   (A)   Any Commissioner may be removed from office for neglect of duty,
incompetency, disability to perform his or her duties, or any other, good
cause, by the officer or board which nominated him or her.
   (B)   A Commissioner so removed may obtain judicial review of such removal
by filing a complaint in the Circuit Court of the county, but the burden of
proof shall be upon the officer or board which removed the Commissioner.
   (C)   The cause shall be placed on the advance calendar and be tried as
other civil causes are tried by the court without the intervention of a jury.
   (D)   An appeal from such judgment may be taken as in other civil actions.
(1984 Code, § 9-1-4) (Ord. 497, passed 8-3-1976)
§ 36.05 ANNUAL ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING; ELECTION OF OFFICERS; OTHER MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Commission originally appointed shall meet within 30 days after
its appointment at a time and place designated by the President of the Town
Council for the purpose of organization, and shall meet to reorganize in
February of each succeeding year.
   (B)   The Commission shall elect one of its members as President, one as
Vice President and one as Secretary, each, of which officers shall serve from
the date of his or her election until January 31 next following his or her
election, and until his or her successor is elected and qualified.
   (C)   Regular or special meetings shall be held at such time as the
Commission may determine and upon such notice as it may fix, and a majority of
the Commission shall constitute a quorum, and concurrence of a majority shall
be necessary to authorize any action.
(1984 Code, § 9-1-5) (Ord. 497, passed 8-3-1976)
Statutory reference::
   Although the Economic Development Commission governing statute empowers
economic development commissions to set their own policy on notice of meetings
(I.C. 36-7-12-13(a)), there is a potential conflict here with other statutory
requirements, viz., the. Indiana Open Door Law (I.C. 5-14-1.5).
    A municipal economic development commission would qualify as the “governing
body of a public agency” under the Open Door Law, and, in general, would be
subject to that law’s requirements, presumably including those requirements
with regard to notice of meetings. In the absence of any definitive case law in
this area as to the precedence of the potentially conflicting statutes, local
commissions would be well advised to consult legal counsel before implementing
any less stringent notice procedure than that set forth under I.C. 5-14-1.5-5
§ 36.06 CONFLICT OF INTEREST; VOIDANCE OF TRANSACTIONS; EXCEPTION.
   No Commissioner shall have any pecuniary interest in any contract,
employment, leases, purchase or sale made under the provision of this chapter,
and any such transaction made in which any Commissioner has a pecuniary
interest shall be void ab initio; however, any property required for the
purpose of this chapter in which a Commissioner has a pecuniary interest may be
acquired by gift or condemnation.
(1984 Code, § 9-1-6) (Ord. 497, passed 8-3-1976)
POLICE RESERVES UNIT
§ 36.20 APPOINTMENT OF RESERVE DEPUTIES; NUMBER.
   (A)   The Town Council now and hereby authorizes the Town Marshal to appoint
12 Reserve Deputy Town Marshals to serve under the direction of the Town
Marshal.
   (B)   The Town Marshal is authorized to designate the individuals who are to
serve as such officers, and the Town Marshal shall inform the Clerk-Treasurer
as to the names of such appointees.
(1984 Code, § 10-2-1) (Ord. 1999-645, passed 4-20-1999) (Ord. 529, passed 6-5-
1984)
§ 36.21 DUTIES OF RESERVE DEPUTIES.
   Reserve Deputy Town Marshals shall perform only such duties and have only
such powers as shall be specified by the Town Marshal.
(1984 Code, § 10-2-2) (Ord. 529, passed 6-5-1984)
§ 36.22 COMPENSATION; UNIFORMS AND INSIGNIA.
   Reserve Deputy Town Marshals are not to be paid for their service in such
capacity; however, the Town Marshal shall provide Reserve Deputy Town Marshals
with such insignia and uniforms as he or she shall consider proper.
(1984 Code, § 10-2-3) (Ord. 529, passed 6-5-1984)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 36.35 FULL-TIME POLICE OFFICERS.
   The Town Council hereby authorizes the employment of five full-time police
officers in the Town Police Department.
(Ord. 1999-644, passed 4-20-1999)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   GARBAGE COLLECTION
      
52.   ELECTRIC UTILITY
      
53.   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
      
54.   WATER SERVICE
      
55.   SEWER USE; RATES
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Due date; delinquent bills
   
50.02   Procedures for disconnection of utility service
   
50.03   Owners of real estate responsible
   
50.04   Utilities disconnect list
   
50.05   Removing municipally-owned utilities from jurisdiction of the Indiana
Utility Regulatory Commission
   
50.06   Adjustments of water and sewer bills for undetected leaks
§ 50.01 DUE DATE; DELINQUENT BILLS.
   All utility bills shall be due and payable monthly on a combined statement.
Bills not paid on or before the due date shall be delinquent, and shall incur a
collection charge of 10%. In addition, disconnection procedures will be
instituted as set forth in §
50.02 for bills not paid on or before the due date.
(Ord. 569, passed 5-1-1990; Ord. 1996-617, passed 4-16-1996)
§ 50.02 PROCEDURES FOR DISCONNECTION OF UTILITY SERVICE.
   The town shall disconnect utility services in accord with the following
policies.
   (A)   When it becomes necessary for the town to disconnect utility service
to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only after
all bills for service then due have been paid together with the collection
charge and a reconnection charge of $75 has been made.
   (B)   Reconnection procedures will be instituted the following business day
only after all necessary charges have been paid in full or the Town Council has
granted a delay or a waiver.
   (C)   The policy of the town is to discontinue utility service to customers
by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful opportunity
to be heard on disputed bills.
      (1)   All bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth on
the bill.
      (2)   If any bill is not paid by or before that date, a notice will be
mailed that if the bill is not paid by the twenty-fifth day of the month or the
following business day, service will be discontinued for nonpayment.
      (3)   Any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill, or
requesting a delay or waiver of payment, shall have the right to a hearing
before the Town Council at its regularly scheduled meeting prior to the date
the service will be discontinued, at which time he or she may be represented in
person or by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing, and may
present orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the Town
Council.
      (4)   In the absence of payment of the bill rendered, or resort to the
hearing procedure prescribed herein, service will be discontinued at the time
specified.
      (5)   Disconnection procedures will be instituted before 12:00 p.m. on
business days and will not be instituted on Fridays.
(Ord. 569, passed 5-1-1990; Ord. 2003-680, passed 5-20-2003)
§ 50.03 OWNERS OF REAL ESTATE RESPONSIBLE.
   (A)   The owners of real estate shall be responsible for any and all utility
bills regarding their properties, even if they are not living on those
properties.
   (B)   The town may not, without the approval of the Town Council, connect or
“turn on” any utilities to said real estate which have utility bills due and
owing to the town after said real estate has been vacated.
   (B)   This section shall go into effect on January 1, 2006.
(Ord. 2005-701, passed 9-20-2005)
§ 50.04 UTILITIES DISCONNECT LIST.
   (A)   This section applies to all utilities operated by the town, including
water, sewer and electric.
   (B)   Customer bills for these utilities are due on the tenth of each month
with a 15-day grace period. If customers exceed the 15-day grace period (i.e.,
don’t pay by the twenty-fifth of the month), utilities will be turned off
without any further notice.
      (1)   Home energy assistance program. The town shall not, during the
period from December 1 through March 15, disconnect residential electric
service to any customer whose eligibility to receive benefits pursuant to I.C.
4-4-33 is being determined by the Indiana Housing and Community Development
Authority or its designee after the submission of a complete application for
benefits by the customer to the authority or its designee and the customer has
furnished to the town proof of his or her application to receive such benefits
or the town has been so notified in writing by the Indiana Housing and
Community Development Authority or its authorized representatives.
      (2)   Medical statement. The disconnection of residential electric
service to a customer shall be postponed for a period of ten days if, prior to
the disconnect date specified in the disconnect notice, the customer provides
the town with a medical statement from a licensed physician or public health
official which states that disconnection would be a serious and immediate
threat to the health or safety of a designated person in the household of the
customer. The postponement of the disconnection shall be continued for one
additional ten-day period upon, the provision of an additional medical
statement.
      (3)   Financial hardship. Utility services shall not be disconnected if a
customer shows cause for his or her inability to pay the full amount due
(financial hardship shall constitute cause) and the customer:
         (a)   Pays a reasonable portion (not to exceed $10 or one tenth of the
bill whichever is less), unless the customer agrees to a greater portion of the
bill;
         (b)   Agrees to pay the remainder of the outstanding bill within three
months;
         (c)   Agrees to pay all undisputed future bills for service as they
become due;
         (d)   Has not breached any similar agreement with the utility made
pursuant to this rule within the past 12 months. Provided, however, that the
utility may add outstanding bill a late payment charge not to exceed the amount
set by law; and
         (e)   The above terms of agreement shall be put in writing by the
utility and signed by the customer and by a representative of the utility.
      (4)   Unusually large bill. Utility services shall not be disconnected if
a customer or user is unable to pay a bill, which is unusually large due to a
prior incorrect reading of the meter, incorrect application of the rate
schedule, incorrect connection or functioning of the meter, prior estimates
where no actual reading was taken for over two months, stopped or slow meter,
or any human or mechanical error of the utility, and the customer:
         (a)   Pays a reasonable portion of the bill, not to exceed an amount
equal to the customer’s average bill for the six bills immediately proceeding
the bill in question;
         (b)   Agrees to pay the remaining at a reasonable rate;
         (c)   Agrees to pay all undisputed future bills for service as they
become due; provided, however, that the utility may not add to the outstanding
bill any late fee;
         (d)   The terms of agreement shall be put in writing by the town and
signed by the customer and a representative of the town.
      (5)   Utility services shall not be disconnected where otherwise
prohibited by law.
   (D)   Utility services shall be restored as soon as reasonably possible, but
within one working day, when the outstanding bill and all other applicable fees
are paid in full. In the event payment is made after regular business hours,
utility services will not be reconnected until the following business day.
Required fees to be paid for reconnection of utility services are as follows:
      (1)   Total amount of bill owed;
      (2)   $75 reconnection fee;
      (3)   Penalty of 10% of outstanding balance owed; and
      (4)   In addition, the customer must complete any all and all forms
required by the town for a credit check if requested.
(Ord. 2007-716, passed 5-16-2007; Ord. 2009-734, passed 5-12-2009; Ord. 2012-6,
passed 3-28-2012)
§ 50.05 REMOVING MUNICIPALLY-OWNED UTILITIES FROM JURISDICTION OF THE INDIANA
UTILITY REGULATORY COMMISSION.
   (A)   The municipally owned utilities of the town shall be taken out of the
jurisdiction of the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission for the approval of
rates and charges, and of the issuance of stocks, bonds, notes or other
evidence of indebtedness.
   (B)   This section shall be in full force and effect upon proper statutory
notice, passage, promulgation and publication as required by law.
(Ord. 560, passed 1-3-1989)
§ 50.06 ADJUSTMENTS OF WATER AND SEWER BILLS FOR UNDETECTED LEAKS.
   (A)   In accordance with I.C. 8-1.5-3.5 et seq., the town utilities may
adjust an “unusually large” residential water bill if the excess usage
reflected in the bills are caused by physical damage to any facility or
equipment supplying water to the premises and the damage:
      (1)   Is not visible or detectable on the customer’s premises except upon
excavation or some other disturbance of the property;
      (2)   Is not the result of an act of the customer, or of any agent or
contractor hired by the customer; and
      (3)   “Unusually large” bill means a residential water bill that reflects
monthly water usage, in whatever units measured, that is at least two times the
customer’s average monthly usage on the premises.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer, in the capacity of Billing Clerk for the town
utilities, is hereby authorized and make water bill adjustments subject to the
following conditions:
      (1)   The customer must submit a written request for a water leak
adjustment;
      (2)   The request for adjustment must be received within 60 days of the
end of the first billing cycle for which the adjustment being requested;
      (3)   The length of any adjustment may not exceed a span of two billing
cycles;
      (4)   It is determined that the customer’s water usage for the billing
cycle(s) was at least two times greater than the customer’s average water usage
for the preceding six billing cycles;
      (5)   It is determined that the excess usage reflected in the bill(s) was
by physical damage to any facility or equipment supplying water to the premises
and the damage:
         (a)   Is not visible or detectable on the customer’s premises except
upon excavation or some other disturbance of the property; and
         (b)   Is not the result of an act of the customer, or of any agent or
contractor hired by the customer.
      (6)   The request must accompanied by a receipt for the water leak repair
or an affidavit signed by the person who made the repair, describing the nature
of the repair(s) made, and accompanied by a receipt for the materials used to
make the repair(s).
      (7)   The number of adjustments shall be limited to one per service for
any 12-month time period.
      (8)   Any adjustment shall be limited to the amount that the bill exceeds
two times the customer’s average usage for the preceding six months.
(Ord. 2012-13, passed 10-22-2012)
CHAPTER 51: GARBAGE COLLECTION
Section
Trash Hauling Activities
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Specifications and requirements for vehicles hauling refuse
   
51.03   Power to stop haulers and inspect loads
Garbage Collection
   
51.15   Provision and implementation of collection service
   
51.16   Duty of collector; exclusive franchise
   
51.17   Residents required to place garbage for collection; exception
TRASH HAULING ACTIVITIES
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Includes rejected food wastes, including every waste accumulation
of animal, fruit or vegetable matter used or intended for food or that attends
the preparation, use, cooking, dealing in or storing of meat, fish, fowl, fruit
or vegetables.
   REFUSE. Any combination of garbage and rubbish.
   RUBBISH. Includes such matter as ashes, cans, metal ware, broken glass,
crockery, dirt, sweepings, boxes, papers, wood, grass, weeds, brush or litter
of any kind.
   VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle, automobile, motorcycle, pickup truck, truck-
trailer, farm tractor, or any other self-propelled vehicle or machine, or
trailer connected to the above.
(1984 Code, § 4-2-1) (Ord. 499, passed 12-7-1976)
§ 51.02 SPECIFICATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS FOR VEHICLES HAULING REFUSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to transport, carry or haul any garbage,
rubbish or refuse, in or through the corporate limits of the town, unless all
equipment and/or vehicles used to transport said garbage, trash, rubbish or
refuse shall be covered and water-tight as may be necessary to prevent
nuisances and health hazards. The cover or coverings shall be of such a nature
as to prevent any load from scattering, spilling, dribbling, falling or blowing
any part of the load out of or off of the vehicle. In addition, no litter of
any kind shall be permitted to be strewn along the route which the vehicle
proceeds in or through the town.
(1984 Code, § 4-2-2) (Ord. 499, passed 12-7-1976) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.03 POWER TO STOP HAULERS AND INSPECT LOADS.
   The Town Superintendent, or his or her authorized agent, or any law
enforcement officer, shall have the right to stop and inspect the load of any
vehicle hauling trash, garbage, rubbish or refuse in or through the town.
(1984 Code, § 4-2-3) (Ord. 499, passed 12-7-1976)
GARBAGE COLLECTION
§ 51.15 PROVISION AND IMPLEMENTATION OF COLLECTION SERVICE.
   From and after August 19, 1946, the Town Council will, in the interests of
public health and sanitation, reserve for itself and exercise the right to
designate, by appointment or by contract, a person or persons to remove garbage
from within the corporate limits of the town.
(1984 Code, § 6-2-1)
§ 51.16 DUTY OF COLLECTOR; EXCLUSIVE FRANCHISE.
   The person or persons appointed or contracted with pursuant to §
51.15 shall be charged with the duty of removing garbage from within the
corporate limits of the town, and such person or persons shall have the
exclusive right, within said town, to remove garbage therefrom.
(1984 Code, § 6-2-2)
§ 51.17 RESIDENTS REQUIRED TO PLACE GARBAGE FOR COLLECTION; EXCEPTION.
   All residents of the town, and all persons engaged in business therein, are
hereby required to place all garbage in covered metal containers on their
premises, and to place such containers at points on said premises as designated
by the person or persons authorized by the Town Council to remove garbage from
within the corporate limits of the town; however, nothing in this section is
intended to prevent any person from disposing of properly shredded garbage
through the town’s sanitary sewer system in accordance with applicable sewer
use regulations.
(1984 Code, § 6-2-3)
CHAPTER 52: ELECTRIC UTILITY
Section
   
52.01   Lead-in design requirements for service connection
   
52.02   Powers of Town Electrical Inspector; disconnection of service to unsafe
installations
   
52.03   Rules for emergency curtailment of electric service
   
52.04   Regulations for the termination of service to home energy assistance
benefit recipients without customer request by electric utilities
   
52.05   Turning power off and on
   
52.06   Rates and charges
   
52.07   Deposits
 
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01 LEAD-IN DESIGN REQUIREMENTS FOR SERVICE CONNECTION.
   All new electric service of light and power, or any service being altered or
changed, shall be installed in rigid conduit or metallic electric tubing from
entrance conduit distribution center of all buildings or structures within the
electric distribution system of the town. Material from the conduit to the
switch box is to be furnished by the contractor. At least three feet of wire
shall be provided beyond entrance conduit. New electric service of the
distribution lines of the town shall be of 3-wires 240-volt, unless specified
otherwise by the Electrical Inspector.
(1984 Code, § 6-9-1) (Ord. 417, passed 4-2-1951)
§ 52.02 POWERS OF TOWN ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR; DISCONNECTION OF SERVICE TO UNSAFE
INSTALLATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Electrical Inspector to see that all of
the provisions §
52.01 are enforced. He or she shall, upon proper application, locate entrance
of service and shall make inspections of all new electrical installations, and
he or she shall make such re-inspections as are necessary and as are provided
for herein. The Electrical Inspector shall have the right, during reasonable
hours, to enter any building in the discharge of his or her official duties or
for the purpose of making inspections, re- inspections or tests of
installations of electric wiring, devices, appliances and equipment contained
therein.
   (B)   The Electrical Inspector is hereby empowered to disconnect or order
the discontinuance of electric service to any electrical wiring devices,
appliance and equipment found to be dangerous to life or property because they
are defective or defectively installed until such wiring, devices, appliances
and equipment and their installation have been made safe as directed by the
Electrical Inspector.
(1984 Code, § 6-9-2) (Ord. 417, passed 4-2-1951)
§ 52.03 RULES FOR EMERGENCY CURTAILMENT OF ELECTRIC SERVICE.
   The electric curtailment rules for the municipal electric utility of the
town shall be as set forth in the document known as the “Emergency Energy
Control Program”, as formulated by the Public Service Commission of the state,
the same being the curtailment plan of the supplier of electrical energy to the
municipal electric utility, and consisting of four steps which provide for the
curtailment of electrical usage. Upon notification to the town’s municipal
electric utility that the supplier is implementing each of said steps, the
town’s electric utility will also immediately thereafter implement said steps.
(1984 Code, § 6-9-3) (Ord. 504, passed 2-15-1978)
§ 52.04 REGULATIONS FOR THE TERMINATION OF SERVICE TO HOME ENERGY ASSISTANCE
BENEFIT RECIPIENTS WITHOUT CUSTOMER REQUEST BY ELECTRIC UTILITIES.
   The purpose of this rule is to implement I.C. 8-1-2-121(a) as added by
Public Acts 1983, Pub. L. No. 43-1983, § 10, to prohibit involuntary
termination of electric services to individuals receiving or eligible for
benefits under the Home Energy Assistance program, I.C. 4-4-33-1.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      COMMISSION. The Public Service Commission of Indiana.
      CUSTOMER. For the purposes of this rule a person who has agreed to pay
for electric services exclusively for residential purposes.
      DISCONNECT. The termination or discontinuance of electric services.
   (B)   (1)   Without customer request, a utility may not, during the period
from December 1 through March 15, disconnect electric residential service to
any customer who either is receiving or who is eligible for and has applied for
assistance under I.C. 4-4-33-1.
      (2)    During the period from December 1 through March 15, a utility may
not disconnect service to such customers if:
         (a)   The customers’ eligibility to receive benefits pursuant to I.C.
4-4-33-1 is being determined by the Department on Aging and Community Services
or its designee after the submission of a complete application for benefits by
the customer; or
         (b)   The customer has furnished to the utility proof of his or her
application to receive such benefits or the utility has been so notified in
writing by the Department of Aging and Community Services or its authorized
representatives.
(1984 Code, § 6-9-3A)
§ 52.05 TURNING POWER OFF AND ON.
   (A)   No electric user or other person, except employees of the town, or
persons authorized in writing by the Town Council, has authority to turn power
off or on to any property served by the town electric system.
   (B)   If the town call crew is called out after hours and/or on weekends,
holidays or for non-emergency electric service problems with line and/or meter
bases, the property owner will be charged a $25 fee for one turn-off and turn-
on.
   (C)   If the property owner and/or contractor makes arrangements, approved
by the Town Electric Department, to be disconnected after hours, there will not
be a charge for his or her service.
(Ord. 2006-706, passed 3-7-2006) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.06 RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Rates and charges.
 
Residential Single-Phase Service
Customer charge $5 per customer per month
Energy charge   $0.1015 per kWh per month
Rate adjustment See division (B)
 
 
Residential Water Heater and Electric Heat Service
Customer charge $5 per customer per month
Energy charge   $0.0935 per kWh per month
Rate adjustment See division (B)
 
 
Commercial (Single-Phase) Service
Customer charge $10 per customer per month
Energy charge   $0.1015 per kWh per month
Rate adjustment See division (B)
 
 
General Power Service (Three-Phase)
Customer charge $25 per customer per month
Energy charge   $0.0895 per kWh per month
Rate adjustment See division (B)
 
 
Municipal Lighting Service
Energy charge   $0.0895 per kWh per month
Rate adjustment See division (B)
 
 
Municipal Power Service
Customer charge $10 per customer per month
Energy charge   $0.1015 per kWh per month
Rate adjustment See division (B)
 
 
Security Lighting Service
Fixed charge $8 per lamp per month
 
   (B)   Rate adjustment. The rate adjustment is applicable to all meter rates
of the utility. The rate adjustment shall be determined on the basis of a
purchased power cost adjustment factor occasioned solely by changes in the cost
of purchased power and energy.
   (C)   Minimum monthly charge. The minimum monthly charge for all categories
of service shall be the customer charge.
   (D)   Terms of payment. The terms of payment for all categories of service
shall be as follows.
      (1)   The net amount billed is due by the tenth day of the month.
      (2)   A late payment charge in the amount of 10% of the net amount billed
will be assessed to any bill not paid by the tenth day of the month.
(Ord. 730, passed 11-25-2008; Ord. 2014-13, passed 7-14-2014)
§ 52.07 DEPOSITS.
   (A)   Deposits will be collected from new customers based on an average of
six months usage at such location from October through March. The amount of the
deposit shall be a total of two months’ average usage. If a six-month average
is not available, then the deposit will be based on a two months’ average of
the available months.
   (B)   (1)   Deposits may be transferred to another location within the town
electrical service area for customers after two years, and the customer’s
account has been kept current.
      (2)   Customers of less than two years will have such deposits refunded
after first being applied to any balance owed for service and will be charged a
new deposit charge for their new location.
      (3)   Deposits will not be refunded until the customer moves from the
electrical service area of the town. The customer’s deposit shall first be
applied to any outstanding balance owed on their bill. The customer shall not
be paid any interest on his or her deposits by the town.
   (C)   Deposit for new service will be determined by the size of service
required to fulfill electrical load requirements at new service location.
(Ord. 95-605, passed 3-1-1995)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   A person violating §
52.05 shall be fined no less than $100 and no more than $500 for each offense.
In addition, any person violating §
52.05 shall be liable to the town for any expense, loss or damages experienced
by the town as a result of such violation.
(Ord. 2006-706, passed 3-7-2006)
CHAPTER 53: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
Section
   
53.01   Utility user fee
   
53.02   Fee establishment procedures
   
53.03   User fee structure
   
53.04   Billings and terms of payment
   
53.05   Stormwater Fund
   
53.06   Lien on premises
§ 53.01 UTILITY USER FEE.
   A stormwater utility user fee shall be imposed on each and every lot and
parcel of real property within the town, which charge shall be assessed against
the owner thereof, who shall be considered the stormwater utility customer/user
for the purposes of this chapter. This user fee is deemed reasonable and is
necessary to pay for the repair, replacement planning, improvement, operation,
regulation and maintenance of the existing and future stormwater system for the
town.
(Ord. 2009-738, passed 8-1-2009)
§ 53.02 FEE ESTABLISHMENT PROCEDURES.
   The stormwater utility user fee shall be $6 per EU per calendar month. Any
billings for stormwater service outside this time shall be on a per diem basis.
This stormwater utility user fee rate is designed to recover and be able to pay
the cost of rendering stormwater service to the users of the stormwater system,
and shall be the basis for assessment of the town’s stormwater utility user
fee. This rate is established so as to maintain adequate fund reserves to
provide for reasonably expected variations in the cost of providing services,
as well as variations in the demand for services. This rate shall be evaluated
annually as to its sufficiency to satisfy the needs of the stormwater utility.
(Ord. 2009-738, passed 8-1-2009)
§ 53.03 USER FEE STRUCTURE.
   For the purposes stated herein, there is hereby assessed a stormwater
utility user fee to each stormwater utility customer/user within the corporate
limits of the town, in an amount as determined below. For any such property,
lot, parcel of land, building or premises which contributes directly or
indirectly to the stormwater system of the town, such charge shall be a flat
rate fee to all users. All properties having pervious or impervious area within
the town will be assigned an equivalent unit (EU) of one.
   (A)   Residential properties. A monthly flat user fee for stormwater service
rendered to residential property located within the town shall be charged to
each account, according to the service address. All residential properties are
hereby assigned one EU. This flat rate shall apply to all residential
properties as defined herein.
   (B)   Nonresidential properties. Nonresidential properties located within
the town will be assigned one EU. One additional EU will be assessed for every
25,000 square foot of impervious area such as parking lots, not to exceed three
additional EUs.
(Ord. 2009-738, passed 8-1-2009)
§ 53.04 BILLINGS AND TERMS OF PAYMENT.
   (A)   Billings. All stormwater service bills shall be rendered on a monthly
basis, along with the utility user’s charges for other town utility services.
   (B)   Terms of payment. The stormwater utility user fee shall be due on the
payment date set out for the town utility bill. It shall be a violation of this
chapter to fail to pay a stormwater service bill when due. All bills for
stormwater services not paid on or before the due date, which due date shall be
approximately 15 days after the bill is rendered, shall be subject to a
collection or deferred payment charge equal to 10% of the outstanding balance.
   (C)   Collection. Delinquent stormwater utility user fees may be collected
in a civil action along with other delinquent town utility charges by the town,
and the town shall be permitted to collect its reasonable attorney’s fees and
court costs.
(Ord. 2009-738, passed 8-1-2009)
§ 53.05 STORMWATER FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established for the town a “Rockville Stormwater
Operation and Maintenance Fund”, which shall be a non-reverting fund.
   (B)   All revenues and fees collected for stormwater service, including, but
not limited to, stormwater utility user fees, credit application fees and
interest earnings on any unused funds, shall be deposited in the “Rockville
Stormwater Operation and Maintenance Fund”. Disbursements from this fund will
be authorized by the Town Council. Such disbursements will be used for the
operation, maintenance and improvement of the town’s stormwater system, in
accordance with applicable state law.
   (C)   Monies from this fund shall not revert to any other town utilities or
town fund and may not be transferred for any other purpose, except as permitted
by applicable state law.
   (D)   The fund shall exist in perpetuity, or until such time as this chapter
has been repealed, at which time any monies held in said fund shall be
transferred to the town’s General Fund after payment of any and all fees,
expenses or charges that may then be owing for the operation, maintenance and
improvement of the town’s stormwater system.
(Ord. 2009-738, passed 8-1-2009)
§ 53.06 LIEN ON PREMISES.
   Each stormwater utility user fee charged pursuant to this chapter is hereby
made a lien upon the residential, nonresidential property to which the same is
charged, and, if the same is not paid within 90 days after it shall be due and
payable, it may, in the discretion of the Council, be certified to the Auditor
of the county, who shall place the same on the tax duplicate of said county
with the interest and penalties allowed by law to be collected as other taxes
are collected.
(Ord. 2009-738, passed 8-1-2009)
CHAPTER 54: WATER SERVICE
Section
   
54.01   Rates and charges
   
54.02   Conservation and rationing of water
   
54.03   Protection of public water supply from contamination
§ 54.01 RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   For use of and service rendered by the waterworks, each user shall be
charged in an amount based upon water usage, determined by the rates and
charges shown in the tables below. All other provisions of Ord. 724 not amended
by this section shall remain in full force and effect.
   (B)    The provisions herein, when approved and adopted, shall be effective
beginning with the September 2020consumption period and billed for the October
2020 billing period.
Inside Customers
Metered Rates per 1,000 Gallons per Month
Inside Customers
Metered Rates per 1,000 Gallons per Month
First 3,000 gallons  $7.12
Next 5,000 gallons   $5.97
Next 12,000 gallons  $5.00
Next 20,000 gallons  $4.23
Next 40,000 gallons  $3.56
Next 80,000 gallons  $2.86
Over 160,000 gallons $2.17
 
Minimum Charge Per Month
Minimum Charge Per Month
5/8-inch meters   $17.85
3/4-inch meters   $28.59
1-inch meters     $45.81
1-1/2-inch meters $99.99
2-inch meters     $185.43
3-inch meters     $413.97
4-inch meters     $727.93
6-inch meters     $1,637.60
 
Monthly Meter Charge for Fire Protection Availability
Monthly Meter Charge for Fire Protection Availability
5/8-inch meters   $4.95
3/4-inch meters   $4.95
1-inch meters     $7.95
1-1/2-inch meters $24.29
2-inch meters     $29.23
3-inch meters     $74.33
4-inch meters     $118.93
 
Outside Customers
Metered Rates per 1,000 Gallons per Month
Outside Customers
Metered Rates per 1,000 Gallons per Month
First 3,000 gallons  $7.97
Next 5,000 gallons   $6.67
Next 12,000 gallons  $5.57
Next 20,000 gallons  $4.73
Next 40,000 gallons  $4.01
Next 80,000 gallons  $3.21
Over 160,000 gallons $2.42
 
Minimum Charge per Month
Minimum Charge per Month
5/8-inch meters   $19.92
3/4-inch meters   $31.93
1-inch meters     $51.20
1-1/2-inch meters $111.73
2-inch meters     $207.18
3-inch meters     $462.61
4-inch meters     $813.48
6-inch meters     $1,834.11
 
Monthly Meter Charge for Fire Protection Availability
Monthly Meter Charge for Fire Protection Availability
5/8-inch meters   $5.55
3/4-inch meters   $5.55
1-inch meters     $8.87
1-1/2-inch meters $27.13
2-inch meters     $32.67
3-inch meters     $83.07
4-inch meters     $132.91
 
 
Tapping/Connection Fees
Per residential connection (5/8-, 3/4- $1,000
or 1-inch meter)
Per non-residential connection         Actual cost of making the connection but
                                       not less than $1,000
 
 
Deposits
Residential $50
Business    $50
Renter      $75
 
 
Reconnection Charge
Charge per call $75
 
 
Inspection
Per inspection per EDU $50
 
 
Returned Check Charge
$34
 
 
Late Charge Penalty
All bills 30 days or more delinquent 10% of the amount past due
 
   (C)   Bulk water purchase.
      (1)   The bulk water purchase rate from the town shall henceforth
increase from that of $.0375 per gallon to that of $.010 per gallon.
      (2)   Any purchase of bulk water from the town that does not exceed a
total of 1,000 gallons shall be charged a minimum flat rate of $10.
(Ord. 745-2009, passed - -2009; Ord. 04, passed 8-10-2020; Ord. 2021-06, passed
7-19-2021)
§ 54.02 CONSERVATION AND RATIONING OF WATER.
   (A)   Application. This section shall apply to all person, firms,
partnerships, associations, corporations, company or organizations of any kind
connected to the town public water system or using water therefrom (hereafter,
“users”).
   (B)   Declaration of need. Upon determining that the town public water
system is in imminent danger of a shortage of water or is experiencing a
shortage of water, the governing body shall declare a water conservation
emergency and establish the appropriate conservation measures and the duration
thereof.
   (C)   Voluntary conservation. In accordance with §
10.99, users shall be requested to reduce water consumption by practicing
voluntary conservation techniques. The governing body shall suggest reasonable
and meaningful actions which will alleviate existing or potential water
shortage.
   (D)   Mandatory conservation. In accordance with §
10.99, users shall be prohibited from the water uses listed below, subject to
reasonable terms, times and conditions as the governing body shall determine:
      (1)   Sprinkling, watering or irrigating of shrubbery, trees, grass,
ground covers, plants, vines, gardens, vegetables or any other vegetation;
      (2)   Washing of automobiles, trucks, trailers, mobile homes, railroad
cars or any other type of mobile equipment;
      (3)   Cleaning or spraying of sidewalks, driveways, paved areas or other
outdoor surfaces;
      (4)   Washing and cleaning of any business equipment or machinery;
      (5)   The filling of swimming pools, wading pools and ornamental
fountains; and
      (6)   Knowingly allowing leakage through defective plumbing.
   (E)   Exceptions. The governing body of the town reserves the right to
establish alternative ration requirements for the following:
      (1)   Health care providers;
      (2)   A reasonable use of water to maintain adequate health and sanitary
standards; and
      (3)   Those industrial, business and agricultural activities declared to
be necessary for the public health and well-being.
   (F)   Notice. Notice of voluntary conservation measures shall be by
publication in a local newspaper of general circulation or other means as
deemed appropriate by the governing body. Said notice shall be effective upon
publication. Notice of mandatory conservation or rationing shall be by legal
publication.
(Ord. 557, passed 7-12-1988) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 54.03 PROTECTION OF PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY FROM CONTAMINATION.
   (A)   A cross connection shall be defined as any physical connection or
arrangement between two otherwise separate systems, one of which contains
potable water from the town water system, and the other, water from a private
source, water of unknown or questionable safety, or steam, gases, or chemicals,
whereby there may be a flow from one system to the other, the direction of flow
depending on the pressure differential between the two systems.
   (B)   No person, firm, or corporation shall establish or permit to be
established or maintain or permit to be maintained any cross connection. No
interconnection shall be established whereby potable water from a private,
auxiliary, or emergency water supply other than the regular public water supply
of the town may enter the supply or distribution system of the town, unless
such private, auxiliary, or emergency water supply and the method of connection
and use of such supply shall have been approved by the town water utility and
by the Indiana Department of Environmental Management in accordance with 327
IAC 8-10.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the town water utility to cause inspections to
be made of all properties served by the public water system where cross
connections with the public water system is deemed possible. The frequency of
inspections and re-inspections based on potential health hazards involved shall
be established by the town water utility.
   (D)   Upon presentation of credentials, the representative of the town water
utility shall have the right to request entry at any reasonable time to examine
the property served by a connection to the public water system of the town for
cross connections. On request, the owner, lessee, or occupant of any property
so served shall furnish to the inspection agency any pertinent information
regarding the piping system or systems on such property. The refusal of access
or refusal of requested pertinent information shall be deemed evidence of the
presence of cross connections.
   (E)   The town water utility is hereby authorized and directed to
discontinue water service to any property wherein any connection in violation
of this section exists, and to take such other precautionary measures deemed
necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water system.
Water service shall be discontinued only after reasonable notice is served on
the owner, lessee, or occupants of the property or premises where a violation
is found or suspected to exist. Water service to such property shall not be
restored until the cross connection(s) has been eliminated in compliance with
the provisions of this section.
   (F)   If it is deemed by the town water utility that a cross connection or
an emergency endangers public health, safety, or welfare and requires immediate
action, and a written finding to that effect is filed with the Town Clerk and
delivered to the consumer’s premises, service may be immediately discontinued.
The consumer shall have an opportunity for hearing within ten days of such
emergency discontinuance.
   (G)   All consumers using toxic or hazardous liquids, all hospitals,
mortuaries, wastewater treatment plants, laboratories, and all other hazardous
users install and maintain a reduced pressure principal backflow preventer in
the main water line serving each building on the premises. The backflow
preventer must be installed in an easily accessible location not subject to
flooding or freezing.
   (H)   The reduced pressure principle backflow preventers shall not be
installed below ground level.
   (I)   This section does not supersede the Indiana Plumbing Code, the IDEM
Rule 327IAC 8-10 or any ordinance of the town, but is supplementary to them.
   (J)   If, in the judgment of the Superintendent of Water, an approved
backflow prevention device is necessary for the safety of the public water
system, the Superintendent of Water will give notice to the water consumer to
install such an approved device immediately. The water consumer shall, at his
or her own expenses, install such an approved device at a location and in a
manner approved by the Superintendent of Water and shall have inspections and
tests made of such approved devices as required by the Superintendent of Water
and in accordance with the IDEM Rule 327IAC8-10.
(Ord. 2012-12, passed 8-13-2012) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 55: SEWER USE; RATES
Section
Sewer Rate Provisions
   
55.01   Purpose
   
55.02   Definitions
   
55.03   Operation, Maintenance and Replacement Fund
   
55.04   General provisions
   
55.05   Billing; payment
   
55.06   Large waste contributors
   
55.07   Review of charge
   
55.08   Review/revision of rates; notice
Sewer Use Provisions
   
55.20   Purpose
   
55.21   Administration
   
55.22   Abbreviations
   
55.23   Definitions
   
55.24   Public use of sewers required
   
55.25   Private wastewater disposal
   
55.26   Building sewers and connections
   
55.27   Use of the public sewers
   
55.28   Damage to public sewers
   
55.29   Powers and authority of inspectors
   
55.30   Validity
 
   
55.99   Penalty
SEWER RATE PROVISIONS
§ 55.01 PURPOSE.
   It is determined and declared to be necessary and conducive to the
protection of the public health, safety, welfare and convenience of the town to
collect charges from all users who contribute wastewater to the treatment
works. The proceeds of such charges to derived will be used for the purpose of
operating and maintaining the treatment works.
(Ord. 623, passed 9-17-1996)
§ 55.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOD (DENOTING BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation or organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
in five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   COMMERCIAL USER. All retail stores, restaurants, office building, laundries
and other private business and service establishments.
   INDUSTRIAL USER. Includes any non-governmental, nonresidential user of
publicly owned treatment works which is identified in the Standard Industrial
Classification Manual, 1972, Office of Management and Budget, as amended and
supplemented, under the following divisions; Division A-Agriculture, Forestry
and Fishing; Division B-Mining; Division D-Manufacturing; Division E-
Transportation, Communications, Electric, Gas and Sanitary; and Division I-
Services.
   INSTITUTIONAL USER. Includes social, charitable, religions and educational
activities such as schools, churches, hospitals, nursing homes, penal
institutions and similar institutional users.
   GOVERNMENTAL USER. Includes legislative, judicial, administrative and
regulatory activities of federal, state and local governments.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC WASTEWATER. Wastewater that has a BOD concentration of not
more than 200 mg/l and a suspended solids concentration of not more than 250 m/
l and an ammonia-nitrogen concentration of not more that 25 mg/l.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. The functions that result in expenditures during
the useful life of the treatment works for materials, labor, utilities and
other items which are necessary for managing and which such works were designed
and constructed. The term OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE includes “replacement”, as
defined below.
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed.
   RESIDENTIAL USER. Any contributor to the treatment works whose lot, parcel
or real estate, or building is used for domestic dwelling purposes only.
   SHALL. Mandatory; MAY is permissive.
   SS (denoting SUSPENDED SOLIDS). Solids that either float on the surface of
or are in suspension in water, sewage or other liquids and which are removable
by laboratory filtering.
   TREATMENT WORKS. Any devices and systems for the storage, treatment,
recycling and reclamation of municipal sewage, domestic sewage or liquid
industrial wastes. These include intercepting sewers, outfall sewers, sewage
collection systems, pumping, power and other equipment and their appurtenances;
extensions improvement, remodeling, additions and alterations thereof; elements
essential to provide a reliable recycled supply such as standby treatment units
an clear well facilities; and any works, including site acquisition of the land
that will be an integral part of the treatment process or is used for ultimate
disposal of residues resulting from such treatment (including land for
composting sludge, temporary storage of such compost and land used for the
storage of treated wastewater in land treatment systems before land
application); or any other method or system for preventing, abating, reducing,
storing, treating, separating or disposing of municipal waste or industrial
waste, including waste in combined stormwater and sanitary sewer systems.
   USEFUL LIFE. The estimated period during which a treatment works will be
operated.
   USER CHARGE. The portion of the total wastewater service charge which is
levied in a proportional and adequate manner for the cost of operation,
maintenance and replacement of the treatment works.
   WASTEWATER FLOW METER. A wastewater discharge volume measuring and recording
device which is furnished and installed by a user and is approved by the town.
   WATER METER. A water volume measuring and recording device, furnished and/or
installed by a user and approved by the town.
(Ord. 623, passed 9-17-1996)
§ 55.03 OPERATION, MAINTENANCE AND REPLACEMENT FUND.
   (A)   The revenues collected, as a result of the user charges levied, shall
be deposited in a separate non-lapsing fund known as the Operation, Maintenance
and Replacement Fund.
   (B)   Fiscal year-end balances in the Operation, Maintenance and Replacement
Fund shall be used for no other purposes than those designated. Monies which
have been transferred from other sources to meet temporary shortages in the
Operation, Maintenance and Replacement Fund shall be returned to their
respective accounts upon appropriate adjustment of the user charge rates for
operation, maintenance and replacement. The user charge rate(s) shall be
adjusted such that the transferred monies will be returned to their respective
accounts within six months of the fiscal year in which the monies were
borrowed.
(Ord. 623, passed 9-17-1996)
§ 55.04 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Each user shall pay for the services provided by the treatment works
based on his or her use of the treatment works as determined by water meter
readings, wastewater discharge records or other appropriate methods acceptable
to the town. In any case the most accurate representation of the discharge
record will be used for billing purposes.
   (B)   For residential, industrial, institutional and commercial users,
monthly user charges will be based on actual water usage, or will be based on
discharge flow records from an accurate flow recording device. If a
residential, commercial, institutional or industrial user has a consumptive use
of water, or, in some other manner, uses water which is not discharged into the
wastewater collection system, the user charge for that contributor may be based
on readings of a wastewater meter(s) or separate water meter(s) installed and
maintained at the user’s expense. If a residential, commercial, institutional
or industrial user has additional sources of water which will be discharged
into the town’s sewer system, the user charge for that contributor may be based
on readings of a wastewater flow meter or separate water meter(s) installed and
maintained at the user’s expense.
   (C)    The water usage or quantity of sanitary wastewater discharged
schedule on which the amount of said sewage rates and charges shall be
determined shall be as follows:
      (1)   Inside town customers.
Monthly Sewer Volume Rate
Monthly Sewer Volume Rate
First 3,000 gallons  $15.43
Next 5,000 gallons   $12.99
Next 12,000 gallons  $10.87
Next 20,000 gallons  $9.35
Next 40,000 gallons  $8.04
Next 80,000 gallons  $6.45
Next 140,000 gallons $5.15
Over 300,000 gallons $4.12
 
Minimum Charge Per Month
Minimum Charge Per Month
5/8-inch meter   $37.44
3/4-inch meter   $37.44
1-inch meter     $105.25
1 1/2-inch meter $207.92
2-inch meter     $397.60
3-inch meter     $876.99
4-inch meter     $1,462.85
 
      (2)   Outside town customers.
Monthly Sewer Volume Rate   
Monthly Sewer Volume Rate   
First 3,000 gallons  $17.29
Next 5,000 gallons   $14.55
Next 12,000 gallons  $12.18
Next 20,000 gallons  $10.48
Next 40,000 gallons  $9.01
Next 80,000 gallons  $7.23
Next 140,000 gallons $5.78
Over 300,000 gallons $4.62
 
Minimum Charge Per Month
Minimum Charge Per Month
5/8-inch meter   $41.94
3/4-inch meter   $41.94
1-inch meter     $117.88
1 1/2-inch meter $232.88
2-inch meter     $445.31
3-inch meter     $982.23
4-inch meter     $1,638.39
 
      (3)   Sewage customer charge.
 
All sewage utility customers $11.84
 
      (4)   Correctional facility rate.
 
All usage per 1,000 gallons $4.62
 
      (5)   Non-recurring rates and charges.
 
Tap Fee for Water
Per residential (5/8-, 3/4-, 1-inch) $2,500
connection
Larger meter                         Actual cost of making the connection but
                                     not less than $2,500
Per non-residential connection       Actual cost of making the connection but
                                     not less than $2,500
 
 
Customer Deposit - Sewage
Per renter $75
 
 
Inspection Fee
Per inspection per EDU $50
 
 
Returned Check Charge
$34
 
 
Late Charge Penalty
All bills 30 days or more delinquent $34
 
   (D)   For those users whose wastewater has a greater strength than normal
domestic sewage, a surcharge in addition to the normal user charge, will be
collected. The surcharge for operation and maintenance including replacement
is:
 
$0.14 per pound BOD     In excess of 200 mg/l
$0.14 per pound SS      In excess of 250 mg/l
$0.74 per pound ammonia In excess of 25 mg/l
 
   (E)   Any user which discharges any toxic pollutants (as defined in the
sewer use ordinance, codified as §§
55.20 through
55.30) which cause an increase in the cost of managing the effluent of the
sludge from the treatment works, or any user which discharges any substance
which singly or by interaction with other substances causes identifiable
increases in the cost of operation, maintenance or replacement of the treatment
works, shall pay for such increased costs. The charge to each such user shall
be as determined by the appropriate financial personnel and approved by the
town.
   (F)   The user charge rates established in this section apply to all users
of the treatment works.
(Ord. 623, passed 9-17-1996; Ord. 634-1998, passed 2-17-1998; Ord. 1999-650,
passed 9-7-1999; Ord. 2014-14, passed 7-14-2014; Ord. 05, passed 8-10-2020)
§ 55.05 BILLING; PAYMENT.
   (A)   All users shall be billed monthly. Payments are due within ten days
after the end of the month. Any payment not received within ten days after the
end of the month shall be delinquent.
   (B)   A late payment penalty of 10% of the user charge bill will be added to
each delinquent bill for each 30 days or portion thereof of delinquency, when
any bill is more than 90 days in default, water and/or sewer service to such
premises shall be discontinued until such bill is paid.
   (C)   When any bill (including interest and penalty) remains unpaid for one
year after the date due, such bill shall be recorded in the land records of the
town by the Treasurer, and shall constitute a lien on the property. If such
lien (including interest and penalty) remains unpaid for a period of one year
after date of recordation, such property shall be subject to public sale by the
Treasurer.
(Ord. 623, passed 9-17-1996)
§ 55.06 LARGE WASTE CONTRIBUTORS.
   (A)   All users contributing more than 20,000 gallons per month and whose
waste strength is greater than 200 mg/l BOD or 250 mg/l SS or 25 mg/l ammonia
shall prepare and file with the town a report that shall include pertinent data
relating to the wastewater characteristics, including the methods of sampling
and measurement to obtain these data, and these data shall be used to calculate
the user charge for that user.
   (B)   The town shall have the right to gain access to the waste stream and
take its own samples.
   (C)   Should the town do so and should the results be substantially
different as determined by the town from the data submitted by the user, the
user charge for that user shall be revised for the next billing cycle/period.
(Ord. 623, passed 9-17-1996)
§ 55.07 REVIEW OF CHARGE.
   (A)   Any user who feels his or her user charge is unjust and inequitable
may make written application to the town requesting a review of his or her user
charge. Said written request shall, where necessary, show the actual or
estimated average flow and/or strength of his or her wastewater in comparison
with the values upon which the charge is based, including how the measurements
of estimates were made.
   (B)   Review of the request shall be made by the town, and if substantiated,
the user charges for that user shall be re-computed based upon the revised flow
and/or strength data and the new charges shall be applicable to the next
billing cycle/period.
(Ord. 623, passed 9-17-1996)
§ 55.08 REVIEW/REVISION OF RATES; NOTICE.
   (A)   The town will review the user charges at least annually and revise the
rates as necessary to ensure that adequate revenues are generated to pay the
costs of operation and maintenance including replacement and that the system
continues to provide for the proportional distribution of operation and
maintenance including replacement costs among users and user classes.
   (B)   In order to comply with the requirements contained in Federal
Regulation Number 40 C.F.R. § 35.2140 c) “user charge system”, the town will
notify each user annually of the rate or the portion of the total charge for
wastewater treatment that is attributable to operation, maintenance and
replacement.
(Ord. 623, passed 9-17-1996)
SEWER USE PROVISIONS
§ 55.20 PURPOSE.
   (A)   This subchapter sets forth uniform requirements for users of the
publicly owned treatment works for the town, and enables the town to comply
with all applicable state and federal laws, including the Clean Water Act (33
U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.) and the General Pretreatment Regulations (40 C.F.R.
Part 403).
   (B)   This subchapter shall apply to all users of the publicly owned
treatment works. The ordinance provides for monitoring, compliance and
enforcement activities; establishes administrative review procedures; and
provides for the setting of fees for the equitable distribution of costs
resulting from the program established herein.
(Ord. 624, passed 9-3-1996)
§ 55.21 ADMINISTRATION.
   Except as otherwise provided herein, the Superintendent shall administer,
implement and enforce the provisions of this subchapter. Any powers granted to
or duties imposed upon the Superintendent may be delegated by the
Superintendent to other town personnel.
(Ord. 624, passed 9-3-1996)
§ 55.22 ABBREVIATIONS.
   The following abbreviations, when used in this subchapter, shall have the
designated meanings:
   BOD5. Biochemical oxygen demand.
   C.F.R. Code of Federal Regulations.
   COD. Chemical oxygen demand.
   EPA. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.
   gpd. Gallons per day.
   mg/l. Milligrams per liter.
   NPDES. National pollutant discharge elimination system.
   POTW. Publicly owned treatment works.
   RCRA. Resource Conservation and Recovery Act.
   SIC. Standard Industrial Classification.
   TSS. Total suspended solids.
   U.S.C. United States Code.
(Ord. 624, passed 9-3-1996)
§ 55.23 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT or THE ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the
Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
   APPLICABLE PRETREATMENT STANDARD. Any pretreatment limit or prohibitive
standard (federal and/or local) contained in this subchapter deemed to be the
most restrictive with non-domestic users will be required to comply with.
   AMMONIA-NITROGEN. The form of nitrogen which is present in domestic wastes,
primarily from urea and is regulated by NPDES permit.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF INDUSTRIAL AND/OR COMMERCIAL USER. May be: a
principal executive officer of at least the level of Vice President, if the
industrial user is a corporation; a general partner or proprietor if the
industrial user is a partnership or proprietorship, respectively; or a duly
authorized representative of the individual designate above if such
representative is responsible for the overall operation of the facilities from
which the indirect discharge originates.
   AVERAGE MONTHLY DISCHARGE LIMITATION. The highest allowable average of
“daily discharges” over a calendar month, calculated as the sum of all daily
discharges measured during a calendar month divided by the number of daily
discharges measured during that month.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or BOD. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures
for five days at 20°C, usually expressed as a concentration (e.g., mg/l).
   BUILDING (OR HOUSE DRAIN), SANITARY. The extension from the building drain
to the public sewer or other place of disposal.
   BUILDING DRAIN, STORM. A building sewer which conveys stormwater or other
clear water drainage, but no sanitary or industrial sewage.
   CATEGORICAL STANDARDS. National categorical pretreatment standards or
pretreatment standard.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both water from surface run-off, sump
pumps and the like, and sewage. COMBINED SEWERS are strictly prohibited.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANTS. Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH and
fecal coliform bacteria, plus additional pollutants if the treatment works was
designed to treat such pollutants, and in fact does remove such pollutants to a
substantial degree.
   COMPOSITE SAMPLE. A composite sample should contain a minimum of four
discrete samples taken at equal time intervals over the compositing period or
proportional to the flow rate over the compositing period. More than the
minimum number of discrete samples will be required where the wastewater
loading is highly variable.
   DAILY DISCHARGE. Discharge of a pollutant measured during a calendar day or
any 24-hour period that reasonably represents the calendar for purposes of
sampling.
   DOMESTIC SEWAGE. Wastewater from typical residential users and having
pollutant characteristics of not greater than 200 mg/l TBOD, 250 mg/l TSS, and
25 mg/l NH3-N.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right of the specific use of land owned by
others.
   EFFLUENT. Water, together with any wastes that may be present, flowing out
of a drain, sewer, receptacle or outlet.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA). The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency, or where appropriate, the term may also be used as a designation for
the administrator or other duly authorized official of said agency.
   FECAL COLIFORM. Any of a number of organisms common to the intestinal tract
of humans and animals whose presence in sanitary sewage is an indicator of
pollution.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state, such that will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility.
   GARBAGE. Any solid wastes from the preparation, cooking or dispensing of
food and from handling, storage or sale of produce.
   GRAB SAMPLE. A sample which is taken from a waste stream on a one-time basis
with no regard to the flow in the waste stream and without consideration of
time.
   GREASE AND OIL. A group of substances including hydrocarbons, fatty acids,
soaps, fats, waxes, oils or any other material that is extracted by a solvent
from an acidified sample and that is not volatilized during the laboratory test
procedures. GREASES AND OILS may be of animal and vegetable origin (more
biodegradable) and of mineral origin (less biodegradable).
   HOLDING TANK WASTE. Any waste from holding tanks, such as chemical toilets,
campers, trailers, septic tanks, vacuum pump trucks and the like.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant that is not defined as a compatible
pollutant, including non-biodegradable dissolved solids and further defined in
40 C.F.R. Part 403.
   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any industrial or commercial establishment manufacturing or
processing facility that discharges industrial waste to a publicly owned
treatment works.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance or form of energy
discharged, permitted to flow or escape from an industrial, manufacturing,
commercial or business process or from the development, recovery or processing
or any natural resource carried on by a person and shall further mean any waste
from an industrial user.
   INFILTRATION. The water entering a sewer system, including sewer service
connection, from the ground through such means as, but not limited to,
defective pipes, pipe joints, connections or manhole walls.
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW. The total quantity of water from both infiltration and
inflow without distinguishing the source.
   INFLOW. The water discharged into a sewer system, including service
connections from such sources as, but not limited to, roof leaders, cellar,
yard and area drains, foundation drains, cistern overflows, cooling water
discharges, drains from springs and swampy areas, manhole covers, cross
connections from storm sewers and combined sewers, catch basins, stormwater,
surface run-off, street wash waters or drainage. INFLOW does not include and is
distinguished from infiltration.
   INFLUENT. The water, together with any wastes that may be present, flowing
into a drain, sewer, receptacle or outlet.
   INSPECTOR. The person or persons duly authorized by the town, through its
Town Council, to inspect and approve the installation of building sewers and
their connection to the public sewer system.
   INSTANTANEOUS MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE DISCHARGE LIMIT. The maximum concentration
of a pollutant allowed to be discharged at any time, determined from the
analysis of any discrete or composite sample collected, independent of the
industrial flow rate and the duration of the sampling event.
   INTERFERENCE. A discharge, which alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment
processes or operations or its sludge processes, use or disposal; and
therefore, is a cause of a violation of the town’s NPDES permit or of the
prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance with any of the
following statutory/regulatory provisions or permits issued thereunder, or any
more stringent state or local regulations: § 405 of the Act; the Solid Waste
Disposal Act, including Title II, commonly referred to as the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), 42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq.; the Clean Air
Act; the Substances Control Act; and the Marine Protection, Research and
Sanctuaries Act, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1401 et seq.
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTOR. A contributor that has: a flow of more than 25,000
gallons per average workday; has in its waste a toxic pollutant in toxic
amounts as defined in § 307 of the Federal Act; has a flow greater than 5% of
the flow carried by the municipal system receiving the waste; or is found by
the town, state or the EPA to have significant impact, either singly or in
combination with other contributing industries, on the wastewater treatment
system, the quality of sludge, the system’s effluent quality, or air emissions
generated by the system.
   MAXIMUM DAILY DISCHARGE LIMITATIONS. Highest allowable daily discharge.
   MEDICAL WASTE. Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood
products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes and dialysis
wastes.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond lake or other body of
surface or groundwater.
   NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD or PRETREATMENT STANDARD. Any
regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in
accordance with § 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1347) which applies to
a specific category (SIC No.) of industrial users and specifies quantities or
concentrations of pollutants which may be discharged.
   NATIONAL PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARDS or PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD.
Any regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in
accordance with § 307(b) of the Act and 40 C.F.R. § 403.5 and includes specific
prohibitions or limits as developed by a POTW, either as a requirement of an
approved POTW pretreatment program or an NPDES Permit.
   NON-CONTACT COOLING WATER. Water used for cooling that does not come into
direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste product or
finished product.
   NPDES PERMIT. National pollutant discharge elimination system permit,
setting forth conditions for the discharge of any pollutant or combination of
pollutants to the navigable waters of the United States pursuant to § 402 of
the Act.
   NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to health of offensive to the senses
or an obstruction to the free use of property so as to interfere with the
comfort of enjoyment of life or property.
   PASS THROUGH. A discharge that exits the POTW into waters of the state in
quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any requirement of
the town’s NPDES permit, including an increase in the magnitude or duration of
a violation.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity or any other legal entity; or their legal representatives, agents or
assigns. This definition includes all federal, state and local governmental
entities.
   pH. A measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a solution, expressed in
standard units.
   POLLUTANT. Dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, filter backwash,
sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, medical wastes, chemical wastes,
biological materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discarded
equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt, municipal, agricultural and industrial
wastes, and certain characteristics of wastewater, e.g., pH, temperature, TSS,
turbidity, color, BOD, COD, toxicity or odor.
   POLLUTION. An alteration of the quality of the waters of the state by waste
to a degree which unreasonably affects such waters for beneficial uses or
facilities which serve such beneficial uses. The human-made or human-induced
alteration for the chemical, physical biological, and radiological integrity of
water.
   PREMISES. A parcel of real estate including any single improvement thereon
which is determined by the Board to be a single user for purposes of receiving,
using and payment for service. Any additional improvement on the same parcel of
real estate which is determined by the Council to be a user shall be separately
connected to the sewerage for the purpose of receiving, using and payment for
service.
   PRETREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater prior to, or in lieu of, introducing such pollutants into the POTW.
This reduction or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical or
biological processes; by process changes; or by other means, except by diluting
the concentration of the pollutants unless allowed by an applicable
pretreatment standard.
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment inposed on a user, other than a pretreatment standard.
   PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS or PROHIBITED DISCHARGES. Absolute
prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances.
   PROPER OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. Procedures executed in a prudent, cost-
effective and workmanlike manner which achieve the highest and/or required
effluent quality of industrial discharge attainable in conformance with the
best available technology and practices. PROPER OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
requirements include avoidance of operational error, adherence to manual
instruction, preventive maintenance, avoidance of careless or improper
operation, neat accurate sampling, analysis and records retention; storage of
process chemicals, lubricants, solvents and the like, in a safe and organized
manner, avoidance of accidental spillage, keeping operating logs and any other
activities which produce the desired effluent quality.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and is controlled by public authority.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS or POTW. A “treatment works,” as defined by §
212 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1292) that is owned by the town. This definition
includes any devices or systems used in the collection, storage, treatment,
recycling and reclamation of sewage or industrial wastes of a liquid nature and
any conveyances that convey wastewater to a treatment plant.
   RECEIVING STREAM. The watercourse, stream or body of water receiving the
waters finally discharged from the wastewater treatment plant.
   SANITARY BUILDING DRAIN. The lowest horizontal piping of the sanitary
drainage system inside the walls of any building, which receives the discharge
from soil or waste stacks and branches and conveys the same to a point three
feet outside the building walls where it connects with its respective building
sewer.
   SANITARY SEWAGE. The waste from water closets, urinals, lavatories, sinks,
bathtubs, showers, basement drains, household laundries, garage floor drains,
bars, soda fountains, cuspidors, refrigerator drips, drinking fountains and all
other water-carried wastes except industrial wastes.
   SEPTIC TANK WASTE. Any sewage from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers and septic tanks.
   SEWAGE. Human excrement and gray water (household showers, dishwashing
operations and the like).
   SEWAGE WORKS. Sewers, wastewater treatment plant, sewerage system and any
associated structures or equipment. Also known as POTW.
   SLUG LOAD or SLUG. Any discharge at a flow rate or concentration that could
cause a violation of the prohibited discharges as presented in this subchapter,
including any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration
longer than five minutes more than five times the average 24-hour concentration
of flow during the normal operation and shall adversely affect the sewage
works.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CODE (SIC). A classification pursuant to the Standard
Industrial Classification Manual issued by the Executive Office of the
President, Office of Management and Budget, 1972.
   STANDARD METHODS. The laboratory procedures set forth in the latest edition,
at the time of analysis, of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater, prepared and published jointly by the American Public Health
Association, the American Water Works Association and the Water Environment
Federation.
   STORMWATER. Water resulting from rain, melting or melted snow, hail or
sleet.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The person designated by the town to supervise the operation
of the POTW, and who is charged with certain duties and responsibilities by
this subchapter, or a duly authorized representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total suspended matter that floats on the surface of,
or is suspended in, water, wastewater or other liquid, and that is removable by
laboratory filtering.
   USER. Any person that discharges, causes or permits the discharge of
wastewater into the sewerage system.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
   WASTEWATER. Liquid and water-carried industrial wastes and sewage from
residential dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial and manufacturing
facilities, and institutions, whether treated or untreated, which are
contributed to the POTW.
   WASTEWATER CONSTITUENTS AND CHARACTERISTICS. The individual chemical,
physical, bacteriological and radiological parameters, including volume, flow
rate and such other parameters that serve to define, classify or measure the
contents, quality, quantity and strength of wastewater.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or TREATMENT PLANT. The portion of the POTW that
is designed to provide treatment of municipal sewage and industrial waste.
(Ord. 624, passed 9-3-1996)
§ 55.24 PUBLIC USE OF SEWERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   General regulations.
      (1)   This subchapter sets forth uniform requirements for the users of
the publicly owned treatment works (POTW), and enables the town to comply with
all applicable state and federal laws required by the Clean Water Act of 1977
and the General Pretreatment Regulations (40 C.F.R. Part 403).
      (2)   The objectives of this subchapter are:
         (a)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipality
wastewater system which will interfere with the normal operation of the system
or contaminate the resulting sludge;
         (b)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the POTW which do
not receive adequate treatment in the POTW, and which will pass through the
system into receiving waters of the atmosphere or otherwise be compatible with
the system; and
         (c)   To improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewaters
and sludge from the system.
   (B)   Use of public sewers required.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to
be deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property with the
town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said town, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or objectionable waste.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said town, any wastewater or
other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this subchapter.
      (3)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct
or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of wastewater.
      (4)   The owner(s) of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the town
and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located
or may in the future be located a public sanitary sewer of the sewage works, is
hereby required at the owner(s) expense to install suitable toilet facilities
therein, and to connect such facilities via the building sewer (through and
including a suitable septic tank) the proper public sewer in accordance with
the provisions of this subchapter, within 90 days after date of official notice
to do so, provided that said public sewer is within 100 feet of the property
line. As a condition of connection to a public sewer, the owner(s) shall grant
a right of access easement to the septic tank to the sewage works for the
purpose of cleaning and inspection.
   (C)   Note. The use of the word “shall” indicates a mandatory condition. The
use of the word “may” indicates a discretionary condition.
(Ord. 624, passed 9-3-1996) Penalty, see §
55.99
§ 55.25 PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provision of §
55.24(B)(4), the building sewer shall be connected to a private wastewater
disposal system complying with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private wastewater disposal
system the owner(s) shall first obtain a written permit signed by the
Superintendent. The application for such permit shall be made on a form
furnished by the Clerk-Treasurer, which the applicant shall supplement by any
plans, specifications, and other information as are deemed necessary by the
Superintendent. A permit and inspection fee in an amount to be determined from
time to time by the Town Council shall be paid to the Clerk-Treasurer at the
time the application is filed.
   (C)   A permit for a private wastewater disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
Superintendent. The Superintendent shall be allowed to inspect the work at any
stage of construction, and in any event, the applicant for the permit shall
notify the Superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection, and
before any underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made
within 120 hours of the receipt of notice by the Superintendent.
   (D)   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private wastewater
disposal system shall comply with all provisions of the county ordinances, as
amended and superseded. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to
discharge to any natural outlet directly or indirectly via field tile, storm
drain or any other conveyance other than a public sanitary sewer.
   (E)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private wastewater disposal system, as provided in division (D) above, a
direct connection shall be made to the public sewer within 90 days in
compliance with this subchapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar
private wastewater disposal facilities shall be cleaned of sludge, and if not
used as a component of the building sewer, filled with suitable material.
   (F)   The owner(s) shall operate and maintain the private wastewater
disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the
town or its sewage works.
   (G)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the town.
(Ord. 624, passed 9-3-1996)
§ 55.26 BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No unauthorized person(s) shall uncover, make any connections or
disturb any public sewer or appurtenances thereof without first obtaining a
written permit from the Superintendent. Said permission shall be subject to the
existence of sufficient hydraulic and/or treatment capacities of the sewerage
and/or waste water treatment facilities as determined by the sewage works.
   (B)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits: for residential
and commercial service; and for service to establishments producing industrial
wastes. In either case, the owner(s) or his or her agent shall make application
on a special form furnished by the sewage works. The permit application shall
be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information considered
pertinent in judgment of the Superintendent, a permit and inspection fee of $25
for a residential or commercial building sewer permit and $50 for an industrial
building sewer permit shall be paid to the sewage works at the time the
application is filed.
   (C)   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection
of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner(s). The owner(s) shall
indemnify the sewage works from any loss or damage that may directly or
indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
   (D)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot, and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the front
building may be extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one
building sewer, but the sewage works does not and will not assume any
obligation or responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from any such
single connection aforementioned.
   (E)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to all criteria of this
subchapter. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the ASTM
and WPCF Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   (F)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In any buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (G)   (1)   No person(s) shall make connection of roof down spouts,
foundation drains, areaway drains, sump pumps, basement or yard drains, or
other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a building sewer which in
turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
      (2)   Any such connection to a private sewage disposal system which
existed prior to the availability of public sewers shall be removed from the
building sewer prior to connection with the public sewer.
   (H)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the town, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the ASTM and the WPCF Manual of Practice No. 9.
All such connections shall be made gas-tight and water-tight and verified by
proper testing. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must
be approved by the Superintendent before installation.
   (I)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection
to the public sewer. The connection and testing shall be made under the
supervision of the Superintendent or his or her representative. The applicant
shall provide access to all structures (and areas of structures) to the
Superintendent for the purpose of establishing compliance with division (G)
above.
   (J)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the town.
(Ord. 624, passed 9-3-1996) Penalty, see §
55.99
§ 55.27 USE OF THE PUBLIC SEWERS.
   (A)   No person(s) shall discharge or cause to be discharged any unpolluted
waters, such as stormwater, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, sump
pumps, basement or yard drain, or cooling water to any sewer, except stormwater
runoff from limited areas, which stormwater may be polluted at times, may be
discharged to the sanitary sewer by permission of the Superintendent.
   (B)   Stormwater other than that exempted under division (A) above, and all
other unpolluted drainage, shall be discharged to such sewers as are
specifically designated storm sewers to a natural outlet approved by the
Superintendent and other regulatory agencies. Unpolluted industrial cooling
water or process waters may be discharged, on approval of the Superintendent,
to a storm sewer or natural outlet.
   (C)   No person(s) shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (2)   Any waters containing toxic substance or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes to injure or interfere with any waste treatment process including, but
not limited to, causing the sewage works to violate its NPDES permit,
constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create
any hazard in the receiving waters of the wastewater treatment plant;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.0 or higher than 9.0,
or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and personnel of the wastewater works; or
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the wastewater facilities such as, but not limited to,
ashes, bones, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure,
hair and fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers and the
like, either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
   (D)   The following described substances, materials, waters or waste shall
be limited in discharges to municipal systems to concentrations or quantities
which will not harm either the sewers, wastewater treatment process or
equipment, will not have an adverse effect on the receiving stream, or will not
otherwise endanger lives, limb, public property or constitute a nuisance. The
Superintendent may set limitations lower than the limitations established in
the regulations below if in his or her opinion such more severe limitations are
necessary to meet the above objectives. In forming his or her opinion as to the
acceptability, the Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as
the quantity of subject waste in relation to flows and velocities in the
sewers, the wastewater treatment process employed, capacity of the wastewater
treatment plant, degree of treatability of the waste in the wastewater
treatment plant, and other pertinent factors. The limitations or restrictions
on materials or characteristics of waste or wastewaters discharged to the
sanitary sewer which shall not be violated without approval of the
Superintendent are as follows:
      (1)   Pollutants that create a fire or explosive hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, waste streams with a closed-cup flashpoint of
less than 140°F (60°C) using the test methods specified in 40 C.F.R. § 261.21;
      (2)   Wastewater having a pH less than 5.0 or more than 9.0 or otherwise
causing corrosive structural damage to the POTW or equipment;
      (3)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shaving, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, grease, whole blood, manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails, paper, dishes, cups, milk containers and the like, with
whole or ground by garbage grinders;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing suspended solids or dissolved
solids of such character and quantity that unusual provision, attention and
expense would be required to handle such materials at the wastewater treatment
plant, its pumping stations or other facilities;
      (5)   Pollutants, including oxygen-demanding pollutants (BOD, ammonia
nitrogen and the like), released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant
concentration which, either singly or by interaction with other pollutants,
will cause interference with the POTW;
      (6)   Wastewater having a temperature greater than 150°F (65°C), or which
will inhibit biological activity in the treatment plant resulting in
interference, but no case wastewater that causes the temperature at the
introduction into the treatment plant to exceed 104°F (40°C);
      (7)   Petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oil or products of mineral
oil origin, in amounts (in excess of 25 mg/l) that will cause interference or
pass through;
      (8)   Pollutants that result in the presence of toxic gasses, vapors or
fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems as defined in the Occupational Safety and Health Act, 29 U.S.C.
§§ 660 et seq.;
      (9)   Trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points designated
by the Superintendent in accordance with §
55.25;
      (10)   Noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, solids or other wastewater
which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are sufficient to
create a public nuisance or a hazard to quality of life, or to prevent entry
into the sewers for maintenance or repair;
      (11)   Wastewater which imparts color that cannot be removed by the
treatment process such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable tanning
solutions, which consequently impart color to the treatment plant’s effluent,
thereby violating the town’s NPDES permit (IN 0024449);
      (12)   Wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes except in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (13)   Stormwater, surface water, ground water, artesian well water, roof
runoff, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, de-ionized
water, non-contact cooling water, and unpolluted wastewater, unless
specifically authorized by the Superintendent;
      (14)   Sludges, screenings or other residues from the pretreatment of
industrial wastes;
      (15)   Medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by the
Superintendent in a wastewater discharge permit;
      (16)   Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources,
the treatment plant’s effluent to fail a toxicity test or to be unable to meet
NPDES limitations;
      (17)   Detergents, surface-active agents or other substances that may
cause excessive foaming in the POTW;
      (18)   Wastewater causing two readings on an explosion hazard meter at
the point of discharge into the POTW, within the collection system, or at any
point in the POTW;
      (19)   Any wastewater which causes a hazard to human life or creates a
public nuisance. When the Superintendent determines that a user(s) is
contributing to the POTW and of the enumerated substances in such amounts as to
interfere with the operation of the POTW, the Superintendent shall:
         (a)   Advise the user(s) of the impact of the contribution of the
POTW; and
         (b)   Require pretreatment and/or procedures to correct the
interference with the POTW and eliminate the prohibited discharge.
      (20)   Any water or wastes subject to the categorical pretreatment
standards pursuant to 40 C.F.R. § 403;
      (21)   Any water or waste exceeding the following parameters:
 
BOD     200 mg/l
TSS     250 mg/l
Ammonia 25 mg/l
 
      (22)   Pollutants, substances or wastewater prohibited by this section
must not be processed or stored in such a manner that they could be discharged
to the POTW.
   (E)   (1)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in division (D) above, and which in the judgment
of the Superintendent, may have a deleterious effect upon the wastewater
facilities, processes, equipment or receiving waters, or which otherwise create
a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the Superintendent may:
         (a)   Reject the wastes;
         (b)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
         (c)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge;
         (d)   Require payment to cover added cost of handling and treating the
wastes not covered by existing sewer charges under the provisions of §
55.04; and/or
         (e)   Require repayment of all costs associated with the sampling and
the testing the waste stream at a certified laboratory.
      (2)   When considering the above alternatives, the Superintendent shall
give consideration to the economic impact of each alternative on the
discharger. If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent.
   (F)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be installed in all new and
existing establishments when they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing floatable grease in excessive amounts or any other
flammable wastes, sand or other harmful ingredients as specified in division
(D) above. Such interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters
or dwelling units.
      (1)   All interceptors shall be the type and size as recommended by the
standards set forth by the National Plumbing Code.
      (2)   All interceptors shall be installed by qualified persons and
according to the standards set forth by the National Plumbing Code.
      (3)   The installation of such interceptors shall take place no later
than 90 days from the adoption of this amendment to this division (F).
      (4)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner of the establishment to
maintain and keep an accurate record of service dates, as well as, disposal
methods for such interceptors.
      (5)   The removal and hauling of any said wastes shall be pursuant to the
current laws of the state, and any amendments thereto and performed by a
licensed waste hauler as required by law.
   (G)   Where pretreatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided or
require for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in
satisfactory and effective operation by the owner(s) at his or her expense.
   (H)   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property served
by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable
structure together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the
wastes. Such structure, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
Superintendent. The structure shall be installed by the owner at his or her
expense an shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible at
all times.
   (I)   The Superintendent may require a user of sewer services to provide
information needed to determine compliance with this subchapter. These
requirements may include:
      (1)   Wastewater discharge peak rate and volume over a specified time
period;
      (2)   Chemical analyses of wastewaters;
      (3)   Information on raw materials, processes and products affecting
wastewater volume and quality;
      (4)   Quantity and disposition of specific liquid, sludge, oil, solvent
or other materials important to sewer use control;
      (5)   A plot plan of sewers of the user’s property showing sewer and
pretreatment facility location;
      (6)   Details of wastewater pretreatment facilities; and
      (7)   Details of systems to prevent and control the losses of materials
through spills to the municipal sewers.
   (J)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of water
and wastes to which reference is made in this subchapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association.
Sampling methods, location, times, durations and frequencies are to be
determined on an individual basis subject to approval by the Superintendent.
   (K)   (1)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the sewage works and
any user whereby a waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by
the sewage works for treatment.
      (2)   Any wastes described in divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2) are precluded
from such agreements.
(Ord. 624, passed 9-3-1996; Ord. 2009-750, passed 10-27-2009) Penalty, see §
55.99
§ 55.28 DAMAGE TO PUBLIC SEWERS.
   (A)   No person(s) shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage; destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the wastewater facilities.
   (B)   Any person(s) violating this provision shall be subject to immediate
arrest under charge of disorderly conduct, criminal mischief and theft.
(Ord. 624, passed 9-3-1996) Penalty, see §
55.99
§ 55.29 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   (A)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the sewage
works bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter
all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling and testing pertinent to discharge to the community system in
accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   The Superintendent or other duly authorized employees are authorized
to obtain information concerning industrial processes which have a direct
bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the wastewater collection
system. The industry may withhold information considered confidential. The
industry must establish that the revelation to the public of the information in
question might result in an advantage to competitors.
   (C)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) above, the Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the
sewage works shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises
established by the company, and the company shall be held harmless for injury
or death to the sewage works employees, and the sewage works shall indemnify
the company against loss or damage to its property by sewage works employees
and against liability claims and demand for personal injury or property damage
asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging and sampling
operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of the company
to maintain safe conditions as required in §
55.27(H).
   (D)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the sewage
works, bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to
enter all private properties through which the sewage works holds a duly
negotiated easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of
the wastewater facilities lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent
work, if any on said easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms
of the duly negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 624, passed 9-3-1996)
§ 55.30 VALIDITY.
   (A)   All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby
repealed.
   (B)   The invalidity of any section, clause, sentence or provision of this
subchapter shall not affect the validity of any other part of this subchapter
which can be given effect without such invalid
(Ord. 624, passed 9-3-1996)
§ 55.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person found to be violating any provision of §§
55.20 through
55.30, except §
55.28, shall be served by the sewage works, with written notice stating the
nature of the violation, and providing a reasonable time limit for the
satisfactory corrections thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time
stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
      (2)   Any person who shall continue any violation (other that a violation
of §
55.27) beyond the time limit provided for in division (B)(1) above, shall be
subject to a fine of no less than $50, and not exceeding $2,500 for each
violation. Each day in which any such violation shall continue shall be deemed
a separate violation.
      (3)   Any person violating any of the provision of this subchapter shall
become liable to the sewage works for any expense, loss or damage occasioned
the sewage works by reason of such violation.
   (C)   (1)   Any person violating or suspected of violating §
55.27 shall be subjected to a penalty of $50 per month (or fraction thereof in
which the violation occurs) per billing account. This penalty shall be imposed
beginning the month immediately following passage and adoption of this
subchapter.
      (2)   A person may avoid payment of said penalty by consenting to an
inspection described in §
55.26(I) for the purpose of establishing compliance with §
55.27(A).
      (3)   A person consenting to such an inspection and found in violation
shall be given 90 days to comply with §
55.27(A) without being subject to penalty.
(Ord. 624, passed 9-3-1996)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   OFF-ROAD VEHICLES; GOLF CARTS
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Erection of traffic control signs and devices; type; condition of
enforcement
   
70.03   Applicability; publicly owned vehicles; authorized emergency vehicles
   
70.04   Animals and animal drawn vehicles; applicability
   
70.05   General applicability
   
70.06   Speed limits
   
70.07   Stop required when necessary to avoid obstructing intersection or
crosswalk
   
70.08   Vehicle accident reports
   
70.09   Operation of carriages
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ALLEY. Any maintained thoroughfare designed and constructed primarily for
the use of service, or from which entry is made to the rear entrance of the
majority of adjoining residences or businesses.
      MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle having a saddle for the use of the rider
and designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the
ground, but excluding a tractor.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle or trailer designed and used as a
travel trailer, camper, motor home, tent trailer, boat, boat trailers,
snowmobiles, snowmobile trailers, camping trailers and for any similar purpose.
      VEHICLE. Any device, including a bicycle, in or upon which any person or
property is or may be transported or drawn upon a street or highway, except any
devices other than bicycles moved by human power.
   (B)   All other terms shall be construed to have the same meanings as
defined therefor in I.C. 9-13-2.
(1984 Code, § 7-1-1)
§ 70.02 ERECTION OF TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNS AND DEVICES; TYPE; CONDITION OF
ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Whenever any traffic control regulation is imposed by this title with
respect to any designated intersection, portion of street or other area and any
of the following, it shall be the duty of the Town Superintendent or other
officer so directed by the Town Council to erect and maintain at such locations
standard traffic control signs, signals or devices in accordance with the
Uniform Traffic Control Manual of the state:
      (1)   Designates a street to be one-way;
      (2)   Regulates the speed of vehicles in any manner different from the
prima facie speed limit applicable by statute;
      (3)   Designates a stop intersection;
      (4)   Restricts use of a street as to size, weight or type of vehicle;
      (5)   Regulates or prohibits the turning of vehicles;
      (6)   Restricts the parking, stopping or standing of vehicles; or
      (7)   Is any other traffic regulation adopted under specific authority of
I.C. Title 9.
   (B)   In the case of any regulation which is general in character and not
made to pertain to any particular intersection, portion of street or other
designated location, the Town Superintendent may cause appropriate signs to be
erected at such places wherein the Town Marshal finds that failure of persons
to be informed of and to observe the applicable regulation, and for such
regulation to be properly enforced, creates a substantial traffic hazard,
traffic congestion or public inconvenience.
   (C)   No provision of this title for which signs are required shall be
enforced against an alleged violator if at the time and place of the alleged
violation an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently legible
to be seen by an ordinarily observant person; however, except as provided in
this section, whenever a particular section does not state that signs are
required, such section shall be effective without signs being erected to give
notice thereof.
(1984 Code, § 7-1-2) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 APPLICABILITY; PUBLICLY OWNED VEHICLES; AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   The drivers of publicly owned vehicles or authorized emergency vehicles
shall be exempt from the regulations imposed under this title to the same
degree, and subject to the same stipulations and limitations, as such drivers
are exempted from state traffic laws and regulations under I.C. 9-21-1-
6 through 9-21-1-8.
(1984 Code, § 7-1-3)
§ 70.04 ANIMALS AND ANIMAL DRAWN VEHICLES; APPLICABILITY.
   Every person riding an animal or driving any animal drawing a vehicle upon a
roadway shall be subject to the provisions of this title, applicable to the
driver of any vehicle, except those provisions of this title which by their
nature cannot have application.
(1984 Code, § 7-1-4)
§ 70.05 GENERAL APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this title refer to the operation of vehicles on the
streets of the town, except where a different place is specifically referred to
in a given section.
(1984 Code, § 7-1-5)
§ 70.06 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   Except as hereafter provided in this chapter with respect to any town
street or other publicly maintained vehicular thoroughfare, or as otherwise
fixed and posted by the State Department of Highways with respect to any state-
maintained route passing through the town, the presumptive or prima facie speed
limits as set forth in I.C. 9-21-5-1 through 9-21-5-5 shall apply and be
enforced on all public ways within the town, as follows, whether or not signs
are posted:
      (1)   In any urban district of the town (as defined by I.C. 9-13-2-193,
as amended), the speed limit is 30 mph; and
      (2)   In any other area, the speed limit is 55 mph.
   (B)   Any person violating a speed limit as described in this section shall
be cited and prosecuted for a violation of state law, and liable for penalties
as provided by law or in accordance with a schedule of judgments fixed by the
court of jurisdiction.
(1984 Code, § 7-3-1) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.07 STOP REQUIRED WHEN NECESSARY TO AVOID OBSTRUCTING INTERSECTION OR
CROSSWALK.
   No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicle without obstructing the passage of other vehicles or
pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic control signal indication to proceed.
(1984 Code, § 7-4-1) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.08 VEHICLE ACCIDENT REPORTS.
   (A)   This section is made pursuant to the corporate powers of the town,
including I.C. 36-1-4-11 and I.C. 36-5-2-9.
   (B)   The Town Marshal, his or her lawful deputies or any town
administrative employee shall charge a fee of $3 per copy for each vehicle
accident report prepared by the town enforcement officers and said monies
received by the town shall be deposited in a fund designated as “The Accident
Report Fund”.
(Ord. 542, passed - -)
§ 70.09 OPERATION OF CARRIAGES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CARRIAGE. Any non-motorized vehicle pulled or propelled by animal labor.
      STREET. Any street, alley, lane, avenue, court, or other vehicular public
right-of-way within the town.
   (B)   Manure bags required. No person operate a carriage or cause a carriage
to be operated on any street, unless all animals are fitted and/or equipped
with manure bags. All such manure bags shall be emptied regularly. Manure shall
not be deposited on any public street, alley, sidewalk, or right-of-way.
(Ord. 2013-6, passed 6-10-2013) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this title for which
no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Uniform schedule of traffic violation penalties; liability;
impoundment of unattended vehicles.
      (1)   Violations of the respective provisions of this title shall be
subject to penalties in accordance with the classification of such violation as
described in accordance with the following uniform schedule.
Class of Violation Minimum Penalty Maximum Penalty
Class of Violation                          Minimum Penalty Maximum Penalty
Class 1: Moving Violations and Improper Parking
a) Improper turning                         $10             $20
b) Speeding:
less than 10 mph                            $5              $15
10 mph to 20 mph                            $10             $15
over 20 m.p.h.                              $20             $60
c) Intersection control (stop/yield)        $25             $50
d) One-way violation                        $25             $50
e) Prohibited parking, standing or stopping $10             $20
 
      (2)   The above penalties apply whenever the citation and complaint is
with respect to any traffic regulation, sign or control established by town
ordinance and not by state law or a state authority.
      (3)   Class 1 violations must be administered in accordance with §
31.11(B).
      (4)   In the case of a nonmoving violation when the offending vehicle is
left unattended by a driver, the registered or acknowledged owner of the
vehicle shall be presumed liable for the violation and the citation may be
served by attaching the violator’s copy firmly in a conspicuous place on such
vehicle; however, if any such vehicle is left in such place or for such period
of time as, in the opinion of the enforcement officer, to cause a significant
hazard, obstruction or inconvenience to the public or the owners of adjoining
property, the officer is authorized to impound the offending vehicle and cause
same to be towed away and stored at the owner’s expense.
(1984 Code, § 7-1-6)
   (C)   Any person violating §
70.09 shall be subject to a civil penalty in an amount not less than $50 and
not more than $500 for each violation.
(Ord. 2013-6, passed 6-10-2013)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
Tractors and Special Vehicles
   
71.01   Lug-wheeled vehicles unauthorized on streets
   
71.02   Towing or dragging machinery or equipment on streets
   
71.03   Riding animals or driving vehicles unauthorized on sidewalks
Miscellaneous Traffic Regulations
   
71.15   Quiet zones
   
71.16   U-turns restricted
   
71.17   Interference with processions prohibited; limitation
TRACTORS AND SPECIAL VEHICLES
§ 71.01 LUG-WHEELED VEHICLES UNAUTHORIZED ON STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate any tractor,
traction engine or other vehicle equipped with lugs on wheels, along or upon
any street or alley within the corporate limits of the town.
(1984 Code, § 7-5-1) (Ord. 385, passed 7-3-1944) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.02 TOWING OR DRAGGING MACHINERY OR EQUIPMENT ON STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to pull, tow, drag or haul any piece of
machinery, equipment or other object attached to any tractor, traction engine,
truck or other vehicle, along or upon any street or alley within the corporate
limits of the town, unless the same is being used for the maintenance or repair
of a street or alley in the town; however, this section does not apply to the
hauling of any trailer, nor any object loaded upon such trailer, when the
trailer is properly mounted on pneumatic tires and is designed for normal use
and travel on public streets and highways, unless otherwise specifically
restricted by law or ordinance.
(1984 Code, § 7-5-2) (Ord. 385, passed 7-3-1944) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.03 RIDING ANIMALS OR DRIVING VEHICLES UNAUTHORIZED ON SIDEWALKS.
   No person may ride any beast nor drive any vehicle along or across a
sidewalk, except for the necessary act of crossing at a properly established
driveway or similar vehicular crossing.
(1984 Code, § 7-5-3) (Ord. 385, passed 7-3-1944) Penalty, see §
70.99
MISCELLANEOUS TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
§ 71.15 QUIET ZONES.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating a quiet zone, no person
operating a motor vehicle shall sound the horn or other warning device of such
vehicle except in an emergency.
(1984 Code, § 7-6-1) (Ord. 431, passed 1-16-1956) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.16 U-TURNS RESTRICTED.
   The driver of any vehicle shall not turn such vehicle so as to proceed in
the opposite direction upon any street in a business district and shall not
upon any other street so turn a vehicle unless such movement can be made in
safety, and without interfering with other traffic.
(1984 Code, § 7-6-2) (Ord. 431, passed 1-16-1956) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   I.C. 9-21-8-22 prohibits U-turns under certain conditions, viz., upon a
curve or hill crest where visibility in either direction is less than 750 feet.
This section is, however, more broadly restrictive than the statute, and the
enforcement officer will need to determine in a particular case whether a
violation is one of statute and must be cited as such, or is a violation only
within the scope of the town ordinance. Enforceability of the purely town
restrictions would be doubtful if signs were not posted.
§ 71.17 INTERFERENCE WITH PROCESSIONS PROHIBITED; LIMITATION.
   (A)   No driver of a vehicle shall drive between the vehicles comprising a
funeral or other authorized procession while they are in motion and when such
vehicles are conspicuously designated.
   (B)   This provision shall not apply at intersections where traffic is
controlled by traffic control signs or police officers.
(1984 Code, § 7-6-3) (Ord. 431, passed 1-16-1956) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   I.C. 9-21-13-2 prohibits a nonparticipant from driving between the vehicles
in a funeral procession. The statute does not cover other forms of authorized
processions, e.g., parades and the like. Therefore, the scope of this section
is also broader than the statute and, as with §
71.16, the enforcement officer will need to determine whether the statutory or
town regulation applies to a particular violation.
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   General regulations
   
72.02   General areas where parking restricted; signs
   
72.03   Temporary stopping to load or unload; loading zones
   
72.04   Handicapped parking
 
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   No person may park any vehicle except in compliance with the following
requirements.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to leave vehicles of any kind, when not in use,
standing in any street or alley so as to interfere in the proper use of said
streets and alleys.
   (B)   No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle upon a street in such
a manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of
width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic, except that a
driver may stop temporarily during the actual loading or unloading of
passengers or when necessary in obedience to traffic regulations or traffic
signs or signals, or a police officer.
   (C)   No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in the space between
the property lines.
   (D)   No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a roadway other than
parallel with the edge of the roadway headed in the direction of traffic and
with the wheels of the vehicle adjacent to the edge of the roadway within 12
inches of the curb, where a curb in provided, as required by I.C. 9-21-16-7; or
where no curb is provided, as near as possible and no more than 12 inches from
the outer edge of the roadway, including any improved shoulder areas; however,
upon those streets which have been marked or signed for angle parking, vehicles
shall be parked at the angle to the curb or edge of the roadway indicated by
such marks or signs.
(1984 Code, § 7-2-1) Penalty, see §
72.99
Editor’s note:
   I.C. 9-21-16-1 prohibits parking on paved or traveled portion of a roadway
outside of a business or residence district as defined by I.C. 9-13-2-18 and 9-
13-2-153. The scope of this section is therefore more general than that of the
statute, and the enforcement officer will need to determine in a particular
case whether a violation is one of statute or one only of the town ordinance.
Also note that division (D) above to an extent involves a state rather than
town violation.
§ 72.02 GENERAL AREAS WHERE PARKING RESTRICTED; SIGNS.
   When signs are erected giving notice, no person shall stop or park a vehicle
in any of the following described areas, except to the extent permitted under §
72.03:
   (A)   On narrow streets;
   (B)   In hazardous or congested areas; or
   (C)   On the side of a street adjacent to school property.
(1984 Code, § 7-2-2) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 TEMPORARY STOPPING TO LOAD OR UNLOAD; LOADING ZONES.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any signs to the contrary, a person may stop or park a
vehicle, not to exceed five minutes, for the purpose of loading or unloading
materials, merchandise or passengers at the entrances to churches, schools,
hotels, theaters, bus stations, public meeting places, the county courthouse or
Town Hall.
   (B)   In addition, the Town Council may establish loading zones of such kind
and character and at such places as it deems necessary for the protection of
the general public, and the same shall be marked off and indicated by painted
lines and the words “loading zone”.
   (C)   When a loading zone is so established and marked, no person may park
or stop in such loading zone, except for the legitimate purpose of loading or
unloading passengers or cargo, and then only for such period of time as is
reasonably necessary to do so expeditiously, subject to any more specific time
limits as may be indicated by a sign.
(1984 Code, § 7-2-3) (Ord. 578, passed 12-3-1990) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 HANDICAPPED PARKING.
   (A)    It shall be unlawful for any person to park a motor vehicle which
does not have displayed a handicapped person’s or disabled veteran’s placard,
issued pursuant to I.C. 5-16-9, in a parking space reserved for handicapped
person’s vehicle.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly park in a reserved
handicapped parking space while displaying a placard to which neither he or she
nor his or her passenger is entitled.
   (C)   PHYSICALLY HANDICAPPED PERSON means a person who has been issued a
placard under I.C. 5-16-9 or a handicapped registration plate for a motor
vehicle by the Bureau of Motor Vehicles.
   (D)   The reserved handicapped parking spaces shall be reserved by posting
immediately adjacent to and visible from the spaces a sign bearing the official
international wheelchair symbol.
(Ord. 548, passed 9-2-1986)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.99.
   (B)   Any person violating §
72.04 will be found guilty of a Class C infraction pursuant to I.C. 5-16-9-5.
(Ord. 548, passed 9-2-1986)
CHAPTER 73: OFF-ROAD VEHICLES; GOLF CARTS
Section
   
73.01   Definitions
   
73.02   Purpose
   
73.03   Persons authorized to operate off-road vehicles and golf carts on town
roads
   
73.04   Insurance
   
73.05   Registration/compliance with state law
   
73.06   Restrictions on operation
   
73.07   Operation on town roads
   
73.08   Right to restrict off-road vehicle traffic on designated town roads
   
73.09   Enforcement
   
73.10   Use restricted during festival
 
   
73.99   Penalty
§ 73.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GOLF CART. A four-wheeled motor vehicle originally and specifically designed
and intended to transport one or more individuals and golf clubs for the
purpose of playing the game of golf on a golf course.
   HIGHWAY, ROAD or RIGHT-OF-WAY. The entire width between the boundary lines
of every way maintained by and within the jurisdiction of the town, when any
part thereof is open to the use of the public for purpose of vehicular travel.
   OFF-ROAD VEHICLE. A motor driven vehicle capable of cross country travel
without benefit of a road or trail, on or immediately over land, water, snow,
ice, marsh, swampland or other natural terrain. It includes, but is not limited
to, a multi-wheel drive or low pressure tire vehicle, amphibious machine,
ground effect air cushion vehicle or other means of transportation driving
power from a source other than muscle or wind. It does not include a farm
vehicle being used for farming or a vehicle used for military or law
enforcement purposes, a construction, mining or other industrial related
vehicle used in performance of its common function, a snowmobile, a golf cart,
a registered aircraft or a golf cart and does not include any other vehicle
properly registered by the State Bureau of Motor Vehicles, and any watercraft
which is registered pursuant to state statues.
   OPERATE. To ride in or on and to be in actual physical control of the
operation of an off-road vehicle or golf cart.
   OPERATOR. Any person at least 18 years old, holding a valid Indiana license
to operate a motor vehicle, or a valid license to operate a motor vehicle from
another state.
(Ord. 2009-02, passed 6-18-2009)
§ 73.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is:
   (A)   To authorize persons holding a valid Indiana motor vehicle driver’s
license (or a valid motor vehicle license from another state) to operate off-
road vehicles registered with the State Department of Natural Resources over
and upon town roads;
   (B)   To authorize persons holding a valid state motor vehicle driver’s
license (or a valid motor vehicle license from another state) to operate golf
carts over and upon town roads;
   (C)   To establish rules and regulations for the operation of off-road
vehicles and golf carts over and upon town roads; and
   (D)   To promote the safety for persons and property, responsible enjoyment
in and connected with the use and operation of off-road vehicles, and
understanding consistent with the rights of all the citizens of this town.
(Ord. 2009-02, passed 6-18-2009)
§ 73.03 PERSONS AUTHORIZED TO OPERATE OFF-ROAD VEHICLES AND GOLF CARTS ON TOWN
ROADS.
   (A)   All persons at least 18 years old who hold a valid motor vehicle
driver’s license are hereby authorized to operate a golf cart and/or an off-
road vehicle over and upon town roads under the conditions set forth in this
chapter, and solely for the purpose of reaching a predetermined destination.
   (B)   No person shall operate an off-road vehicle or golf cart on any town
road without a valid motor driver’s license.
(Ord. 2009-02, passed 6-18-2009) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 INSURANCE.
   (A)   Any person who operates an off-road vehicle or golf cart over and upon
town roads shall maintain recreational vehicle liability insurance in the
minimum amount of $100,000 per person and $300,000 per occurrence insuring
against injury to persons and damage to property arising from the use and
operation of such off-road vehicle or golf cart upon town roads.
   (B)   Any person who operates an off-road vehicle over and upon town roads
shall carry proof of such insurance on his or her person at all times when
operating an off-road vehicle on town roads.
(Ord. 2009-02, passed 6-18-2009) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.05 REGISTRATION/COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW.
   An off-road vehicle shall not be operated on a town road unless it is duly
registered with the State Department of Natural Resources and meets all of the
standards, requirements, and regulations set for in I.C. 14-16-1-1 et seq.
(Ord. 2009-02, passed 6-18-2009) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.06 RESTRICTIONS ON OPERATION.
   No person shall operate a golf cart or off-road vehicle:
   (A)   At a rate of speed greater than is reasonable and proper having due
regard for conditions then existing;
   (B)   While under the influence of intoxicating liquor or unlawfully under
the influence of narcotic or other habit forming or dangerous depressant or
stimulant drug;
   (C)   During the hours from one-half hour after sunset to one-half hour
before sunrise without displaying a lighted headlight and lighted tail-light;
   (D)   On or across a cemetery or burial ground;
   (E)   On a railroad track or railroad right-of-way, except railroad
personnel in performance of their duties;
   (F)   In a forest nursery, a planting area or public land posted or
reasonably identified as an area of forest or plant reproduction and when
growing stock may be damaged;
   (G)   On the frozen surface of public waters within:
      (1)   One hundred feet of an individual not in or upon a vehicle not in
or upon a vehicle; or
      (2)   One hundred feet of a fishing shanty or shelter except at speed of
not more than five mph.
   (H)   Unless the vehicle is equipped with a muffler in good working order
and in constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise and annoying
smoke;
   (I)   Within 100 feet of a dwelling between 8:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. except
on the individual’s own property or property under the individual’s control or
as an invited guest;
   (J)   On any property without the consent of the landowner;
   (K)   While transporting on or in the vehicle a firearm unless the firearm
is:
      (1)   Unloaded; and
      (2)   Securely encased or equipped with and made inoperative by a
manufactured key locked trigger housing mechanism.
   (L)   An individual shall not operate a vehicle while a bow is present in or
on the vehicle if the nock of an arrow is in position on the string of the bow;
and/or
   (M)   Unless the off-road vehicle or golf cart is equipped with a lighted
taillight, the off-road vehicle or golf cart shall display reflective tape or a
slow moving vehicle emblem on the rear of the off-road vehicle or golf cart.
(Ord. 2009-02, passed 6-18-2009) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.07 OPERATION ON TOWN ROADS.
   A person shall comply with the following rules when operating an off-road
vehicle on a town road.
   (A)   The operator of an off-road vehicle or golf cart shall abide by all
traffic laws governing the operation of motor vehicles in the state, set forth
in I.C. Title 9 and I.C. 14.
   (B)   The operator of an off-road vehicle or golf cart may not cross a town
road or enter upon a town road other than at right angles.
   (C)   The operator of an off-road vehicle or golf cart shall bring his or
her vehicle or cart to a complete stop before proceeding onto or across a town
road and shall yield the right-of-way to traffic.
(Ord. 2009-02, passed 6-18-2009) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.08 RIGHT TO RESTRICT OFF-ROAD VEHICLE TRAFFIC ON DESIGNATED TOWN ROADS.
   (A)   The Town Council may restrict golf cart or off-road vehicular traffic
on town roads by designating such roads as unsuitable for off-road vehicular
traffic or golf carts and by posting signs on such designated roads.
   (B)   It shall be a violation of this chapter to operate an off-road vehicle
or golf cart on any town road so designated and posted.
(Ord. 2009-02, passed 6-18-2009) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.09 ENFORCEMENT.
   Unless otherwise prohibited by state law, all law enforcement officers
having jurisdiction in the town, including officers of the State Department of
Natural Resources, shall have authority to enforce the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 2009-02, passed 6-18-2009)
§ 73.10 USE RESTRICTED DURING FESTIVAL.
   Except as permitted in special events by a law enforcement officer in his or
her official capacity, off-road vehicles shall not be operated on town roads
during the “Covered Bridge Festival”.
(Ord. 2009-02, passed 6-18-2009)
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   A person that operates an off-road vehicle or golf cart in violation of this
chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined an amount no less than $100, but not
to exceed $2,500.
(Ord. 2009-02, passed 6-18-2009)
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      I.   Speed limits
      II.   Through streets
      III.   Stop intersections
      IV.   One-way streets
      V.   Semi-trucks, semi-trailers and commercial motor vehicles
SCHEDULE I: SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   A school zone for the regulation of traffic is hereby established at
the intersections of Beadle Street and Howard Avenue, Beadle Street and Elm
Street, and Beadle Street and Starke Street, and a speed limit of 20 mph is
established along both sides of any of the aforementioned intersecting streets
across which a school crossing has been established and marked, for a distance
of 200 feet in either direction along such street from the school crossing at
all times when children are present.
   (B)   (1)   The reasonable and safe maximum speed limit for the following
streets in the town shall be, as properly authorized by state law, on the basis
of an engineering and traffic investigation relative to special hazards and
safety, as follows:
 
Street                                                              Speed Limit
East Anderson Street                                                15 mph
Howard Avenue from the intersection of U.S. 41 and Howard Avenue to
the intersection of Howard Avenue and Howard Street then proceeding 20 mph
south on Market Street until the intersection of North Market
Street and U.S. 36
Northwood Drive from Valley Drive to Anderson Street                30 mph
Rainbow Drive                                                       15 mph
 
      (2)   Any person violating the speed limit as described above shall be
cited and prosecuted for a Class C infraction.
(1984 Code, § 7-3-2) (Ord. 376, passed 3-17-1941; Ord. 2004-693, passed 9-29-
2004; Ord. 2019-03, passed 10-21-2019)  Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II: THROUGH STREETS.
   The following streets are through streets along the portions indicated, and
where signs are erected a driver must stop before entering or crossing such
streets:
Street(s) Location
Street(s)                       Location
College Street                  From the south side of Howard Avenue to the
                                north side of Ohio Street
                                From the north side of Ohio Street to and
Erie Street                     including East Harris Street to Marshall Avenue
                                to the town limits
High Street                     From the east side of the Bridgeton Road to the
                                town limits
High Street                     From the west side of Market Street to College
                                Street
Jefferson Street                From the north side of York Street to its
                                intersection with Starke Street
                                From the north side of York Street to and
Jefferson Street                including Stark Street, continuing down to the
                                west side of Virginia Street
Market Street                   From the south side of Ohio Street to the town
                                limits
Market Street and Howard Avenue From the north side of Ohio Street to the south
                                side of U.S. Highway No. 41
McCune Avenue                   From the west side of Michigan Street on to
                                Dewey Street
Pennsylvania Street             From the west side of Michigan Street on to the
                                Mecca Road to U.S. Highway No. 41
Virginia Street                 From the north side of York Street to the town
                                limits
 
(1984 Code, § 7-4-2) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE III: STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   At the following described intersections, a driver approaching the
intersection from any direction must stop before entering the intersection when
signs are erected:
      (1)   York Street and Jefferson Street;
      (2)   York Street and Virginia Street;
      (3)   Gould Street and Dewey Street;
      (4)   Gould Street and Isabel Street;
      (5)   McCune Avenue and Isabel Street;
      (6)   College Street and West Ohio Street;
      (7)   Michigan Street and York Street;
      (8)   Parke Street and North Erie Street; and
      (9)   North Virginia Street and Indiana Street.
   (B)   The following intersections are hereby designated as stop
intersections:
      (1)   On Oak Drive in the town at the T intersection of Oak Drive and
Sycamore Street;
      (2)   The following intersection is designated as a “stop intersection”
for northbound and southbound traffic: College Street at Elm Street;
      (3)   The intersection of Elm Street and Beadle Street; and, Elm Street
and College Street are hereby designated as stop intersections for westbound
traffic on Elm Street; and
      (4)   County Road 80 East at the intersection of Erie and High Streets,
all in the town.
   (C)   All traffic is required to come to a complete stop before entering a
“stop intersection”.
   (D)   Anyone violating this schedule is guilty of a Class C infraction
pursuant to I.C. 9-21-4-19, and as such, could be fined up to $500.
(1984 Code, § 7-4-3) (Ord. 1997-629, passed 5-20-1997; Ord. 1999-642, passed 1-
5-1999; Ord. 1999-653, passed 11-23-1999; Ord. 2004-694, passed 10-5-2004; Ord.
2004-696, passed 12-7-2004; Ord. 2004-697, passed 12-7-2004; Ord. passed - -
2011)
SCHEDULE IV: ONE-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   The following are designated as one-way streets:
 
Beadle Street    South, for vehicular traffic from the intersection of Elm
                 Street to the intersection of York Street
Elm Street       West, for vehicular traffic from the intersection of Michigan
                 Street to the intersection of College Street
Primrose Drive   Starting on the west entrance of said street and exiting to
                 the east
Shadeland Avenue Southbound between the intersections of Howard Avenue and York
                 Street
 
   (B)   This schedule shall be in full force and effect upon passage and
approval by the Town Council, upon the posting of signs pursuant to the Indiana
Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways, and upon
legal publication thereof.
   (C)   Anyone violating this schedule is guilty of a Class C infraction
pursuant to I.C. 9-21-4-19, and as such, could be fined up to $500.
(Ord. 1999-653, passed 11-23-1999; Ord. 2001-669, passed 11-20-2001; Ord. 2019-
02, passed 10-21-2019)
SCHEDULE V: SEMI-TRUCKS, SEMI-TRAILERS AND COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Commercial motor vehicle shall mean any motor vehicle or combination
of motor vehicles used in commerce to transport property if the motor vehicle:
      (1)   Has a gross weight rating of at least 26,001 pounds; or
      (2)   Has a gross combination weight rating of at least 26,001 pounds,
including a towed unit with a gross vehicle weight rating of more than 10,000
pounds.
   (B)   Semi-trucks, semi-trailers, and all other commercial motor vehicles
are hereby prohibited from traveling on the following streets or roads located
within the town:
 
Anderson Street Except for that part of Anderson Street located west of
                Blacksmill Road
Rainbow Drive
Martin Street   Except for that part of Martin Street located west of Hughes
                Street
 
   (C)   Motor vehicle traffic shall not exceed the following posted weight
limits at all times:
 
Street                                                            Weight Limit
Howard Avenue from the intersection of U.S. 41 and Howard Avenue
to the intersection of Howard Avenue and Howard Street then       15 tons
proceeding south on Market Street until the intersection of North
Market Street and U.S. 36
 
(Ord. 2012-4, passed 3-12-2012; Ord. 2020-01A, 6-15-2020)  Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 75: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Limited-time parking
      
II.   Seasonal parking restrictions
      
III.   Trucks and buses; special restrictions
      
IV.   Parking prohibited
      
V.   Loading zones
      
VI.   Snow emergency
      
VII.   Street cleaning
      
VIII.   Handicapped parking only
      
IX.   Downtown parking
SCHEDULE I: LIMITED-TIME PARKING.
   When signs are erected giving notice thereof in each block or half-block, no
person may park any vehicle there during the time periods indicated for a
longer time than permitted, as follows:
   (A)   Fifteen-minute limit. Parking is limited to 15 minutes in the
following areas between 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., except Sundays and public
holidays: on the west side of Market Street from the north edge of Ohio Street
to the south edge of the curb line at the alley running between the U.S. Post
Office and the Town Public Library.
   (B)   Two-four limit. Parking is limited to two hours in the following areas
between 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., except Sundays and public holidays:
      (1)   On the south side of High Street, from the west edge of Jefferson
Street to the east edge of Market Street;
      (2)   The west side of Market Street from the north edge of High Street
to the south side of Ohio Street;
      (3)   On the west side of Market Street from the north edge of Ohio
Street to the south edge of York Street;
      (4)   On the east side of Market Street from the north edge of Ohio
Street to the south edge of York Street;
      (5)   On the east side of Jefferson Street from the north edge of High
Street to the south edge of York Street;
      (6)   The west side of Jefferson Street from the north edge of Ohio
Street to the south edge of York Street;
      (7)   The center strip on Market Street from the north edge of High
Street to the south edge of Ohio Street; and
      (8)   On the west side of Jefferson Street from the north edge of Ohio
Street to the south edge of York Street.
(1984 Code, § 7-2-4) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II: SEASONAL PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Recreational vehicles. During the month of October of each year, it
shall be unlawful for any person to park any recreational vehicles upon any
street which bounds or runs within the following designated area: on South
College Street from the intersection of West Pennsylvania Street north to the
intersection of North College Street and West York Street, thence east on York
Street to Erie Street, thence south on Erie Street to Pennsylvania Street,
thence west on Pennsylvania Street to South College Street.
Penalty, see §
70.99.
   (B)   Cargo vehicle. During the month of October of each year, it shall be
unlawful for any person to park any cargo vehicle between the hours of 8:00
a.m. to 7:00 p.m. within two blocks of the square around the County Courthouse.
Any person violating this division (B) shall be subject to a fine of up to $50.
In addition, any vehicle found in violation of this division (B) may be towed
and impounded at the owner’s expense.
(1984 Code, § 7-2-5) (Ord. 2000-663, passed 10-3-2000)
SCHEDULE III: TRUCKS AND BUSES; SPECIAL RESTRICTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to park or leave standing any truck or bus along and
upon the following described portions of streets:
   (A)   North Jefferson, Street, between its intersection with Ohio Street and
its intersection with York Street; and
   (B)   North Market Street, between its intersection with Ohio Street and its
intersection with York Street.
(1984 Code, § 7-2-6) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE IV: PARKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person at any time to park or to permit a
vehicle to stand along and upon the following described portions of streets:
the west side of Beadle Street, from Howard Avenue north to the Rockville
Junior-Senior High School, except in compliance with police directions.
Penalty, see §
70.99.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park, or otherwise leave
unattended, a vehicle anywhere on or along the east side of Shadeland Avenue
from the intersection of Elm Street and Shadeland Avenue to the intersection of
Shadeland Avenue and York Street in the town. Violators can be fined an amount
up to $50 for each violation. Vehicles parked in violation of this division (B)
may be towed at the owner’s expense.
   (C)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park, or otherwise leave
unattended, a vehicle anywhere on or along the south side of Dewey Street and
the west side of College Street in the town, beginning at the southeast corner
of the intersection of Dewey and Barton Streets, thence traveling along a curve
in a westerly direction on the south side of Dewey Street and in a northerly
direction on the west side of College Street for a distance of approximately
330 feet.
      (2)   It shall further be unlawful for any person to park, or otherwise
leave unattended, a vehicle anywhere on or along the north side of Dewey Street
and the east side of College Street in the town, beginning at the northwest
corner of the intersection of Dewey and Barton Streets, thence traveling along
a curve in a westerly direction on the north side of Dewey Street and in a
northerly direction on the east side of College Street for a distance of
approximately 470 feet.
      (3)   Violators can be fined an amount up to $50 for each violation.
Vehicles parked in violation of this division (C) may be towed at the owner’s
expense.
(1984 Code, § 7-2-7) (Ord. 1997-630, passed 7-1-1997; Ord. 2008-732, passed - -
2008; Ord. 2009-741, passed 6-9-2009)
SCHEDULE V: LOADING ZONES.
   Fifteen-minute loading zones are hereby established where designated by
signs on the south side of the square and on West Jefferson Street between U.S.
Highway 36 and York Street in the town.
(Ord. 578, passed 12-3-1990) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE VI: SNOW EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Declaration of snow emergency. It shall be the duty of the Town
Superintendent, or if he or she is not available the President of the Town
Council, to declare a snow emergency when conditions are such that the streets
and roadways of the city are likely to become hazardous and impassable or have
become hazardous and impassable.
   (B)   Snow emergency streets. A SNOW EMERGENCY is declared to be a period of
time prior to a forecast by the United States Weather Bureau, during and after
a snow fall, during which vehicular traffic is expected to be particularly
hazardous or congested due to the elements, and during which period of time the
parking of such vehicles could hinder, delay or obstruct the safe flow of
traffic and the proper cleaning, clearing and making safe of certain heavily
traveled public streets of this town, which streets shall be designated snow
control routes and listed and maintained on file in the office of the Clerk-
Treasurer of the town. The streets so designated are:
 
Street           Location
Jefferson Street From High Street to U. S. Hwy 36
High Street      From Jefferson Street to Market Street
Market Street    From High Street to U.S. Hwy 36
U.S. Hwy 36      From Jefferson Street To Market Street
 
   (C)   All vehicles removed to facilitate snow removal. When the a snow
emergency is declared, all automobiles and motor vehicles shall be removed from
the snow emergency streets to facilitate snow removal.
   (D)   Removal of unlawfully parked vehicle. When a snow emergency is
declared notice of such declaration shall be given through the radio station
and other means of public information and it shall be lawful for the Police
Department or the Street Department to have any vehicle parked in violation of
this chapter removed at the owner’s expense.
   (E)   Operation of vehicle during snow emergency. No person shall continue
to operate a motor on the streets and roadways of the city, after being
notified of a snow emergency and after being notified by any member of the
Police or Street Department to vacate the streets and roadways.
   (F)   Penalties.
      (1)   In addition to the expenses involved in towing any vehicle parked
in violation of this chapter the owner of that vehicle shall be fined on
conviction in any amount not exceeding $100.
      (2)   Whoever violates any provision of this schedule shall, in addition
to having his or her car impounded at his or her expense, be fined on
conviction in any amount not to exceed $100.
(Ord. 2005-698, passed 6-21-2005)
SCHEDULE VII: STREET CLEANING.
   (A)   The provisions of this section shall apply to the following sections
of the following streets within the town:
 
Street           Location
High Street      From Jefferson Street to Market Street
Jefferson Street From High Street to U.S. Hwy 36
Market Street    From High Street to U.S. Hwy 36
U.S. Hwy 36      From Jefferson Street To Market Street
 
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to block or interfere with efficient street
sweeping within any of those sections of streets listed in division (A) above
between the hours of 4:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. on any Friday during the months of
March through November of any year. Any of the following acts or omissions
shall constitute the unlawful blocking of or interference with such efficient
street sweeping within the meaning of this section:
      (1)   To initially park any vehicle or leave any vehicle standing within
any such street section between the hours of 4:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. on any
Friday during the months of March through November; and
      (2)   To fail to remove, on or before the hour of 4:00 a.m. on any Friday
during the months of March through November, any vehicle previously parked or
left standing within any such street section prior to such hour of 4:00 a.m.
   (C)   Any vehicle found to be blocked, parked or left standing in violation
of division (B) above may be removed by or at the direction of the Town
Superintendent or any employee of the Street Department or the Police
Department and taken to the nearest garage or other place of safety for storage
until claimed by the owner of the vehicle. The cost and expense of the removal
and storage shall be paid by the owner of such vehicle, who shall be notified
by the Police Department or Town Superintendent of the location of such vehicle
as soon as feasible after such removal.
   (D)   The Town Superintendent shall cause those sections of streets
enumerated in division (A) above to be clearly marked, during the months of
March through November of each year, as “No Parking” areas between the hours 4:
00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. on Fridays, by posting signs to that effect at reasonable
intervals along each of the street sections.
(Ord. 2005-699, passed 6-21-2005)
SCHEDULE VIII: HANDICAPPED PARKING ONLY.
   (A)   The parking space nearest the southwest corner of the Ohio Street and
Market Street intersection on the west side of Market Street, and the parking
space nearest the southwest corner of Ohio Street and Jefferson Street on the
west side of Jefferson Street, are both hereby designated as “Handicapped
Parking Only” spaces.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a motor vehicle which does
not have displayed a handicapped persons or disabled veterans placard, in a
parking space reserved for handicapped persons vehicle only.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly park in a reserved
handicapped parking space while displaying a placard to which neither he or she
nor his or her passenger is entitled.
   (D)   PHYSICALLY HANDICAPPED PERSONS means a person who has been issued a
placard under state law or handicapped registration plate for a motor vehicle.
   (E)   The reserved handicapped parking spaces shall be reserved by posting
immediately adjacent to and visible from the spaces assigned, a sign bearing
the official international wheelchair symbol.
   (F)   Any person violating this schedule will be found guilty of a Class C
infraction pursuant to I.C. 5-16-9-5.
   (G)   This schedule shall be in full force and effect upon passage and
approval by the Town Council, upon the posting of the proper signs, and upon
legal publication thereof.
(Ord. 2001-670, passed 11-20-2001) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE IX: DOWNTOWN PARKING.
   (A)   Downtown traffic area defined. The following area of the town is
hereby defined to be the downtown traffic area regulated by this schedule: the
far outside parking spaces surrounding the Courthouse Square of the following
streets: Ohio Street, Market Street, High Street and Jefferson Street.
   (B)   Overtime parking prohibited. It shall be unlawful and a violation of
this schedule for any person to allow, permit or suffer any motor vehicle owned
or operated by such person to be parked in excess of two hours in the downtown
traffic area within any designated parking space.
   (C)   Hours of enforcement. The provisions of this schedule shall be
enforced on Monday through Friday from 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m., excluding
holidays and election days.
   (D)   Exemptions. The following designated class shall be exempt from the
provisions of this schedule:
      (1)   Jurors called for jury duty at the courthouse;
      (2)   Handicapped persons; and
      (3)   Vehicles parking two days prior to, during, and two days after the
Annual County Covered Bridge Festival held in the town.
   (E)   Violations and penalties. Any individual found removing the parking
attendant marking or moving vehicles in order to avoid enforcement of this
schedule shall be considered in violation of this schedule. Any person who
shall violate any provisions of this schedule shall be subject to the following
penalties.
      (1)   For each violation, pay a penal sum of $15. This sum shall be paid
to the Town Clerk- Treasurer’s office within five calendar days of the date of
the violation. In the event the payment is not made within five calendar days,
the penal sum increases to $25 and the Town Clerk-Treasurer’s office will
forward a letter to the violator, giving them ten calendar days from the date
of the letter to pay said sum. In the event payment is not made, the violator
shall have the option of paying the sum of $50 within 30 days of the violation,
or be summoned to appear in the County Circuit Court and if a violation is
found, be subject to a fine of not less than $50, plus court costs.
      (2)   Any vehicle found in violation of this schedule for two or more
successive days shall be impounded and towed at the violator’s expense.
(Ord. 2009-739, passed - -2009; Ord. 2009-743, passed 7-14-2009)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   CEMETERY REGULATIONS
      
92.   FAIR HOUSING
      
93.   HEALTH; PUBLIC NUISANCES
      
94.   OPEN BURNING; BONFIRES
      
95.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
96.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Keeping of animals other than dogs or cats
   
90.02   Dog regulations; impoundment; fees
   
90.03   Burial of dead animals prohibited
   
90.04   Barking, making noise
Running at Large; Vicious Animals
   
90.15   Animals creating a nuisance
   
90.16   Restraining, impounding animals
   
90.17   Vicious animals
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 KEEPING OF ANIMALS OTHER THAN DOGS OR CATS.
   The keeping and/or harboring of horses, swine, sheep, goats, fowl and any
and all animals, or fowls other than dogs or cats within the corporate limits
of the town is declared to constitute a nuisance. From and after May 18, 1970,
it shall be unlawful for any person, persons, firm, firms, corporation or
corporations to keep or harbor horses, swine, sheep, goats, fowl of any kind or
nature and any and all animals or fowls other than dogs or cats within the
corporate limits of the town.
(1984 Code, § 4-3-1) (Ord. 479, passed 5-18-1970) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02 DOG REGULATIONS; IMPOUNDMENT; FEES.
   This section governs all dogs within the corporate limits of the town:
   (A)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Town Marshal to cause any of the
following described dogs to be captured:
         (a)   Any dog which is more than six months of age, and, after June 15
of any year, on which the township tax has not been paid, or which does not
have a collar of leather, iron, copper, brass or other durable material to
which shall be attached the license check and/or dog tag showing the
aforementioned tax paid;
         (b)   Is running at large unaccompanied by its master or owner or
owner’s agent; or
         (c)   Is more than six months of age and has not been vaccinated
against rabies.
      (2)   Any dog captured in accordance with this division (A) shall be kept
or disposed of in the manner hereafter provided; however, the Town Marshal or
other enforcement officer may immediately destroy, by the safest and most
humane means available, any vicious, ferocious or apparently rabid dog which,
in his or her opinion, cannot be safely captured or held by reasonable and
ordinary means.
   (B)   A dog taken into custody by the Town Marshal shall be disposed of as
follows:
      (1)   If the owner of the dog is known or can be determined within a 24-
hour period from the taking up of the dog, the Town Marshal may hold the dog
for such period, and, subject to the provisions of division (C) below, the
owner may reclaim the dog upon payment to the Clerk-Treasurer of the following
sums, as applicable:
         (a)   Twenty-five dollars per day or portion thereof (or the maximum
per diem fee) for the care and keeping of the dog if the only reason for its
taking up was failure to have a township tax tag; or
         (b)   If the dog was taken up for any other cause, a fee for the care
and keeping of the dog must be paid as follows: $5 on the first occasion of
taking up the dog; $10 for the second taking up; and $25 for all subsequent
times that the same dog is taken up.
      (2)   Subject to the provisions of division (B)(3) below, if the Town
Marshal finds that it is not feasible to hold the dog for 24 hours, or if such
24-hour period has expired, the Town Marshal may:
         (a)   Deliver the dog to the nearest or most convenient municipal,
county or Humane Society pound which will accept the dog, and will agree not to
release the dog to its owner or keeper without the authorization of the
Marshal;
         (b)   Release the dog into the custody and possession of any person
over 18 years of age who pays to the town the fees, owing pursuant to division
(B)(1) above;
         (c)   Sell the dog, the proceeds to be deposited in the General Fund
for the benefit of the town; or
         (d)   Humanely destroy the dog, or authorize its destruction by the
officials of any pound to which it has been delivered.
      (3)   However, notwithstanding any other provision, if the only cause for
taking up the dog was failure to have a township dog tax tag, the Marshal shall
keep or provide for a pound to keep the dog in custody for reclamation by its
owner for a period of not less than 20 days (or the minimum period then
required) before any other disposition is made under division (B)(2) above.
   (C)   No dog taken up hereunder may be released to its owner or keeper
without the authorization of the Marshal, which, shall only be given if:
      (1)   Evidence, is given that the township tax has been paid, if owing;
      (2)   The dog is vaccinated against rabies by a qualified veterinarian,
at the expense of the owner, if not previously vaccinated; and
      (3)   The fees required under division (B)(1) above are paid to the town.
   (D)   In addition to any liability for costs as herein provided, any owner,
keeper or harborer of a dog who permits his or her dog to be in violation of
divisions (A)(1)(a), (A)(1)(b) or (A)(1)(c) above shall be liable for citation,
prosecution and penalties as provided by law for violation of the respective
statutes therein indicated.
(1984 Code, § 4-3-2) (Ord. 495, passed 2-17-1976) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 BURIAL OF DEAD ANIMALS PROHIBITED
   (A)   No person shall bury any dead animal or animals within the corporate
limits of the town.
   (B)   In case any person has buried any dead animal or animals within the
corporate limits of the town, he or she may be required by the Town Marshal to
remove the same without the corporate limits, and in the event of refusal, the
Marshal may so remove the same and recover the costs and expenses thereby
occasioned by action of debt brought against such party making such refusal in
any court of competent jurisdiction.
(1984 Code, § 4-3-3) (Ord. 195, passed 6-27-1881) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 BARKING, MAKING NOISE.
   Any person who owns a dog within the town and permits such dog at any time
to bark or make any noise which disturbs, annoys or interferes with the peace
and enjoyment of the inhabitants shall be guilty of a public nuisance and be
subject to §
90.99.
(Ord. 575, passed 8-21-1990) Penalty, see §
90.99
RUNNING AT LARGE; VICIOUS ANIMALS
§ 90.15 ANIMALS CREATING A NUISANCE.
   No owner shall fail to exercise proper care and control of his or her
animals to prevent them from becoming a public nuisance. Excessive, continuous
or untimely barking, molesting a passerby, chasing vehicles, habitual attacking
of other domestic animals, trespassing upon school grounds, or trespassing upon
private property in such a manner as to damage property, shall be deemed a
nuisance.
(Ord. 2002-674, passed 6-4-2002) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.16 RESTRAINING, IMPOUNDING ANIMALS.
   All dogs and cats shall be kept under restraint. Unrestrained dogs or cats
may be taken by police, and impounded in an animal shelter, and there confined
in a humane manner. Impounded dogs and cats shall be kept for not less than
three days unless reclaimed by their owner. Dogs and cats not claimed by their
owners within three days, or placed in a suitable new home, may be humanely
euthanized by an agency delegated to receive animals by the town.
(Ord. 2002-674, passed 6-4-2002) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.17 VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   The owner of vicious animals shall not suffer or permit the animal to go
unconfined.
   (A)   Owner. Any person, firm, corporation, organization or department
owning, possessing, harboring or having the care and custody of an animal in
the town shall be considered an “owner”.
   (B)   Unconfined vicious animal. A vicious animal is unconfined if the
animal is not securely confined indoors or confined in a securely enclosed and
locked pen, cage or structure upon the premises of the owner of the animal. The
pen or structure must have secure sides and a secure top or bottom attached to
the sides and the sides must be embedded into the ground not less than one foot
if outside and setting on the ground.
   (C)   Vicious animals. Any animal with a known vicious propensity, tendency
or disposition to attack unprovoked, to cause injury to, or otherwise threaten
the safety of human beings or other domestic animals is a vicious animal.
   (D)   Leash and muzzle. The owner of a vicious animal shall not suffer or
permit the animal to go beyond the premises of the owner unless the animal is
securely muzzled and restrained by a secure cage, chain or leash, and under the
physical restraint of a person. The muzzle shall be made in a manner that will
not cause injury to the animal or interfere with its vision or respiration, but
shall prevent it from biting any human or other animal.
   (E)   Noncompliance and impoundment. It shall be unlawful for the owner,
keeper or harborer of a vicious animal to fail to comply with the requirements
set forth in this subchapter. Any vicious animal found to be the subject of a
violation of this subchapter shall be subject to immediate seizure and
impoundment. No animal impounded may be released back to any person without the
permission of the Town Police Chief, which shall only be given upon the payment
of the fines and fees required under §
90.02. In addition to the fines and fees required under §
90.02 any fees required by the local humane shelter must also be paid.
(Ord. 2002-674, passed 6-4-2002) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
90.01 shall be fined in the sum of not less than $10, nor more than $100 for
each violation, and each day a violation continues is a separate offense.
(1984 Code, § 4-3-1)
   (C)   Any person convicted of a violation of §
90.03 shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $100.
(1984 Code, § 4-3-3)
   (D)   Any person violating §
90.04 shall be subject to a fine of not less than $15 and nor more than $25.
   (E)   Any person violating any provision of §§
90.15 through
90.17 shall be deemed guilty of a punishable offense and shall be punished by a
fine of not less than $10, nor more than $200. If a violation shall be
continuing, each day’s violation shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 195, passed 6-27-1881; Ord. 479, passed 5-18-1970; Ord. 575, passed 8-21-
1990; Ord. 2002-674, passed 6-4-2002)
CHAPTER 91: CEMETERY REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   No burials on certain holidays
Memory Garden Cemetery
   
91.15   General provisions
   
91.16   Transfer; cost
   
91.17   Property rights of plot owners
   
91.18   Opening/closing of graves; notice
   
91.19   General regulations
   
91.20   Trees, shrubbery, flowers and decorations
   
91.21   Roadways and re-plotting
   
91.22   Modifications and amendments
   
91.23   Consideration to the lot owner
   
91.24   Enforcement
   
91.25   Other provisions
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 NO BURIALS ON CERTAIN HOLIDAYS.
   (A)   No burials will be conducted at the Rockville Cemetery or Memory
Garden Cemetery on Sundays or on the following holidays:
      (1)   New Year’s Day;
      (2)   Memorial Day;
      (3)   Labor Day;
      (4)   Veteran’s Day;
      (5)   Thanksgiving Day; and
      (6)   Christmas Day.
   (B)   Any burials requested on any of the above mentioned dates, must have
the prior approval of the Town Cemetery Board.
(Ord. passed 11-23-1999)
MEMORY GARDEN CEMETERY
§ 91.15 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The Memory Garden Cemetery Commission, in order to preserve and
maintain uniformity, harmony and beauty, to provide for stability and against
decay and deterioration, to safeguard the sanctity of each lot and grave
against future inefficient care, the Commission reserves for itself, its
successors and assigns, the right to make any and all rules, regulations,
limitations and restrictions that it may deem necessary to protect and provide
for the future welfare of Memory Garden Cemetery, a municipal cemetery of the
town, all of which it binds itself to do.
   (B)   These rules and regulations are subject to change and revision without
notice if experience necessitates a change should be made.
(Ord. 2006-709, passed 3-21-2006)
§ 91.16 TRANSFER; COST.
   (A)   All lots are sold under restrictions and no transfer by conveyance or
gift of any lot or any portion of a lot shall be of any validity without the
consent of the Commission.
   (B)   All lots are sold for cash. Grave lots shall be $300 for town
residents, and $350 for nonresidents.
(Ord. 2006-709, passed 3-21-2006)
§ 91.17 PROPERTY RIGHTS OF PLOT OWNERS.
   (A)   Property rights.
      (1)   All lots, plots and burial space conveyed to individuals shall be
presumed to be the sole and separate property of the person named as grantee in
the instrument of conveyance; provided, however, that the spouse of the grantee
of any such plot containing more than one interment space shall have a vested
right of interment of his or her remains therein and any person thereafter
becoming the spouse of such grantee shall have a vested right of interment in
such plot if more than one interment space therein remains unoccupied at the
time such person becomes the spouse of such grantee.
      (2)   No conveyance or other action such grantee without joiner therein
or written consent endorsed thereon or attached thereto of the spouse of such
grantee shall divest such spouse of such vested right of interment; provided,
however that a final decree of divorce between them shall terminate such vested
right of interment unless it shall be otherwise provided by such decree.
   (B)   Joint tenancy.
      (1)   In all conveyances to two or more persons as joint tenants, each
joint tenant shall have a vested right of interment of his or her remains in
the plot so conveyed. Upon the death of a joint tenant, the title to the burial
plot therefore held in joint tenancy immediately vest in the survivor of
survivors, subject to the vested right of interment for the remains of the
deceased joint tenant owner.
      (2)   An affidavit by any competent persons setting forth the fact of the
death of one joint tenant and establishing the identity of the surviving joint
tenant named in the deed when filed with the Cemetery Commission, shall
complete authority to permit the use of the unoccupied portion of such plot in
accordance with the directions of the surviving joining tenant or his or her
successor in interest.
      (3)   A vested right of interment as in these rules provided may be
waived and shall be terminated upon the interment elsewhere of the remains of a
person entitled thereto under this provision. No such vested right of interment
shall be construed to give to any person the right to have his or her remains
interred in any interment space in which the remains of any deceased person
having a prior vested right of interment therein shall have been deposited, or
to give to any person interred in a single interment space in violation of the
rules and regulations of the cemetery in which such interment space is located.
   (C)   Inalienable by death of owner.
      (1)   Whenever an interment of a member of the family of the record owner
or of a relative of a member of said family or of the remains of the record
owner is made in a burial plot of the record owner is made in a burial plot
transferred by deed or certificate of ownership to an individual owner and said
owner dies without making disposition of such burial plot in his or her will by
a specific devise thereof, or by a written declaration filed and recorded in
the office of the Cemetery Commission, such burial plot thereby becomes
inalienable and shall be held as the family burial plot of the owner.
      (2)   In said family burial plot one grave may be used for the owner’s
interment, one for the surviving spouse, if any, of the owner, who has a vested
right of interment therein and those remaining, if any; the parents and
children of said deceased owner in order of need may be interred without the
consent of any person claiming any interest therein. In the event there shall
be no parent or child surviving such deceased person, the right of the
interment therein shall go in the order of need first, to the spouse of any
child of said record owner and second, in the order of need to the next heirs
at law of said owners as specified by the statutes of descent or the spouse of
any such heir at law. Any surviving spouse and any parent, child or heir of
such deceased owner having a right of interment in such plot may waive such
right in favor of any other relatives or spouse of such relative of deceased
owner, or spouse of such deceased owner, and upon such waiver the body of the
person in whose favor the waiver is made may be interred therein.
   (D)   Right of interment. If no interment shall have been made in a burial
plot which has been transferred by deed or certificate of ownership to an
individual owner, or if all remains of deceased persons previously interred
therein shall have been lawfully removed therefrom, upon the death of the owner
unless such owner shall have disposed of such burial plot in his or her will by
a specific devise thereof or by a written declaration filed and recorded in the
office of the Cemetery Commission, the whole of said burial plot subject to the
right of interment of the decedent therein shall descend in the regular line of
succession to the heirs at law of the owner; provided, that one grave shall be
reserved to the surviving spouse of the owner. An affidavit by competent person
setting forth the fact of the death of the owner and the name of person or
persons entitled to us to use such property, in accordance with these rules,
shall be complete authority to the Cemetery Commission to permit the use of the
unoccupied portions of such plot by the person or persons entitled thereto.
   (E)   Several owners. When there are several owners of a burial plot, or of
rights of interment therein, such owners may designate one or more person to
represent said plot and file written notice of such designation with the
Cemetery Commission; in the absence of such notice or of written objection to
its so doing, the Cemetery Commission shall not be liable to any owner for
interring or permitting an interment therein upon the request or direction of
any registered co-owner of such plot.
(Ord. 2006-709, passed 3-21-2006)
§ 91.18 OPENING/CLOSING OF GRAVES; NOTICE.
   All graves will be opened and closed by employees of the Commission, for
which a reasonable charge shall be made. When instructions regarding the
locations of a grave on a lot cannot be opened where specified, the
Superintendent may, at his or her discretion, open it in such location on the
lot as he or she deems best and proper in order not to delay the funeral.
Before leaving the cemetery the undertaker shall deliver to the Superintendent
or his or her agent the regular burial permit along with the grave-opening fee.
The right is reserved by the Cemetery Commission to require at least 24 hours’
notice prior to any interment and to at least seven days’ notice prior to any
disinterment or removal.
(Ord. 2006-709, passed 3-21-2006)
§ 91.19 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Commission shall not be responsible for any order given by
telephone or any mistake occurring from want of precise and proper instructions
as to the particular space, size and location in a plot where interment is
desired. It is always best for some member of the family to visit the cemetery
to place the order.
   (B)   No wooden box burials are permitted, and/or welfare boxes with any
type of drain holes.
   (C)   No interment of any body or the cremated remains of any body, other
than that of human beings will be allowed.
   (D)   The single grave sections in the cemetery are not pauper graves, the
right of sepulcher being sold at a fixed price to include the same care as all
other portions of the cemetery. Should the remains be removed from the
cemetery, the use of said grave space shall revert to the Commission, but the
owner purchase a lot in the cemetery he or she shall be allowed the full price
paid for the single grave rights as credit on the lot, paying a reasonable
charge for disinterment, removal and reinterment.
   (E)   In order that improvements be kept uniform, Memory Garden Cemetery
reserves the rights to regulate the size and quality of all markers and other
constructions on any grave or lot in said cemetery, and to prevent the erection
or placing of any obstruction which may conflict with the regulations, or which
may be injurious to the general appearance of the ground, and to remove same if
necessary.
   (F)   No family monuments of any kind or description will be permitted on
any lot. Standard markers shall be used exclusively as hereinafter designated.
   (G)   Only one marker shall be placed at a grave. This shall be a marker of
good quality gray granite, and shall be located at the head of the grave (west
end). The lots in Memory Garden Cemetery are so arranged that a space is left
at the head of each grave for setting markers, and no markers shall be placed
out of the marker line. (No foot markers are allowed.)
   (H)   All markers shall be two feet long by one foot wide, by six inches
high with one-inch bevel. Bottoms level and sides pitched to line, lettering
optional and finish of top optional. Double markers will be permitted for
companion graves and they shall be four feet long by one foot wide, same
design.
   (I)   The name or inscription on each marker must correspond with the name
on record in the office of the Commission. This is of vital importance in order
for the Superintendent to keep his or her records in order.
   (J)   It shall be the duty of the plot owner to notify the Commission of any
change in the post office address. Notice sent to a plot owner at his or her
last address on file in the office of the Commission shall be considered
sufficient and proper legal notification.
   (K)   No advertising shall be allowed upon the grounds and no stones or
markers showing the dealer’s name or trade mark will be permitted.
   (L)   No private mausoleums will be permitted, neither will any vault or
tomb of any nature or material which extends to the surface of the ground or
would interfere with the sod or natural beauty of the grounds.
(Ord. 2006-709, passed 3-21-2006)
§ 91.20 TREES, SHRUBBERY, FLOWERS AND DECORATIONS.
   (A)   All plantings are made by the Commission in accordance with the
general landscape plans.
   (B)   All trees, shrubbery and flowers growing in the cemetery shall remain
the property of the cemetery and cannot be removed without written consent of
the Commission. No labor or landscaping shall be permitted within the cemetery
without a special permit from the Commission. In order that all might be
protected, and to secure the best general results all landscaping shall be done
under the direction and with the approval of the Memory Garden Cemetery
Commission. No mounds on graves shall be permitted, and no enclosures of graves
or lots with stones or other material will be permitted.
   (C)   Cut flowers may be placed on graves at any time and will be removed
when they become unsightly. Only standard underground receptacles will be
allowed, and shall be limited, two to a grave. These can be purchased through
the cemetery.
   (D)   The Commission will not be responsible for any receptacle. Tin cans
and glass jars will not be permitted. Any such article will be removed at once.
   (E)   Exceptions will be made on Memorial Day when any decoration within
reason will be permitted for seven days only. Holly or evergreen grave blankets
and artificial flowers may be used throughout the winter months (November 1
through April 1). None of these will be permitted during the growing season
(April 1 through November 1).
   (F)   There shall be no more than one shepard hook or similar iron
decoration per stone, even if the stone is a double stone. Solar lights are
allowable so long as the solar light is on the one shepard hook or similar iron
decoration mentioned above.
   (G)   All angel statues must be on the grave stone and the statue must be
limited to no more than 16 inches in height.
(Ord. 2006-709, passed 3-21-2006)
§ 91.21 ROADWAYS AND RE-PLOTTING.
   The right to enlarge, reduce, replat and/or change the boundaries or grading
of the cemetery or of a section or sections, from time to time, including the
right to modify and/or change the locations of or remove or re-grade roads,
drives and/or walks, or any part thereof, is hereby expressly reserved. The
right to lay, maintain and operate, or alter or change pipe lines and/or
gutters for sprinkling systems, drainage, lakes and the like, is also expressly
reserved, as well as is the right to use cemetery property, not sold to
individual plot owners, for cemetery purposes, including the interring and
preparing for interment of dead human bodies, or for anything necessary,
incidental or convenient thereto. The Commission reserves to itself and to
those lawfully entitled thereto, a perpetual right of ingress and egress over
plots for the purpose of passage to and from other plots.
(Ord. 2006-709, passed 3-21-2006)
§ 91.22 MODIFICATIONS AND AMENDMENTS.
   The Commission may, and it hereby expressly reserves the right, at any time
or times, to adopt new rules and regulations, or to amend, alter and/or repeal
any rule, regulation and/or chapter, section, paragraph and/or sentence in
these rules and regulations.
(Ord. 2006-709, passed 3-21-2006)
§ 91.23 CONSIDERATION TO THE LOT OWNER.
   All rules, whether written or not, shall give full consideration to the lot
owner at all times, when in the judgment of the Commission same does not
conflict with the general plan, or affect the beauty of the property or the
rights of other lot owners.
(Ord. 2006-709, passed 3-21-2006)
§ 91.24 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Superintendent is hereby empowered to enforce all rules and
regulations, and to exclude from the property of the Commission any person
violating the same.
   (B)   The Superintendent shall have charge of the grounds and buildings, and
at all times, shall have supervision and control of all persons in the
cemetery, including the conduct of funerals, traffic, employees, plot owners
and visitors.
(Ord. 2006-709, passed 3-21-2006)
§ 91.25 OTHER PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Any service through gates past a set time, and Saturday funerals will
have extra charge set forth by the Cemetery Board and or Town Council.
      (1)   Monday through Friday: all services must be through the gates
before 2:00 p.m. or a late fee of $100 will apply.
      (2)   Saturday services: there will be an extra fee of $175 for Saturday
morning services. Saturday services must be morning services, no afternoon
services. All Saturday services must be through the gates by 12:00 (noon) or a
late fee of $100 will apply.
      (3)   No burials will be conducted at the town cemetery or Memory Garden
Cemetery on Sundays.
   (B)   Cremations must be buried not spread on the ground.
   (C)   Listed are current cemetery prices starting October 1, 2004.
      (1)   Graves:
 
Town residents            $300
Nonresidents              $350
Pauper grave, resident    $300
Pauper grave, nonresident $350
 
      (2)   Baby graves: town residents: $300; nonresidents: $350.
      (3)   Grave openings (includes an in ground vase):
 
Town cemetery regular opening   $350
Opening for cremation           $120
Baby opening                    $120
Pauper opening                  $350
Rockville Memory Garden opening $350
 
   (D)   (1)   No burials will be conducted at the town cemetery or Memory
Garden Cemetery on the following holidays:
         (a)   New Years Day;
         (b)   Memorial Day;
         (c)   Labor Day;
         (d)   Veterans Day;
         (e)   Thanksgiving Day; or
         (f)   Christmas Day.
      (2)   Any burial requested on any of the above-mentioned dates, must have
the prior approval of the Town Cemetery Board.
(Ord. 2006-709, passed 3-21-2006)
CHAPTER 92: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
92.01   Policy statement
   
92.02   Definitions
   
92.03   Unlawful practice
   
92.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
92.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
92.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage service
   
92.07   Interference, coercion or intimidation
   
92.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
92.09   Exemptions
   
92.10   Administrative enforcement of ordinance
§ 92.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the town to provide, within constitutional
limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for
under the Federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended, the Federal Housing and
Community Development Act of 1974, as amended and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(Ord. 721-2007, passed 9-19-2007)
§ 92.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-2)
   COMMISSION. The Indiana Civil Rights Commission, created pursuant to I.C.
22-9-1-4 et seq.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-3)
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-4)
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
92.04, 92.05, 92.06, 92.07 or 92.08, I.C. 22-9.5-5.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-7)
   DWELLING. Any building, structure or part of a building or structure that is
occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land that is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-8)
   FAMILIAL STATUS.
      (1)   One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18 years
being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of such
individual or the written permission of such parent or other person.
      (2)   The protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of
FAMILIAL STATUS shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process
of securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18
years.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual, with the status of such family being
further defined herein.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-9)
   HANDICAP.
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person’s major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment;
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment; or
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the Federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990.
      (2)   The term HANDICAP shall not include current illegal use of or
addictions to a controlled substance as defined in 21 U.S.C. § 802 (nor does
the term handicap include an individual solely because that individual is a
transvestite.
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, limited liability
companies, partnerships, associations, labor organizations, labor organizations
legal representatives, mutual companies, joint-stock companies, trusts,
unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees in cases under Title 11
U.S.C., receivers, and fiduciaries.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let, or to otherwise grant for a
consideration the right to occupy premises not owned by the occupant.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-13)
(Ord. 721-2007, passed 9-19-2007)
§ 92.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below, §
92.09 and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or
rental of housing set forth I.C. 22-9.5-5-1 and in §
92.04 shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) below and I.C. 22-
9.5-3;
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) below, nothing in §
92.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that in the sale of such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24-month period. The
private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or
reserved on his or her behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the
proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses
at any one time. The sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be
excepted from application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesperson, or any person in
the business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of
any such broker, agent or salesperson, or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
92.04(C), but noting in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstracters, title companies and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title.
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) above, a person shall be deemed to be
in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
agent, other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in
providing sales or rental facilities or services in two or more transaction
involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended
for occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 721-2007, passed 9-19-2007) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
92.03 and except as exempted by §
92.03 and §
92.09, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status or national origin;
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services of
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin;
   (C)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed or published
any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, or an
intention to make any such preference, limitation or discrimination;
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin that any dwelling is not available
for inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is in fact so available;
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status or national origin;
   (F)   (1)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap
of:
         (a)   That buyer or renter;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (2)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a handicap of:
         (a)   That person;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (3)   For purposes of this division (F), DISCRIMINATION includes:
         (a)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may where it is reasonable to do so condition permission for a modification on
the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
         (b)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
         (c)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13, 1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that:
            1.   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
            2.   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
            3.   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
               a.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
               b.   Light, switches, electrical outlets, thermostats and other
environmental controls in accessible locations; and
               c.   Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
      (4)   Compliance with the appropriate requirement Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990 and of the American National Standard for Buildings
and Facilities providing accessibility an usability for physically handicapped
people (commonly cited as AANSI A117.1) suffices to satisfy the requirements of
division (F)(3)(c)3. above.
      (5)   Nothing in this division (F) requires that a dwelling be made
available to an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to
the health of safety of other individuals of whose tenancy would result in
substantial physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 721-2007, passed 9-19-2007) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED
TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap or familial status.
(Ord. 721-2007, passed 9-19-2007) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICE.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers organization
or other service, organization or facility relating to the business of selling
or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her in the terms or
conditions of such access, membership or participation, on account of race,
color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
(Ord. 721-2007, passed 9-19-2007) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
92.03,
92.04,
92.05 or
92.06.
(Ord. 721-2007, passed 9-19-2007) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under code or law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempt to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status or national origin and because he or she is or has been
selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings;
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division
subsection 15(A); or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
   (C)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to
discourage such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, in
any of the activities, services, organizations or facilities described in
division (A) above, or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly
opposing any denial of the opportunity to participate shall be fined according
to local, state and federal law; and if bodily injury results shall be fined
not more than $10,000 or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both; and if
death results shall be subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for
life.
(Ord. 721-2007, passed 9-19-2007)
§ 92.09 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color or national
origin, nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact
open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes
provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to its members
or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   (1)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply
with respect to housing for older persons.
      (2)   As used in this section, HOUSING FOR OLDER PERSONS means housing:
         (a)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary
of the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the state civil
rights commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly person (as defined in the state or federal program);
         (b)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, person 62 years of age or
older; or
         (c)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55
years of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 721-2007, passed 9-19-2007)
§ 92.10 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commissioner as set forth
in division (B) below shall be vested in the chief elected official of the
town.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the town, because
of lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under this chapter, herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of the sections of this
chapter by complainants to the State Civil Rights Commission for administrative
enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6 and the chief elected official of
the town, shall refer all said complaints to the Commission as provided for
under division (A) above to said Commission for purposes of investigation,
resolution and appropriate relief as provided for under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the town shall administer
their departments, programs and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter
and shall cooperate with the chief elected official and the Commission to
further such purposes.
   (D)   The chief elected official of the town, or the chief elected
official’s designee, shall provide information on remedies available to any
aggrieved person or complainant requesting such information.
(Ord. 721-2007, passed 9-19-2007)
CHAPTER 93: HEALTH; PUBLIC NUISANCES
Section
Health and Environmental Regulations
   
93.01   Maintenance of unclean or unwholesome buildings prohibited
   
93.02   Deposition of manure near dwelling unit restricted
   
93.03   Rubbish and waste water in streets and alleys prohibited; maintenance
of receptacles
   
93.04   Health and environmental nuisances generally
   
93.05   Spitting in public places restricted
   
93.06   Carcasses of dead animals in streets prohibited
   
93.07   Junk cars
   
93.08   Administration and enforcement of health and environmental regulations
Weeds and Weed Abatement
   
93.20   Unlawful maintenance of weeds and vegetation
   
93.21   Standards of compliance
   
93.22   Periodic inspection; duty of Town Marshal
   
93.23   Enforcement procedure; duty of Clerk-Treasurer; costs
Nuisances Within Town Limits
   
93.35   Conditions or uses declared nuisances
   
93.36   Abatement procedure; notice
   
93.37   Service of notice to abate nuisance
   
93.38   Hearing requirement; order for abatement; judicial review
   
93.39   Abatement by town; costs
   
93.40   Assessment of costs; lien against property
   
93.41   Form of lien notice and certificate
   
93.42   Limitations of applicability
Tire Storage Regulations
   
93.55   Purpose
   
93.56   Definitions
   
93.57   Storage or accumulations of tires
   
93.58   Town abatement
   
93.59   Injunction
   
93.60   Cumulative enforcement
 
   
93.99   Penalty
HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS
§ 93.01 MAINTENANCE OF UNCLEAN OR UNWHOLESOME BUILDINGS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be the duty of every owner or occupant of any dwelling house,
building or structure of any kind or description whatever to cause to be
removed therefrom and properly disposed of, all unwholesome or impure
substances of every kind or description whatsoever. It shall be the duty of
every such owner or occupant to cause all cellars, privies, rooms, halls,
public places of amusement and out buildings to be kept and maintained at all
times in such order and condition that the same shall in no way be foul,
unhealthy or noisome.
(1984 Code, § 4-6-1) (Ord. 253, passed 3-21-1910) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.02 DEPOSITION OF MANURE NEAR DWELLING UNITS RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or deposit manure, or to allow
the same to accumulate, upon any lot or premises within the town at a distance
less than 75 feet from any dwelling house, unless the same be within the walls
of the stable upon the premises. The town authorities may compel any person to
remove and convey away the same as often as they shall consider necessary to
promote and secure the public health of the town.
(1984 Code, § 4-6-2) (Ord. 253, passed 3-21-1910) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 RUBBISH AND WASTE WATER IN STREETS AND ALLEYS PROHIBITED; MAINTENANCE
OF RECEPTACLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to deposit or allow to
accumulate ashes, waste or other garbage, trash or leaves, or pour or allow to
run waste water in, any street or alley of the town. Such material shall at all
times be placed in a separate covered receptacle and be readily accessible for
emptying or removal, and be placed within the building or within the confines
of the lot on which the building is situated. Garbage receptacles shall be
tightly covered and emptied frequently enough to prevent fermentation and bad
odors.
(1984 Code, § 4-6-3) (Ord. 253, passed 3-21-1910) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENTAL NUISANCES GENERALLY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, construct, cause, permit, keep
or maintain within the limits of the town anything whatever which is injurious
to health or indecent or offensive to the senses of any of the inhabitants, or
which obstructs the free use of property by such inhabitants.
(1984 Code, § 4-6-4) (Ord. 271, passed - -) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 SPITTING IN PUBLIC PLACES RESTRICTED.
   No person shall spit on the pavements of the north, east, south or west side
of the public square, in the public stairways, nor in any other public place in
the town.
(1984 Code, § 4-6-5) (Ord. 213, passed - -) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 CARCASSES OF DEAD ANIMALS IN STREETS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall knowingly permit the carcass of any dead animal belonging to
him or her to remain in any street or alley.
(1984 Code, § 4-6-6) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.07 JUNK CARS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      JUNK CAR.
         (a)   Any motor vehicle which:
            1.   Does not bear a currently valid and legal license plates;
            2.   Is not in a garage or other building;
            3.   Does not have the appearance of or contain all of the parts
and accessories of the same make and model automobile when manufactured and
assembled by the manufacturer; or
            4.   A garage or other building does not include a tarp, plastic
sheeting or any other similar material or impermanent means that are used to
cover a motor vehicle. A garage or other building as contemplated in this
chapter is given its ordinary meaning.
         (b)   Any one or all of the above criteria may be used in making a
determination that an automobile is a JUNK CAR.
   (B)   Declared to be a public nuisance. Because of the unsightly appearance,
danger to health from vermin, rodents and insects and to the safety of children
attracted to junk cars, junk cars are declared to be nuisances, except if
located in lawfully operated junk yards, or yards lawfully operated for
vehicles awaiting permission for junking from the Bureau of Motor Vehicles.
   (C)   Authority of Police Department to order removal. Any member of the
Police Department may order a junk car removed from any premises in the town
within five days after service and posting as provided in division (D) below.
   (D)   Notice to owner.
      (1)   The order to remove the junk car shall be placed upon the junk car,
and copies shall be served upon any adult occupying the real estate on which
the junk car is located and upon the owner of the junk car, if known.
      (2)   If no occupant of the real estate or owner of the junk car can be
found, a copy of the order affixed to any building on the real estate shall
constitute notice to the owner and occupant of the real estate, and to the
owner of the junk car.
      (3)   If there is no building on the real estate, the order may be
affixed elsewhere on the real estate.
   (E)   Disposal of junk cars.
      (1)   If the junk car is not removed within the time provided in division
(C) above, the Police Department may cause the motor vehicle to be removed at
the expense of the owner, the expense to constitute a lien on the real estate;
or the Police Department may cause the junk car to be removed and to be
disposed of in the same manner as now provided by state law for the removal and
disposal of abandoned vehicles.
      (2)   In the event the Police Department removes the motor vehicle at the
expense of the owner and the expense constitutes a lien on the real estate, the
Police Department may, nevertheless, utilize funds contained in the town’s
Abandoned Vehicle Fund, which is established by this section, but must deposit
into that fund all proceeds from the sale of the junk car or parts thereof.
(Ord. 1996-618, passed 5-21-1996; Ord. 2001-667, passed 7-5-2001) Penalty, see
§
93.99
§ 93.08 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT OF HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Powers and duties of county health authorities and town authorities.
      (1)   The Board of Health of the county, the County Health Officer, and
his or her authorized deputies and agents, are granted full police powers
within the corporate limits of the town to:
         (a)   Administer and enforce all health laws of the state and all
regulations of the State Board of Health;
         (b)   Administer and enforce all health ordinances of the county and
the duly adopted regulations of the County Board of Health, which are hereby
made fully applicable and enforceable within the municipal jurisdiction of the
town; and
         (c)   Enforce all town health ordinances, such authority to be
concurrent with that of the law enforcement officers of the town.
      (2)   Whenever in any town health ordinance reference is made to the
“Board of Health” or “Health Officer”, such reference shall be deemed to apply
to the Board of Health or Health Officer of the county. It shall be the duty of
the Town Marshal at all times to aid the Health Officer in the work of
enforcing health regulations on demand of the Health Officer.
(1984 Code, § 4-7-1)
   (B)   Relationship of town regulations to state and county regulations. The
provisions of any health ordinances of the town shall be deemed supplementary
to the health laws, ordinances and regulations of the state and county, and are
not intended to limit the operation of nor permit any lesser standard than the
applicable state or county laws, ordinances and regulations.
(1984 Code, § 4-7-2)
   (C)   Power to enter and inspect premises; order for abatement of nuisances;
enforcement. The Board of Health, Health Officer, Deputy Health Officers and
the Town Marshal shall have full power and authority to enter into or upon any
street, lot, alley, premises or grounds for the purpose of making a sanitary
survey, and if any nuisance or unsanitary conditions are found, the enforcement
officer shall immediately notify the person so offending, in writing, fixing
the time limit to abate the nuisance. If such persons shall fail or refuse to
abate the nuisance within the time specified, it shall be the duty of the Town
Marshal to cause the same to be abated, keeping an accurate account of the
expenses thereof, which, subject to appropriation, shall be paid from the town
treasury upon the sworn vouchers of the Marshal, and shall be invoiced by the
Clerk-Treasurer to the owner of record of the affected property, and said
expense shall be a lien on the property as provided by I.C. 36-1-6-2 until
fully paid or foreclosed. Liability for such costs shall be in addition to any
penal liability as may also be provided. The town may also seek an injunction
to force compliance.
(1984 Code, § 4-7-3) (Ord. 271, passed 9-15-1913; Ord. 526, passed - -)
WEEDS AND WEED ABATEMENT
§ 93.20 UNLAWFUL MAINTENANCE OF WEEDS AND VEGETATION.
   It is unlawful for the owner of any lot or parcel of land within the town,
whether improved or unimproved, to permit to grow and remain thereon any weeds,
thistle, brush, undergrowth or rank vegetation of any kind whatsoever in
violation of the standards established by §
93.21. It is the duty of the owner of such property to cut or to require a
leaseholder or other person in charge of the premises to cut and remove and
dispose, in a proper manner all such weeds and rank vegetation at sufficient
intervals to keep the property in compliance with the standards set by §
93.21.
(1984 Code, § 4-4-1) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.21 STANDARDS OF COMPLIANCE.
   A lot or parcel will be adjudged in noncompliance with the requirements of
this chapter if, at any time during the year:
   (A)   It is a tract between any public sidewalk and a public street, and
weeds or other rank vegetation (including lawn grass) has been permitted to
grow to a height of more than six inches;
   (B)   It is an improved lot or parcel, and weeds or other rank vegetation
(including lawn grass) has been permitted to grow to a height of more than six
inches; or
   (C)   It is a vacant and unimproved lot of parcel, other than natural forest
lands, wetlands or agricultural pasture lands, and weeds or other rank
vegetation has been permitted to grow to a height of more than one foot.
(1984 Code, § 4-4-2)
§ 93.22 PERIODIC INSPECTION; DUTY OF TOWN MARSHAL.
   Within one week before or after May 15 and September 15 of each year, the
Town Marshal shall make an inspection of every lot or parcel of land in the
town to determine compliance with this chapter, but may also make an inspection
at any other time if he or she believes, by virtue of a complaint or for any
other good reason, that a property is not in compliance. The Town Marshal shall
make a list identifying the location of any lot or parcel found to be in
violation, and may collect corroborative evidence, such as vegetation samples
or photographs including a recognizable scale object, and shall promptly
deliver same to the Clerk-Treasurer.
(1984 Code, § 4-4-3)
§ 93.23 ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURE; DUTY OF CLERK-TREASURER; COSTS.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a list of noncomplying properties from the Town
Marshal as provided by §
93.22, the Clerk-Treasurer shall determine the name and address of the owner of
each noncomplying lot or parcel as listed on the tax abstracts in the office of
the County Auditor, or by any other reliable means, and shall prepare a written
notice to the owner stating that his or her property, adequately identified by
location, has been found to harbor weeds and rank vegetation in violation of
this chapter, and that if the same are not cut and properly removed within five
days of receipt of the notice, the weeds and rank vegetation will be cut and
removed by the town at the owner’s expense, and that he or she will further be
subject to penalties for violation as hereafter provided. The Clerk-Treasurer
shall direct the Town Marshal to serve the notice upon the owner personally if
the owner is a resident of the town, but if the owner is not a resident of the
town and the notice cannot be conveniently served in person, the notice shall
be sent by registered mail with return receipt of delivery.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall advise the Town Marshal of the date of
service or delivery, of the notice, and on the sixth day after such date or as
soon after that as possible, the Town Marshal shall reinspect the lot or parcel
to determine if it has been brought into compliance. If not, he or she shall
cause the weeds and rank vegetation to be cut and removed either by the town or
a private contractor, keeping a careful record of the actual costs of the
cutting and removal, including personnel time if town employees are used. The
record of costs shall be promptly provided to the Clerk-Treasurer, who shall
then prepare a certified statement of the costs incurred by the town, and shall
cause same to be served or delivered to the property owner in the same manner
as the original notice of violation.
   (C)   If the costs are not paid within ten days of service or delivery of
the certified statement, the Clerk-Treasurer shall certify a copy of the
statement to the County Auditor, who shall collect and disburse the amount
claimed to the town at the same time and in the same manner as taxes on the
property are collected and disbursed, all as provided by I.C. 36-7-10.1-4. In
addition, the Clerk-Treasurer shall cause to be issued a complaint and summons
citing the property owner for a penal violation of this chapter, and specifying
each day elapsing between the expiration of the five-day period after the
owner’s receipt of the original notice of violation and the day when the weeds
and vegetation are finally cut and removed to be a separate offense and
violation, as hereafter provided. The complaint and summons shall be served and
prosecuted in the same manner as for other town ordinance violations.
(1984 Code, § 4-4-4) Penalty, see §
93.99
NUISANCES WITHIN TOWN LIMITS
§ 93.35 CONDITIONS OR USES DECLARED NUISANCES.
   It is hereby declared a public nuisance for any person owning, leasing,
occupying or having charge of any premises in this town to maintain such
premises in such manner that any of the following conditions are found to exist
thereon:
   (A)   Land, the topography, geology or configuration of which, whether in
natural state or as a result of grading operations, excavation or fill, causes
erosion, subsidence or surface water drainage problems of such magnitude as to
be injurious or potentially injurious to the public health, safety and welfare
or to adjacent properties;
   (B)   Buildings which are abandoned, partially destroyed or permitted to
remain unreasonably in a state of partial construction;
   (C)   The failure to close by such means as shall be acceptable to the
Building Inspector, of all doorways, windows and other openings into vacant
structures;
   (D)   Unpainted buildings causing dry rot, warping and lack of weather
protection;
   (E)   Broken windows constituting hazardous conditions and inviting
trespassers and malicious mischief; or constituting a harbor for vagrants,
criminal or immoral persons, or as to enable persons to resort thereto for the
purpose of committing unlawful or immoral acts;
   (F)   Overgrown vegetation likely to harbor rats, vermin and other
nuisances; or causing detriment to neighboring properties or property values;
   (G)   Dead, decayed, diseased or hazardous trees, weeds and other
vegetation:
      (1)   Constituting unsightly appearance;
      (2)   Dangerous to public safety and welfare; or
      (3)   Detrimental to nearby property or property values.
   (H)   The accumulation and storage, for unreasonable periods of time or
abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative trailers, campers, boats and
other mobile equipment, in front yard areas and in side yard areas abutting
streets;
   (I)   Attractive nuisances dangerous to children in the form of:
      (1)   Abandoned and broken equipment;
      (2)   Unprotected and/or hazardous pools, ponds and excavations; and
      (3)   Neglected machinery.
   (J)   Broken or discarded furniture and household equipment on the premises
for unreasonable periods and visible from the street and causing damage or
detriment to neighboring properties;
   (K)   Trash or garbage containers stored in front yard or side yards and
visible from public streets;
   (L)   Packing boxes, lumber, trash, dirt and other debris either inside or
outside buildings and visible from public streets for unreasonable periods, and
causing detriment to neighboring properties;
   (M)   The accumulation of dirt, litter or debris in vestibules, doorways or
the adjoining sidewalks of commercial or industrial buildings;
   (N)   Neglect of premises to spite a neighbor or to cause detrimental effect
on nearby property or property values;
   (O)   Maintenance of premises in such condition as to be detrimental to the
public health, safety or general welfare or in such manner as to constitute a
public nuisance;
   (P)   Property maintained in such condition as to become so defective,
unsightly or in such condition or deterioration or disrepair that the same
causes appreciable diminution of the property values of surrounding properties
or is materially detrimental to proximal properties and improvements;
   (Q)   Maintenance of premises so out of harmony or conformity with the
maintenance standards of adjacent properties as to cause substantial diminution
of the enjoyment, use or property values of such adjacent properties;
   (R)   Property maintained (in relation to others) so as to establish a
prevalence of depreciated values, impaired investments, and social and economic
maladjustments to such extent that the capacity to pay taxes is reduced and tax
receipts from the particular area are inadequate for the cost of public
services rendered there; and
   (S)   The accumulation, keeping or storage in any area visible from a public
street, public alley, public sidewalk, or public right-of-way, or an adjacent
property of any of the following for an unreasonable period of time:
      (1)   Junk, trash, debris, including, but not limited to, rubbish,
refuse, waste material, garbage, paper, glass, cans, bottles, cartons, wood,
rubber, plastics, yard trimmings, leaves, trash, scrap metal, dilapidated
furniture, appliances, machinery or equipment which may be rusted, wrecked,
junked, dismantled, or inoperable, construction debris, dismantled or
inoperable;
      (2)   Any furniture not originally designed, manufactured, and intended
for outdoor use or exposure to rain and other inclement weather; or
      (3)   Any household fixtures, household goods, appliances, materials,
machinery, or equipment, not originally designed, manufactured, and intended
for outdoor use or exposure to rain and other inclement weather, regardless of
whether or not suitable for use or sale.
   For purposes of this section, there is a presumption that any time period in
excess of 72 hours is unreasonable.
(Ord. 2001-668, passed 7-17-2001; Ord. 2013-3, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 93.36 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE; NOTICE.
   (A)   All or any part of premises found to constitute a public nuisance as
provided herein shall be abated by rehabilitation, or repair pursuant to the
procedures set forth in this chapter; however, such procedures are not
exclusive, and do not in any way limit the town from enforcing other town
ordinances or abating public nuisances in any other manner provided by law.
   (B)   Whenever the Building Inspector, Fire Marshal, Health Officer or other
town official determines that any premises within the town may be, in their
opinion, maintained contrary to one or more of the provisions of §
93.35, then he or she shall file a written statement to this effect with the
Clerk-Treasurer. The Clerk-Treasurer shall thereupon cause a written notice to
be served upon the owner and the occupant of the premises (if any) by
registered mail or personal service.
   (C)   The notice shall state that maintenance of the property (describing
the particular violation of this chapter as provided above) has been declared
to be a dangerous condition, and that such dangerous condition must be removed
or remedied at once.
   (D)   The notice shall be of the following form:
      TO: ____________(owner/occupant) of the premises known as
________________________.
      You are hereby notified that (describe violating condition) on the
premises above mentioned has been condemned as a nuisance in violation of §
93.35 of the Rockville Municipal Code. Inspection was made by (name of
inspecting official). The nuisance is subject to abatement by rehabilitation,
repair or demolition of buildings situated on the premises. You must remedy
this condition or the town will proceed to do so, and the costs will be
assessed upon such premises and will constitute a lien on the land until paid.
      All persons having objection to or interest in this matter are hereby
notified to attend a meeting of the Town Council of the Town of Rockville to be
held on the ____ day of __________, 20__ at the hour of where their testimony
and evidence will be heard and given due consideration.
   Dated this _______ day of ____________, 20__.
      _________________________________________________
      Clerk-Treasurer, Town of Rockville, Indiana
(Ord. 2001-668, passed 7-17-2001)
§ 93.37 SERVICE OF NOTICE TO ABATE NUISANCE.
   (A)   The Building Inspector or other town official designated by the town
shall cause to be served upon the owner a copy of the notice, and shall cause a
copy thereof to be conspicuously posted on the affected premises.
   (B)   The notice shall be served and posted at least 20 days before the time
fixed for the hearing. Proof of posting and service shall be entered in the
town records.
   (C)   Service of the notice shall be by personal service upon the owner of
the affected premises or by depositing a copy in the U.S. mail enclosed in a
sealed envelope with postage prepaid.
   (D)   The notice shall be registered or certified and addressed to the
owner, or if there is no known address, then in care of the property address or
occupant.
   (E)   The service is complete at the time of such deposit.
   (F)   OWNER, as used herein shall mean any person in possession, and also
any person having or claiming to have any legal or equitable interest in the
premises; however, the failure of any person to receive such notice shall not
affect the validity of proceedings hereunder.
(Ord. 2001-668, passed 7-17-2001)
§ 93.38 HEARING REQUIREMENT; ORDER FOR ABATEMENT; JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   (A)   At the time stated in the notices, the Town Council shall hear and
consider all relevant evidence, objection or protests; and shall receive
testimony from owners, witnesses, town personnel and interested persons
relative to the alleged public nuisance and the proposed rehabilitation, repair
or demolition of the premises.
   (B)   After the hearing, a copy of any decision by the Town Council ordering
the abatement of the nuisance shall be served upon the owners of the property
in accordance with the provisions of §
93.37.
   (C)   The notice shall contain a detailed list of needed corrections and
abatement methods.
   (D)   Any property owner shall have the right to have the premises
rehabilitated or buildings demolished or repaired in accordance with the order,
and at his or her own expense, provided the same is done prior to the
expiration of the abatement period set forth in the notice.
   (E)   If the nuisance is not completely abated by the owner as directed
within the designated abatement period, then the Building Inspector or other
designated town official is authorized and directed to cause the same to be
abated, either by the town or a private contractor, and is authorized to enter
on the premises for such purpose; however, any owner or other interested person
aggrieved at any proceeding taken by the Town Council in ordering the abatement
of a nuisance under this chapter may bring an action to contest such decision
in the Circuit Court within 30 days after the date of the final decision.
Otherwise, all objections to such decision shall be deemed waived.
(Ord. 2001-668, passed 7-17-2001)
§ 93.39 ABATEMENT BY TOWN; COSTS.
   If a nuisance is abated by the town under this chapter, an accurate account
of the costs (including incidental expenses such as for preparation of notices,
printing and mailing) shall be kept, and the town officer making the abatement
shall render a written and itemized report of the costs to the Town Council.
The Town Council shall fix a time and place for a hearing on the cost report,
and shall send a copy of the report and notice of the hearing to the owner or
interested parties as provided by §
93.37. At the time and place fixed for the hearing, the Town Council shall hear
and pass on the report of the costs, together with any objections or protests.
The Town Council may make any revisions or corrections in the report, and its
final decision shall be inclusive.
(Ord. 2001-668, passed 7-17-2001)
§ 93.40 ASSESSMENT OF COSTS; LIEN AGAINST PROPERTY.
   (A)   The total cost of abating the nuisance, as confirmed by the Town
Council pursuant to §
93.39, shall constitute a special assessment against the respective lot or
parcel of land to which it relates, and upon furnishing the County Recorder a
certified copy of the cost of abatement as confirmed by the Town Council, the
same shall constitute a lien on the property in the amount of the assessment,
as provided by I.C. 36-1-2.
   (B)   Upon certification of the assessment, the County Auditor shall levy
the same against the property, and the amount shall be collected in the same
manner as municipal taxes are collected, subject to the same delinquency
provisions as for ordinary municipal taxes; or the lien, after recordation, may
be foreclosed by judicial or other sale in the manner and means provided by law
for foreclosure of such liens.
(Ord. 2001-668, passed 7-17-2001)
§ 93.41 FORM OF LIEN NOTICE AND CERTIFICATE.
   The lien notice and certificate as provided by §
93.40 shall be in form substantially as follows:
NOTICE OF LIEN
Pursuant to the authority vested by the ordinances of the town, the Town of
Rockville, through its agents, did on or about the ______ day of _____________,
20___ cause the premises hereafter described to be rehabilitated, or the
building or structure on the property to be repaired or demolished, in order to
abate a public nuisance on the real property; and the Town of Rockville did on
the ______ day of ____________, 20___, assess the cost of such rehabilitation,
repair or demolition upon said real property, and the same has not been paid
nor any part thereof; wherefore the town does hereby claim a lien pursuant to
Indiana Law in the amount of the assessment, to wit: the sum of $____, and the
same shall be a lien on said real property until the same has been paid in full
and discharged of record, said real estate being more particularly described as
follows:
(description of property)
   Dated this ______ day of __________, 20___.
   ______________________________________________
   Clerk-Treasurer, Town of Rockville, Indiana
(Ord. 2001-668, passed 7-17-2001)
§ 93.42 LIMITATIONS OF APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter shall not apply to any activity protected by Indiana Right
to Farm Legislation. The provisions of this chapter do not supersede any other
ordinance or provision declaring or implying any matter to be a public
nuisance; or which prohibit, restrict or regulate the matter; or which permit
and authorize the condition, use or activity.
(Ord. 2001-668, passed 7-17-2001)
TIRE STORAGE REGULATIONS
§ 93.55 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to protect the public health and welfare
by declaring improperly stored tires as a public nuisance and a significant
health hazard.
(Ord. 2011-776, passed 8-9-2011)
§ 93.56 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCE. Any individual, trade, industry, production, partnership, company,
business, production, dealing, firm, establishment, enterprise, venture or
organization.
   STORAGE. The accumulation of tires in a manner that does not constitute
disposal of tires in an approved manner within ten days.
   TIRE. A continuous solid or pneumatic rubber covering or any other resilient
material product designed to encircle a wheel, which is used on a vehicle or
any other equipment.
   VECTOR. Any insect or living carrier capable of transmitting microorganisms
and diseases from one organism to another.
(Ord. 2011-776, passed 8-9-2011)
§ 93.57 STORAGE OR ACCUMULATIONS OF TIRES.
   (A)   No person or commerce shall cause or permit the management, storage,
collection of tires, except in full compliance with the provisions of this
subchapter.
   (B)   Persons or commerce who produce or otherwise accumulate tires shall do
so in a manner that complies with this subchapter as outlined below:
      (1)   Controls vectors that pose a threat to human health;
      (2)   Does not pose a threat to human health or environment; and
      (3)   Does not pose a fire hazard.
(Ord. 2011-776, passed 8-9-2011) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.58 TOWN ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Generally. If any owner, occupant or lessee of any lot or parcel of
lot or parcel of real estate shall fail to remove or abate tires after
receiving notice, the Town Council may cause the same to be removed or
otherwise abated. When the Town Council has effected the removal of such
nuisance, they shall prepare a sworn statement showing the cost of the work
performed and they shall bill the owner of record. Such bill shall be in the
minimum amount of $25, and shall be due and payable at the time of receiving
the statement.
   (B)   Failure of owner to pay. When the full amount due the town is not paid
by the owner within 90 days after receipt of the statement as provided in
division (A) above, then, and in that case, the Town Council shall cause to be
recorded in the County Recorder’s office a sworn statement showing the cost and
expense incurred for the work, date the work was done and the location of the
property on which said work was done. The recordation of such sworn statement
shall constitute a lien on the property, and shall remain in force and effect
for the amount due in principal and interest, plus any costs of court and for
collection until final payment has been made. Such costs and expenses shall be
collected in the manner fixed by law for the collection of real estate taxes
and further, shall be subject to a delinquent penalty the same as real estate
taxes in the event same is not paid in full on or before the date the tax bill
upon which said charges appear to become delinquent. Sworn statements recorded
in accordance with the provisions hereof shall be prima facie evidence that all
legal formalities have been complied with and that the work has been done
properly and satisfactorily, and shall be full notice to every person concerned
that the amount of the statement, plus interest, constitutes a charge against
the property designated or described in the statement and that the same is due
and collectible as provided by law.
(Ord. 2011-776, passed 8-9-2011)
§ 93.59 INJUNCTION.
   If any owner, occupant or lessee of any lot or parcel of lot or parcel of
real estate shall fail to remove or abate such collection of tires after
receiving notice a provided as provided in §
93.58(A), the Town Council may cause to be brought and prosecuted a civil
action to enjoin the person from violating this subchapter through a continued
use or condition of the property as provided in I.C. 36-1-6-4.
(Ord. 2011-776, passed 8-9-2011)
§ 93.60 CUMULATIVE ENFORCEMENT.
   The enforcement provisions provided herein shall be cumulative and may be
employed singularly or jointly at the discretion of the Town Council.
(Ord. 2011-776, passed 8-9-2011)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to
the penalties prescribed under §
10.99.
   (B)   In addition, any person violating any provision of this chapter shall
be liable to the penalties prescribed under §
10.99.
(1984 Code, § 4-6-7)
   (C)   The notice to owner specified in §
93.07(D) shall include a statement that the above fine may be imposed in
addition to all other costs and penalties associated with a violation of §
93.07.
(1984 Code, § 4-4-5) (Ord. 10, passed - -; Ord. 213, passed - -; Ord. 253,
passed - -; Ord. 271, passed - -; Ord. 1996-618, passed 5-21-1996; Ord. 2001-
667, passed 7-5-2001; Ord. 2001-668, passed 7-17- 2001; Ord. 2011-776, passed
8-9-2011; Ord. 2013-3, passed 3-25-2013)
CHAPTER 94: OPEN BURNING; BONFIRES
Section
   
94.01   Definition
   
94.02   Unlawful to burn certain items
   
94.03   Lawful burning materials
   
94.04   Prohibition
   
94.05   Exceptions
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CLEAN WOOD PRODUCTS. Wood, not paper, which has not had any unnatural
materials or chemicals such as paint, stain or varnish added or applied
thereto.
(Ord. 1996-625, passed 11-6-1996)
§ 94.02 UNLAWFUL TO BURN CERTAIN ITEMS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to burn grass, garbage, tree stumps, paint, tires
or anything else other than that specified in this section within the corporate
limits of the town.
   (B)   This section shall not, however, prohibit a small outdoor fire used
solely for cooking.
(Ord. 1996-625, passed 11-6-1996) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 LAWFUL BURNING MATERIALS.
   Leaves, trees limbs not exceeding three inches in diameter, and other clean
wood products may be burned between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m.
prevailing local time, on any day, so long as such burning is no closer than
ten feet to any sidewalk or paved area, so long as such burning is attended at
all times by someone at least 18 years of age, and so long as such burning does
not create a health hazard or nuisance, as defined by I.C. 32-30-6-6.
(Ord. 1996-625, passed 11-6-1996) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 PROHIBITION.
   Burning which may otherwise be allowed by §
94.03 shall be prohibited on any day on which:
   (A)   The average surface wind speed between 6:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. is in
excess of ten mph; or
   (B)   The Fire Chief or Town Superintendent has determined the atmospheric
conditions or other conditions at the location of the fire create a hazard.
(Ord. 1996-625, passed 11-6-1996) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   A person may petition the Town Council for permission to burn items or
in such a way not otherwise allowed under this chapter.
   (B)   Notice of the petition must be published at least three days before
the meeting at which it will be considered.
   (C)   The notice shall include the date, time and place of the meeting at
which the petition will be considered, and the date, time and location of the
proposed burning.
   (D)   The Town Council may impose reasonable conditions, in the interest of
public safety, upon any burning allowed under this section.
(Ord. 1996-625, passed 11-6-1996)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any applicable provision of this chapter shall be fined
not less than $100, nor more than $500 for each offense, and a separate offense
shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues. In addition, if such person fails or refuses to abate or to cease
violating any provision of this chapter, the Town Marshal may cause the same to
be abated and said violator shall be liable for costs incurred therefrom.
(Ord. 1996-625, passed 11-6-1996)
CHAPTER 95: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
95.01   Department of Parks and Recreation
   
95.02   Members
   
95.03   Terms
   
95.04   President and Vice President
   
95.05   Powers and duties
   
95.06   Budget
§ 95.01 DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION.
   Under the provisions of I.C. 36-10-3, there is hereby created a municipal
Department of Parks and Recreation.
(Ord. 582, passed 2-4-1992)
§ 95.02 MEMBERS.
   A Park and Recreation Board shall be created, composed of four members,
appointed by the executive of the municipality, on the basis of their interest
in and knowledge of parks and recreation. No more than two members shall be of
the same political party.
(Ord. 582, passed 2-4-1992)
§ 95.03 TERMS.
   (A)   Upon establishment of the Board, the terms of the members initially
appointed shall be:
      (1)   One member for a term of one year;
      (2)   One member for a term of two years;
      (3)   One member for a term of three years; and
      (4)   One member for a term of four years.
   (B)   As a term expires, each new appointment shall be made by the executive
of the municipality for a term of four years.
      (1)   All terms expire on the first Monday in January, but a member shall
continue in office until his or her successor is appointed.
      (2)   If an appointment for a new term is not made by the executive of
the municipality by the first Monday in April, the incumbent shall serve
another term.
      (3)   If a vacancy occurs, the executive of the municipality shall
appoint a new member for the remainder of the unexpired term.
(Ord. 582, passed 2-4-1992)
§ 95.04 PRESIDENT AND VICE PRESIDENT.
   (A)   At its first regular meeting in each year, the Board shall elect a
President and Vice President.
   (B)   The Vice President shall have authority to act as the President of the
Board during the absence or disability of the President.
   (C)   The Board may select a Secretary either from within or without its own
membership.
(Ord. 582, passed 2-4-1992)
§ 95.05 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Board shall have the power to perform all acts necessary to
acquire and develop sites and facilities and to conduce such programs as are
generally understood to be park and recreation functions.
   (B)   In addition, the Board shall have all the powers and duties listed in
I.C. 36-10-3.
(Ord. 582, passed 2-4-1992)
§ 95.06 BUDGET.
   The Board shall prepare and submit an annual budget in the same manner as
other departments of city government as prescribed by the State Board of
Accounts. The Board may accept gifts, donations and subsidies for park and
recreation purposes.
(Ord. 582, passed 2-4-1992)
CHAPTER 96: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
96.001   Cutting/trimming of trees
   
96.002   Sidewalk displays and sales during Parke County Covered Bridge
Festival
   
96.003   Encroachments of public rights-of-way
   
96.004   Sidewalk displays of merchandise
Certain Accessory Structures Adjacent to Sidewalks Restricted
   
96.015   Structures restricted
   
96.016   Signs and awnings; sidewalk clearance
   
96.017   Notice of violation; abatement procedure
   
96.018   Regulations supplementary to other ordinances
Maintenance of Public Sidewalks and Curbs
   
96.030   Authority, purpose and scope
   
96.031   Definitions
   
96.032   Liability of property owner to maintain abutting sidewalk
   
96.033   Public sidewalks or curbs determined to provide particular benefit to
abutting properties
   
96.034   Finding of necessary or desirable repairs or restoration of public
sidewalks and/or curbs; adoption of preliminary resolution; specifications of
intended improvements
   
96.035   Public hearing on preliminary resolution; determination of cost-
effective benefits; adoption of final resolution and order to perform work
   
96.036   Remonstrances or objections to final resolution
   
96.037   Notice to property owners; time period
   
96.038   Power of town to inspect and approve work performed
   
96.039   Failure of owner to perform required work
Excavation in Streets and Rights-of-Way
   
96.050   Permit required; application; fees
   
96.051   Surety; indemnification of town
   
96.052   Method of excavation; excavated material; other regulations
   
96.053   Completion of work; restoration; clean-up
   
96.054   Special requirements for urgent completion of emergency work
   
96.055   Inspections and supervision; further regulations
   
96.056   Maintenance of location records by public utilities
   
96.057   Abandoned substructures; notice; removal of obstructions
Construction of Utilities and Other Public Works; Rights-of-Way and Easements
   
96.070   General restriction
   
96.071   Definition
   
96.072   Relocation of utilities at cost of the owner
   
96.073   Street cuts
   
96.074   Maintenance of safeguards, barriers, lights and work hours of activity
permitted
   
96.075   Excavation, backfilling and restoration of service
   
96.076   Permit required
   
96.077   INDOT permits recognized
   
96.078   Definition of “emergency” and permit required for emergency cuts
   
96.079   Cost of restoration of street cuts to be paid to the town
   
96.080   Cuts restored by authorized agencies/utilities
   
96.081   Refund of permit fees
   
96.082   Waiver of permit fee
   
96.083   Suspension of permit upon failure to comply
   
96.084   Performance bond
   
96.085   Indemnification
 
   
96.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 96.001 CUTTING/TRIMMING OF TREES.
   (A)   The Town Council hereby asserts, assumes and takes control of all
shade trees, shrubbery or other ornaments within the streets of the town.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut, trim, mutilate or in any
way disturb any such tree or shrub, or the boxing or covering thereof, without
obtaining a permit from the Town Council, which permit shall prescribe the
terms and conditions thereof. A fee of $5 shall be charged for the permit.
   (C)   In addition, before cutting/trimming any tree along the streets of the
town, the property owner shall give at least one day’s notice to the
Superintendent of the town’s electric utility, stating the time and place where
such cutting or trimming will be done, so that he or she may be present to
protect the electric wires belonging to the town; however, a permit or notice
to the Electric Utility Superintendent is not required when, in an emergency,
the condition of a tree is such as to pose an imminent danger to life or
property which can only be relieved by the immediate cutting or trimming of the
tree; but any person cutting or trimming a tree under this authority shall,
within three days thereafter, file a written statement with the Town Council,
describing the necessity for the emergency action.
(1984 Code, § 5-2-2) (Ord. 3, passed - -; Ord. 243, passed 4-9-1909; Ord. 288,
passed 7-2-1917) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.002 SIDEWALK DISPLAYS AND SALES DURING PARKE COUNTY COVERED BRIDGE
FESTIVAL.
   (A)   General prohibition. Except as otherwise contained in this section, it
shall be unlawful for any person to display merchandise on the sidewalks in the
town during the annual Parke County Covered Bridge Festival.
   (B)   Exception(s). With respect to properties located on the Town Square
and properties located on Ohio Street between Michigan Street and Erie Street,
the temporary display of merchandise shall be allowed in front of and adjacent
to the front wall of a merchant’s place of business upon the condition that a
minimum five-foot wide passage be maintained for pedestrian traffic at all
times along the sidewalk. The five-foot width shall begin at the curb or the
inside edge of the uppermost sidewalk where the sidewalk is divided into two or
more levels. No such use of any sidewalk shall be permitted where the sidewalk
is less than five feet in width.
(Ord. 2013-11, passed 9-26-2013) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.003 ENCROACHMENTS OF PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   No person shall engage in play or athletic games on or abutting public
streets, alleys, or public rights-of-way within the town in any manner as to
impede or obstruct vehicular traffic.
   (B)   No person shall construct, erect, or maintain any obstruction across
or upon any public street, alley, sidewalk, or right-of-way. For the purposes
of this section, the term “obstruction” shall include, but not be limited, to
any basketball goal or other fixed, portable, or temporary object that may in
any way obstruct, either totally or partially, any street, alley, sidewalk or
public right-of-way.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 6-10-2013) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.004 SIDEWALK DISPLAYS OF MERCHANDISE.
   (A)   General prohibition. Except as otherwise contained herein, it shall be
unlawful for any person to display merchandise for sale or place any other
display or obstruction or on any sidewalk located within the town unless
approved in advance by the Town Council.
   (B)   Exception. The display of merchandise for sale shall be allowed on
sidewalks in front of and adjacent to the front wall of a merchant's place of
business in the Downtown Business District, subject to the following terms and
conditions:
      (1)   A minimum passageway equal to five feet in width or one-half the
width of the sidewalk, whichever is greater, shall be maintained along the
sidewalk at all times for pedestrian traffic.
      (2)   Merchandise may be displayed only during hours of operation and
shall be removed from the sidewalks at all other times.
(Ord. 17, passed 10-14-2014) Penalty, see §
96.999
CERTAIN ACCESSORY STRUCTURES ADJACENT TO SIDEWALKS RESTRICTED
§ 96.015 STRUCTURES RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect any wooden structure or awning,
shed, wooden signs, posts or any kind of material structure or obstruction
whatever over, along or against the sidewalk in front of any property facing on
the public square unless he or she first obtains, upon special and good cause
shown, written permission from the Town Council to do so.
(1984 Code, § 8-4-1) (Ord. 206, passed 5-1-1891; Ord. 295, passed 6-20-1921)
Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.016 SIGNS AND AWNINGS; SIDEWALK CLEARANCE.
   All signs suspended or hanging from any building out and over any sidewalk
shall have a clearance of at least 12 feet over such sidewalk. Wooden awnings
or iron bars or rods on which awnings are suspended shall have a clearance of
at least eight feet; other awnings in front of stores or business rooms of any
sort shall have a sidewalk clearance of at least seven feet. No advertising
sign or device shall be placed in or upon any of the streets or alleys.
(1984 Code, § 8-4-2) (Ord. 206, passed 5-1-1891; Ord. 295, passed 6-20-1921)
Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.017 NOTICE OF VIOLATION; ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   The Town Superintendent shall give all property owners or their agents in
front of whose property there is erected any structure in violation of this
chapter written notice to tear down and remove same within ten days of receipt
of the notice.
(1984 Code, § 8-4-3) (Ord. 206, passed 5-1-1891; Ord. 295, passed 6-20-1921)
§ 96.018 REGULATIONS SUPPLEMENTARY TO OTHER ORDINANCES.
   Nothing in this chapter is intended to supercede nor permit any lesser
standard than is now or hereafter set forth in the zoning ordinance (Chapter
154) or Building Code of the town with respect to the erection or attachment of
any accessory structure. The provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
supplementary and shall apply only insofar as it establishes a further or more
stringent standard than any set forth in the zoning ordinance (Chapter 154) or
Building Code.
(1984 Code, § 8-4-5) (Ord. 206, passed 5-1-1891; Ord. 295, passed 6-20-1921)
MAINTENANCE OF PUBLIC SIDEWALKS AND CURBS
§ 96.030 AUTHORITY, PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   Pursuant to the powers of the town under I.C. 36-9-36-17, the purpose of
this act is to establish a general obligation of the owners of property to
repair, restore or maintain public sidewalks and curbs abutting their property
when such action is determined to be appropriate and is so ordered by the Town
Council. The procedures prescribed herein are intended to be permissive and
discretionary in respect to the Town Council, and do not preclude the Council’s
utilizing and implementing any other lawful method and procedure to provide for
the repair and maintenance of public sidewalks and curbs in circumstances where
it deems such alternate method and procedure to be more equitable or
appropriate.
(Ord. passed 12-18-1989)
§ 96.031 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABUTTING. In reference to a public sidewalk or curb is respect to adjacent
property, means that the public sidewalk or curb:
      (1)   Traverses the property;
      (2)   Is outside of but tangent to the boundary or the property; or
      (3)   Lies within a public right-of-way or easement the boundaries of
which traverse or are tangent to the boundary of the property, and any part of
the sidewalk or curb is within the boundary of the property or within ten feet
outside of the boundary of such property.
   PUBLIC CURB. Any raised structure running along the edge of a public street
or alley under town jurisdiction, and intended to separate the street or alley
from an adjacent sidewalk or land.
   PUBLIC SIDEWALK. Any walkway which is improved and dedicated to public use
for pedestrian traffic and which is owned, operated or maintained by the town
for public use or which is subject to the control and jurisdiction of the town
for such purpose.
(Ord. passed 12-18-1989)
§ 96.032 LIABILITY OF PROPERTY OWNER TO MAINTAIN ABUTTING SIDEWALK.
   (A)   The owner of any real property is liable, at his or her expense, to
maintain that portion of any public sidewalk abutting on or passing through his
or her property in a good, safe and usable condition.
   (B)   This requirement includes, but is not necessarily limited to, the
following:
      (1)   Repairing any substantial cracks or holes in the pavement;
      (2)   Prompt removal of accumulations of snow, ice or mud which may pose
a hazard to person using the sidewalk;
      (3)   Removal of sticks, branches or other debris or obstacles which
render use of the sidewalk inconvenient or hazardous; and
      (4)   Remedying any areas of deep standing water making use of the
sidewalk inconvenient.
(Ord. passed 12-18-1989)
§ 96.033 PUBLIC SIDEWALKS OR CURBS DETERMINED TO PROVIDE PARTICULAR BENEFIT TO
ABUTTING PROPERTIES.
   All public sidewalks and/or curbs are hereby determined, found and declared
to provide, prima facie, a particular benefit to those properties abutting such
public sidewalks or curbs.
(Ord. passed 12-18-1989)
§ 96.034 FINDING OF NECESSARY OR DESIRABLE REPAIRS OR RESTORATION OF PUBLIC
SIDEWALKS AND/OR CURBS; ADOPTION OF PRELIMINARY RESOLUTION; SPECIFICATIONS OF
INTENDED IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   If the Town Council finds that any portions of public sidewalks and/or
public curbs are in an unsatisfactory and dilapidated condition for any reason,
they may adopt a preliminary resolution:
      (1)   Stating such finding;
      (2)   Describing by location the affected portions of public sidewalks or
curbs;
      (3)   Describing the general nature of repairs or restoration
contemplated;
      (4)   Including or incorporating by reference cross-sections, plans and
specifications, which shall be placed on file with the Clerk-Treasurer and made
available for public examination and so stated in the resolution, showing the
condition to which the affected public sidewalk or curbs are to be repaired or
restored; provided, however, that unless the Town Council contemplated
restoration and repairs to specifications differing from those to which the
sidewalks or curbs were originally constructed, the original condition of the
sidewalks or curbs as newly constructed shall be presumed to constitute the
cross-section, plans and specifications required under this division (A); and
      (5)   Estimating the costs of the required work.
   (B)   When a preliminary resolution is adopted under this section, notice of
the resolution shall be published in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1. The notice
need not include the entire text of the resolution, but shall call attention to
its passage and the location of public sidewalks or curbs to which it applies,
and shall state the time and place of the public hearing required under §
96.035.
(Ord. passed 12-18-1989)
§ 96.035 PUBLIC HEARING ON PRELIMINARY RESOLUTION; DETERMINATION OF COST-
EFFECTIVE BENEFITS; ADOPTION OF FINAL RESOLUTION AND ORDER TO PERFORM WORK.
   When a preliminary resolution is adopted under §
96.034, the Town Council shall schedule a public hearing on the matter, and
following such public hearing may adopt a final resolution which:
   (A)   Includes a provision stating that after such public hearing the Town
Council has determined that the repairs or restoration contemplated in the
preliminary resolution are:
      (1)   Reasonable and necessary or desirable; and
      (2)   Would provide benefits to abutting properties justifying the
estimated costs of the repairs or restoration.
   (B)   Reaffirms and either restates or incorporates by reference the
provisions of the original preliminary resolution (and in the latter case
further states that copies of the original resolution are on file with the
Clerk-Treasurer and available for public inspection);
   (C)   Includes a provision stipulating that pursuant to I.C. 36-9-36-17 the
Town Council has determined that the required work of restoration or repairs of
such public sidewalks and/or curbs should properly be performed by the owners
of the abutting properties at their individual expense, and that each such
property owner is liable for performing such repairs or restoration in respect
to any portion of the described public sidewalks or curbs which are abutting to
his, her or their particular property; and
   (D)   Ordering that the repairs or restoration of sidewalks or curbs be
made.
(Ord. passed 12-18-1989)
§ 96.036 REMONSTRANCES OR OBJECTIONS TO FINAL RESOLUTION.
   (A)   Within ten days of the adoption of a final resolution under §
96.035, 50% or more of the affected property owners may file a remonstrance
with the Town Council, in which case the final resolution does not become
effective unless a further ordinance specifically re-conforming the resolution
and ordering the contemplated work is adopted within 60 days by a two-thirds
vote of the Town Council. Furthermore, if 40% or more of the persons who own
property abutting the curbs or sidewalks which are ordered improved and who are
affected by the final resolution object thereto, they may file a petition with
the Clerk-Treasurer within five days of the adoption of the resolution as
provided by I.C. 36-9-36-15.
   (B)   If the Town Council does not within five days after such filing
rescind the resolution, the Clerk-Treasurer shall then file a copy of the
resolution and the objection with the Circuit Court of the county for further
hearing in accordance with I.C. 36-9-36-16.
   (C)   The objectors shall also be required to post a surety bond in an
amount to be set by such court.
(Ord. passed 12-18-1989)
§ 96.037 NOTICE TO PROPERTY OWNERS; TIME PERIOD.
   (A)   Whenever the Town Council enacts a final resolution under §
96.035, which includes a provision described by §
96.035(C), and if remonstrances or objections are not filed within the
stipulated time or if the Town Council reconfirms the resolution by ordinance
or the court under I.C. 36-9-36-16 overrules such objections and confirms the
order of the Town Council, the Clerk-Treasurer shall prepare a written notice
and order in the name of the Town Council and addressed to the owner of any
property affected by the final resolution informing the person or persons of
the adoption of the final resolution, the nature of the work required to be
performed by them at their expense, and that such work must be performed to the
satisfaction of the town within 30 days of the date of the notice or within
such other reasonable time to be determined by the Town Council.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall cause a copy of the notice to be either
personally served or delivered by mail to each affected property owner at his,
her or their last known address as shown on the property tax duplicate records
filed in the office of the County Auditor.
(Ord. passed 12-18-1989)
§ 96.038 POWER OF TOWN TO INSPECT AND APPROVE WORK PERFORMED.
   The town, by and through an appropriate official or agent of the town
designated by the Town Council, shall have the right and power to inspect and
approve any work performed by a property owner or his, her or their agents
pursuant to a stipulation and notice pursuant to §§
96.035(C) and 96.037. The obligation of the property owner is not considered
discharged until the work is found to comply with standards and specifications
applicable under §
96.034(A)(4), and so approved.
(Ord. passed 12-18-1989)
§ 96.039 FAILURE OF OWNER TO PERFORM REQUIRED WORK.
   If a property owner is sent a notice under §
96.037 and fails to perform or have performed the required work to the
satisfaction of the town within 30 days or within such other reasonable time to
be determined by the Town Council, the Town Council may provide for the work to
be performed by an independent contractor. The contract shall be let in the
same manner as other public works contracts, and the cost thereof shall be a
lien and assessment against the property enforceable and collectible in the
same manner as Barrett Law assessments under I.C. 36-9-36. If work is to be
performed by an independent contractor with respect to more than one property,
the Town Council shall let a single contract and the assessment shall be
prorated to each property in the proportion that the lineal footage of each
such property abutting the affected sidewalk or curb bears to the total lineal
footage of the sidewalk or curb to be improved by an independent contractor.
(Ord. passed 12-18-1989)
EXCAVATION IN STREETS AND RIGHTS-OF-WAY
§ 96.050 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION; FEES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to tunnel under or to make any
excavation in any street, alley, easement, right-of-way or other public place
in the town without having obtained a permit as is herein required, or without
complying with the provisions of this chapter or in violation of or variance
from the terms of any permit.
   (B)   Applications for permits shall be made to the Clerk-Treasurer at the
Town Council office, and shall describe the location of the intended excavation
or tunnel, the size thereof, the purpose therefor, the person, firm or
corporation for whom the work is being done, and shall contain an agreement
that the applicant will comply with all ordinances, and laws relating to the
work to be done.
   (C)   A fee shall be paid for each permit in accordance with the type or
surface pavement to be excavated in or under, as follows:
 
Asphalt or Portland cement concrete $30
Brick                               $30
Oil-treated surface                 $30
Unimproved surface                  $20
 
(1984 Code, § 5-1-1) (Ord. 494, passed 2-17-1976) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.051 SURETY; INDEMNIFICATION OF TOWN.
   No permit shall be issued until the applicant has filed with the Clerk-
Treasurer either one of the following, in an amount deemed sufficient by the
Town Superintendent, which shall be conditioned to indemnify the town for any
loss, liability or damage that may result or accrue from, or because of the
making, existence, manner of guarding or constructing any tunnel or excavation:
   (A)   A surety bond by a surety company licensed to do business in the
state; or
   (B)   A certificate of insurance
(1984 Code, § 5-1-2) (Ord. 494, passed 2-17-1976)
§ 96.052 METHOD OF EXCAVATION; EXCAVATED MATERIAL; OTHER REGULATIONS.
   Excavation work shall be performed in accordance with the following
regulations.
   (A)   Tunneling required under asphalt/concrete streets or sidewalks. It
shall be unlawful to make any excavation in any portion of a street or sidewalk
in the town which is paved with concrete or asphalt paving. Where necessary,
and where a proper permit has been secured tunnels may be driven or excavated
under any such pavement provided that upon completion of the work involved the
tunnel shall be backfilled with compacted sand.
   (B)   Protection of utility pipes, cables and the like.
      (1)   No injury shall be done to any pipes, cables or conduits in the
making of excavations or tunnels; and notice shall be given to the persons
maintaining any such pipes, cables or conduits or to the Town Superintendent or
officer charged with the care thereof, which are or may be endangered or
affected by the making of any excavation or tunnel before such pipes, cables or
conduits are disturbed.
      (2)   The permittee shall not interfere with any existing facility
without the written consent of the Town Superintendent and the owner of the
facility.
      (3)   If it becomes necessary to relocate an existing facility this shall
be done by its owner.
      (4)   No facility owned by the town shall be moved to accommodate the
permittee unless the cost of such work is borne by the permittee.
      (5)   The cost of moving privately owned facilities shall be similarly
borne by the permittee unless it makes other arrangements with the person
owning the facility.
      (6)   The permittee shall support and protect by timbers or otherwise all
pipes, conduits, poles, wires or other apparatus which may be in any way
affected by the excavation work, and do everything necessary to support,
sustain and protect them under, over, along or across said work.
      (7)   The permittee shall secure approval of methods of support and
protection from the owner of the facility. In case any of said pipes, conduits,
poles, wires or apparatus shall be damaged, and for this purpose pipe coating
or other encasement or devices are to be considered as part of the
substructure, the permittee shall promptly notify the owner thereof.
      (8)   All damaged facilities shall be repaired by the agency or person
owning them and the expense of such repairs shall be charged to the permittee.
      (9)   It is the intent of this division (B) that permittee shall assume
all liability for damage to facilities and any resulting damage or injury to
anyone because of such facility damage and such assumption of liability is a
contractual obligation of the permittee. The only exception will be such
instances where damage is exclusively due to the negligence of the owning
utility. The town shall not be made a party to any action because of this
division (B). The permittee shall inform itself as to the existence and
location of all underground facilities and protect the same against damage.
   (C)   Protection of trees and shrubs. No unnecessary damage or injury shall
be done to any tree or shrub or the roots thereof. The permittee shall not
remove, even temporarily, any trees or shrubs which exist in parking strip
areas without first obtaining the consent of the appropriate town department or
town official having supervision of such property.
   (D)   Protection barriers and warning devices; advance placement.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of every person cutting or making an
excavation in or upon any public place, to place and maintain barriers and
warning devices necessary for safety of the general public.
      (2)   Barriers, warning signs, lights and the like, shall conform to the
requirements of the Town Council.
      (3)   Warning lights shall be flares, torches, lanterns, electrical
markers or flashers used to indicate a hazard to traffic from sunset of each
day to sunrise of the next day.
      (4)   Torches shall be open wick or flame flares or bombs generally used
in connection with roadway repairs or construction and operating on kerosene or
similar fluid. Lanterns shall burn kerosene or similar fluid, and have clear
red or ruby globes.
      (5)   Electrical markers or flashers shall emit light at sufficient
intensity and frequency to be visible at a reasonable distance for safety.
Reflectors or reflecting material may be used to supplement, but not replace,
light sources.
      (6)   The Town Council may restrict the use of lanterns or open flame
devices in fire hazard areas.
      (7)   Warning signs shall be placed far enough in advance of the
construction operation to alert traffic within a public street, and cones or
other approved devices shall be placed to channel traffic, in accordance with
the instructions of the Town Superintendent.
   (E)   Maintenance of vehicular and pedestrian traffic access.
      (1)   The permittee shall take appropriate measures to assure that during
the performance of the excavation work, traffic conditions as near normal as
possible are maintained at all times so as to minimize inconvenience to the
occupants of the adjoining property and to the general public.
      (2)   The permittee shall maintain safe crossings for two lanes of
vehicle traffic at all street intersections, where possible, and safe crossings
for pedestrians at intervals of not more than 300 feet.
      (3)   If any excavation is made across any public street, alley or
sidewalk, adequate crossings shall be maintained for vehicles and for
pedestrians.
      (4)   If any sidewalk is blocked by any such work, a temporary sidewalk
shall be constructed or provided which shall be safe for travel and convenient
for users.
      (5)   When traffic conditions permit, the Town Superintendent may by
written approval permit the closing of streets and alleys to all traffic for a
period of time prescribed by him or her, if in his or her opinion it is
necessary.
      (6)   Such written approval may require that the permittee give
notification to various public agencies and to the general public. In such
cases, written approval shall not be valid until such notice is given.
   (F)   Preservation of monuments. Any monument set for the purpose of
locating or preserving the lines of any street or property subdivision, or a
precise survey reference point, or a permanent survey bench mark within the
town, shall not be removed or disturbed or caused to be removed or disturbed
without first obtaining permission in writing from the Town Council so to do.
Permission to remove or disturb such monuments, reference point or bench marks
shall only be granted upon condition that the person applying for such
permission shall pay all expenses incident to the proper replacement of this
monument by the town.
   (G)   Protection of gutters and drains. The permittee shall maintain all
gutters free and unobstructed for the full depth of the adjacent curb and for
at least one foot in width from the face of such curb at the gutter line.
Whenever a gutter crosses an intersecting street, an adequate waterway shall be
provided and at all times maintained. The permittee shall make provisions to
take care of all surplus water, muck, silt, slickings or other run-off pumped
from excavations or resulting from sluicing or other operations and shall be
responsible for any damage resulting from its failure to so provide.
   (H)   Protection of adjoining property; access.
      (1)   The permittee shall at all times, and at his or her own expense,
preserve and protect from injury any adjoining property by providing proper
foundations and taking other measures suitable for the purpose.
      (2)   Where, in the protection of such property, it is necessary to enter
upon private property for the purpose of taking appropriate protecting
measures, the permittee shall obtain consent from the owner of such private
property for such purpose, and if he or she can not obtain such consent, the
Town Superintendent may authorize him or her to enter the private premises
solely for the purpose of making the property safe.
      (3)   The permittee shall, at his or her own expense, shore up and
protect all buildings, walls, fences or other property likely to he damaged
during the progress of the excavation work and shall be responsible for all
damage to public or private property or highways resulting from its failure
properly to protect and carry out said work.
      (4)   Whenever it may be necessary for the permittee to trench through
any lawn area, the area shall be re-seeded or the sod shall be carefully cut
and rolled and replaced after ditches have been backfilled as required in this
chapter.
      (5)   All construction and maintenance work shall be done in a manner
calculated to leave the lawn area clean of earth and debris and in a condition
as nearly as possible to that which existed before such work began.
   (I)   Protection of and access to fire protection devices and other vital
structures. The excavation work shall be performed and conducted as not to
interfere with access to fire hydrants, fire stations, fire escapes, water
gates, underground vaults, valve housing structures and all other vital
equipment as designated by the Town Superintendent.
   (J)   Breaking through pavement. The following specific requirements shall
govern to performance of work by a permittee which requires breaking through
pavement.
      (1)   Saw cutting of Portland cement concrete may be required when the
nature of the work or the condition of the street warrants. When required, the
depth of the cut shall not be less than one inch in depth, but a greater depth
may be required by the Town Superintendent. Saw cutting may be required by the
Town Superintendent outside of the limits of the excavation over caveouts,
overbreaks and small floating sections.
      (2)   Approved cutting of bituminous pavement may be required by the Town
Superintendent to confine pavement damage to the limits of the trench.
      (3)   Sections of sidewalks shall be removed to the nearest score line or
joint.
      (4)   Cutouts outside of trench lines must be normal or parallel to the
trench lines.
      (5)   Pavement edges shall be trimmed to a vertical face and neatly
aligned with the centerline of the trench.
      (6)   Unstable pavement must be removed over cave-outs and over-breaks,
and the subgrade shall be treated as the main trench.
      (7)   Heavy-duty pavement breakers may be prohibited by the Town
Superintendent when the use endangers existing substructures or other property.
      (8)   Boring or other methods to prevent cutting of new pavement may be
required by the Town Superintendent.
   (K)   Maximum open length of trenches. The maximum length of open trench
permissible at any time shall be in accordance with existing ordinances or
regulations.
   (L)   Bracing of excavated areas. Proper bracing shall be maintained to
prevent the collapse of adjoining ground; and in excavations, the excavation
shall not have anywhere below the surface any portion which extends beyond the
opening at the surface.
   (M)   Minimum depth of substructures.
      (1)   No person shall, without written permission of the Town
Superintendent, install any substructure, except manholes, vaults, valve
casings, culverts and catch basins, at a vertical distance less than:
         (a)   In a street, 24 inches below the established flow line of the
nearest gutter, or 24 inches below the nearest outermost edge of the traveled
portion of the street if there is no gutter;
         (b)   In a parkway, 16 inches below established gutter grade when the
substructure parallels the parkway, or 12 inches below the top of the
established sidewalk or curb when the substructure is at right angles to the
parkway; or
         (c)   In other public places, 12 inches below the surface.
      (2)   However, nothing in this division (M) shall impose a duty upon the
permittee to maintain specifications as required herein upon subsequent changes
of grade in the surface unless the grade in the substructure interferes with
the maintenance of, or travel on, a public street.
   (N)   Minimization of noise and dust. Each permittee shall conduct and carry
out excavation work in such manner as to avoid unnecessary inconvenience and
annoyance to the general public and occupants of neighboring property. The
permittee shall take appropriate measures to reduce to the fullest extent
practicable in the performance of the excavation work, noise, dust and
unsightly debris; and between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. shall not
use, except in case of emergency as herein otherwise provided, any tool,
appliance or equipment producing noise of sufficient volume to disturb the
sleep or repose of occupants of the neighboring property.
   (O)   Disposition of excavated material.
      (1)   All material excavated from trenches and piled adjacent to the
trench or in any street shall be piled and maintained in such manner as not to
endanger those working in the trench, or pedestrians or users of the streets,
and so that as little inconvenience as possible is caused to those using
streets and adjoining property.
      (2)   All material excavated shall be laid compactly along the side of
the trench and kept trimmed so as to cause as little inconvenience as
reasonably possible to vehicular and pedestrian traffic, or as specified by the
Town Superintendent.
      (3)   Whenever necessary, in order to expedite the flow of traffic or to
abate the dirt or dust nuisance, toe boards or bins may be required by the Town
Superintendent to prevent the spreading of dirt into traffic lanes.
      (4)   If the street is not wide enough to hold the excavated material
without using part of the adjacent sidewalk, a passageway at least one-half of
the sidewalk width shall be maintained along such sidewalk line.
      (5)   Where the confines of the area being excavated are too narrow to
permit the piling of excavated material beside the trench, such as might be the
case in a narrow alley, the Town Superintendent may require that the permittee
haul the excavated material to a storage site and then re- haul it to the
trench site at the time of backfilling.
      (6)   It shall be the permittee’s responsibility to secure the necessary
permission and make all necessary arrangements for all required storage and
disposal sites.
(1984 Code, § 5-1-3) (Ord. 494, passed 2-17-1976) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.053 COMPLETION OF WORK; RESTORATION; CLEAN-UP.
   (A)   After an excavation is commenced, the permittee shall prosecute with
diligence and expedition all excavation work covered by the excavation permit
and shall promptly complete such work and restore the street to its original
condition, or as near as may be, so as not to obstruct the public place or
travel thereon more than is reasonably necessary.
   (B)   The following regulations apply to the completion and finishing of
work.
      (1)   Backfilling; notice to Superintendent. Notice must be given to the
Town Superintendent at least ten hours before the work of refilling any
excavation or tunnel commences. Fine material, free from lumps and stone,
selected from the spoil shall be thoroughly compacted around and under the
substructure to the upper level of such substructure. Above the upper level of
the substructure, backfill material shall be placed to the sub-grade of the
pavement in lifts consistent with the type of soil involved and the degree of
consolidation specified by the Town Council. Broken pavement, large stones,
roots and other debris shall not be used in the backfill. The number and size
of each lift shall be dependent upon the type of soil involved. Such backfill
shall be done in a manner that will permit the restoration of the surface to a
density condition not less than that existing prior to excavation unless
otherwise specified. The Town Superintendent may require soil tests to be
furnished by a recognized soil testing laboratory or registered professional
engineer specializing in soil mechanics when, in his or her opinion, backfill
for any excavation is not being adequately compacted. In order for the
resurfacing to be permitted, such test must show that the backfill material
meets the minimum requirement as prescribed by the Town Council. All expense of
such tests shall be borne by the permittee.
      (2)   Restoration of surface. Any person making any excavation or tunnel
in or under any public street, alley, easement, right-of-way or other public
place in the town shall restore the surface to its original condition if there
is no pavement there. Refills shall be properly tamped down, and any bracing in
such tunnel of excavation shall be left in the ground. Any opening in a paved
or improved portion of a street shall be repaired and the surface relaid by the
applicant, in compliance with the ordinances of the town and under the
supervision of the Town Superintendent; however, the permittee shall not be
required to repair pavement damage existing prior to excavation unless his or
her cut results in small floating sections that may be unstable, in which case
permittee shall remove and pave the area.
      (3)   Clean-up of work area. As the excavation work progresses, all
streets shall be thoroughly cleaned of all rubbish, excess earth, rock and
other debris resulting from such work. All clean-up operations at the location
of such excavation shall be accomplished at the expense of the permittee and
shall be completed to the satisfaction of the Town Superintendent. From time to
time, as may be ordered by the Town Superintendent and in any event immediately
after completion of said work, the permittee shall, at his or her or its own
expense, clean up and remove all refuse and unused materials of any kind
resulting from said work, and upon failure to do so within 24 hours after
having been notified to do so by the Town Superintendent, paid work may be done
by the Town Superintendent and the cost thereof charged to the permittee, and
the permittee shall also be liable for the cost thereof under the surety bond
provided hereunder.
(1984 Code, § 5-1-4) (Ord. 494, passed 2-17-1976)
§ 96.054 SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR URGENT COMPLETION OF EMERGENCY WORK.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent the making of such
excavations as may be necessary for the preservation of life or property or for
the location of trouble in a conduit or pipe, or for making repairs, provided
that the person making such excavation shall apply to the Town Superintendent
for such a permit on the first working day after such work in commenced. When
traffic conditions, the safety or convenience of the traveling public or the
public interest require that the excavation work be performed as emergency work
the Town Superintendent shall have full power to order, at the time the permit
is granted, that a crew of men and adequate facilities be employed by the
permittee 24 hours a day so that such excavation work may be completed as soon
as possible.
(1984 Code, § 5-1-5) (Ord. 494, passed 2-17-1976)
§ 96.055 INSPECTIONS AND SUPERVISION; FURTHER REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Town Superintendent shall from time to time inspect, or cause to
be inspected, all excavations and tunnels being made in or under any public
street, alley, easement, right-of-way or other public place in the town as are
reasonably necessary for the enforcement of this chapter.
   (B)   The Town Superintendent shall have the authority to promulgate and
cause to be enforced such rules and regulations as may be reasonably necessary
to enforce and carry out the intent of this chapter.
(1984 Code, § 5-1-6) (Ord. 494, passed 2-17-1976)
§ 96.056 MAINTENANCE OF LOCATION; RECORDS BY PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   (A)   Every public utility, after February 17, 1976, shall maintain records
showing the location of all of its underground facilities, except relatively
minor facilities which connect a particular premises or building to a facility
serving more than one premises or building, and except oil or gas gathering or
field lines.
   (B)   Every public utility shall maintain equipment which can locate such
facilities in the field.
(1984 Code, § 5-1-7) (Ord. 494, passed 2-17-1976)
§ 96.057 ABANDONED SUBSTRUCTURES; NOTICE; REMOVAL OF OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   Whenever the use of a substructure is abandoned, except the
abandonment of service lines designed to serve single properties, the person
owning, using, controlling or having an interest therein, shall within 30 days
after such abandonment file with the Town Superintendent a statement in writing
giving in detail the location of the substructure so abandoned.
   (B)   If such abandoned substructure obstructs any installation of the town
or any other public body, which installation is pursuant to a governmental
function, the owner shall remove such abandoned substructure or pay the cost of
its removal during the course of excavation for construction of the facility by
the town or any other public body.
(1984 Code, § 5-1-8) (Ord. 494, passed 2-17-1976)
CONSTRUCTION OF UTILITIES AND OTHER PUBLIC WORKS; RIGHTS-OF-WAY AND EASEMENTS
§ 96.070 GENERAL RESTRICTION.
   Any person, firm or corporation now owning and operating or hereafter
installing and operating any utility within the right-of-way of any street or
easement in the town, or any person, firm or corporation doing any repair in
any street right-of-way shall do so only in accordance with the terms and
conditions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2011-779, passed 11-29-2011)
§ 96.071 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY or EASEMENT. All of the area presently used, owned or dedicated
to or by the town and/or the State Department of Transportation for a street,
including sidewalks, curbs, gutters, driveway aprons and all other areas of the
right-of-way whether or not physically incorporated in the street.
(Ord. 2011-779, passed 11-29-2011)
§ 96.072 RELOCATION OF UTILITIES AT COST OF THE OWNER.
   (A)   In the event of the abandonment, widening, repair, installation,
construction or reconstruction by or for the town and/or INDOT of any road,
bridge, culvert, traffic signal, street light, water distribution system,
sewage collection system, storm drain system or any other town facility within
a street right-of-way, the owner of any utility shall move, relocate or renew
such facility, upon request of the town, when necessary for public safety and
welfare and when a suitable site is available, all at the cost and expense of
the owner of such utility.
   (B)   The town will give as much advance notice to the affected utilities as
possible to facilitate their planning.
(Ord. 2011-779, passed 11-29-2011)
§ 96.073 STREET CUTS.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation, shall cut or dig in the town for the
purpose of connecting with water, sewer, gas or other mains or pipes in said
streets, or for any other purpose by digging or cutting more than halfway
across such street until the half which has been cut or dug up shall have been
backfilled or plated over with street traffic plates so that one-half of the
passageway of the street shall always remain open and free for the
uninterrupted passage of traffic.
   (B)   Traffic plates shall be used when restoring the pavement cut to allow
traffic movement during the period of time when the concrete sub-base required
herein is curing to the point where the complete street surface can be
restored.
(Ord. 2011-779, passed 11-29-2011) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.074 MAINTENANCE OF SAFEGUARDS, BARRIERS, LIGHTS AND WORK HOURS OF ACTIVITY
PERMITTED.
   Every person, firm or corporation making or causing to be made any
construction ditch or any other excavation, road maintenance, utility
maintenance or utility construction in a street right-of-way shall do so in a
careful, prudent and professional manner so as to properly safeguard and
protect the work site and to prevent injury to persons or property in at least
the following manner:
   (A)   By placing of substantial and adequate barricades in, around, and
along the sides of the work area;
   (B)   By providing and maintaining adequate light to disclose to the public
the existence of any construction in the street, whether night or day;
   (C)   During the night time, to place at least one blinking light at the end
of each work area and the placing of other blinking lights spaced at intervals
recommended for the traffic speed within and adjacent to the construction area;
and
   (D)   On arterial streets, no work will be permitted during peak traffic
periods, 7:00 a.m. to 8:30 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. to 6:00 p.m., Monday through
Friday. An exception will be made for emergency work. Notice is to be given to
the Town Superintendent.
(Ord. 2011-779, passed 11-29-2011) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.075 EXCAVATION, BACKFILLING AND RESTORATION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The width of a trench cut shall be kept to the minimum width necessary
to install and properly tamp around the pipe or any new installation. If rock
or adverse soil conditions are encountered and shoring is required, then the
trench cut shall be of sufficient additional width to provide for the
protection of the workers and proper installation of the pipe or other
structure. Excavations shall comply with applicable Department of Labor Safety
and Health Standards for Excavations.
   (B)   All drain, water, sewer or gas pipes shall be installed in any street,
sidewalk or easements of the town and/or INDOT so that the pipe will be buried
for a depth of not less than three feet. Exceptions may be made where required
by unusual conditions on a case by case basis by the Town Superintendent.
   (C)   When soil conditions permit and there are no conflicting utilities;
gas, water, telephone, electric and cable TV service lines shall be installed
through a jacking or boring process. Sewer service lines may be installed
through a jacking or boring process. In the event the jacking procedure is
attempted and unsuccessful, then the pipe may be installed using an open cut
procedure.
   (D)   Before backfilling of any cuts in streets or street right-of-way, the
utility contractor shall request an inspection by the Town Superintendent.
   (E)   All backfill material will be free from cinders, ashes, refuse,
vegetable or organic matter, boulders, rocks or stones, wet material or other
materials which renders same unsuitable to obtain a firm and compact cover for
the installed pipe.
   (F)   The backfill shall be placed in layers not to exceed six inches, and
each layer shall be thoroughly compacted to not less than 95% of the maximum
dry density as defined by a Standard Proctor Test. Flowable fill will be
substituted for compacted backfill when directed by the Superintendent.
   (G)   In the event a dispute arises as to the suitability of trench
compaction, a Standard Proctor Test shall be conducted by an independent soil
testing firm. In the event the test reveals that the same has not been made in
accordance with this subchapter, then the cost shall be borne by the person,
firm or corporation doing the backfill. If the test fails to support the
opinion of the Superintendent, the town will pay the cost of the test.
   (H)   Prior to completing the backfilling operation in all streets in the
town, pavement shall be cut 12 inches on each side of the trench and a depth of
12 inches. If the cut is to be repaired by the town, then a temporary patch of
either six inches of compacted crusher run stone or a combination of three
inches of crusher run stone and three inches of compacted cold mix may be used.
Backfill shall be brought up flush with the sub-base of the street or sidewalk.
   (I)   All materials shall meet the specifications of INDOT.
   (J)   Where the existing pavement sub-base is soil, soil cement or crushed
stone, the base for the permanent pavement repair in all streets shall consist
of a minimum of ten inches of concrete. Where the existing pavement base is
concrete, the permanent pavement repair shall consist of a minimum of ten
inches of concrete. If the existing pavement surface is asphalt or tar and
gravel, then the permanent pavement repair shall consist of two inches of
asphalt, otherwise the surface shall be re-paved with concrete. Where sidewalks
are cut, the entire section shall be removed and replaced from the nearest
joints and curb.
   (K)   The entire surface of asphalt roadways will be overlayed on all
longitudinal cuts. Where numerous random utility cuts are made, the street or
lane shall be resurfaced for its entire width, if so determined by the Town
Superintendent. Work shall be completed by a town approved paving contractor.
   (L)   No new or resurfaced street or road shall be cut within five years
from its completion, except for new services. Bona fide emergency utility
repairs may be made as required. Such five-year prohibition shall not apply to
any street wherein the town has not given the affected utilities a minimum of
six months written notice that such street will be resurfaced by the town.
Exceptions must be approved by the Town Superintendent.
   (M)   No cuts will be permitted to be opened if, in the opinion of the Town
Superintendent, the cut cannot be backfilled and resurfacing restored within a
reasonable amount of time, or if traffic flows cannot be maintained. Exceptions
will be made for emergencies with due notice to the Town Superintendent.
   (N)   If any settlement occurs, the town may take such corrective action as
it deems appropriate and charge the permittee for such costs, including the
restoration of such excavation, or give notice to the permittee to restore such
excavation or pavement within ten days of such receipt of notice or be in
violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2011-779, passed 11-29-2011)
§ 96.076 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Before making a pavement cut or performing any work in a street right-
of-way or easement, a permit will be obtained from the Town Superintendent,
except in those instances otherwise provided for in this subchapter. No permit
will be required for normal maintenance activities not requiring excavation in
the right-of-way, a pavement cut or the blocking of traffic.
   (B)   For new construction, a utility will submit two sets of project
construction plans at the time of filing an application for a permit. Plans
will not be required for routine maintenance and service installations.
   (C)   The construction plans will be promptly reviewed and a permit will be
issued within three working days after submitting the plans, or written
comments submitted for revision of the plans to be made by the utility.
Revisions will be limited to those areas affecting town facilities and/or
traffic or pedestrian flow and protection. The utility will be responsible for
the engineering and design of its project and the integration of its
maintenance and construction responsibilities.
   (D)   No permit shall be issued until the permittee has presented a utility
location request number meeting the 48-hour requirement of notification, except
in the case of emergencies.
   (E)   Permit with conditions: in order to expedite the issuance of a permit,
a permit may be issued with conditions on construction and work hours initialed
on the face of the permit in lieu of requiring revisions in the plans. Upon
issuance of the permit, one set of construction plans marked “approved” will be
returned to the utility.
   (F)   The fee for a permit for work performed under this subchapter shall be
paid in accordance with the Street Department Fee Schedule.
(Ord. 2011-779, passed 11-29-2011)
§ 96.077 INDOT PERMITS RECOGNIZED.
   A town street cut permit will be required, in addition to the INDOT permit
for work on INDOT-maintained roads.
(Ord. 2011-779, passed 11-29-2011)
§ 96.078 DEFINITION OF “EMERGENCY” AND PERMIT REQUIRED FOR EMERGENCY CUTS.
   (A)   The term EMERGENCY shall mean the repair of a utility which must be
made to restore service, to avoid property damage, or to eliminate danger to
the public.
   (B)   Notice of an emergency pavement cut shall be given to the town by
telephone during normal business hours. If the cut is made after normal
business hours, then notification shall be given at the beginning of the next
business day.
   (C)   An application will be made for a permit for all emergency cuts within
48 hours after the cut has been made.
   (D)   All other provisions of this subchapter shall apply to emergency cuts.
(Ord. 2011-779, passed 11-29-2011)
§ 96.079 COST OF RESTORATION OF STREET CUTS TO BE PAID TO THE TOWN.
   (A)   For those contractors and utilities that do not perform their own
pavement cut restorations, the cost of restoring pavements shall be paid to the
town on completion of the restoration and measurement of the dimensions of the
cut by the Street Department.
   (B)   The cost shall be invoiced by the town to the person performing the
cut according to the latest Cut Restoration Fee Schedule established by the
town.
   (C)   The maximum area of sidewalk or pavement to be restored by town
maintenance crews is 75 square feet.
   (D)   Restoration exceeding this limit will be the permittee’s
responsibility and will be performed in the presence of the Town
Superintendent.
(Ord. 2011-779, passed 11-29-2011)
§ 96.080 CUTS RESTORED BY AUTHORIZED AGENCIES/UTILITIES.
   Any utility will be permitted to repair the cuts made by such utility if it
has a permanent pavement repair operation and performs such restorations in
accordance with this subchapter.
(Ord. 2011-779, passed 11-29-2011)
§ 96.081 REFUND OF PERMIT FEES.
   If the work for which a permit has been issued is canceled, the town will
refund the amount paid, if requested prior to the beginning of any work and no
later than the date on which the permit expires. In lieu of a refund, a credit
for the amount of the permit may be given to the person, firm or corporation
which may be applied against the cost of subsequent permits.
(Ord. 2011-779, passed 11-29-2011)
§ 96.082 WAIVER OF PERMIT FEE.
   The town may waive the permit fee for all work performed by a governmental
agency, whether this work is performed by the employees of the governmental
agency or by a private firm or corporation under contract with the governmental
agency; however, such governmental agency or private firm or corporation under
contract therewith shall not be relieved of the responsibility for obtaining a
permit for work covered in this subchapter.
(Ord. 2011-779, passed 11-29-2011)
§ 96.083 SUSPENSION OF PERMIT UPON FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   If a person performing construction fails to perform said construction in
accordance with the conditions of the permit or the requirements of this
subchapter or existing ordinances of the town, the permit may be suspended and
work stopped until such time as the person performing the work gives assurance
to the town of his or her ability and intention to complete the work in
accordance with the conditions of the permit and this subchapter and the other
ordinances of the town. Any stop-work notice shall be delivered in writing to
the representative of the person, firm or corporation performing the work and
shall state the reasons for such notice.
(Ord. 2011-779, passed 11-29-2011)
§ 96.084 PERFORMANCE BOND.
   Before approval is granted, the Street Department shall require the
applicant to file with the town a performance bond satisfactory to the town to
indemnify the town from any and all costs resulting by the failure of the
applicant to satisfactorily complete the work. The bond amount shall be
determined by the estimated cost of excavation and street restoration.
Utilities operating under a franchise agreement with the town will be exempt
from this requirement.
(Ord. 2011-779, passed 11-29-2011)
§ 96.085 INDEMNIFICATION.
   Any person, firm or corporation making a street cut or performing any
construction work in the town will file with the town evidence acceptable to
the town that the person making the cut and performing any construction work in
the streets of the town has sufficient expertise and ability to timely repair
the street, and shall execute an indemnification and hold harmless agreement to
the town, together with a certificate of insurance, naming the town as an
additional insured in an amount not less than $1,000,000 for personal injury
and $250,000 for damage to property; provided, however, that self-insured
utilities may satisfy this provision by submission of audited financial
statements on an annual basis prior to the work subject to the approval of the
town and execute and deliver to the town an indemnification and hold harmless
agreement indemnifying, protecting and holding harmless the town from the
actions of the entity in making a street cut or performing any construction
work in the town.
(Ord. 2011-779, passed 11-29-2011)
§ 96.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
96.001, or the conditions of any permit granted hereunder, shall be liable to a
fine of not less than $20, nor more than $50, and shall additionally be liable
for all costs of repairing or replacing any public property damaged as a result
of any violation.
(1984 Code, § 5-2-2)
   (C)   Any violation of §
96.002 shall be subject to immediate abatement and any person violating §
96.002 shall be subject to a civil penalty in an amount not less than $50 and
not more than $500 for each offense. Each day a violation exists shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2013-11, passed 9-26-2013)
   (D)   Any person violating §
96.003 shall be subject to a civil penalty of in an amount not less than $50
and not more than $500 for each offense.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 6-10-2013)
   (E)    Any person violating §
96.004 shall be subject to a civil penalty of in an amount not more than $2,500
for a first offense and not more than $7,500 any subsequent offense. Each day a
violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
   (F)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
96.050 through
96.057 shall be fined not less than $50, nor more than $500 for each continuing
day on which a violation occurs. In addition, such person shall be liable for
all costs of restoring any public property damaged or disrupted through an act
of violation.
(1984 Code, § 5-1-9)
(Ord. 3, passed - -; Ord. 243, passed 4-9-1909; Ord. 288, passed 7-2-1917; Ord.
494, passed 2-17-1976; Ord. 17, passed 10-14-2014)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL REGULATIONS
      
111.   TATTOO AND BODY-PIERCING OPERATIONS
      
112.   ITINERANT/TEMPORARY MERCHANDISING OR SOLICITING
      
113.   AMUSEMENT LOCATIONS AND ACTIVITIES
      
114.   MOBILE CONCESSIONS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Section
   
110.01   Tacking signs to trees and utility poles
   
110.02   Liquor retailer permits authorized
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 TACKING SIGNS TO TREES AND UTILITY POLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or organization to paste, tack, attach
or place any sign, bill or placard to any tree, electric line pole or telephone
pole in or upon any street or alley within the town, unless such person or
organization has received previous approval from the Town Council.
(Ord. 2000-660, passed 7-5-2000) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.02 LIQUOR RETAILER PERMITS AUTHORIZED.
   The proper authorities of the state are hereby authorized to grant permits
to sell at retail and by the drink any spiritous alcoholic beverages within the
corporate limits of the town.
(1984 Code, § 9-2-1) (Ord. 435, passed 10-20-1958)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
110.01 shall be fined not less than $25, nor more than $100 for each offense
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which
a violation occurs or continues. In addition, if such person or organization
fails or refuses to abate or to cease violating any provision of §
110.01, the Town Marshal may cause the same to be abated and said violator
shall be liable for costs incurred therefrom.
(Ord. 2000-660, passed 7-5-2000)
CHAPTER 111: TATTOO AND BODY-PIERCING OPERATIONS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License required
   
111.03   License and permit application requirements
   
111.04   Licensing procedures
   
111.05   Denial of application
   
111.06   Display of license
   
111.07   Expiration and renewal
   
111.08   Fees
   
111.09   Hours of operation
   
111.10   Transfer of license
   
111.11   Suspension and revocation of license
   
111.12   Operator training responsibilities
   
111.13   Operator responsibilities
   
111.14   Policies; operator
   
111.15   Minimum training, certification and license requirements
   
111.16   Patron records
   
111.17   Condition, illness and/or infections
   
111.18   Handwashing and skin preparation
   
111.19   Other restrictions
   
111.20   Personal protective equipment
   
111.21   Equipment
   
111.22   Needles
   
111.23   Reusable equipment
   
111.24   Dyes or pigments
   
111.25   Work environment
   
111.26   Infectious waste containment
   
111.27   Treatment and transport of infectious waste
   
111.28   Licensees to permit inspections
   
111.29   Minors
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BLOOD. Human blood.
   BLOODBORNE PATHOGENS. Pathogenic micro-organisms that are present in human
blood and can cause disease in humans. These PATHOGENS include, but are not
limited to, the following:
      (1)   The hepatitis B virus;
      (2)   The hepatitis C virus; and
      (3)   The human immunodeficiency virus.
   BOARD. The Rockville Board of Zoning Appeals.
   BODY PIERCER. Any person who performs body-piercing on an individual.
   BODY-PIERCING. Any penetration in or through any skin or mucous membrane on
the human body with or by a needle, pin or other sharp object.
   BODY-PIERCING ESTABLISHMENT. Any room or space where a body piercer performs
any body-piercing acts on an individual or where body-piercing activities take
place.
   CLEANED. Removal of all visible dust, soil or any other foreign material.
   CONTAMINATED. The presence or reasonably anticipated presence of blood or
other potentially infectious materials (OPIM) on an item or surface.
   COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The Parke County Department of Health.
   DECONTAMINATED. The use of physical or chemical means to remove, inactivate
or destroy bloodborne pathogens on a surface or item which does not require
sterilization to the point where they are no longer capable of transmitting
infectious particles and the surface or item is rendered safe for handling, use
or disposal.
   HBV. The hepatitis B virus.
   HCV. The hepatitis C virus.
   HIV. The human immunodeficiency virus.
   INFECTIOUS WASTE. Waste that epidemiologic evidence indicates is capable of
transmitting a dangerous communicable disease. INFECTIOUS WASTE includes, but
is not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Contaminated sharps or contaminated objects that could potentially
become contaminated sharps;
      (2)   Infectious biological cultures, infectious associated biologicals
and infectious agent stock;
      (3)   Pathological waste;
      (4)   Blood and blood products in liquid and semi-liquid form;
      (5)   Carcasses, body parts, blood and body fluids in liquid and semi-
liquid form, and bedding of laboratory animals; and
      (6)   Other waste that has been intermingled with infectious waste.
   MINOR. An individual who is less than 18 years of age.
   OTHER POTENTIALLY INFECTIOUS MATERIALS (OPIM). The following:
      (1)   Human body fluids as follows:
         (a)   Semen;
         (b)   Vaginal secretions;
         (c)   Cerebrospinal fluid;
         (d)   Synovial fluid;
         (e)   Pleural fluid;
         (f)   Pericardial fluid;
         (g)   Peritoneal fluid;
         (h)   Amniotic fluid;
         (i)   Saliva in dental procedures;
         (j)   Any body fluid that is visibly contaminated with blood; and
         (k)   Any body fluids that are difficult or impossible to
differentiate between other body fluids.
      (2)   Any unfixed tissue or organ, other than intact skin, from a human,
either living or dead; and
      (3)   HIV containing cell or tissue cultures, and HIV or HBV-containing
culture medium or other solutions, and blood, organs or other tissues from
experimental animals infected with HIV or HBV.
   PARENTERAL. Piercing the mucous membranes or the skin barrier through such
events as needle sticks, human bites, cuts or abrasions.
   PERSONAL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT. Specialized clothing or equipment worn for
protection against contact with blood or OPIM.
   SECURE AREA. An area that is designated and maintained to prevent the entry
of unauthorized persons.
   SEMI-LIQUID BLOOD, BLOOD PRODUCTS. Blood, blood products that have
intermediate fluid properties and are capable of flowing in a manner similar to
liquid.
   STERILIZE. The containment of infectious waste in such a manner as not to
constitute collection, treatment, transport or disposal.
   TATTOO.
      (1)   Any indelible design, letter, scroll, figure, symbol or other mark
placed with the aid of needles or other skin-piercing instruments; or
      (2)   Any design, letter, scroll, figure or symbol done by scarring upon
or under the skin.
   TATTOO ARTIST. Any person who provides a tattoo to an individual.
   TATTOO ESTABLISHMENT. Any room or space where a tattoo artist provides
tattoos to individuals or where the tattooing activities take place.
   TATTOO OPERATOR. Any person who controls, operates, conducts, manages or
owns any tattoo establishment.
   UNIVERSAL PRECAUTIONS. An approach to infection control in which all human
blood and certain human body fluids are treated as if known to be infectious
for HIV, HBV, HCV and other bloodborne pathogens.
(Ord. 2002-676, passed 9-17-2002)
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall conduct, maintain, operate or cause to be conducted,
maintained or operated, any tattoo and/or body-piercing establishment within
the corporate limits of the town without first being licensed under this
chapter.
   (B)   No tattoo artist, body piercer, employee of a tattoo or body-piercing
establishment, or person acting on behalf of a tattoo or body-piercing
establishment who has a reasonably anticipated risk for skin, eye, mucous
membrane, or parenteral contact with blood shall do business within the
corporate limits of the town without first obtaining a permit under this
chapter.
(Ord. 2002-676, passed 9-17-2002)
§ 111.03 LICENSE AND PERMIT APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A person or organization shall apply for a tattoo and/or body-piercing
establishment license with the Town Clerk-Treasurer on forms prescribed by the
Town Council. The application shall contain, in addition to other information
required by the Council, the following information:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant. If the
applicant is a partnership, the application shall state the names, addresses
and telephone numbers of all person constituting such partnership. If the
applicant is a corporation, the application shall state its principle place of
business, the full name of such corporation, the state under whose laws it is
incorporated, the full names, addresses and telephone numbers of all officers,
directors and manager thereof;
      (2)   The name, address and telephone number of all employees, agents or
individuals who will be working at the business location;
      (3)   The applicant’s business address and telephone number;
      (4)   Qualifications of the applicant or, if a corporation, of the
manager, officers or directors in operating, maintaining or conducting a tattoo
and/or body-piercing establishment, and dates and locations of any previous
operations, if any;
      (5)   Written documentation indicating that the applicant has
successfully completed the training program required under the requirements of
the State Occupational Safety and Health Administration’s bloodborne pathogen
standard;
      (6)   A statement of prior criminal record, if any, of applicant, or in
case of a corporation, its officers, directors, manager or stockholders and
details relating to any such prior criminal record;
      (7)   The number of work stations at the business location;
      (8)   The tattoo and/or body-piercing establishment’s hours of operation;
and
      (9)   Verification under oath that under the penalties for perjury, all
information and representations contained in the application are true and
accurate.
   (B)   Each applicant shall obtain a certificate of inspection from the
County Health Department, indicating that his or her establishment has been
inspected and is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter and shall
submit such certificate with its application to the Board for review and
action.
   (C)   Each application must receive approval from the Town Superintendent
indicating that the location of the business is in a commercial area zoned for
general business or local business. A body- piercing and/or tattoo
establishment shall only be permitted as a special exception on property zoned
as general business or local business. Petitions must comply with all
requirements to obtain a special exception pursuant to §
154.36 as if the petitioner was obtaining a special exception to operate a
clinic in addition to all the requirements set forth in this chapter.
   (D)   Permit application requirements: each applicant for a permit to
provide tattoos or perform body- piercing shall make application with the Town
Clerk-Treasurer on forms prescribed by the Board which shall include, in
addition to other information required by the Board, the following information:
      (1)   Name of applicant, including previous name or alias, if any;
      (2)   Place and date of birth;
      (3)   Present residence address;
      (4)   Previous residence addresses during the past five years;
      (5)   For whom applicant intends to work;
      (6)   Nature of work applicant intends to perform;
      (7)   A description of the applicant’s qualifications, including dates
and names of previous employers, if any;
      (8)   Details relating to any prior criminal record, if any;
      (9)   Written documentation from a duly licensed physician certifying
that the applicant has been examined within the 30-day period preceding the
date of application for a permit and that he or she is free from any
communicable diseases; and
      (10)   Written documentation that the applicant has successfully
completed the training program required under the requirements of the Indiana
Occupational Safety and Health Administration’s bloodborne pathogen standard.
   (E)   No applicant for a license or permit under this chapter shall be
issued such license or permit if the applicant:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a felony;
      (2)   Has been known to be drug users or alcohol abusers; or
      (3)   Has been determined by a licenses mental health professional to be
mentally incompetent.
(Ord. 2002-676, passed 9-17-2002)
§ 111.04 LICENSING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Upon receipt of the recommendations from the Town Superintendent, the
Town Clerk-Treasurer shall submit to the Board for its review and action a copy
of the application, any reports and any other documents filed by the applicant.
The Board shall set a date for a public hearing on said application with the
Board and shall notify the applicant of the date and time of the hearing. The
applicant shall be present at the hearing and be available to answer any
questions propounded by the Board with regard to the proposed business
activity.
   (B)   No license shall be issued by the Board if it shall be determined that
the proposed operation by the applicant will probably constitute a menace to
the public health and welfare. No license shall be issued by the Board in the
event that it is determined that the applicant, or in the case of a
corporation, the officers, directors or manager have previously been connected
with any tattoo and/or body-piercing establishment whose license has heretofore
been revoked or if the premises sought to be so licensed failed to comply in
any manner with the regulations, ordinances and laws applicable thereto.
Employment by the applicant of any person who practices tattoo artistry or
body-piercing and is not in possession of a valid permit under this chapter
shall be grounds for the denial of an application or for its revocation.
   (C)   No permit shall be issued by the Board if it is determined that an
applicant has not met all the requirements established under this chapter and
will probably constitute a menace to the public health and welfare.
   (D)   All applicants shall file with the Town Clerk-Treasurer within ten
days of their applications’ approval by the Board a certificate of insurance
indicating coverage against all public liability in the amount of not less that
$1,000,000 from any one occurrence. Such insurance policy shall be used to
compensate any and all persons who may have any claims or injuries, including
death, arising out of or resulting from any tattooing or body-piercing
activities performed by a licensed individual at a business location. Any
insurance policy filed with the town shall contain the following provision:
“The Town, through the Clerk-Treasurer’s Officer, shall be given at least 15
days notice prior to the effective date of the cancellation or material change
of this policy.”
   (E)   Upon favorable action by the Board and the filing of all required
documents and payment of all fees, the Clerk-Treasurer’s office shall issue a
“Tattoo Establishment” and/or “Body-Piercing Establishment” license to the
applicant.
(Ord. 2002-676, passed 9-17-2002)
§ 111.05 DENIAL OF APPLICATION.
   If the Board denies an application for a license or permit, it shall notify
the applicant of its decision and the grounds therefore by certified mail,
return receipt requested.
(Ord. 2002-676, passed 9-17-2002)
§ 111.06 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The person or organization which is issued a license pursuant to this
chapter to operate a tattoo and/or body-piercing establishment shall display
such license in a conspicuous location near the entry of the facilities or
premises.
   (B)   The license and information concerning the contact person shall remain
posted in the business establishment throughout the duration of the time for
which the license was issued.
(Ord. 2002-676, passed 9-17-2002) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.07 EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL.
   (A)   All licenses or permits issued under this chapter shall expire on
December 31 of each year.
   (B)   Each licensed individual shall renew his or her license or permit on
an annual basis according to the application requirements and procedures set
forth in this chapter, except that a subsequent application for special
exception shall not be required.
      (1)   The Board may summarily, without hearing, approve or deny license
renewal requests. Within five days after the receipt of such notification, the
applicant may file a written request for a public hearing on the application,
together with exceptions to the grounds on which the Board based its denial of
application.
      (2)   Upon the filing of the request, the Board shall fix a time and
place for the hearing, which shall be within 15 days after the request is
filed, and shall notify the applicant thereof.
      (3)   At the hearing, the applicant may present evidence and make
arguments in support of his or her application and exceptions.
      (4)   Any interested person may be allowed to participate in the hearing
to present evidence in opposition to the application and exceptions.
      (5)   Within ten days after the conclusion of the hearing, the Board
shall render a written decision either to affirm, modify or reverse its
original decision.
(Ord. 2002-676, passed 9-17-2002)
§ 111.08 FEES.
   (A)   The annual license fee for a tattoo and/or body-piercing establishment
shall be $100.
   (B)   The annual permit fee for a tattoo artist and/or body piercer shall be
$30.
(Ord. 2002-676, passed 9-17-2002)
§ 111.09 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No tattoo and/or body-piercing establishment shall be operated between the
hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
(Ord. 2002-676, passed 9-17-2002) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.10 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   Licenses issued under this chapter shall be deemed personal to the licensee
and shall not be assigned or transferred to any other person.
(Ord. 2002-676, passed 9-17-2002) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.11 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Grounds for revocation. Any license or permit issued under this
chapter may be suspended or revoked for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Violation of any of the provisions of this chapter or any rules and
regulations either now or hereafter adopted pursuant hereof, or of any laws of
the state;
      (2)   Permitting, aiding or abetting the commission of any illegal act,
or committing, or attempting to commit any illegal act on premises licensed
under this chapter;
      (3)   Selling or permitting the consumption of alcoholic beverages or
controlled substances, or consuming alcohol beverages or controlled substances
on premises licensed under this chapter;
      (4)   Tattooing or body-piercing any person under the influence of
alcoholic or controlled substances; and/or
      (5)   Engaging in acts, conduct or practices detrimental to the health,
safety or welfare of any person in the town.
   (B)   Procedures.
      (1)   If the Board of Public Works and Safety has reason to believe that
a licensee or permittee has violated any of the provisions of this chapter, the
Board shall immediately suspend the license or permit and give the license or
permittee written notice in person or by certified mail, return receipt
requested, of the suspension and of a hearing to be held within 15 days of the
suspension to determine whether or not the license should be revoked.
      (2)   This notice must contain a statement of the facts on which the
Board has acted in suspending the license. At the hearing, the licensee or
permittee, and any other interested person, shall have the right to present
evidence showing cause why the license should not be revoked by the Board for
violation of the provisions of this chapter or other applicable ordinances or
statutes.
      (3)   If, after the hearing, the Board finds the provisions of this
chapter or other applicable ordinances or statutes have been violated it shall
send the licensee or permittee within ten days after the hearing a written
statement of the facts on which it bases its findings and shall immediately
revoke the license.
      (4)   If, after the hearing, the Board finds that the provisions of this
chapter or other applicable ordinances or statutes have not been violated, it
shall send the licensee or other applicable ordinances or statutes have not
been violated, it shall send the licensee or permittee within ten days after
the hearing a written statement canceling the suspension of the license and
stating that no violation of said ordinance or statue has occurred.
(Ord. 2002-676, passed 9-17-2002)
§ 111.12 OPERATOR TRAINING RESPONSIBILITIES.
   All operators of tattoo or body-piercing establishments shall comply with
the following training responsibilities:
   (A)   Ensure that the training described in the State Occupational Safety
and Health Administration’s bloodborne pathogens standard is provided to all
tattoo artists and body piercers, anyone employed by the tattoo or body-
piercing establishment or anyone acting on behalf of the tattoo or body-
piercing establishment who has a reasonably anticipated risk for skin, eye,
mucous membrane or parental contact with blood or OPIM;
   (B)   Ensure that training on the handling of infectious waste is provided
to all tattoo artists and body piercers, anyone employed by the tattoo or body-
piercing establishment who has a reasonably anticipated risk for skin, eye,
mucous membrane or parental contact with blood or OPIM;
   (C)   Ensure that a record of training described in division (A) above is
maintained, as required under the State Occupational Safety and Health
Administration’s bloodborne pathogens standard of an individual’s participation
in the training that is provided. The record shall be made available for
inspection upon request by the Board, or its duly authorized agent or designee;
and
   (D)   Ensure that a record of training described in division (B) above is
maintained.
(Ord. 2002-676, passed 9-17-2002) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.13 OPERATOR RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   All operators of any tattoo and/or body-piercing establishment shall
ensure that tattoo artists or body piercers, anyone employed by the tattoo or
body-piercing establishment, or anyone acting on behalf of the tattoo or body-
piercing establishment who has a reasonably anticipated risk for skin, eye,
mucous membrane or parenteral contact with blood are provided personal
protective equipment and expendables needed to implement the precautions
required by this chapter and the State Occupational Safety and Healthy
Administration’s bloodborne pathogens standard.
   (B)   All operators of any tattoo and/or body-piercing establishment shall
require tattoo artists or body piercers, anyone employed by the tattoo or body-
piercing establishment, or anyone acting on behalf of the tattoo or body-
piercing establishment who has a reasonably anticipated risk for skin, eye,
mucous membrane or parenteral contact with blood to provide evidence of
compliance with the universal precautions education requirements contained in §
111.15.
   (C)   All operators of any tattoo and/or body-piercing establishment shall
display, or make available to the public, a description of his or her
compliance with the requirements contained in division (D) below.
   (D)   All operators of any tattoo and/or body-piercing establishment shall
display, or make available to the public, written materials prepared or
approved by the town or its designee explaining universal precautions and
patrons rights under this chapter. These materials shall include information on
how to report violations of universal precautions and shall include information
regarding the County Health Department’s duties to investigate.
(Ord. 2002-676, passed 9-17-2002) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.14 POLICIES; OPERATOR.
   All operators of any tattoo and/or body-piercing establishment shall develop
a written policy in compliance with this chapter and the requirements of the
State Occupational Safety and Health Administration’s bloodborne pathogen
standard that:
   (A)   Requires the use of universal precautions when performing tattooing
and any activity or duty that includes any reasonably anticipated skin, eye,
mucous membrane or parenteral contact with blood or OPIM;
   (B)   Includes the safe handling of infectious waste; and
   (C)   Provides sanctions, including discipline and dismissal, if warranted,
against employees for failure to use universal precautions and/or handle
infectious waste safely.
(Ord. 2002-676, passed 9-17-2002) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.15 MINIMUM TRAINING, CERTIFICATION AND LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All tattoo artists and/or body piercers, anyone employed by the tattoo
and/or body-piercing establishment, and anyone acting on behalf of the tattoo
or body-piercing establishment who has a reasonably anticipated risk for skin,
eye, mucous membrane or parenteral contact with blood or OPIM shall complete
the training program which is required under the requirements of the State
Occupational Safety and Health Administration’s bloodborne pathogen standard.
The programs under this section shall be as follows:
      (1)   A bloodborne pathogen training session provided by the operator
meeting the requirements under the State Occupational Safety and Health
Administration’s bloodborne pathogens standard; and
      (2)   Any bloodborne pathogen continuing education program accredited by
a health care licensing entity.
   (B)   All tattoo artists and/or body piercers, anyone employed by the tattoo
and/or body-piercing establishment, and anyone acting on behalf of the tattoo
and/or body-piercing establishment who has a reasonably anticipated risk for
skin, eye, mucous membrane or parenteral contact with blood or OPIM must be
trained in the establishment’s policies on the handling of infectious waste.
   (C)   All tattoo artists and/or body piercers, anyone employed by the tattoo
and/or body-piercing establishment, and anyone acting on behalf of the tattoo
and/or body-piercing establishment who has a reasonably anticipated risk for
skin, eye, mucous membrane or parenteral contact with blood or OPIM shall
provide written evidence from the establishment operator stating that all
requirements under this chapter have been met. Then an application for an
artist’s license may be obtained from the city.
(Ord. 2002-676, passed 9-17-2002) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.16 PATRON RECORDS.
   (A)   Records of each patron shall be maintained for seven years.
   (B)   Each record shall include the following:
      (1)   Patron’s name;
      (2)   Address;
      (3)   Age;
      (4)   Date patron made decision to receive tattoo;
      (5)   Date tattooed;
      (6)   Design of the tattoo;
      (7)   Location of the tattoo on the patron’s body; and
      (8)   The name of the tattoo artist who performed the work.
(Ord. 2002-676, passed 9-17-2002) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.17 CONDITION, ILLNESS AND/OR INFECTIONS.
   (A)   Tattoo artists or body piercers who are experiencing symptoms of acute
disease which include, but are not limited to, diarrhea, vomiting, fever, rash,
productive cough, jaundice or draining (or open) skin infections, boils,
impetigo or scabies shall refrain from providing tattoos or performing any
body- piercing.
   (B)   Inquiry shall be made, and anyone giving a history of recent jaundice,
hepatitis or aids/HIV shall not be tattooed or body pierced.
   (C)   No person, customer or patron having any skin infection or other
disease of the skin or any communicable disease shall be tattooed or body
pierced. All infections resulting from the practice of tattooing or body-
piercing which become known to the operator shall promptly be reported to the
County Health Department and the Board by the operator of the tattoo and/or
body-piercing establishment, and the infected client shall be referred to a
physician.
   (D)   No tattooing or body-piercing shall be done on skin surfaces that has
a rash, pimples, boils or manifests any evidence of unhealthy conditions.
   (E)   No tattooing or body-piercing on any person, customer or patron who is
deemed under the influence of drugs and/or alcohol.
(Ord. 2002-676, passed 9-17-2002) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.18 HANDWASHING AND SKIN PREPARATION.
   (A)   Hand washing facilities shall be readily accessible in the same room
where tattooing is provided.
   (B)   Hands shall be washed with soap and running water immediately before
putting on gloves and after removal of gloves or other personal protective
equipment.
   (C)   Only single use towels shall be used.
   (D)   The area to be tattooed or body pierced shall first be thoroughly
washed with warm water containing an antiseptic liquid soap. A single-use
sterile article shall be used to scrub the area.
   (E)   After shaving and before tattooing or body-piercing has begun, a
solution of 70% alcohol shall be applied to the area with a sterile single-use
article.
(Ord. 2002-676, passed 9-17-2002) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.19 OTHER RESTRICTIONS.
   No skin area shall be penetrated, abraded or treated with chemicals for the
purpose of removing, camouflaging or altering any blemish, birthmark, scar or
tattoo.
(Ord. 2002-676, passed 9-17-2002) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.20 PERSONAL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT.
   Appropriate personal protective equipment shall be worn as follows.
   (A)   A clean protective clothing layer shall be worn whenever there is a
reasonably anticipated risk of contamination of clothing or OPIM.
   (B)   Masks in combination with eye protection devices, such as goggles or
glasses with solid side shield, or chin length face shield, shall be worn
whenever splashes, spray, splatter or droplets of blood or OPIM may be
generated and eye, nose or mouth contamination can be reasonably anticipated.
   (C)   Disposable gloves shall be worn during the tattooing process. Gloves
shall be changed and properly disposed of each time there is an interruption in
the application of the tattoo or the piercing of the body, when the gloves
become torn or punctured, or whenever the ability to function as a barrier is
compromised. Disposable gloves shall not be reused.
   (D)   Gloves shall be worn when decontaminating environmental surfaces and
equipment.
(Ord. 2002-676, passed 9-17-2002) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.21 EQUIPMENT.
   The tattoo artist shall only use a single-use razor to shave the area to be
tattooed. All stencils shall be properly disposed of after a single use. If the
design is drawn directly onto the skin, it shall be applied with a single-use
article only.
(Ord. 2002-676, passed 9-17-2002) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.22 NEEDLES.
   The tattoo artist or body piercer shall only use single-use needles that are
individually packaged and sterilized prior to use. Contaminated needles shall
be discarded in sharps containers immediately after use and shall not be bent
or broken or otherwise manipulated by hand.
(Ord. 2002-676, passed 9-17-2002) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.23 REUSABLE EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Heating procedures capable of sterilization must be used when heat
stable, non-disposable equipment is sterilized.
   (B)   Records must be maintained to document the following:
      (1)   Duration of sterilization technique;
      (2)   Determination of effective sterility, such as use of a biological
indicator, is performed monthly; and
      (3)   Equipment is maintained as recommended by the owner’s manual and
proof is available that the owner’s manual recommendations are reviewed
monthly.
   (C)   Reusable contaminated equipment shall not be stored or processed in a
manner that requires any person to reach by hand into the containers where
these sharp items have been placed.
   (D)   Reusable contaminated equipment shall be placed in puncture resistant
containers, labeled with the bio-hazard symbol, leak proof on both sides and
bottom, and stored in a manner that does not require reaching by hand into the
container where the equipment is stored until cleaning prior to sterilization.
   (E)   Contaminated reusable equipment shall be effectively cleaned prior to
sterilization.
   (F)   Reusable tubes shall be effectively cleaned and sterilized before
reuse.
(Ord. 2002-676, passed 9-17-2002) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.24 DYES OR PIGMENTS.
   (A)   All dyes or pigments used in tattooing shall be from professional
suppliers specifically providing dyes or pigments for the tattooing of human
skin.
   (B)   In preparing dyes or pigments to be used by tattoo artists, only
nontoxic sterile materials shall be used. Single-use or individual portions of
dyes or pigments in clean, sterilized containers shall be used for each patron.
   (C)   After tattooing, the remaining unused dye or pigment in single-use or
individual containers shall be discarded along with the container.
(Ord. 2002-676, passed 9-17-2002) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.25 WORK ENVIRONMENT.
   (A)   No tattooing or body-piercing shall be conducted in any room used as
living quarter or in any room which opens directly into living or sleeping
quarters.
   (B)   Live animals shall be excluded from areas where tattooing or body-
piercing is being conducted. This exclusion does not apply to the following:
      (1)   Patrol dogs accompanying security or police officers; or
      (2)   Guide dogs accompanying the following:
         (a)   Blind persons;
         (b)   Partially blind persons;
         (c)   Physically disabled persons;
         (d)   Guide dog trainers; and
         (e)   Persons with impaired hearing.
   (C)   Eating, drinking, smoking or applying cosmetics shall not be allowed
in work areas where there is a likelihood of exposure to blood or OPIM.
   (D)   Food and drink shall not be kept in areas where there is a reasonably
anticipated risk of exposure to blood or OPIM.
   (E)   All equipment and environmental surfaces shall be cleaned and
decontaminated after contact with blood or OPIM.
   (F)   Environmental surfaces and equipment not requiring sterilization,
which has been contaminated by blood, shall be cleaned and decontaminated.
   (G)   All work surfaces shall be non-absorbent, easily cleanable, smooth,
free of breaks, open seams, cracks, chips, pits and similar imperfections.
   (H)   Disinfectant solutions shall be:
      (1)   A hospital grade, tuberculocidal Environmental Protection Agency
(EPA) registered disinfectant; or
      (2)   Sodium hypochlorite 0.5% concentration, by volume (common household
bleach in 10% concentration in water); the solution shall be dated and shall
not be used if it is more than 24 hours old.
(Ord. 2002-676, passed 9-17-2002) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.26 INFECTIOUS WASTE CONTAINMENT.
   (A)   Contaminated disposable needles or instruments shall be stored in
leak-resistant, puncture-resistant containers; tightly sealed to prevent
expulsion; labeled with the biohazard symbol; and effectively treated in
accordance with this rule prior to being stored in an unsecured area and sent
for final disposal.
   (B)   Infectious waste that are not contaminated sharps or objects that
could potentially become contaminated sharps shall be placed in containers that
meet the following requirements:
      (1)   Impervious to moisture;
      (2)   Sufficient strength and thickness to prevent expulsion;
      (3)   Secured to prevent leakage expulsion;
      (4)   Labeled with the bio-hazard symbol; and
      (5)   Effectively treated in accordance with this rule prior to being
placed in an unsecured area and sent for final disposal.
   (C)   If infectious waste is stored prior to final disposal, all persons
subject to this rule shall store infectious waste in a secure area that:
      (1)   Is locked or otherwise secured to eliminate access by or exposure
to the general public;
      (2)   Affords protection from adverse environmental conditions and
vermin; and
      (3)   Has a prominently displayed bio-hazard symbol.
   (D)   Infectious waste shall be stored in a manner that preserves the
integrity of the container, and is not conducive to rapid microbial growth and
putrefaction.
   (E)   Disinfect reusable containers for infectious waste each time that they
are emptied, unless the surfaces of the reusable containers have been protected
from contamination by disposable liners, bags, or other devices that are
removed with the infectious waste.
(Ord. 2002-676, passed 9-17-2002) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.27 TREATMENT AND TRANSPORT OF INFECTIOUS WASTE.
   (A)   All operators of any tattoo establishment and/or body-piercing
establishment shall ensure that infectious waste is either treated on-site in
accordance with this rule or transported off-site for treatment in accordance
with this rule.
   (B)   A treatment is effective if it reduces the pathogenic qualities of
infectious waste for safe handling, is designed for the specific waste
involved, and is carried out in a manner consistent with this rule. Effective
treatment may include:
      (1)   Incinerations in an incinerator designed to accommodate infectious
waste;
      (2)   Steam sterilization;
      (3)   Chemical disinfecting under circumstances where safe handling of
the waste is assured;
      (4)   Thermal inactivation;
      (5)   Irradiation; or
      (6)   Discharge in a sanitary sewer or septic system that is properly
installed and operating in accordance with state and local laws.
   (C)   All persons subject to this rule shall:
      (1)   Transport infectious waster in a manner that reasonably protects
waster haulers and the public from contracting a dangerous communicable
disease; and
      (2)   Effectively treat infectious waste in accordance with this rule
before it is compacted.
   (D)   All operators shall ensure that infectious waste, effectively treated
or not, is transported off-site in compliance with 410 I.A.C. § 1-3.
(Ord. 2002-676, passed 9-17-2002) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.28 LICENSEES TO PERMIT INSPECTIONS.
   All licensees under this chapter shall permit the inspection of their
business premises at all reasonable times by duly authorized representatives of
the town, or their designees, upon the showing of proper credentials by the
inspectors. The denial of inspection privileges shall constitute grounds for
revocation of the license.
(Ord. 2002-676, passed 9-17-2002) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.29 MINORS.
   No minor shall receive a tattoo or body-piercing without the presence of a
parent or guardian and written permission from both parents or guardians, if
not deceased.
(Ord. 2002-676, passed 9-17-2002) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation which violates or disregards any of the
provisions of this chapter in any manner whatsoever shall be fined a sum of not
less that $100 nor more than $2,500.
(Ord. 2002-676, passed 9-17-2002)
CHAPTER 112: ITINERANT/TEMPORARY MERCHANDISING OR SOLICITING
Section
   
112.01   License required for itinerant or transient businesses
   
112.02   Exceptions to license requirement
   
112.03   License application procedure; term of license; fee
   
112.04   Regulations governing conduct of itinerant or transient business
   
112.05   County permits; validity; conditional procedures
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 LICENSE REQUIRED FOR ITINERANT OR TRANSIENT BUSINESSES.
   It shall be unlawful, except as provided by §
112.02, for any person anywhere within the corporate limits of the town to do
the following by means of traveling door-to-door between residences or
businesses without prior invitation to do so by an owner or occupant of such
premises; or by operating out of or from a vehicle, mobile cart or portable
stand not constituting a fixed place of business; or by displaying or selling
or offering for sale any commodity on any public walk, street, alley or other
public property; or by operating as a transient merchant as defined by I.C. 25-
37-1-2; unless such person obtains a license and pays a fee as hereafter
provided:
   (A)   Sell, offer to sell or display with intent to sell, any merchandise,
goods, produce, subscriptions, tickets, memberships or similar matters, either
for present or future delivery; or
   (B)   Offer to perform any work or provide any services for pay or profit by
contract or by any means other than as a regular employee or agent of the
person to whom such offer is made.
(1984 Code, § 9-3-1) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.02 EXCEPTIONS TO LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   A license shall not be required for:
      (1)   Merchants, retailers or service providers, or their bona fide
employees or representatives, who maintain a regular fixed and established
place of business within the town and are engaged in offering only such
commodities and/or services constituting the normal stock-in-trade of such
regular, fixed and established business; or
      (2)   Persons or organizations, and their bona fide employees or
representatives, who hold a valid permit from Parke County, Inc., subject to
the provisions of §
112.05;
      (3)   A farmer or member of his or her family who is a resident of the
county and offers for sale only unprepared agricultural produce raised on his
or her own farm;
      (4)   Honorably discharged military service veterans of a class described
by I.C. 10-5-12-1 or 10-5-13-1 who have obtained a license from the County
Auditor pursuant to I.C. 25-25-2-1, and who limit their activities to vending,
hawking, or peddling goods, wares, fruits, and merchandise;
      (5)   Manufactures, producers, wholesalers, wholesale distributors,
jobbers or their-authorized sales representatives soliciting orders from retail
merchants or other wholesale consumers or wholesale distributors; or
      (6)   Temporary selling activities conducted or sponsored by a nonprofit
charitable, educational, scientific, religious, or civic organization for the
purpose of raising funds for such organization and which are conducted on its
own premises or on privately owned premises.
   (B)   However, persons exempt from licensure under this section are
nevertheless liable for compliance with the regulations imposed under §
112.04, as applicable.
(1984 Code, § 9-3-2)
§ 112.03 LICENSE APPLICATION PROCEDURE; TERM OF LICENSE; FEE.
   Application for a license to conduct any business activity as described in §
112.01 shall be made in writing to the Town Clerk-Treasurer. The application
shall contain the name(s) and permanent address(es) of the applicant, if an
individual, or of the partners if a copartnership, or of the principal officers
if a corporation, church, club or charitable institution; and a description of
the commodities to be so displayed, and sold or the work or services to be
performed. A license fee of $10 shall be charged for such application. No
license shall be valid for more than ten days.
(1984 Code, § 9-3-3)
§ 112.04 REGULATIONS GOVERNING CONDUCT OF ITINERANT OR TRANSIENT BUSINESS.
   Conduct of business under a license pursuant to §
112.03, or without a license pursuant to §
112.02, is governed by the following regulations:
   (A)   No street or alley shall be blocked by any merchandise offered for
sale.
   (B)   On sidewalks, a six-foot passageway for pedestrians shall be left
open, and merchandise shall be securely and adequately placed so that it will
not endanger passers-by nor fall nor extrude into any street or alley.
   (C)   Selling shall not be conducted in any manner which would cause a
nuisance nor create a fire hazard.
(1984 Code, § 9-3-4) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05 COUNTY PERMITS; VALIDITY; CONDITIONAL PROCEDURES.
   Parke County, Inc., may issue permits to qualified and eligible persons for
the conduct of business pertinent to and in connection with a festival,
sponsored, conducted or supervised by it, and such permit shall be valid and
serve in lieu of any license otherwise required under §
112.01; provided that said Parke County, Inc., complies with the following
provisions.
   (A)   Parke County, Inc., will assume full responsibility for governing all
sidewalk sales during the festival.
   (B)   At the time of issuing a permit for booths and/or shacks in any tent
or on the courthouse lawn, Parke County, Inc., will collect $35 for lighting
costs, and will deliver to the Town Council one check covering all charges for
electricity used thereby. Non-refundable electrical connection fee is $60.
Refundable meter deposit is $25 for every booth and/or shack on the courthouse
lawn.
   (C)   Parke County, Inc., or any of its authorized agents, shall make or
cause to be made sufficient inspections to ensure compliance with the
provisions of this chapter and other applicable town ordinances by the
personnel conducting such sales.
(1984 Code, § 9-3-5) (Ord. 2010-766, passed 9-28-2010)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined not less
than $25, nor more than $500 for each offense, and a separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day a violation occurs or continues.
(1984 Code, § 9-3-6)
CHAPTER 113: AMUSEMENT LOCATIONS AND ACTIVITIES
Section
   
113.01   License required for certain amusement locations and activities
   
113.02   Annual license fees established
   
113.03   License application procedure; amendment of license; non-
transferability
   
113.04   Regulations applicable to licensees and agents; revocation of license
   
113.05   Activities or devices exempt from license requirement
   
113.06   Presentation of license to enforcement officer
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 LICENSE REQUIRED FOR CERTAIN AMUSEMENT LOCATIONS AND ACTIVITIES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to set up, operate or maintain any
billiard hall, pool room, bowling alley, pinball or electronic game machine
arcade, skating rink or theater; or to maintain or operate any billiard or pool
table, bowling lane or pinball or electronic game machine for hire, pay or
profit without first procuring a license from the Clerk-Treasurer as
hereinafter provided.
(1984 Code, § 9-4-1) (Ord. 319, passed 12-30-1927; Ord. 361, passed 4-6-1936)
Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.02 ANNUAL LICENSE FEES ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   For each place of business operating or keeping a billiard table or
pool table, a bowling lane, a pinball or electronic game machine, or operating
a skating rink or theater, an annual license fee shall be paid in advance as
follows:
      (1)   For billiard or pool tables: $30 for the first table, $15 for a
second table, and $7.50 for each additional table;
      (2)   For each bowling lane: $15;
      (3)   For each skating rink: $22.50;
      (4)   For a theater: $52.50; and
      (5)   For pinball or electronic game machines, $30 for the first machine
and $15 for each additional machine.
   (B)   The fees shall be nonrefundable.
(1984 Code, § 9-4-2) (Ord. 319, passed 12-30-1927; Ord. 361, passed 4-6-1936)
§ 113.03 LICENSE APPLICATION PROCEDURE; AMENDMENT OF LICENSE; NON-
TRANSFERABILITY.
   (A)   The license provided for in §
113.01 shall be issued by the Clerk-Treasurer of the town upon written
application stating:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant, and of the owner of the
premises to be licensed if other than the applicant;
      (2)   The business name and address of the premises to be licensed; and
      (3)   A description as to type(s) of activities to be conducted and/or
type(s) and number of amusement devices to be operated under the license
pursuant to §
113.02.
   (B)   Upon filing of the application, the Clerk-Treasurer shall assess the
fee(s) provided in §
113.02, and shall provide the applicant a written license, signed by the Clerk-
Treasurer, stating the person to whom issued, the premises licensed, the type
(s) of activities and/or type(s) and number of amusement devices permitted
under the license and the expiration date of the license, which shall be one
year from the issue date.
   (C)   If the licensee later wishes to add other activities or additional
types or numbers of devices not encompassed by the original license, the Clerk-
Treasurer may amend the license upon payment of additional fees as appropriate
under §
113.02.
   (D)   Additional fees shall not be prorated as to the remaining term of the
original license.
   (E)   No license issued under this section shall be transferable.
(1984 Code, § 9-4-3) (Ord. 319, passed 12-30-1927; Ord. 361, passed 4-6-1936)
§ 113.04 REGULATIONS APPLICABLE TO LICENSEES AND AGENTS; REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   No licensee shall knowingly nor with habitual negligence permit any
person to participate in, use or operate any licensed activity or amusement
device, nor to congregate or remain on any licensed premises:
      (1)   For the purposes of gambling or wagering as defined by the laws of
the state; or
      (2)   In violation of:
         (a)   Compulsory school attendance laws; or
         (b)   Curfew hours as established by state law or as lawfully modified
by town ordinance.
      (3)   In any manner so as to create a public disturbance, harass the
public or other patrons of the establishment, or create any public nuisance as.
commonly defined in law; or
      (4)   In violation of any other laws or ordinances which may now or
hereafter be directly or incidentally applicable to the licensed activity or
device.
   (B)   In addition to the licensee, any manager, operator or other person in
charge of any licensed premises, activity or device as presumptive agent of the
licensee shall be equally liable with the licensee for any violations of this
section. The Town Council President may, by written order to the licensee,
revoke the license of any premises wherein he or she finds that the licensee or
agent is knowingly or negligently permitting such violations, to occur, subject
to appeal in writing to the Town Council by the licensee within seven days of
the date of such order.
   (C)   A license, once revoked, may not be renewed for at least one year
thereafter.
(1984 Code, § 9-4-4) (Ord. 319, passed 12-30-1927; Ord. 361, passed 4-6-1936)
§ 113.05 ACTIVITIES OR DEVICES EXEMPT FROM LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any of the following:
   (A)   Any activities or devices described in §
113.01 that are for the private use of the owner or owners thereof and are not
used for public hire or in public;
   (B)   Wholesale or retail sale or leasing of amusement devices or equipment,
or keeping such devices or equipment purely for purposes of repair or storage;
or
   (C)   Operation of computers or terminals the primary use and purpose of
which is the storage, retrieval and processing of data and not the amusement of
the operator.
(1984 Code, § 9-4-5) (Ord. 319, passed 12-30-1927; Ord. 361, passed 4-6-1936)
§ 113.06 PRESENTATION OF LICENSE TO ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   Any person who shall be licensed under the provisions of this chapter shall,
upon request, show to the Town Marshal or other officer of the town the license
under which he or she is operating.
(1984 Code, § 9-4-6) (Ord. 319, passed 12-30-1927; Ord. 361, passed 4-6-1936)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be liable to a fine of not less than $25, nor more than $50 and
each day that a violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
(1984 Code, § 9-4-7) (Ord. 319, passed 12-30-1927; Ord. 361, passed 4-6-1936)
CHAPTER 114: MOBILE CONCESSIONS
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Permits
   
114.03   Mobile concession operations
   
114.04   Compliance with laws, regulations and ordinances
   
114.05   Fire protection requirements
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOBILE CONCESSIONS. Self-contained, mobile food and beverage services
licensed to do business in the State of Indiana and holding all requisite
health department business and resale licensures to sell food and beverages in
Indiana. This term shall not include food delivery services that deliver food
or beverages ordered by a purchaser to a specific address provided by the
purchaser.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 8-10-2020)
§ 114.02 PERMITS.
   (A)   Permit required. The town hereby adopts and requires that owners or
operators of any mobile concession business shall obtain all state, county and
town required licensures or permits before selling food or beverages in the
town.
      (1)   The town hereby adopts the following fee schedule for town mobile
concession permits:
         (a)   Store front in town: no charge;
         (b)   No store front and included in an event (i.e., Bridge Festival,
etc.): no charge;
         (c)   1.   No store front, resident of Parke County and not included
in an event: $50;
            2.   No store front, nonresident of Parke County and not included
in an event: $100.
      (2)   Permits may be obtained at Town Hall.
   (B)   Permit display. Owners or operators of a mobile concessions business
shall at all times display the permit obtained from the County Health
Department and the town while operating within the town.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 8-10-2020)
§ 114.03 MOBILE CONCESSION OPERATIONS.
   Mobile concessions businesses shall hereby abide by the following:
   (A)   Not interfere with or obstruct, or allow customers to interfere with
or obstruct, the free passage of pedestrians or vehicles along any street,
sidewalk, road or parking lot drive aisle;
   (B)   Not park within 20 feet of an intersection;
   (C)   Not park on town property within 150 feet of a brick and mortar
restaurant;
   (D)   Mobile concession businesses shall seek advance permission from the
property owner to be located on private property or the town if the mobile
concessions business is located on town property. The space available to mobile
concession businesses at some town events may be limited to a first come first
serve basis and or require additional fees;
   (E)   Mobile concessions shall be allowed to be in operation in the town
year round excluding the month of October;
   (F)   Only be operational in the town from 7 a.m. to 9 p.m., Eastern Time,
Monday through Saturday; Sunday operations shall be allowed from noon to 9
p.m., unless otherwise approved by the Town Council;
   (G)   If electricity is required by the mobile concession it is the
responsibility of the mobile concession operator to contact the town to arrange
for service prior to operation within town limits. Electricity use charges
shall be negotiated at the time of setup of electrical service connection;
   (H)   Professional food truck services shall only be allowed at either the
Beachwood Park or at the town visitor's center located on East Ohio Street
(commonly referred to as the Depot). Determination of professional food truck
status shall be made on a case by case basis to be determined by the town;
   (I)   Oversized vehicles greater than a length of 30 feet or requiring more
than one parking spot shall only be allowed at Beachwood Park or the Town
Depot;
   (J)   Obtain a yearly town permit from town hall prior to operation within
town limits.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 8-10-2020)
§ 114.04 COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS, REGULATIONS AND ORDINANCES.
   Mobile concessions must comply with all local, state and federal laws,
regulations and ordinances. Mobile concessions will be responsible for
collecting the proper sales and food and beverage taxes and reporting to the
proper state agencies.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 8-10-2020)
§ 114.05 FIRE PROTECTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Mobile concessions which provide services within the town shall be
equipped with proper fire extinguishing equipment. Such equipment shall be
properly installed and maintained to the State of Indiana Fire Code and/or the
appropriate NFPA standards. This shall include, but is not limited to, all fire
extinguishers, grease laden vapor systems and compressed gas for cooking.
   (B)   Inspections. All mobile concessions providing services within the town
may be subject to inspection by the Rockville Fire Department and/or Rockville
Police Department at any time the mobile concession is operating within the
town, to ensure compliance with division (A).
   (C)   The Rockville Fire Department or Rockville Police Department shall
have authority to enforce this chapter.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 8-10-2020)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any section of this
chapter shall be subject to a fine of up to $500. A separate offense shall be
deemed committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   All other provisions of the town's ordinances not in conflict with or
specifically changed by this ordinance shall remain in full force and effect.
   (C)   This chapter shall be in full force and effect from and upon its
adoption and due publication in accordance with Indiana law.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 8-10-2020)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      
131.   FIREARMS; PROJECTILES
      
132.   LOITERING AND UNLAWFUL CONGREGATIONS
      
133.   MINORS; CURFEW
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Trespass, encroachment prohibited; notice
   
130.02   Hypnotism and occult practices in public places; exceptions, permitted
practices
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 TRESPASS, ENCROACHMENT PROHIBITED; NOTICE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully, maliciously or
mischievously enter upon, or, having been given notice by posted signs or
otherwise that occupancy or travel is not desired to enter upon, the lawns or
grounds of any public institution or public property in the town.
(1984 Code, § 5-3-1) (Ord. 481, passed 12-1-1970) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 HYPNOTISM AND OCCULT PRACTICES IN PUBLIC PLACES; EXCEPTIONS, PERMITTED
PRACTICES.
   (A)   General provisions. Except as provided in division (B) below, it shall
be unlawful for any person to practice or attempt to practice or perform on the
streets, alleys or in any public place within the corporate limits of the town
any hypnotism (mesmerism), occult science, magic, necromancy or any of the
mysterious so-called sciences or cults.
(1984 Code, § 3-3-1)
   (B)   Exceptions; permitted practices. Nothing in division (A) above is
intended nor shall be construed to prevent nor inhibit any of the following
practices:
      (1)   The use of hypnotic techniques by:
         (a)   A licensed psychiatric, psychological, medical or dental
practitioner for purposes of diagnosis, treatment or anesthesia; or
         (b)   A law enforcement agency, under supervision of a properly
trained person for the purpose of aiding the elicitation of detailed evidence
from a witness to a crime, with the consent of such witness.
      (2)   The practice, for entertainment purposes, of feats commonly termed
“magic” but based on illusion and prestidigitation;
      (3)   The practice of prayer, sermonizing or the conduct of other bona
fide religious rights or practices, or the advocation of any religion, to the
extent otherwise permitted by law in a public place;
      (4)   The scientific investigation of paranormal or allegedly
supernatural phenomena; and
      (5)   Lecturing on or publicly discussing the subjects of hypnotism,
mesmerism, occult science, magic, necromancy or any of the mysterious so-called
sciences or cults.
(1984 Code, § 3-3-2)
(Ord. 279, passed 10-5-1914) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
130.01 shall be fined not less than $10, nor more than $50, but each day that a
violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
(1984 Code, § 5-3-2)
   (C)   Any person violating or attempting to violate the provisions of §
130.02 shall be liable to a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $25.
(1984 Code, § 3-3-3)
(Ord. 279, passed 10-5-1914; Ord. 481, passed 12-1-1970)
CHAPTER 131: FIREARMS; PROJECTILES
Section
   
131.01   Shooting, exploding firecrackers or throwing fire balls
   
131.02   Throwing balls near business buildings prohibited
   
131.03   No firearms in parks/playgrounds
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 SHOOTING, EXPLODING FIRECRACKERS OR THROWING FIRE BALLS.
   Any person who shall shoot at a mark or any game within the limits of the
town or shall shoot, along or across any street or alley therein; or shall
explode firecrackers or throw about fire balls in the town shall be subject to
§
131.99.
(1984 Code, § 3-1-1) (Ord. 8, passed - -) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02 THROWING BALLS NEAR BUSINESS BUILDINGS PROHIBITED.
   Any person who shall be found playing ball, throwing and catching the same,
or tossing a ball by or against any business building within the corporate
limits of the town shall be subject to §
131.99.
(1984 Code, § 3-1-2) (Ord. 166, passed 6-12-1878) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03 NO FIREARMS IN PARKS/PLAYGROUNDS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, a FIREARM is any device, by whatever
name known, which is designed to expel a projectile or projectiles by the
action of an explosion, springs, expansion of gas/air or escape of gas/air.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to have possession of any firearm
within any public park or playground owned or controlled by the town.
   (C)   This section does not apply to law enforcement officers acting in
their official capacity.
(Ord. 1996-622, passed 8-6-1996) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating §
131.01 shall, upon conviction, forfeit and pay any sum not less than $25 nor
more than $50.
(1984 Code, § 3-1-1)
   (C)   Any person violating §
131.02 shall, upon conviction, be fined in any sum not less than $5, nor more
than $10.
(1984 Code, § 3-1-2)
   (D)   Any person violating §
131.03 shall be cited and prosecuted for a violation of the town code, and
shall be liable for a fine of not less than $250 nor more than $2,500.
(Ord. 8, passed - -; Ord. 166, passed 6-12-1878; Ord. 1996-622, passed 8-6-
1996)
CHAPTER 132: LOITERING AND UNLAWFUL CONGREGATIONS
Section
   
132.01   Unlawful loitering or gathering on public property prohibited
   
132.02   Burden of proof of consent or other permit
   
132.03   Effective date
 
   
132.99   Penalty
§ 132.01 UNLAWFUL LOITERING OR GATHERING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Irrespective of whether or not any other unlawful activity is
conducted or intended, it shall be unlawful, except as hereafter permitted, for
any person or persons to loiter or gather, whether in a vehicle or otherwise:
      (1)   In a public building, except on bona fide public business or for
purposes for which such building is open to the public, or which are authorized
by law or by the public body or officer having charge of such building;
      (2)   In a street, alley, parking area, sidewalk or other public
thoroughfare so as to obstruct the use thereof by normal vehicular or
pedestrian traffic, to which use such thoroughfares are hereby dedicated, or
pose a hazard to such traffic; except that the Town Council may, at its
discretion, permit the use of such thoroughfares for parades, demonstrations or
similar events having a public purpose, interest or benefit;
      (3)   In a street, alley, parking area, sidewalk, park or similar public
facility for the purpose of or in such manner so as to harass, disturb or annoy
passers-by or other persons seeking to use and enjoy such public facility; or
      (4)   On other public premises, except for the purposes for which such
premises are ordinarily used and made available to the public and in accordance
with any applicable rules and regulations imposed by the appropriate public
authority.
   (B)   However, nothing in this section shall be construed or applied so as
to prohibit the exercise of any of the rights of any person as guaranteed under
the constitutions or statutes of the state or United States, except to the
extent that such exercise would unreasonably and unavoidably impair the
supervening rights, safety and welfare of the general public.
(Ord. 569, passed 7-25-1989) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.02 BURDEN OF PROOF OF CONSENT OR OTHER PERMIT.
   Whenever under §
132.01 or this section, any activity which might otherwise be construed as
unlawful thereunder is not unlawful in the circumstances because it is done
with the consent and permission of a person, public officer or public body
having power over the premises and authority to grant such consent, or because
it is done under authority of law, it shall be the burden of any person
suspected of or charged with violating such section to show to the satisfaction
of an enforcement officer or a court that such knowledge and consent, permit or
other such authorization did in fact validly exist.
(Ord. 569, passed 7-25-1989) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.03 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be effective upon its adoption and signature by the Town
Council as provided by law, provided that §
132.99 shall not be effective until after second publication of this chapter in
accordance with I.C. 36-5-2-10(b).
(Ord. 569, passed 7-25-1989)
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating §
132.01 shall, upon conviction, be liable to a fine of not less than $25 nor
more than $100 for each offense; provided, however, that should such person or
persons remain or return to the premises to unlawfully loiter or gather after
being directed to depart or disperse by an enforcement officer, the fine shall
be not less than $50, nor more than $100.
(Ord. 569, passed 7-25-1989)
CHAPTER 133: MINORS; CURFEW
Section
   
133.01   Purpose
   
133.02   Definitions
   
133.03   Unlawful actions
   
133.04   Parent responsibility
   
133.05   Allowing/encouraging violation
   
133.06   Operators of establishments
   
133.07   False information
   
133.08   Enforcement
   
133.09   Chautauqua Pavilion
 
   
133.99   Penalty
§ 133.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to promote the general welfare and protect
the general public through the reduction of juvenile violence and crime within
the town; promote the safety and well-being of the town’s youngest citizens,
persons under the age of 17, whose inexperience renders them particularly
vulnerable to becoming participants in unlawful activities, particularly
unlawful drug activities, and to being victimized by older perpetrators of
crime; and foster and strengthen parental responsibility for children.
(Ord. 2000-665, passed 10-17-2000)
§ 133.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CURFEW HOURS. The hours of 11:00 p.m. through 5:00 a.m. on Monday through
Friday morning and 12:01 a.m. through 5:00 a.m. on Saturday and Sunday.
   EMERGENCY. Unforeseen circumstances, or the status or condition resulting
therefrom, requiring immediate action to safeguard life, limb or property. The
term includes, but is not limited to, fires, natural disasters, automobile
accidents or other similar circumstances.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Any privately-owned place of business within the town
operated for a profit, to which the public is invited, including, but not
limited to, any place of amusement or entertainment. With respect to such
ESTABLISHMENT, the term OPERATOR shall mean any person, and any firm,
association, partnership (and the members or partners thereof) and/or any
corporation (and the officers thereof) conducting or managing that
ESTABLISHMENT.
   MINOR. Any person under 18 years of age who has not been emancipated by
court order.
   OFFICER. A police or other law enforcement officer charged with the duty of
enforcing the laws of the state and/or the ordinances of the town.
   PARENT.
      (1)   A person who is a minor’s biological or adoptive parent and who has
legal custody of a minor (including either parent, if custody is shared under a
court order or agreement);
      (2)   A person who is the biological or adoptive parent with whom a minor
regularly resides;
      (3)   A person judicially appointed as a legal guardian of the minor;
and/or
      (4)   A person 18 years of age or older standing in loco parentis (as
indicated by the authorization of an individual listed in divisions (1), (2) or
(3) above, for the person to assume the care or physical custody of the child,
or as indicated by any other circumstances).
   PERSON. Refers to an individual, and not to any association, corporation or
any other legal entity.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access, including, but not limited to, streets, highways, roads,
sidewalks, alleys, avenues, parks and/or the common areas of schools,
hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings, transportation facilities and
shops.
   REMAIN. The following actions:
      (1)   To linger or stay at or upon a place; and/or
      (2)   To fail to leave a place when requested to do so by an officer or
by the owner, operator or other person in control of that place.
   TEMPORARY CARE FACILITY. A non-locked, non-restrictive shelter at which
minors may wait, under visual supervision, to be retrieved by a parent. No
minors waiting in such facility shall be handcuffed and/or secured (by
handcuffs or otherwise) to any stationary object.
(Ord. 2000-665, passed 10-17-2000)
§ 133.03 UNLAWFUL ACTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for a minor, during curfew hours, to remain in or upon
any public place within the town, to remain in any motor vehicle operating or
parked therein or thereon, or to remain in or upon the premises of any
establishment within the town, unless:
   (A)   The minor is accompanied by a parent;
   (B)   The minor is involved in an emergency;
   (C)   The minor is engaged in an employment activity, or is going to or
returning home from such activity, without detour or stop;
   (D)   The minor is on the sidewalk directly abutting a place where he or she
resides with a parent;
   (E)   The minor is attending an activity sponsored by a school, religious or
civic organization, by a public organization or agency, or by another similar
organization or entity, which activity is supervised by adults, and/or the
minor is going to or returning from such an activity without detour or stop;
   (F)   The minor is on an errand at the direction of a parent, and the minor
has in his or her possession a writing signed by the parent containing the
following information: the name, signature, address and telephone number of the
parent authorizing the errand, the telephone number where the parent may be
reached during the errand, the name of the minor, and a brief description of
the errand, the minor’s destinations and the hours the minor is authorized to
be engaged in the errand;
   (G)   The minor is involved in interstate travel through, or beginning or
terminating in, the town; or
   (H)   The minor is exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United
States Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech
and the right of assembly.
(Ord. 2000-665, passed 10-17-2000) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.04 PARENT RESPONSIBILITY.
   It shall be unlawful for a minor’s parent to knowingly permit, allow or
encourage such minor to violate this chapter.
(Ord. 2000-665, passed 10-17-2000) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.05 ALLOWING/ENCOURAGING VIOLATION.
   It shall be unlawful for a person who is the owner or operator of any motor
vehicle to knowingly permit, allow or encourage a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2000-665, passed 10-17-2000) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.06 OPERATORS OF ESTABLISHMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any establishment, or for any
person who is an employee thereof, to knowingly permit, allow or encourage a
minor to remain upon the premises of the establishment during curfew hours. It
shall be a defense to prosecution under this section that the operator or
employee of an establishment promptly notified the Police Department that a
minor was present at the establishment after curfew hours and refused to leave.
(Ord. 2000-665, passed 10-17-2000) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.07 FALSE INFORMATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person (including any minor) to give a false
name, address or telephone number to any officer investigating a possible
violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2000-665, passed 10-17-2000) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Minors. Before taking any enforcement action hereunder, an officer
shall make an immediate investigation for the purpose of ascertaining whether
or not the presence of a minor in a public place, motor vehicle and/or
establishment within the city during curfew hours is in violation of this
chapter.
      (1)   If such investigation reveals that the presence of such minor is in
violation of this chapter, then:
         (a)   If the minor has not previously been issued a warning for any
such violation, then the officer shall issue a verbal warning to the minor,
which shall be followed by a written warning mailed by the Police Department to
the minor and his or her parent(s); or
         (b)   If the minor has previously been issued a warning for any such
violation, then the violation shall be considered a delinquent act as defined
by I.C. 31-37-1-2.
      (2)   As soon as practicable, the officer shall:
         (a)   Release the minor to his or her parent(s); or
         (b)   Place the minor in a temporary care facility for a period not to
exceed the remainder of the curfew hours, so that his or her parent(s) may
retrieve the minor; or
         (c)   If a minor refuses to give an officer his or her name and
address, refuses to give the name and address of his or her parent(s), or if no
parent can be located prior to the end of the applicable curfew hours, or if
located, no parent appears to accept custody of the minor, the minor may be
taken to a non-secure crisis center or juvenile shelter and/or may be taken to
a judge or intake officer of the juvenile court to be dealt with in the manner
and pursuant to such procedures as required by law.
   (B)   Others. If an investigation by an officer reveals that a person has
violated this chapter, and if the person has not previously been issued a
warning with respect to any such violation, an officer shall issue a verbal
warning to the person, which shall be followed by a written warning mailed by
the Police Department to the person; however, if any such warning has
previously been issued to that person then the officer shall charge the person
with a violation and shall issue a summons directing the person to appear in
court.
(Ord. 2000-665, passed 10-17-2000) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.09 CHAUTAUQUA PAVILION.
   The curfew hours for the Chautauqua Pavilion at the town park are changed to
9:00 p.m. through 5:00 a.m. Friday through Sunday morning, unless there is
prior Council approval.
(Ord. 717, passed 5-16-2006) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.99 PENALTY.
   Any adult person violating this chapter shall be fined in an amount not less
than $25, nor more than $100.
(Ord. 2000-665, passed 10-17-2000)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
151.   ADDRESS NUMBERING
      
152.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
153.   MASTER PLAN; SUBDIVISIONS
      
154.   ZONING CODE
CHAPTER 150: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Land Use Provisions
   
150.01   Plan Commission created
   
150.02   Dump, junk yard prohibited
Occupancy of Temporary Mobile Dwelling Units Restricted
   
150.15   Definitions
   
150.16   Temporary occupancy prohibited; exception
   
150.17   Notice to vacate; failure
   
150.18   Noninterference with powers of State Board of Health
Fire Limits and Fire Safety Regulations
   
150.30   Fire limit area designated
   
150.31   Special fire limit regulations
   
150.32   Oil and gasoline storage in residential districts restricted
   
150.33   Condition of building permits; variances; fee
   
150.34   Inspection for fire safety; notice of violation
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL LAND USE PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 PLAN COMMISSION CREATED.
   A Plan Commission, consisting of seven members, is hereby created, four of
whom shall be citizen members, two of said citizen members appointed for a term
of three years, and two appointed for a term of four years, and no more than
any two of the said citizen members shall be members of the same political
party, and the said Plan Commission shall be empowered to do all things
necessary and proper in accomplishing its objective as set out in I.C. 36-7-
4 and as the same has been or may hereinafter be amended.
(1984 Code, § 8-7-3) (Ord. 458, passed 9-6-1966)
Statutory reference:
   As to §
150.01, the original ordinance first stipulated three, rather than four,
citizen members of the Plan Commission. As this is contrary to statute, and as
the original ordinance itself then goes on to describe a total of four such
members, the word “three” was interpreted as a typographical error and was
editorially changed to “four” upon codification. By statute, the citizen
members are appointed by the Town Council President; the remaining three
members are appointed by the Town Council as a whole from among officers or
other personnel of the town government (I.C. 36-7-4-207(b)). After the initial
terms of citizen members, which expires on the first Monday of January on the
third and fourth years, respectively, after appointment, all successive terms
are for four years (I.C. 36-7-4-218(b)). Town government members have no
definite term under statute, and in general would, once appointed, continue to
serve so long as they remained members of the town government, unless removed
for legal cause; however, in the case of any such member who was a Town Council
member, the Town Council would have the option of appointing a new member at
its first regular meeting of any year pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-217. Members of a
Plan Commission, once appointed and qualified, may be involuntarily removed
only for proper legal cause.
§ 150.02 DUMP, JUNK YARD PROHIBITED.
   It is declared to constitute a nuisance to maintain and/or operate a dump or
a junk yard, or to accumulate junk, trash or litter on any real estate within
the corporate limits of the town.
(1984 Code, § 8-1-1) (Ord. 471, passed 11-5-1968) Penalty, see §
150.99
OCCUPANCY OF TEMPORARY MOBILE DWELLING UNITS RESTRICTED
§ 150.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOBILE DWELLING UNIT. Temporary living quarters such as house trailers,
truck bodies, tents, bus bodies, shacks and improvised shelters which may be
moved by tractor, truck or automobile, or those carried, transported or towed
from one place to another without the use of regular house-moving equipment.
   USE FOR TEMPORARY LIVING QUARTERS. Includes the acts of sleeping,
preparation of a meal, or any sanitary measure such as bathing, dishwashing or
laundering clothing, or any natural or performed operation which produces waste
material objectionable from a nuisance standpoint.
(1984 Code, § 8-2-1) (Ord. 378, passed 2-2-1942)
§ 150.16 TEMPORARY OCCUPANCY PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   No person shall occupy a mobile dwelling unit which has been placed on any
lot, street or any space within the corporate limits of the town for the
purpose of using the same as temporary living quarters, except:
   (A)   Those in camps approved and licensed for as campsites by the State
Board of Health; or
   (B)   The occupation occurs two blocks or more from the county courthouse
during the month of October and does not interfere with visitor parking.
(1984 Code, § 8-2-2) (Ord. 378, passed 2-2-1942; Ord. 2000-664, passed 10-3-
2000) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.17 NOTICE TO VACATE; FAILURE.
   Any peace officer of the town, or any representative of the State Board of
Health, or any state police officer, shall have the right to issue an order in
writing requiring violators of this chapter to remove mobile dwelling units
from unlicensed premises within 48 hours.
(1984 Code, § 8-2-3) (Ord. 378, passed 2-2-1942) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.18 NONINTERFERENCE WITH POWERS OF STATE BOARD OF HEALTH.
   No provisions in this subchapter shall interfere with the right of the State
Board of Health to revoke any license for failure to comply with the provisions
of I.C. 16-41-27 or other applicable laws.
(1984 Code, § 8-2-4) (Ord. 378, passed 2-2-1942) Penalty, see §
150.99
FIRE LIMITS AND FIRE SAFETY REGULATIONS
§ 150.30 FIRE LIMIT AREA DESIGNATED.
   The fire limit area of the town shall include the public square and extend
one block in each direction therefrom.
(1984 Code, § 8-6-1) (Ord. 536, passed - -)
§ 150.31 SPECIAL FIRE LIMIT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The following special regulations apply to buildings and activities
within the fire limit area to the extent that they do not fix less stringent
standards as otherwise applicable pursuant to the town Building Code or
applicable state fire laws or regulations.
      (1)   All wood frame buildings, other than residences, shall have the
sides and roofs covered with sheet metal or other noninflammable material.
      (2)   Where residences, multi-family housing buildings, or rooming houses
are to be re-roofed using asphalt shingles, slabs or composition roofing, the
same shall not be placed over wood shingle roofing.
      (3)   No new wood-frame residence may be constructed in the fire limit
area unless:
         (a)   The outer surfaces are covered by metal, brick, stone or other
noninflammable materials;
         (b)   All built-in electrical wiring is enclosed in metal conduits; or
         (c)   A variance is obtained as hereafter provided.
      (4)   All liquids that might cause a fire or explosion shall be placed in
steel drums or steel tanks when stored within the fire limit area.
      (5)   No person may burn any rubbish or other materials within the
streets and alleys within the fire limit area.
   (B)   Existing buildings within the fire limit area shall not be required to
be modified to comply with the above standards if lawfully erected in
accordance with applicable fire limit regulations in effect at the time such
building was erected, unless the Fire Chief, Building Inspector or Electrical
Inspector finds upon inspection of such building that any noncomplying
condition therein poses a clear and present fire danger to the occupants
thereof or to surrounding buildings; however, the Building Inspector may
require that any substantial repairs or modifications to an existing building
comply with the above requirements, as applicable.
(1984 Code, § 8-6-2) (Ord. 536, passed - -) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.32 OIL AND GASOLINE STORAGE IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS RESTRICTED.
   No building permit shall be issued to any oil company for a bulk oil station
or for the storage of gasoline, oils or any inflammable liquid in the
residential district when the storage tanks are to be placed above ground.
(1984 Code, § 8-6-3) (Ord. 536, passed - -) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.33 CONDITION OF BUILDING PERMITS; VARIANCES; FEE.
   (A)   Compliance with the provisions of §
150.31(A)(1) through (A)(4), and §
150.32, shall be a condition of any building permit issued for a building
located or to be located within the fire limit area; however, upon written
application, the Town Council may grant a variance from strict applicability of
any of the foregoing regulations, to the extent that such variance does not
permit a lesser standard than generally established in the Town Building Code
or in any applicable fire safety laws or regulations of the state, if any of
the following circumstances are found to exist:
      (1)   The building concerned is of special historic or architectural
significance as recognized by a federal, state or county authority or by the
Town Council, and strict applicability of the regulations would not be
consistent with the preservation of its historic or architectural character;
      (2)   The location of the building or structure in terms of the
separation between it and surrounding structures, or in terms of the character
of surrounding structures, is such as to nullify any unusual fire danger which
might otherwise result from the maintenance of a noncomplying condition;
      (3)   The building is equipped or to be equipped with compensatory fire
prevention or fire control systems adequate to nullify any unusual fire danger
which might otherwise result from the maintenance of a noncomplying condition;
or
      (4)   The applicant can show to the satisfaction of the Town Council that
strict applicability of the regulations would, under the circumstances, work an
undue and unreasonable hardship in disproportion to any accruing benefits or
safeguards to the public safety resulting from insistence on strict compliance.
   (B)   An applicant for a variance under this section shall submit with the
application a nonrefundable administrative fee of $10, payable to the town. The
Town Council shall provide the applicant and the Building Inspector with a
written determination of its approval or denial of the variance. The Town
Council may impose such conditions to the terms of the variance as it sees fit.
(1984 Code, § 8-6-4) (Ord. 536, passed - -)
§ 150.34 INSPECTION FOR FIRE SAFETY; NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   The Building Inspector, Electrical Inspector and Chief of the Fire
Department, or their authorized agents, shall have the right at all reasonable
hours to visit and examine all dwelling units, other buildings, or premises,
within the corporate limits of the town to discover if any fire hazard exists
therein in violation of any applicable state or local fire laws, ordinances and
regulations. If the Inspector finds the building or premises to be in a
dangerous condition, he or she shall give the owner written notice thereof
requiring the owner to bring the building or premises into compliance and
render same safe within 30 days; however, if the Inspector finds any grave and
imminent danger of fire or explosion, he or she may specify a lesser period for
compliance.
(1984 Code, § 8-6-5) (Ord. 536, passed - -)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating §
150.02 shall be liable to a fine of not less than $100, nor more than $300 for
each day that such violation continues. In addition, the violator shall be
liable for all costs incurred by the town in the abatement of said nuisance.
(1984 Code, § 8-1-2)
   (C)   Failure to comply with an order to vacate (as §
150.17 instructs) will, upon conviction, be punished by a fine not less than
$25, nor more than $50. No notice will be required for those persons violating
§§
150.15 through
150.18 after the first offense, and each day’s violation shall constitute a
separate offense.
(1984 Code, § 8-2-3)
   (D)   (1)   Any person who does the following commits a penal violation and
upon conviction shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $100, but each
day that a violation continues shall be a separate offense:
         (a)   Violates any of the regulations established by §
150.30;
         (b)   Violates any conditions of a variance granted under §
150.33;
         (c)   Refuses to admit to his or her building or premises the Building
Inspector, Electrical Inspector, Fire Chief or their authorized agents seeking
to make an inspection in accordance with §
150.34; or
         (d)   Refuses or willfully fails to comply with the requirements of
any notice served under §
150.34 within the time period allowed.
(1984 Code, § 8-6-6)
      (2)   Any building or premises wherein any fire safety violation is found
to exist or is permitted to continue unremedied shall be deemed an unsafe
building or premises subject to abatement in the same manner as other unsafe
buildings or premises as provided in the Town Building Code.
(Ord. 536, passed - -; Ord. 378, passed 2-2-1942; Ord. 471, passed 11-5-1968)
CHAPTER 151: ADDRESS NUMBERING
Section
   
151.01   Uniform numbering system
   
151.02   Relation to health and welfare
   
151.03   Conformity
   
151.04   Base lines and sequences
   
151.05   Administrative office
   
151.06   Numbers other than on public streets and roads
   
151.07   Standards for the posting of house numbers
   
151.08   Notification of local agencies
   
151.09   Enforcement
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 UNIFORM NUMBERING SYSTEM.
   A plan for the orderly and systematic numbering of houses and structures
located within the jurisdiction of the town is hereby enacted (hereinafter
“uniform numbering system”). Any and all ordinances previously adopted by the
Town Council regarding the numbering of houses and structures are hereby
repealed and superceded by this chapter.
(Ord. 2002-672, passed 1-22-2002)
§ 151.02 RELATION TO HEALTH AND WELFARE.
   The numbering of houses and other structures in an orderly and systematic
manner will make locating those houses and structures more expeditious in the
case of fire emergencies, in situations that involve an immediate need for
medical attention for occupants of the house or structure, and in situations in
which police protection or other emergency services are required. An orderly
and systematic house numbering process will also enhance the delivery of goods
and services, as well as increase the efficiency of operations such as postal
delivery.
(Ord. 2002-672, passed 1-22-2002)
§ 151.03 CONFORMITY.
   (A)   From the effective date of this chapter, the numbering of all houses
and other structures located on lots or parcels of land abutting public streets
or roads within the jurisdiction area of the town, shall be accomplished in
conformity within the uniform numbering system as herein described.
   (B)   At the time of issuance of any permit for construction of a house or
structure, a number shall be assigned to the house or structure by the Town
Council office as set forth below.
   (C)   The number shall be included on the permit, and no permit authorizing
the occupancy of a house or structure shall be issued and not final inspection
of a building performed for the purpose of permitting its occupancy shall be
deemed complete unless the house or structure displays at the time of
inspection, the officially assigned number in full compliance with the
standards of this chapter.
(Ord. 2002-672, passed 1-22-2002)
§ 151.04 BASE LINES AND SEQUENCES.
   (A)   The general rule shall be 100 addresses per block; except in certain
areas where irregular direction of the roadways makes variations necessary.
Even numbers shall be used on the north and west sides of the roads and odd
numbers shall be used on the south and east sides of the roads.
   (B)   The grid system to be used is to be constructed on a north, south,
east and west basis using the existing base roads in the town street system,
with the 100-100 point to be at the intersection of Jefferson and Ohio Street.
(Ord. 2002-672, passed 1-22-2002)
§ 151.05 ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE.
   (A)   The Town Council shall act as the administrative office (hereinafter
the “administrative office”) in charge of issuing numbers to houses or
structures in compliance with the provisions of this chapter. The
administrative office shall issue numbers to allow new houses or structures,
renumber houses and structures whenever it becomes necessary to do so in the
implementation of the uniform system and cause the numbering of all existing
homes or structures that are not numbered in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter. Barns, sheds and outbuildings not used for a habitation or
business shall not be numbered unless there is a specific reason or need for
doing so.
   (B)   The administrative office may establish written guidelines to use in
implementing this chapter and may amend the guidelines from time to time,
subject to the prior approval of the Town Council.
(Ord. 2002-672, passed 1-22-2002)
§ 151.06 NUMBERS OTHER THAN ON PUBLIC STREETS AND ROADS.
   The administrative office may, if it deems it proper and necessary for the
implementation of the uniform numbering systems, assign numbers to houses and
structures that are situated on private streets or roads within the
jurisdiction of the town.
(Ord. 2002-672, passed 1-22-2002)
§ 151.07 STANDARDS FOR THE POSTING OF HOUSE NUMBERS.
   (A)   Owners or occupants of a house or structure located within the town
may post officially assigned numbers in English, using Arabic (not Roman)
numerals at a minimum of three inches in height and made of durable, weather-
proof material, of a color that stands out in high contrast against its
background.
   (B)   The official number shall be placed on the house or business structure
where it may easily be seen when approaching the house or business. It shall
also be placed on both sides and the front of a mailbox, if a mailbox is used
(sized and positioned according to postal regulations), or on a post adjacent
to the roadway if the house or structure is not visible from a road or if the
houses or building is more than 100 feet from the road. If mailboxes are placed
closely side by side in such a way that numbers on the sides of the mailboxes
cannot be seen, the number need be placed only on the front of each such
mailbox, and the individual houses or other structures should be identified
using house numbers or appropriately placed road posts.
   (C)   Houses or structures that were numbered prior to the effective date of
this chapter shall be renumbered if necessary to comply with the uniform
numbering system and so that numerical harmony throughout the area or areas is
achieved. The administrative office shall authorize these changes.
(Ord. 2002-672, passed 1-22-2002; Ord. 2003-682, passed 9-2-2003)
§ 151.08 NOTIFICATION OF LOCAL AGENCIES.
   (A)   The administrative office shall provide a uniform system of
notification of the issuance of numbers or the renumbering of houses and
structures.
   (B)   When possible, notification shall be made reasonably ahead of
impending changes so as to allow interested groups and agencies to plan and to
prepare for the proposed changes.
   (C)   The administrative office shall keep accurate records and shall, from
time to time, prepare and make available to the Town Council a report of the
status of the implementation of the uniform numbering system. In the assignment
of house numbers, the administrative office shall use its best judgment and
shall carefully consider and evaluate all contingencies and shall, with due
regard to the sensitive nature of the job assigned to it, shall be considerate
of the citizens of the town.
(Ord. 2002-672, passed 1-22-2002)
§ 151.09 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Town Council may institute a suit for injunction to refrain any
person, firm or corporation who takes down, alters, defaces, destroys or
conceals any number assigned to or placed upon any building in compliance with
this chapter, or who places or substitutes or permits to be placed or
substituted upon any building an erroneous or improper number not in compliance
with this chapter, or who allows to be retained upon any building an erroneous
or improper number not in compliance with this chapter.
   (B)   The Town Council may institute a suit for mandatory injunction
direction for a person, firm or corporation to correct any violation of the
provisions of this chapter or to bring about compliance with the provision of
this chapter. If the Town Council is successful in any such suit, the defendant
or respondent shall bear the costs of this action, including reasonable
attorney’s fees.
(Ord. 2002-672, passed 1-22-2002)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   In addition to the above, any person, firm or business entity who
fails to readdress within 30 days from the date that notice of the new address
is received from the United States post office shall be subject to a fine of
not less than $50, not more than $100 for each offense. Each day that a
violation occurs shall constitute and be considered a separate offense.
   (B)   If any person, firm or business entity fails to correct the violation
within 30 days after being notified of said violation, then said offender shall
be subject to a Class A misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2002-672, passed 1-22-2002)
CHAPTER 152: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Building and Construction Regulations
   
152.01   Title; purpose
   
152.02   Authority of Building Inspector
   
152.03   Building and construction, generally
   
152.04   Building and moving fees
   
152.05   Reinspection fees
   
152.06   Swimming pools
   
152.07   Exemptions
   
152.08   Occupancy escrow fee
   
152.09   Failure to substantially complete
   
152.10   Permit procedures and related regulations
   
152.11   Certification of occupancy
   
152.12   State law adopted by reference
Unsafe Building Law
   
152.45   Adoption
   
152.46   Responsibility
   
152.47   Recovery of costs, fees
   
152.48   Substantial property interest
 
   
152.99   Penalty
BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS
§ 152.01 TITLE; PURPOSE.
   (A)   This subchapter, and all ordinances supplemental or amendatory hereto,
shall be known as the “Building Code of the Town of Rockville, Indiana”, may be
cited as such, and will be referred to herein as “this code”.
   (B)   The purpose of this code is to provide minimum standards for the
protection of life, health, environment, public safety and general welfare, and
for the conservation of energy in the design and construction of buildings and
structures.
(Ord. 2009-749, passed 9-8-2009)
§ 152.02 AUTHORITY OF BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   The Building Inspector is authorized and directed to administer and enforce
all of the provisions of this code. Whenever in this code, it is provided that
anything must be done to the approval of, or subject to, the direction of the
Building Inspector or any other officer of the town, this shall be construed to
give such officer only the discretion of determining whether this code has been
complied with; and no such provision shall be construed as giving any officer
discretionary powers as to what this code shall be, or power to require
conditions not prescribed by ordinances or to enforce this code in an arbitrary
or discriminatory manner. I.C. 36-7-2-9 addresses building standards.
(Ord. 2009-749, passed 9-8-2009)
§ 152.03 BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION, GENERALLY.
   (A)   Scope. The provisions of this code apply to the construction,
alteration, repair, use, occupancy, maintenance and additions to all buildings,
structures and fences in the town.
   (B)   Adoption of rules by reference. Building rules of the State Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission as set out in the following articles
of Title 675 of the Indiana Administrative Code are incorporated by reference
in this subchapter and shall include later amendments to those articles as the
same are published in the Indiana Register or the Indiana Administrative Code
with effective dates as fixed therein:
      (1)   Article 13 - Building Codes:
         (a)   Fire and Building Safety Standards;
         (b)   Indiana Building Code;
         (c)   Indiana Building Code Standards; and
         (d)   Indiana Handicapped Accessibility Code.
      (2)   Article 14 - One and Two Family Dwelling Codes:
         (a)   Indiana Residential Code; and
         (b)   Standard for Permanent Installation of Manufactured Homes.
      (3)   Article 15 - Industrialized Building Systems;
      (4)   Article 16 - Plumbing Codes Indiana Plumbing Code;
      (5)   Article 17 - Electrical Codes:
         (a)   Indiana Electrical Code; and
         (b)   Safety Code for Health Care Facilities.
      (6)   Article 18 - Mechanical Codes/Indiana Mechanical Code;
      (7)   Article 19 - Energy Conservation Codes: Indiana Energy Conservation
Code;
      (8)   Article 20 - Swimming Pool Codes: Indiana Swimming Pool Code; and
      (9)   Indiana Fire Code.
   (C)   Application for permits. No building permit shall be issued for the
foregoing purposes, unless the application for a permit is accompanied by a
plat or sketch of the proposed location showing lot boundaries, and by plans
and specifications showing the work to be done. In addition, a copy of a design
release, issued by the State Building Commissioner and the State Fire Marshal
pursuant to I.C. 22-15-3-1, shall be provided to the Building Inspector before
issuance of a permit for construction covered by such design release.
   (D)   Permit required. A permit shall be obtained before beginning
construction, alteration or repair of any building or structure, the cost of
which exceeds $1,000, using forms furnished by the Building Inspector, and all
fees required by this Code shall be paid to the Clerk-Treasurer of the town.
Electrical and plumbing permits shall be issued only to duly licensed
electrical and plumbing contractors, or the property owner.
   (E)   Other ordinances. All work done under any permit shall be in full
compliance with all other ordinances pertaining thereto, and in addition to the
fees for permits, there shall be paid the fees prescribed in such ordinances.
(Ord. 2009-749, passed 9-8-2009)
§ 152.04 BUILDING AND MOVING FEES.
   (A)   Generally. Building and moving permits shall be as follows.
      (1)   For a total valuation from $0 to $100,000: $100. For each
additional $1,000 or fraction thereof: $2. Building inspection fee (to be added
to cost of building permit): $25. Building inspection fee (for inspection
requested by person or firm other than the permit holder): $100.
      (2)   Reinspection required in addition to the regular inspections shall
be at the owner or contractors expense at the rate of $40 for each
reinspection. Said charge shall be paid prior to reinspection.
      (3)   In the event a “red tag” is issued for work in progress without a
permit, a fee of $350 shall be charged in addition to the scheduled permit fee
before any additional work may be done. Said fee is reasonably related to the
administrative cost required thereto.
      (4)   For purposes of determining the amount of the building permit fee,
the total valuation shall be established by multiplying the number of square
feet of the ground floor living area by $100 per square foot, exclusive of
garages, breezeways and open porches. The second level, whether it be the lower
area of a tri-level structure, lower level of a bi-level or split level or
second floor of a two-story shall be computed at $60 per square foot. In
addition, open porches, garages and breezeways shall be computed at the rate of
$20 per square foot. For example, the total valuation of a tri-level with 1,500
square feet on the main floor, 750 square feet on the lower level, 600 square
feet in the garage, and a breezeway consisting of 200 square feet would be
computed as follows:
 
1,500 square feet x $100= $150,000
750 square feet x $60=    $45,000
600 square feet x $20=    $12,000
200 square feet x $20=    $4,000
Total fees would be:      $247 (includes $25 inspection fee)
 
   (B)   Wrecking and miscellaneous building permits. Wrecking and other
building permit fees shall be as follows:
1,000 square feet or less                                            $25
Over 1,000 square feet to 2,500 square feet                          $30
Over 2,500 square feet, for each 2,500 square feet or major fraction $35
thereof
Issuance of copy of certificate                                      $1
Occupancy, original certificate                                      $10
Renewal of certification                                             $20
Storefront/facade remodel                                            $50
Yard barn over 250 square feet but under 500 square feet             $25
Garage over 300 square feet but under 600 square feet                $25
Over 600 square feet                                                 $50
 
   (C)   Driveway permits. Driveway permit fees shall be as follows:
residential and commercial: $40.
   (D)   Sign permits. Sign permit fees shall be as follows.
      (1)   For a total valuation of $0 to $500: $25. For each $500 or fraction
thereof: $10. Reinspection fee: $15. Temporary sign (per sign): $10.
      (2)   A fee shall not be charged for installation of a temporary sign by
a religious or charitable organization.
   (E)   Plumbing, house drainage and sewer work. Plumbing, house drainage and
sewer fees shall be as follows.
      (1)   Permit cost shall be $75.
      (2)   Inspection fee of $25 shall be applied to each permit fee.
      (3)   Reinspection or inspection subsequent to “red tag” shall be at the
expense of the owner or applicant at the rate of $40 for each reinspection.
Said charge shall be paid prior to reinspection.
      (4)   Permit fee for plumbing work valued at less than $500 shall be $25,
and shall require one inspection at the rate of $25. Reinspection shall be at
the rate of $40 each.
   (F)   Electrical installation. Electrical installation fees shall be as
follows. Permit cost shall be $75 for issuance or permit, plus inspection
expense as follows.
      (1)   All residential services any size will be at the rate of $0.75 per
ampere. All commercial and industrial services will be at $0.75 per ampere. All
three-phase services will be at the rate of $0.90 per ampere.
      (2)   Temporary pole permit shall be at the rate of $25 for permit, and
$15 for one inspection. Reinspection shall be at the rate of $40. In the event
a temporary service, other than a temporary pole, is converted to a permanent
service, credit shall be given for the cost of the temporary service.
      (3)   All room additions, remodels and the like, without a change of
service shall be at the rate of $25 per inspection.
      (4)   Normal inspections shall consist of one rough and one final
inspection. All additional inspections caused by improper installation shall be
at the rate of $40 per inspection.
      (5)   Minimum inspection fee shall be $25.
      (6)   Permit and inspection shall be required for all electrical signs
and burglar alarms monitored by the town at the rate of $25 per sign or burglar
alarm inspection.
      (7)   In the event an application for permit shall be made for which the
foregoing fee schedule is not applicable, the application shall be reviewed by
the Inspector and a fair and equitable fee will be determined consistent with
the foregoing fee schedule, subject to review by the Town Council at the rate
of the Electrical Inspector or the applicant.
      (8)   Electrical permit cost for installation or construction of central
air conditioning, above ground swimming pool, fireplace or unattached garage,
shall be $25; and shall require one inspection at a cost of $25. Reinspection,
if necessary, shall be at the rate of $40 each.
   (G)   Payment fees.
      (1)   The amount so required for each permit shall be paid by the party
or parties contemplating such erection, construction, repair, changes or
additions, electrical or plumbing installations, to the Clerk-Treasurer of said
town at his or her office in the Town Hall.
      (2)   The electrical and plumbing permittees in the amount of $25 each,
together with all permit fees for building and moving permits, and wrecking and
other building permits, collected by the Clerk-Treasurer shall be reported to
the Town Council on a monthly basis after having been paid into the Clerk
Treasurer’s office, and shall be and become a part of the General Fund of the
town.
(Ord. 2009-749, passed 9-8-2009)
§ 152.05 REINSPECTION FEES.
   The entire reinspection fee of $40 per reinspection shall be paid to the
Clerk-Treasurer. The permit fee, and the balance of the electrical and plumbing
inspection fees, shall be used to offset the administration expenses incurred
by the town in issuing the permit, and to provide for other miscellaneous
expenses of the Building Department, including salaries of the Building
Commissioner, office help and for adequate space. All such fees shall be paid
out upon sworn statements or claims filed with the Town Council, as other
claims against said town are paid. In the event the Building Commissioner or
Building Inspector performs the plumbing inspection, the entire plumbing permit
fee shall be payable to the town to cover a portion of the salary of the
Building Commissioner.
(Ord. 2009-749, passed 9-8-2009)
§ 152.06 SWIMMING POOLS.
   (A)   Generally. Permit fees for swimming pools shall be as follows: above-
ground swimming pools: flat fee of $25. In-ground pools: for a valuation of $0
to $1,000: $25. For each additional $1,000 valuation or portion thereof: $7.
   (B)   Water. Permit fees for water shall be as follows: construction water
(four months or less): $70. Construction water (each additional month to date
of occupancy permit): $28. Water tap, any size: $1,000. Automatic fire
sprinkling system: $500, plus $1 per head.
(Ord. 2009-749, passed 9-8-2009)
§ 152.07 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The town and all political subdivisions thereof, the county and the
United States of America shall obtain all required permits prior to
constructing, remodeling, renovating, improving or demolishing any building or
structure on their properties.
   (B)   The town and all political subdivisions thereof, the county, the state
and United States of America shall be exempt from paying any fee for building
permits, certificates of zoning compliance and occupancy permits.
   (C)   Religious organizations shall obtain all required permits prior to
constructing, remodeling, renovating, improving or demolishing any building or
structure on their properties. Religious organizations shall be exempt from
paying any fee for building permits, certificates of zoning compliance, and
occupancy permits.
   (D)   The town and all political subdivisions thereof, the county, the
state, the United States of America, and religious organizations shall also be
exempt from payment of the town’s portion of plumbing and electrical permit
fees.
      (1)   All political subdivisions, religious organizations or their
contractors shall be required to pay inspection fees for the plumbing and
electrical inspections.
      (2)   All political subdivisions, religious organizations or their
contractors shall be required to pay the cost of sanitary and/or storm water
and water tap-in fees.
      (3)   The political subdivisions, religious organizations or their
contractors shall provide the town with a two-year performance bond or letter-
of-credit, in an amount equal to 5% of the estimated cost of construction or
improvements.
(Ord. 2009-749, passed 9-8-2009)
§ 152.08 OCCUPANCY ESCROW FEE.
   (A)   The Town Council finds it necessary to establish an occupancy escrow
fee in an effort to reduce the number of structures being inhabited prior to
their obtaining an occupancy permit.
   (B)   The occupancy escrow fee will apply only to new construction the
following fee schedule shall apply: residential construction: $1,000.
Commercial construction, which includes schools, churches, hospitals and the
like: $1,000 for the first 3,000 square feet and $250 for every 500 square feet
thereafter.
   (C)   These escrow fees will be refunded to the applicant as long as they do
not occupy their structure prior to receiving an occupancy permit to do so.
   (D)   In the event that a structure is occupied prior to receiving an
occupancy permit, then that amount held in escrow shall be forfeited to the
General Fund of the town.
   (E)   It is established that a fee of $100 shall be charged to the applicant
in the event of the foregoing.
(Ord. 2009-749, passed 9-8-2009)
§ 152.09 FAILURE TO SUBSTANTIALLY COMPLETE.
   (A)   The Town Council finds it necessary to establish a failure to
substantially complete fee in an effort to reduce the number of buildings that
are left unfinished once construction has been started.
      (1)   The town will aggressively take legal action against those in
violation.
      (2)   The fees are as follows:
         (a)   Residential: $100 per day after permitted date of substantial
completion;
         (b)   Commercial: $250 per day; and
         (c)   Industrial: $500 per day.
      (3)   Substantial completion is defined as: structure is closed in with
roof, windows, doors, exterior finished, rough electric, plumbing and
mechanical completed; interior walls in place with drywall/plaster applied;
finish/trim out work is exempt from this definition.
   (B)   Lot improvement is expected to be completed within one year of the
structures substantial completion date. It is established that a fee of $50 per
day be charged to the property owner for each day the lot remains unimproved.
(Ord. 2009-749, passed 9-8-2009)
§ 152.10 PERMIT PROCEDURES AND RELATED REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Review of application.
      (1)   Prior to the issuance of any building permit, the Building
Commissioner shall:
         (a)   Review all building permit applications to determine full
compliance with the provisions of this code;
         (b)   Review all building permit applications for new construction or
substantial improvements to determine whether proposed building sites will be
reasonably safe from flooding; and
         (c)   Review building permit applications for major repairs within the
floodplain area having special flood hazards to determine that the proposed
repair:
            1.   Uses construction materials and utility equipment that are
resistant to flood damage; and
            2.   Uses conduction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
      (2)   All new construction improvement location permit applications shall
be accompanied by two copies of a plat of survey of the subject real property,
which shall which shall identify the proposed lot corner elevations as well as
the building corner elevations. These proposed elevations shall be in
conformance with the development’s approved grading plan. In the absence of an
approved grading plan, elevation data for new construction shall not exceed the
elevation of surrounding properties, unless the natural contour of the real
property necessitates the contrary.
      (3)   Erosion and sediment control measures shall be in place prior to
the issuance of an improvement location (building) permit. This includes
construction of a barrier such as a silt fence to prevent soil erosion from
leaving the site as well as placing a stone driveway of a sufficient width to
allow construction vehicles and equipment to access the site without dragging
mud and debris off of the site and onto the roads.
      (4)   All new construction shall be required to provide a plat of survey
to be submitted to the Building Department at the time that the foundation is
constructed. This plat of survey will be used to determine that the foundation
complies with the grading plan for the development, as well as to ensure that
the foundation is properly located in compliance with the setback regulations
for the particular zoning district in which it is located.
      (5)   All new construction shall be required to provide an as-built plat
of survey indicating the lot corner elevations as well as the building corner
elevations.
      (6)   All new construction shall be required to have a dumpster and
portable bathroom on site during the construction of the building. Both items
are to be kept on the property that they serve and shall not be placed in the
street. In the event that a contractor has more than one lot under construction
in the same development, he or she shall be allowed to provide one dumpster for
multiple lots to the extent that said dumpster can accommodate the debris that
results from the construction activity.
   (B)   Inspection and reinspection procedures.
      (1)   After the issuance of any building permit, the Building
Commissioner shall make, or shall cause to be made, inspections of the work
being done as are necessary to ensure full compliance with the provisions of
the subchapter and the terms of the permit.
         (a)   The permit holder shall call for each inspection.
         (b)   The Inspector shall have 48 hours (exclusive of weekends and/or
holidays) from time of notification to make the requested inspection.
         (c)   Reinspection of work found to be, incomplete, or not ready for
inspection, is subject to assessment of reinspection fees as prescribed in the
code.
      (2)   Upon completion of the project, and prior to any request for any
final inspection, an “as-built” plat of survey shall be submitted with the “as-
built” elevations of the lot corners as well as the as-built elevations of the
structure corners. These elevations shall be in conformance with the
development’s approved grading plan.
   (C)   Inspection assistance. The Chief of the Fire Department, or his or her
designated representative, shall assist the Building Commissioner in the
inspection of fire suppression, detection and alarm systems and shall provide
reports of such inspection to the Building Commissioner.
   (D)   Entry. Upon presentation of proper credentials, the Building
Commissioner or his or her duly authorized representatives may enter at
reasonable times any building, structure or premises in the town to perform any
duty imposed upon him or her by this code.
   (E)   Stop order. Whenever any work is being done contrary to the provisions
of this code, the Building Commissioner may order the work stopped by notice in
writing served on any persons engaged in the doing or causing such work to be
done, and any such persons shall forthwith stop such work until authorized by
the Building Commissioner to proceed with the work.
(Ord. 2009-749, passed 9-8-2009)
§ 152.11 CERTIFICATION OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   No certificate of occupancy for any building or structure erected,
altered or repaired after the adoption of this subchapter shall be issued
unless such building or structure was erected, altered or repaired in
compliance with the provisions of the subchapter. It shall be unlawful to
occupy any such building or structure unless a full, partial or temporary
certificate of occupancy has been issued by the Building Commissioner.
   (B)   In addition, lot inspections shall be required prior to the issuance
of a certificate of occupancy. Upon the request of the permit holder for the
first final inspection of a given discipline (plumbing, electrical or
building), the lot inspection shall be made within 48 hours of the request
(exclusive of weekends and/or holidays) in the same manner as all other
inspections.
   (C)   Some lot improvements are weather dependent such as the installation
of sidewalks and driveways, final grading, sodding, seeding and the like.
      (1)   In the event that weather is a genuine factor in a lot lacking all
of the final required improvements, an occupancy permit may be issued subject
to the withholding of the occupancy escrow, until such time as all of the
conditions required for a satisfactory lot inspection have been met.
      (2)   Failure to complete all final required lot improvements within one
year of the initial lot inspection shall result in the forfeiture of the escrow
as required by the building permit application.
      (3)   Forfeiture of the escrow does not void the builder’s responsibility
to complete the lot improvements. Forfeited escrows will be used to help
complete the lot improvements to the extent they are able to do so.
         (a)   Workmanship. All work on the construction, alteration and repair
of buildings and other structures shall be performed in a good and workmanlike
manner according to accepted standards and practices in the trade.
         (b)   Violations. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation, whether as owner, lessee, sub-lessee or occupant, to erect,
construct, enlarge, alter, repair, improve, remove, convert, demolish, equip,
use, occupy or maintain any building or structure, other than fences, in the
town, or cause or permit the same to be done, contrary to or in violation of
the provisions of this Code.
         (c)   Right of appeal. All persons shall have the right to appeal the
Building Commissioner’s decision first through the Board of Zoning Appeals and
then to the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission of Indiana in
accordance with the provisions of I.C. 4-21-13-2-7 and 4-21.5-3-7.
         (d)   Remedies. The Building Commissioner shall, in the name of the
town, bring actions in the Criminal or Civil Courts of the county, for
mandatory and injunctive relief in the enforcement of and to secure compliance
with any order or orders made by the Building Commissioner, and any such action
for mandatory or injunctive relief may be joined with an action to recover the
penalties provided for in this subchapter.
(Ord. 2009-749, passed 9-8-2009) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.12 STATE LAW ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   I.C. 36-7-9 et seq. is adopted by the town for enforcement of building
standards.
   (A)   Role of Building Commissioner. The Building Commissioner is appointed
by the Town Council as the executive department responsible for the
administration of building standards in the town.
   (B)   Hearing Authority. The Town Manager is hereby appointed as the hearing
authority for all purposes of I.C. 36-7-9-7 et seq.
   (C)   Substantial property interest. A person shall be deemed to have a
“substantial property interest” if he or she is the holder of the fee simple
title, or a portion thereof, or is purchasing the subject property on contract,
which has been duly recorded in the Recorder’s office of the county.
(Ord. 2009-749, passed 9-8-2009)
UNSAFE BUILDING LAW
§ 152.45 ADOPTION.
   The Town Council adopts I.C. 36-7-9 et seq., commonly known as the Unsafe
Building Law, and all of the provisions of said subchapter.
(Ord. 2007-720, passed 9-5-2007)
§ 152.46 RESPONSIBILITY.
   The Town Council specifies that the Town Manager or his or her designee of
the town shall be responsible for the administration of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2007-720, passed 9-5-2007)
§ 152.47 RECOVERY OF COSTS, FEES.
   In the event the town is required to bring any action in a court of law to
enforce any order of the Unsafe Building Committee or any violation of the
Unsafe Building Code, the town shall be entitled to recover costs, attorney’s
fees and expenses from the property owner.
(Ord. 2007-720, passed 9-5-2007)
§ 152.48 SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST.
   The Town Council adopts by reference the definition of substantial property
interest which is contained in the Unsafe Building Law.
(Ord. 2007-720, passed 9-5-2007)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   If any person, firm or corporation shall violate any of the provisions
of §§
152.01 through
152.08, or shall do any act prohibited herein, or shall fail to perform any
duty lawfully enjoined, within the time prescribed by the Building
Commissioner, or shall fail, neglect or refuse to obey any lawful order given
by the Building Commissioner in connection with the provisions of §§
152.01 through
152.08 for each such violation, failure or refusal, such person, firm or
corporation shall be fined in any sum not less than $50, payable through the
town for the first violation, and not more than $1,000 thereafter. Each day of
such unlawful activity as in prohibited by the first sentence of this section
shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 710, passed 3-21-2006; Ord. 2009-749, passed 9-8-2009)
CHAPTER 153: MASTER PLAN; SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Definitions
   
153.02   Official Thoroughfare Plan
   
153.03   Public facilities
   
153.04   Improvement location permits
Subdivision Control
   
153.20   Establishment of control
   
153.21   Procedure
   
153.22   Principles and standards of design
   
153.23   Standards of improvements
   
153.24   Plat certificates and deed of dedication
   
153.25   Variances
   
153.26   Law or agency changes and enforcement
 
   
153.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A right-of-way, other than a street, road, crosswalk or easement,
that provides secondary access for the special accommodation of the abutting
property.
   BLOCK. An area that abuts a street and lies between two adjoining streets or
barriers such as a railroad right-of-way or a waterway.
   BOARD. The Rockville Town Council (formerly called the Board of Trustees of
Rockville) unless it is clear from the term’s context that reference is being
made to the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   BUILDING LINE. The line that establishes the minimum permitted distance on a
lot between the front line of a building and the street right-of-way line.
   COMMISSION. The Rockville Town Plan Commission.
   COUNCIL. The Rockville Town Council.
   CUL-DE-SAC (COURT or DEAD-END STREET). A short street having one end open to
traffic and being permanently terminated by a vehicle turnaround.
   DEVELOPER. Any person engaged in developing or improving a lot or group of
lots or structures thereon for use or occupancy.
   EASEMENT. A grant by the property owner of the use of a strip of land by the
public, a corporation or persons, for specified purposes.
   JURISDICTION OF THE COMMISSION. The incorporated area of the town, together
with any contiguous unincorporated areas of the county over which the town has
asserted territorial jurisdiction for the Commission by ordinance to exercise
specific extraterritorial powers allowed municipalities under state law.
   LOT. A portion of a subdivision, or other parcel of land intended as a unit
for transfer of ownership or development.
   MASTER PLAN. The “Master Plan Elements” part and all maps contained in a
report entitled, “Rockville, Indiana, Master Plan Report - 1970”, prepared by
Schellie Associates, Inc. together with all of the provisions of Appendix A
(“Master Plan Ordinance”) of the town code, and all amendments, supplements or
replacements thereto. The master plan serves as the town’s comprehensive plan
as required by I.C. 36-7-4-500 et seq.
   OFFICIAL THOROUGHFARE PLAN. The part of the Master Plan, nor or hereafter
adopted which includes a major street and highway plan and sets forth the
location, alignment, dimensions, identification and classification of existing
and proposed streets, highways and other thoroughfares.
   PERSON. Includes a corporation, firm, partnership, association, organization
or any other group that acts as a unit.
   PLACE. A short street or court used primarily for access to abutting
properties, usually residential.
   PLAT. A map or chart indicating the subdivision or resubdivision of land,
intended to be filed for record.
   PRIVATE DRIVE. A right-of-way which has the characteristic of a street, as
defined herein, except that it is not dedicated to the public use. A driveway
which is located on a lot and which serves only the use on that lot is not
considered as a PRIVATE DRIVE.
   PUBLIC FACILITIES PLAN. The part of the Master Plan, now or hereafter
adopted which shows the locations of proposed fire station sites and existing
and proposed school, park or recreational sites.
   STREET (ROAD).
      (1)   A right-of-way, other than an alley, dedicated or otherwise legally
established to the public use, usually affording the principal means of access
to abutting property.
      (2)   A STREET may be designated as a highway, thoroughfare, parkway,
boulevard, road, avenue, lane, drive or other appropriate name.
   STREET (OR ALLEY) IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   The construction of a street or alley to its full thickness,
commencing at the subgrade according to the specifications contained in §
153.23(E)(2).
      (2)   The placing of a new surface over an existing paved or closed
surface street or alley shall not be considered as an IMPROVEMENT but as
maintenance.
   STREET, COLLECTOR. A street planned to facilitate the collection of traffic
from local streets, and to provide circulation within neighborhood areas and
convenient ways for traffic to reach arterial streets.
   STREET, MAJOR ARTERIAL. A street designated for large volume of traffic
movement.
   STREET, MINOR ARTERIAL. A street planned to facilitate the collection of
traffic from collector streets.
   STREET, LOCAL. A street used primarily for access to abutting properties,
usually residential.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person engaged in developing or improving a tract of land
which complies with the definition of a subdivision as defined in this chapter.
   SUBDIVISION.
      (1)   The division of any parcel of land shown as a unit, as part of a
unit, or as contiguous units on the last preceding transfer of ownership
thereof, into two or more parcels, sites or lots, any one of which is less than
two acres in area, for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of transfer of
ownership; provided, however, that the division or partition of land into
parcels of more than two acres not involving any new streets or easements of
access, and the sale or exchange of parcels between adjoining lot owners, where
such sale or exchange does not create additional building sites, shall not be
considered a subdivision; or
      (2)   The improvement of one or more parcels of land for residential,
commercial or industrial structures or groups of structures involving the
subdivision and allocation of land as streets or other open spaces for common
use by owners, occupants or lease holders or as easements for the extension and
maintenance of public sewer, water, storm drainage or other public utilities
and facilities.
   TOWN. The Town of Rockville, Indiana
   ZONING ORDINANCE. The part of the town code that has been adopted under
authority of I.C. 36-7-4-600 et seq., its predecessor statutes or any successor
statutes, also known as the ZONING CODE of the town.
(Ord. 478, passed 5-5-1970; Ord. 95-610, passed 10-4-1995)
§ 153.02 OFFICIAL THOROUGHFARE PLAN.
   (A)   Thoroughfare maps and drawing. The Official Thoroughfare Plan consists
of a map entitled “Master Plan, Rockville, Indiana”, dated 1970. The Official
Thoroughfare Plan is hereby declared to be a part of this chapter and
notations, references, indications and other details shown therein are as much
a part of this chapter as if they were fully described in the text of this
chapter.
   (B)   Designation of thoroughfares. The major streets and highways
comprising the Official Thoroughfare Plan are hereby classified on the basis of
width and type, in accordance with their proposed function, as major arterial,
minor arterial, collector and local.
   (C)   Policies and directives.
      (1)   Opening or widening of streets. Whenever a street classified in the
Official Thoroughfare Plan is to be platted as a part of a subdivision, the
required right-of-way width for such street shall be specified in the Official
Thoroughfare Plan, provided that where a street borders a tract of land to be
subdivided, the owner of such land shall be required to plat only one-half of
the right-of-way designated for such street, measured at 90 degrees to the
centerline thereof.
      (2)   Location of streets.
         (a)   Wherever the location of a street is indicated in the Official
Thoroughfare Plan as following an existing road or street, or a section or
half-section or other established property line, the location of the street
shall conform to such location; however, a street lying wholly within a
subdivision, and not designated as following an existing road or established
property line, may be varied in its alignment when such variance promotes the
plan of a neighborhood development unit in accordance with good site planning
principles, and if such alignment provides for the continuity of traffic
movement.
         (b)   In the absence of any street being designated in each section of
land, within the jurisdiction, on or approximately on the north-south and east-
west half-section lines of such sections, it is the intent of the Official
Thoroughfare Plan and this chapter that minor arterial streets be established
on such half-section lines where feasible.
         (c)   Wherever the location of a street is indicated in the Official
Thoroughfare Plan as following an irregular alignment, or a revised alignment
or is not referenced to an established line, it shall follow the alignment
shown in the Official Thoroughfare Plan. Such alignment shall be subject to a
detailed survey which may be provided by the Commission or other public
agencies, or by the owners of land to be subdivided if required by the
Commission. The survey for such street shall be subject to the approval of the
Commission prior to the dedication of the street.
      (3)   Consideration by public agencies. The Board shall be guided by and
give consideration to the general policy and pattern of street development set
out in the Official Thoroughfare Plan in the authorization, construction,
widening, alteration, relocation or abandonment of the public streets, highways
and related structures.
      (4)   Issuance of permits. Any permits authorized by the Board including,
but not limited to, improvement location permits, permitting the erection,
alteration or relocation of structures and other improvements within the
jurisdiction of the Commission, shall be issued only if, in addition to
satisfying the requirements of other ordinances, the proposed street right-of-
way as set forth by this chapter will be protected from encroachment. In this
instance, the proposed street right-of-way lines will be considered as the
front line of lots and tracts bordering such street.
   (D)   Continuing authority of Commission. Subsequent to the passage of this
chapter, the Commission may determine lines for new, extended, widened or
narrowed thoroughfares in any portion of the area within the jurisdiction of
the Commission, and certify to the Board the amended or additional plan under
the same procedure as established for the certification and approval of the
Official Thoroughfare Plan.
(Ord. 478, passed 5-5-1970; Ord. 95-610, passed 10-4-1995)
§ 153.03 PUBLIC FACILITIES.
   (A)   Map of public facilities. The Public Facilities Plan consists of a map
entitled “Master Plan, Rockville, Indiana”, dated 1970 or “Public Facilities
Plan”, dated 1970. The Public Facilities Plan is hereby declared to be a part
of this chapter and notations, references, indications and other details shown
therein are as much a part of this chapter as if they were fully described
herein.
   (B)   Policy. Whenever public facility sites are shown by the Public
Facilities Plan to be located within an area proposed to be subdivided, in
accordance with §§
153.20 through
153.25, the Commission may request their dedication for such purposes, or their
reservations for a period of one year following the date of approval of the
final plat, in order to carry out the policies exhibited in the Public
Facilities Plan.
   (C)   Consideration by public agencies. The Board and any school
corporations within the jurisdiction of the Commission shall be guided by and
give consideration to the general policy and pattern of public facility
development as set forth in the Public Facilities Plan in the authorization,
construction, alteration or abandonment, and acceptance of all public
facilities.
   (D)   Continuing authority of Commission. Subsequent to the passage of this
chapter, the Commission may determine new sites and locations and alter or
change existing sites and locations for schools and parks or recreation areas
within the jurisdiction of the Commission, and certify to the Board the amended
or additional plan under the same procedure as established for the
certification and approval of the Public Facilities Plan.
(Ord. 478, passed 5-5-1970)
§ 153.04 IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMITS.
   (A)   Improvement location permits.
      (1)   Within the jurisdiction of the Commission, no structure or
improvement or use of land, may be altered, changed, placed, erected or located
on platted or unplatted lands, unless the structure, improvement or use, and
its location, conform with the Master Plan and zoning ordinances of the town,
and an improvement location permit for such structure, improvement or use has
been issued.
      (2)   A separate improvement location permit is required for each platted
lot where a structure, improvement or use of land is to be altered, erected or
located.
      (3)   If land is unplatted, each structure, improvement or use of land to
be altered, erected or located shall require a separate permit.
      (4)   Unless the Plan Commission specifically authorizes a permit to be
granted for a longer term, an improvement location permit expires one year
after the date of its issuance.
   (B)   Written application required. The Building Commissioner shall issue an
improvement location permit upon written application, when the proposed
structure, improvement or use and its location conform in all respects to the
Master Plan and zoning ordinances of the town.
   (C)   Site plan and fee.
      (1)   Site plan. Every application for an improvement location permit
shall be accompanied by a site plan, or development plan, drawn to scale,
showing: the legal or site description of the real estate involved; the
location and size of all buildings and structures; the widths and length of all
entrances and exits to and from said real estate; and, all adjacent and
adjoining roads or highways; and the manner in which the location is to be
improved.
      (2)   Fee. Application for an improvement location permit, or an amended
or extended improvement location permit, shall be accompanied by a fee of $10,
unless an application has been made for a building permit pursuant to Chapter
152 and payment made of the applicable permit fee set forth in
Chapter 152 for the same improvement to be made to the same property.
   (D)   Appeal. Any decision of the Building Commissioner concerning the
issuance of an improvement location permit may be appealed to the Board of
Zoning Appeals when the decision in question involves a requirement of the
zoning ordinance, or to the Commission when the decision in question involves
the requirements of other parts of the Master Plan, by any person claiming to
be adversely affected by such decision.
(Ord. 478, passed 5-5-1970)
SUBDIVISION CONTROL
§ 153.20 ESTABLISHMENT OF CONTROL.
   No plat or replat of a subdivision of land located within the jurisdiction
of the Commission shall be recorded until it shall have been approved by the
Commission, and such approval shall have been entered in writing on the plat by
the President and Secretary of the Commission.
(Ord. 478, passed 5-5-1970)
§ 153.21 PROCEDURE.
   A subdivider desiring approval of a plat of a subdivision of any land lying
within the jurisdiction of the Commission, shall submit a written application
therefor to the Commission. Such application shall be accompanied by the
information, requirements and plans set forth in Steps 1, 2, 3 and 4 below (in
divisions (A), (B), (C) and (D) below).
   (A)   Step 1: Preliminary Plat for Subdivision.
      (1)   The owner or subdivider shall provide a preliminary plan for the
subdivision, which shall show the manner in which the proposed subdivision is
coordinated with the Master Plan and its provisions, specifically with relation
to the requirements of the Official Thoroughfare Plan; school and recreational
sites; shopping centers; community facilities; sanitation, water supply and
drainage, and other developments, existing and proposed, in the vicinity;
provided, however, that no land shall be subdivided for residential use unless
adequate access to the land over improved streets or thoroughfares exists or
will be provided by the subdivider, or if such land is considered by the
Commission to be unsuitable for such use by reason of flooding or improper
drainage, objectionable earth and rock formation, topography, or any other
feature harmful to the health and safety of possible residents and the
community as a whole.
      (2)   The subdivider shall provide the following:
         (a)   Location map (which may be prepared by indicating the data by
notations on available maps) showing:
            1.   Subdivision name and location;
            2.   Any thoroughfares related to the subdivision;
            3.   Existing elementary and high schools, parks and playgrounds
serving the area proposed to be subdivided, and other community facilities; and
            4.   Title, scale, north point and date.
         (b)   A preliminary plat showing:
            1.   Proposed name of the subdivision;
            2.   Names and addresses of the owner, subdivider or the city
planner, land planning consultant, engineer or surveyor, who prepared the plan;
            3.   Streets and rights-of-way, on and adjoining the site of the
proposed subdivision, showing the names (which shall not duplicate other names
of streets in the community, except as designated by the Commission) and
including roadway widths, approximate gradients, types and widths of pavement,
curbs, sidewalks, cross-walks, tree planting and other pertinent data;
            4.   Easements: locations, widths and purposes;
            5.   Statement concerning the location and approximate size or
capacity of utilities to be installed;
            6.   Layout of lots, showing dimensions and numbers;
            7.   Parcels of land proposed to be dedicated or reserved for
schools, parks, playgrounds or other public, semi-public or community purposes;
            8.   Contours at vertical intervals of two feet if the general
slope of the site is less than 10% and at vertical intervals of five feet if
the general slope is greater than 10%;
            9.   Ground water levels stated in inches below ground surface and
given at points of lowest ground elevation;
            10.   Tract boundary lines showing dimensions, bearings, angles and
references to section, township and range lines or corners;
            11.   Building lines;
            12.   Legend and notes;
            13.   Other features or conditions which would affect the
subdivision favorably or adversely; and
            14.   Scale, north point and date. (The preliminary plat of the
subdivision shall be drawn to a scale of 50 feet to one inch, or 100 feet to
one inch; provided, however, that if the resulting drawing would be over 36
inches in shortest dimension, a scale as recommended by the Commission may be
used.)
         (c)   A description of the protective covenants or private
restrictions to be incorporated in the plat of the subdivision.
      (3)   The application shall be accompanied by a certified check or money
order made payable to the town in the amount of $200, plus $10 for each lot in
the proposed subdivision. No part of this fee shall be returnable.
   (B)   Step 2: Preliminary Plat Approval.
      (1)   After an application for approval of a plat of a subdivision,
together with two copies of all maps and data, has been filed, and within 90
days from the date of application for approval of a preliminary plat of a
subdivision, or the filing by the applicant of the last item of required
supporting data, whichever is later, the Commission shall review the
preliminary plat and give its acceptance or return the plat to the subdivider
with suggestions for changes. No application will be considered at a meeting
unless it has been filed with the Commission at least ten days before the date
of such meeting.
      (2)   After the Commission has given acceptance, it shall set a date for
a hearing, notify the applicant in writing, and notify by general publication
or otherwise, any person or governmental unit having a probable interest in the
proposed plat. The cost of publication of the notice of hearing shall be met by
the applicant.
      (3)   Following the hearing on the preliminary plat, the Commission will
notify the applicant in writing that it has approved the preliminary plat and
is ready to receive the final plat, or will advise the applicant of any further
changes in the preliminary plat which are desired or should have consideration
before approval will be given.
   (C)   Step 3: Final Plat. The final plat shall meet the following
specifications.
      (1)   The final plat may include all or only a part of the preliminary
plat which has received approval.
      (2)   The original drawing of the final plat of the subdivision shall be
drawn to a scale of 50 feet to one inch, provided that if the resulting drawing
would be over 36 inches in shortest dimension, a scale of 100 feet to one inch
may be used. Three black or blue line prints shall be submitted with the
original final plat, or, in order to conform to modern drafting and
reproduction methods, three black line prints and a reproducible print shall be
submitted.
      (3)   The following basic information shall be shown:
         (a)   Accurate boundary lines, with dimensions and angles, which
provide a survey of the tract, closing with an error of not more than one foot
in 5,000 feet;
         (b)   Accurate distances, and directions to the nearest established
street corners or official monuments. Reference corners shall be accurately
described on the plan;
         (c)   Accurate locations of all existing and recorded streets
intersecting the boundaries of the tract;
         (d)   Accurate metes and bounds description of the boundary;
         (e)   Source of title of the applicant to the land as shown by the
last entry in the books of the County Recorder;
         (f)   Street names;
         (g)   Complete curve notes for all curves included in the plan;
         (h)   Street lines with accurate dimensions in feet and hundredths of
feet, with angles to street, alley and lot lines;
         (i)   Lot numbers and dimensions;
         (j)   Accurate locations of easements for utilities and any
limitations on such semi-public or community use;
         (k)   Accurate dimensions for any property to be dedicated or reserved
for public, semi-public or community use;
         (l)   Building lines and dimensions;
         (m)   Location, type, material and size of all monuments and lot
markers;
         (n)   Plans and specifications for the improvements required in this
chapter;
         (o)   Restrictions of all types which will run with the land and
become covenants in the deeds for lots;
         (p)   Name of the subdivision;
         (q)   Name and address of the owner and subdivider;
         (r)   North point, scale and date;
         (s)   Certification by a registered professional engineer or
registered land surveyor;
         (t)   Certification of dedication of streets and other public
property;
         (u)   Certificate for approval by the Commission; and
         (v)   Certificate for approval by the Board of County Commissioners,
if required.
   (D)   Step 4: Final Plat Approval.
      (1)   When the final plat is submitted to the Commission, it shall be
accompanied by a notice from the Board, stating that there has been filed with
and approved by that body, one of the following:
         (a)   A certificate that all improvements and installations for the
subdivision required for its approval have been made or installed in accordance
with specifications; or
         (b)   A bond which shall:
            1.   Run to the Board;
            2.   Be in an amount determined by the Commission to be sufficient
to complete the improvements and installations in compliance with this chapter;
            3.   Be with surety satisfactory to the Commission; and
            4.   Specify the time for the completion of the improvements and
installations.
      (2)   Upon the completion of the improvements and installations required
of a subdivider for the approval of a final plat, and prior to the acceptance
thereof for public maintenance by the Board or, if applicable, to any other
governmental unit, the subdivider shall provide a three-year maintenance bond
which shall:
         (a)   Run to the Board and, if applicable, to any other governmental
unit having a legal responsibility for the maintenance of said improvements and
installations;
         (b)   Be in an amount equal to 20% of the cost of said improvements
and installations as estimated by the Board;
         (c)   Provide surety satisfactory to the Commission;
         (d)   Warrant the workmanship and all materials used in the
construction, installation and completion of said improvements and
installations to be of good quality and have been constructed and completed in
a workmanlike manner in accordance with the standards, specifications and
requirements of this chapter and the satisfactory plans and specifications
therefor; and
         (e)   Provide that for a period of three years after said
installations and improvements have been completed or are accepted for public
maintenance by any appropriate governmental unit or agency thereof, the
subdivider will at his or her own expense make all repairs to said improvements
and installations, or the foundations thereof, which may become necessary by
reason of improper workmanship or materials, with such maintenance, however,
not to include any damage to said improvements and installations resulting from
forces or circumstances beyond the control of said subdivider or occasioned by
the inadequacy of the standards specifications, or requirements of this
chapter.
      (3)   Within a reasonable time after application for approval of the
final plat, the Commission shall approve or disapprove it. If the Commission
approves, it shall affix the Commission’s seal upon the plat, together with the
certifying signature of its President and Secretary. If it disapproves, it
shall set forth the reasons for such disapproval in its own records and provide
the applicant with a copy,
(Ord. 478, passed 5-5-1970; Ord. 95-610, passed 10-4-1995)
§ 153.22 PRINCIPLES AND STANDARDS OF DESIGN.
   The final plat of the subdivision shall conform to the following principles
and standards of design.
   (A)   General. The subdivision plan shall conform to the principles and
standards which are generally exhibited in the Master Plan.
   (B)   Streets.
      (1)   The street and alley layout shall provide access to all lots and
parcels of land within the subdivision, and where streets cross other streets,
jogs shall not be created.
      (2)   Proposed streets shall be adjusted to the contour of the land, so
as to produce usable lots and streets of reasonable gradient
      (3)   Certain proposed streets, where appropriate, shall be extended to
the boundary line of the tract to be subdivided so as to provide for normal
circulation of traffic within the vicinity.
      (4)   Wherever there exists a dedicated or platted portion of a street or
alley adjacent to the proposed subdivision, the remainder of the street or
alley to the prescribed width shall be platted within the proposed subdivision.
      (5)   Widths of arterial and collector streets shall conform to the width
specified in the Official Thoroughfare Plan.
      (6)   The minimum right-of-way of residential streets or culs-de-sac
shall be 50 feet. All culs-de-sac shall terminate in a circular right-of-way
with a minimum diameter of 100 feet, or other arrangement for the turning of
all vehicles conveniently within the right-of-way, and shall not exceed 500
feet in length.
      (7)   Alleys shall be discouraged in residential districts but should be
included in commercial and industrial areas where needed for loading and
unloading or access purposes, and where platted shall be at least 20 feet in
width.
      (8)   The centerlines of streets should intersect at 90 degrees or
closely thereto and in no case at less than 80 degrees.
      (9)   At intersections of streets and alleys, property line corners shall
be rounded by arcs of at least 20 feet radii or by chords of such arcs.
      (10)   At intersections of streets the property line corners shall be
rounded by arcs with radii of not less than 15 feet, or by chords of such arcs.
      (11)   Intersections of more than two streets at one point shall not be
permitted.
      (12)   Where parkways or special types of streets are involved, the
Commission may apply special standards to be followed in their design.
      (13)   Whenever the proposed subdivision contains or is adjacent to a
railroad right-of-way, a major arterial or minor arterial street, provision
shall be made for a marginal access street, or a parallel street adjacent to
such railroad right-of-way or major arterial or minor arterial street. As a
general principle, intersections of such marginal access streets or parallel
streets shall not exist at less than one-quarter mile intervals with major
arterial streets or at less than one-eighth mile intervals with minor arterial
streets.
      (14)   Horizontal visibility on curved streets and vertical visibility on
all streets must be maintained along the centerlines as follows.
         (a)   Arterial streets: 500 feet.
         (b)   Collector streets: 300 feet.
         (c)   Residential streets: 150 feet.
      (15)   Curvature measured along the centerline shall have a minimum
radius as follows.
         (a)   Arterial streets: 500 feet.
         (b)   Collector streets: 300 feet.
         (c)   Residential streets: 200 feet.
      (16)   Between reversed curves on arterial streets there shall be a
tangent of not less than 100 feet, and on collector and residential streets,
such tangent shall be not less than 40 feet.
      (17)   Maximum grades for streets shall be as follows.
         (a)   Arterial streets, not greater than 6%.
         (b)   Collector and residential streets and alleys, not greater than
6%.
      (18)   The minimum grade of any street gutter shall not be less than
0.3%.
   (C)   Blocks.
      (1)   Blocks should not exceed 1,250 feet in length.
      (2)   Blocks shall be of sufficient width to permit two tiers of lots of
appropriate depth, except where an interior street parallels a limited access
highway or arterial street or collector street or a railroad right-of-way.
      (3)   Blocks shall not be less than 500 feet long.
   (D)   Lots.
      (1)   All lots shall abut on a street or a place.
      (2)   Side lines of lots shall be at approximately right angles to
straight streets and on radial lines on curved streets. Some variation from
this rule is permissible, but pointed or very irregular lots should be avoided.
      (3)   Double frontage lots should not be platted, except that, where
desired along limited access highways or arterial streets or collector streets,
lots may face on an interior street and back on such thoroughfares. In that
event a planting strip for a screen, at least 20 feet in width shall be
provided along the back of each lot.
      (4)   Widths, depths and areas of lots shall be not less than that
provided in the zoning ordinance for single-family dwellings for the district
in which the subdivision is located, except, that when a water main supply
system or a sanitary sewer system are not available, the lot area necessary to
install a private water supply or private sewage disposal on the lot in
accordance with the State Board of Health regulations shall become the required
minimum lot area.
      (5)   The depth-to-width ratio of the usable area of a lot shall be a
maximum of three to one.
      (6)   Wherever possible, unit shopping centers, based upon sound
development standards, should be designed in contrast to the platting of lots
for individual commercial use.
      (7)   Corner, residential lots shall be wider than normal in order to
permit appropriate setbacks from both streets.
   (E)   Easements. Where alleys are not provided, easements for utilities
shall be provided. Such easements shall have minimum widths of 12 feet, and
where located along lot lines, one-half the width shall be taken from each lot.
Before determining the location of easements the plan shall be discussed with
the local public utility companies to assure their proper placing for the
installation of such services.
   (F)   Building line. Shall be as provided in the zoning ordinance.
   (G)   Public open spaces.
      (1)   Where sites for parks, schools, playgrounds or other public uses
are located within the subdivision area as shown on the Master Plan, the
Commission may request their dedication for such purposes, or their reservation
for a period of one year following the date of the final approval of the plat.
      (2)   In the event a governmental agency concerned passes a resolution
expressing its intent to acquire the land so reserved, the reservation period
shall be extended for an additional six months.
(Ord. 478, passed 5-5-1970)
§ 153.23 STANDARDS OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   The improvement of the subdivision shall conform to the following standards.
   (A)   Monuments and markers.
      (1)   Shall be placed so that the center of the pipe or marked point
shall coincide exactly with the intersection of lines to be marked, and shall
be set so that the top of the monument or marker is level with the finished
grade.
      (2)   Monuments shall be set:
         (a)   At the intersection of all lines forming angles in the boundary
of the subdivision; and
         (b)   At the intersection of street property lines.
      (3)   Markers shall be set:
         (a)   At the beginning and ending of all curves along street property
lines;
         (b)   At all points where lot lines intersect curves, either front or
rear;
         (c)   At all angles in property lines of lots; and
         (d)   At all other lot corners not established by a monument.
      (4)   Monuments shall be of stone, pre-cast concrete or concrete, poured
in place with minimum dimensions of four inches by four inches by 30 inches.
They shall be marked, on top with an iron or copper dowel set flush with the
top of the monument or deeply scored on top with a cross; markers shall consist
of iron pipes or steel bars at least 30 inches long, and not less than five-
eighths inch in diameter.
   (B)   Streets.
      (1)   Streets (and alleys where provided) shall be completed to grade
shown on plans, profiles and cross-sections, provided by the subdivider, and
prepared by a registered professional engineer or registered land surveyor and
approved by the Commission.
      (2)   The streets shall be graded, surfaced and improved to the
dimensions required by such plans, profiles and cross-sections and the work
shall be performed in the manner prescribed in Standard Specifications for Road
and Bridge Construction and Maintenance (current issue) of the State Highway
Commission. References in the following divisions refer to the S.H.C. of I.
Standard Specifications.
      (3)   The street pavement shall be of Portland cement concrete or a
flexible pavement, and shall be constructed in accordance with design
characteristics at least equal to those given below; except as modified by
division (B)(4) below:
Design Characteristics of Street and Alley Pavements
 Arterial Collector Local Alley
Design Characteristics of Street and Alley Pavements
                                      Arterial    Collector   Local   Alley
Portland cement concrete; uniform     8-inch      7-inch      6-inch  6-inch
thickness
Flexible
Surface - asphaltic concrete Type “B1-1/2-inch  1-1/2”    1-inch  1-inch
Binder - asphaltic concrete or        2-inch      2-inch      2-inch  2-inch
bituminous coated blended aggregate
Base - compacted aggregate or water-  10-inch     6-inch      4-inch  4-inch
bound macadam
Subbase - Type II                     6-inch      6-inch      4-inch  4-inch
Total thickness                       19-1/2-inch 15-1/2-inch 11-inch 11-inch
Material types as set out in State Highway Commission Specifications.
Collector street design to be used on local streets serving industrial or
commercial developments
 
      (4)   Where arterial and collector streets are located within the
subdivision, the subdivider shall construct such street pavement in accordance
with the requirements for local streets set forth in division (B)(3) above. For
the purpose of constructing arterial and collector street pavements to the
design characteristics set forth in division (B)(3) above, the Board is
authorized to use funds available for such purposes to participate with the
subdivider in the cost of such construction; provided however, that such
participation shall be limited to that cost which is additional to the cost of
constructing the required local street improvement.
      (5)   Prior to placing the street and alley surfaces, adequate subsurface
drainage for the street shall be provided by the subdivider. Subsurface
drainage pipe, when required, shall be coated corrugated pipe of a similar type
not less than 12 inches in diameter approved by the Commission. Upon the
completion of the street and alley improvements, plans and profiles as built
shall be filed with the Commission.
      (6)   In addition to the above requirements, such streets and alleys, if
applicable, shall be paved with concrete or bituminous materials approved by
the Superintendent and Town Council before being accepted by the town for
maintenance.
   (C)   Sewers.
      (1)   The subdivider shall provide the subdivision with a complete
sanitary sewer system, which shall connect with an existing approved sanitary
sewer outlet, except that when such approved outlet is not available, one of
the following methods of sewage disposal shall be used:
         (a)   A complete sanitary sewer system to convey the sewage to a
treatment plant, to be provided by the subdivider in accordance with the
minimum requirements of the State Board of Health and/or the State Stream
Pollution Control Board; or
         (b)   A private sewage disposal system on individual lots consisting
of a septic tank and tile absorption field or other approved sewage disposal
system, when laid out in accordance with the minimum standards of the State
Board of Health (refer to Bulletin No. S.E. 8, Septic Tank Sewage Disposal
Systems, current issue); provided, however, that a private sewage disposal
system on, individual lots consisting of a septic tank and tile absorption
field shall not be permitted if the water table is less than 30 inches below
the ground surface.
      (2)   The plans for the installation of a sanitary sewer system shall be
provided by the subdivider and approved by the State Board of Health (Refer to
Regulation HSE 14, I.S.B.H.). Upon the completion of the sanitary sewer
installation, the plans for such system as built shall be filed with the
Commission.
      (3)   In this division (C), and division (D) below, the phrase THE
SUBDIVIDER SHALL PROVIDE shall be interpreted to mean that the subdivider shall
install the facility referred to, or whenever a private sewage disposal system
or an individual water supply is to be provided, that such facilities referred
to in these sections shall be installed by the developer of the lots in
accordance with these regulations.
   (D)   Water.
      (1)   The subdivider shall provide the subdivision with a complete water
main supply system, which shall be connected to an existing approved municipal
or community water supply, except that when such municipal or community water
supply is not available, the subdivider shall provide one of the following:
         (a)   A complete community water supply system to be provided in
accordance with the minimum requirements of the State Board of Health;
         (b)   An individual water supply on each lot in the subdivision in
accordance with the minimum requirements of the State Board of Health (Refer to
Bulletin No. S.E. 7, Safe Water Supplies, current issue); or
         (c)   Fire hydrants at street intersections with a maximum spacing of
500 feet.
      (2)   The plans for the installation of water main supply system shall be
provided by the subdivider and approved by the State Board of Health (Refer to
Regulation HSE 5, I.S.B.H.). Upon completion of the water supply installation,
the plans for such system as built shall be filed with the Commission.
   (E)   Storm drainage.
      (1)   The subdivider shall provide the subdivision with an adequate storm
water sewer system whenever curb and gutter is installed and whenever the
evidence available to the Commission indicates that the natural surface
drainage is inadequate. When the surface drainage is adequate, easements for
such surface drainage shall be provided. Deep open ditches for drainage are not
permitted in the street, but where curb and gutter are not provided, a shallow
swale with its low point at least three inches below the elevation of the
subgrade of the pavement may be permitted.
      (2)   In a subdivision where curbs and gutter are not provided, the
subdivider shall furnish one of the following types of improvements to
facilitate roadside drainage and to assure suitable entrances for private
driveways which are proposed to intersect the roadway:
         (a)   A corrugated iron pipe, at least 12 inches in diameter and 14
feet in length to be placed where required for each driveway; or
         (b)   A properly dipped or swaled concrete pavement, 14 feet in
length, six feet in width and six inches thick, designed so as not to create a
hazard to the under parts of automobiles, at the entrance of each driveway.
   (F)   Curb and gutter.
      (1)   The Commission shall require curb and gutter to be installed on
each side of the street whenever the proposed subdivision contains any lot of
less than 16,000 square feet. Any subdivision containing lots of more than
16,000 square feet in area may be required by the Commission to include curb
and gutter where deemed necessary by the Commission.
      (2)   The curb and gutter shall be of the construction type shown in
Figure 1, attached to Ord. 3-594, passed 7-7-1993 and shall be constructed
according to the following specifications.
         (a)   The base for the curb and gutter shall be well-compacted on the
existing base or grade.
         (b)   The minimum specifications shall be as shown for the type of
cross-section in Figure 1, attached to Ord. 3-594, passed 7-7-1993.
         (c)   All concrete used in the curb and gutter shall meet the State
Highway Specifications for Class D concrete.
         (d)   Integral or monolithic curb of the same dimensions as shown in
Figure 1, attached to Ord. 3-594, passed 7-7-1993 may be built on concrete
pavement, provided the pavement widths are maintained as required in this
chapter.
   (G)   Sidewalks.
      (1)   The Commission shall require sidewalks on each side of the street
whenever the proposed subdivision contains any lot of less than 16,000 square
feet. Any subdivision containing lots of more than 16,000 square feet may be
required by the Commission to include sidewalks where deemed necessary by the
Commission.
      (2)   When sidewalks are required, they shall be constructed of Portland
cement concrete, at least four inches thick, and four feet wide.
   (H)   Street signs. The subdivision shall provide the subdivision with
standard town street signs at the intersection of all streets.
(Ord. 478, passed 5-5-1970; Ord. 93-594, passed 7-7-1993)
§ 153.24 PLAT CERTIFICATES AND DEED OF DEDICATION.
   The following forms shall be used in final plats:
   (A)   Commission certificate:
Commission Certificate
   Under authority provided by Chapter 174, Acts of 1947, Enacted by the
General Assembly of the State of Indiana, and all acts amendatory thereto, and
an ordinance adopted by the Town Council of the Town of Rockville, Indiana,
this plat was given approval as follows:
___________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________
Approved by the Rockville Town Plan Commission at a meeting held
____________________, 20__.
                              ROCKVILLE TOWN PLAN COMMISSION
                              ___________________________________
                              President
(SEAL)                           ___________________________________
                              Secretary
   (B)   When all or any part of a subdivision is located in the unincorporated
area of the county, the following certificate shall be shown on the final plat:
County Commissioners Certificate
Under authority provided by Chapter 47, Acts of 1951 of the General Assembly,
State of Indiana, this plat was given approval by the Board of County
Commissioners of Parke County, Indiana, at a meeting held on the day of
________________, 20___.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
_____________________________________
_____________________________________
_____________________________________
(SEAL)
   (C)   Surveyors certificate:
Surveyors Certificate
“I, __________________, hereby certify that I am a registered land surveyor,
licensed in compliance with the laws of the State of Indiana, that this plat
correctly represents a survey completed by me on __________________, that all
the monuments shown thereon actually exist, and that the location, size, type
and material of said monuments are accurately shown.
(SEAL)                        __________________________________
                           Signature
   (D)   Deed of dedication:
Deed of Dedication
Each final plat submitted to the Commission for approval shall carry a deed of
dedication in substantially the following form
“We, the undersigned _____________________________________, owners of the real
estate shown and described herein, do hereby certify that we have laid off,
platted and subdivided, and do thereby lay off, plat and subdivide, said real
estate in accordance with the within plat.
This subdivision shall be known and designated as
_____________________________________, an addition to
___________________________________. All streets and alleys shown and not
heretofore dedicated, are hereby dedicated to the public.
Front and side yard building lines are hereby established as shown on this
plat, between which lines and the property lines of the street, there shall be
erected or maintained no building or structure.
There are strips of ground _______ feet in width as shown on this plat and
marked “Easement”, reserved for the use of public utilities for the
installation of water and sewer mains, surface drainage, poles, ducts, lines
and wires, subject at all times to the proper authorities and to the easement
hereby reserved. No permanent or other structures are to be erected or
maintained upon said strips of land, but owners of lots in this subdivision
shall take their titles subject to the rights of the public utilities.
(Additional dedications and protective covenants, or private restrictions,
would be inserted here upon the subdivider’s initiative or upon the
recommendation of the Commission. Important provisions are those specifying the
use to be made of the property and, in the case of residential use, the minimum
habitable floor area.)
The foregoing covenants, (or restrictions) are to run with the land and shall
be binding on all parties and all persons claiming under them until January 1,
20____, (a 25-year period is suggested), at which time said covenants, (or
restrictions) , shall be automatically extended for successive periods of ten
years unless changed by vote of a majority of the then owners of the building
sites covered by these covenants, or restrictions, in whole or in part.
Invalidation of any one of the foregoing covenants or restrictions, by judgment
or court order shall in no way affect any of the other covenants or
restrictions, which shall remain in full force and effect.
The right to enforce these provisions by injunction, together with the right to
cause the removal, by due process of law, of any structure or part thereof
erected, or maintained in violation hereof, is hereby dedicated to the public,
and reserved to the several owners of the several lots in this subdivision and
to their heirs and assigns.”
Witness our Hands and Seals this _____ day of ______________________, 20____.
                           _____________________________
State of Indiana      )            Signature
               ) SS:         _____________________________
Town of Rockville   )            Signature
Before me the undersigned Notary Public, in and for the County and State,
personally appeared ______
__________________________________, and each separately and severally
acknowledged the execution of the foregoing instrument as his or her voluntary,
act and deed, for the purposes therein expressed.
Witness my hand and notarial seal this ________day of
__________________________, 20_____.
__________________________________
Signature
(Ord. 478, passed 5-5-1970)
§ 153.25 VARIANCES.
   Where the subdivider can show that a provision of §
153.22 would cause unnecessary hardship if strictly adhered to and where, in
the opinion of the Commission, because of topographical or other conditions
peculiar to the site, a departure may be made without destroying the intent of
such provision, the Commission may authorize a variance. Any variance thus
authorized is required to be entered in writing in the minutes of the
Commission and the reasoning on which the departure was justified shall be set
forth.
(Ord. 478, passed 5-5-1970)
§ 153.26 LAW OR AGENCY CHANGES AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Changes in any state or federal laws or in the agencies or individuals
with roles or responsibilities affecting any of the provisions of this title
shall be recognized in the application of those provisions and shall not
provide an applicant with an entitlement to avoid any requirements of this
title.
   (B)   No owner, or agent of the owner, of any parcel of land located in a
proposed subdivision shall transfer or sell any such parcel before a plat of
such subdivision has been approved by the Commission, in accordance with the
provisions of these regulations.
   (C)   Any land within the town subdivided in violation of the terms of this
chapter after the effective date hereof, is hereby declared a common nuisance,
which may be abated by use of any available legal action or proceeding.
(Ord. 95-610, passed 10-4-1995) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates this chapter shall be subject to an ordinance
violation penalty in an amount up to, but not exceeding, $2,500.
(Ord. 95-610, passed 10-4-1995)
CHAPTER 154: ZONING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
154.01   Short title
   
154.02   Interpretation
   
154.03   Non-interference with greater restrictions otherwise imposed
   
154.04   Identification
   
154.05   Definitions
   
154.06   Determination and interpretation of district boundaries
   
154.07   Vacated and filled areas
   
154.08   Uses
   
154.09   Height
   
154.10   Yard, lot area and size of buildings
   
154.11   Lots
   
154.12   Parking spaces, loading and unloading berths
Land Use Control Standards
   
154.25   Establishment of districts, zone map and description of districts
   
154.26   Authorized and temporary uses
   
154.27   Permitted uses
   
154.28   Residential uses and requirements
   
154.29   Home occupations
   
154.30   Planned residential developments
   
154.31   Business uses and requirements
   
154.32   Industrial uses and requirements
   
154.33   Flood hazard district requirements
   
154.34   Parking space and loading berths requirements
   
154.35   Advertising signs
   
154.36   Special exceptions, requirements and procedures
   
154.37   Mobile home parks
   
154.38   Nonconforming structures and uses
Downtown Business District
   
154.50   Preamble; areas designated
   
154.51   Uses and restrictions applicable to entire Downtown Business District
area
   
154.52   Special uses
   
154.53   Additional restrictions for Row House District
   
154.54   Variances
Administrative Procedures and Requirements
   
154.70   Administration
   
154.71   Board of Zoning Appeals
   
154.72   Amendments
   
154.73   Filing fees
 
   
154.99   Penalty
   Appendix:   Zoning maps
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter and the ordinances supplemental or amendatory thereto, shall be
known and may be cited hereafter as either the “Zoning Ordinance” or the
“Zoning Code” of Rockville, Indiana.
(Ord. 480, passed 11-16-1970; Ord. 95-611, passed 10-4-1995)
§ 154.02 INTERPRETATION.
   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter, they shall be
held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public health,
safety, comfort, morals, convenience and general welfare, and that the basic
purpose of such provisions is to guide the development of urban uses of land
within the incorporated area and designated boundaries of the zoned area of the
town.
(Ord. 480, passed 11-16-1970)
§ 154.03 NON-INTERFERENCE WITH GREATER RESTRICTIONS OTHERWISE IMPOSED.
   It is not intended by this chapter to interfere with, or abrogate or annul
any easements, covenants, or other agreements between parties, nor to interfere
with, or abrogate or annul any ordinances, other than expressly repealed
hereby, rules, regulations or permits previously adopted or issued, and not in
conflict with any of the provisions of this chapter, or which shall be adopted
or provided, except, that where this chapter imposes a greater restriction upon
the use of buildings or land, or upon the height of buildings, or requires
larger open spaces or greater lot area per family, than are required or imposed
by such easements, covenants or agreements between parties, or by such
ordinances, rules regulations or permits, the provisions of this chapter shall
control.
(Ord. 480, passed 11-16-1970)
§ 154.04 IDENTIFICATION.
   Wherever the word “town” appears in this chapter, it shall be deemed to
refer to the Town of Rockville, Indiana; the word “Commission” refers to the
Rockville Plan Commission; “Board” refers to the Rockville Board of Zoning
Appeals; the word “Council” refers to the Rockville Town Council; the word
“District” refers to an area of the town for which this chapter has established
uniform regulations governing the use, height, area, size and intensity of use
of buildings and land and open spaces about buildings; the words “zone map”
refer to the map entitled the “Rockville, Indiana Proposed Zone Map,” dated
1995 and recorded at __________________, any amendments made thereto or any
replacement thereof; the words “Master Plan” refers to the plan for town’s
development adopted in 1970, any amendments made thereto or any replacement
thereof, which serves as the town’s “comprehensive plan” in satisfaction of the
requirements of I.C. 36-7-4.
(Ord. 480, passed 11-16-1970; Ord. 95-611, passed 10-4-1995)
§ 154.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. The word
“building” includes the word “structure” and vice-versa.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING AND USE.  
      (1)   A building or use subordinate to another structure or use located
on the same lot and which does not change or alter the character of the
premises and which is not used for human occupancy.
      (b)   Public utility, communication, electric, gas, water and sewer
lines, their supports and incidental equipment, and public telephone booths.
   ALLEY. A right-of-way other than a street, road, crosswalk or easement,
designed to provide a secondary means of access for the special accommodation
of the property it reaches.
   BED AND BREAKFAST. A tourist home where the operator of the business lives
on the premises, or in adjacent premises, and provides renters or paying guests
with one or more meals are on the premises.
   BLOCK. Property having frontage on one side of a street and lying between
the two nearest intersecting or intercepting streets, or nearest intersecting
or intercepting street and railroad right-of way, waterway or other barrier.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A building not open to transients, where lodging and/or
meals are provided for three or more, but not over 30 persons regularly; a
lodging house.
   BUILDING. A structure having a roof supported by columns or walls, for the
shelter, support, enclosure or protection of persons, animals, chattels or
property. When separated by party walls, without opening through such walls,
each portion of such a building shall be considered a separate structure.
   BUILDING, DETACHED. A building having no structural connection with another
building.
   BUILDING, FRONT LINE OF. The line of the face of the building nearest the
front lot line.
   BUILDING, HEIGHT OF. The vertical distance measured from the lot ground
level to the highest point of the roof for a flat roof; to the deck line of a
mansard roof; and to the mean height between eaves and ridges for gable,-hip
and gambrel roofs.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building in which is conducted the main or principal
use of the lot on which said building is situated. Where a substantial part of
an accessory building is attached to the main building in a substantial,
manner, as by a roof, such accessory building shall be counted as a part of the
principal building.
   BUILDING AREA. The maximum horizontal projected area of the principal and
accessory building, excluding open steps or terraces, unenclosed porches not
exceeding one story in height, or architectural appurtenances projecting not
more than two feet.
   BUILDING LINE. The line nearest the front of and across a lot establishing
the minimum open space to be provided between the front line of a building or
structure and the street right-of-way line.
   BUSINESS or COMMERCIAL. The engaging in the purchase, sale, barter or
exchange of goods, wares, merchandise or services, the maintenance or operation
of offices, or recreational and amusement enterprises for profit.
   CAMP, PUBLIC. Any area or tract of land used or designed to accommodate two
or more automobile house trailers, mobile homes, or two or more camping
parties, including cabins, tents, or other camping outfits.
   CEMETERY. Land used for the burial of the dead and dedicated for cemetery
purposes, including columbariums, crematories, mausoleums and mortuaries when
operated in conjunction with and within the boundary of such cemetery.
   CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY. A certificate stating that the occupancy and use
of land or a building or structure referred to therein complies with the
provisions of this chapter.
   CHILD. An individual who is less than 18 years of age.
   CHILD CARE CENTER. A business that meets the definition of child care center
as set forth in I.C. 12-7-2.
   CHILD CARE NURSERY. A structure in which at least six children (not
including the children for whom the provider is a parent, stepparent, guardian,
custodian, or other relative) at any time receive child care from a provider;
while unattended by a parent, legal guardian, or custodian; for regular
compensation; and for more than four hours but less than 24 hours in each of
ten consecutive days per year, excluding intervening Saturdays, Sundays and
holidays. A “qualified child care home” shall not be considered a “child care
nursery” except to permit the placement of such structures in commercial
districts.
   CHILD CARE HOME. A business that meets the definition of “child care home”
as set forth in I.C. 12-7-2-28.6 which means a residential structure in which
at least six children (not including the children for whom the provider is a
parent, stepparent, guardian, custodian, or other relative) at any time receive
child care from a provider; while unattended by a parent, legal guardian, or
custodian; for regular compensation; and for more than four hours but less than
24 hours in each of ten consecutive days per year, excluding intervening
Saturdays, Sundays and holidays.
   CLINIC OR MEDICAL-HEALTH CENTER. An establishment where patients are
admitted for special study and treatment by two or more licensed physicians,
and/or dentists, and their professional associates.
   DWELLING. A building or portion thereof, used primarily as a place of abode
for one or more human beings, including qualified manufactured homes, but not
including mobile homes, hotels, lodging or boarding houses or tourist homes.
   DWELLING UNIT. A dwelling or portion of a dwelling used by one family for
cooking, living and sleeping purposes.
   FAMILY. One or more persons living as a single housekeeping unit, as
distinguished from a group occupying a hotel, club, nurses home, fraternity or
sorority house.
   FARM. A tract of land comprising an area which is devoted to agricultural
operations, such as forestry; the growing of crops; pasturage the production of
livestock and poultry; the growing of trees, shrubs and plants; and other
recognized agricultural pursuits and including accessory buildings essential to
the operation of the farm. Accessory buildings may include barns; equipment and
animal sheds; farm residences for the owner, operator or farm assistants;
roadside sales structure for the sale of products of the farm; and signs
displaying subject matter directly related to the name or the products of the
particular farm; but not including industrial or commercial operations or
structures.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building with capacity for not more than three
motor vehicles per family, not more than one of which may be a commercial
vehicle of not more than three tons capacity. A garage designed to house two
motor vehicles for each family housed in an apartment shall be classed as a
private garage.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. Any building, or premises, except those defined herein as a
PRIVATE GARAGE, used for the storage, or care of motor vehicles, or where such
vehicles are equipped for operation, repaired, or kept for renumeration, hire
or sale.
   GROUND FLOOR AREA. The square foot area of a residential building within its
largest outside dimensions computed on a horizontal plane at the ground floor
level, exclusive of open porches, breeze-ways, terraces, garages, exterior and
interior stairways.
   GROUP HOME. A residential facility which provides room and board, personal
care and supervision for persons who have been identified as requiring a
controlled residential environment.
   HOME OCCUPATION. A business or professional service conducted within a
dwelling that is considered under this chapter as a permitted accessory use
when the requirements, restrictions and conditions of §
154.29 of this chapter are satisfied.
   HOTEL or MOTEL. A building or group of buildings in which lodging is
provided and offered to the public for compensation and which is open to
transient guests, in contradistinction to a boarding or lodging house.
   IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMIT. A permit stating that the proposed erection,
construction, enlargement or moving of a building or structure referred therein
complies with the provisions of the master plan.
   JUNKYARD. Any place at which personal property is or may be salvaged for re-
use, resale or similar disposition and is owned, possessed, collected
accumulated, dismantled or assorted, including, but not limited to, used or
salvaged base metal or metals, their compounds or combinations, used or
salvaged rope, bags, paper, rags, glass, rubber, lumber, millwork, brick and
similar property except animal matter; and used motor vehicles, machinery or
equipment which are used, owned or possessed for the purpose of wrecking or
salvaging parts therefrom.
   JURISDICTIONAL AREA. All territory within the corporate boundaries of the
town.
   KENNEL. Any lot or premises on which four or more dogs, or small animals, at
least four months of age, are kept.
   LOADING AND UNLOADING BERTH. The off-street area required for the receipt or
distribution by vehicles of material or merchandise, which in this chapter is
held to be a 12 by 45 foot loading space with a 14-foot height clearance.
   LOT. A parcel, tract or area of land abutting upon a street or place for at
least 60% of the lot width prescribed for the district in which the lot is
located. It may be a single parcel separately described in a deed or plat which
is recorded in the office of the County Recorder, or it may include parts of,
or a combination of such parcels when adjacent to one another and used as one.
In determining lot area and boundary lines, no part thereof within the limits
of a street shall be included.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot at the junction of and abutting two or more intersecting
streets.
   LOT, GROUND LEVEL.
      (1)   For buildings having walls adjoining one street only, the elevation
of the sidewalk at the center of the wall adjoining the street.
      (2)   For buildings having walls adjoining more than one street, the
average of the elevation of the sidewalk at the center of all walls adjoining
the streets.
      (3)   For buildings haying no wall adjoining the street, the average
level of the ground adjacent to the exterior walls of the building. Any wall
approximately parallel to and not more than five feet from a street is to be
considered as adjoining the street.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a CORNER LOT or THROUGH LOT.
   LOT, THROUGH. A lot having frontage on two parallel or approximately
parallel streets.
   LOT COVERAGE. The percentage of the lot area covered by the building area.
   LOT WIDTH. The dimension of a lot, measured between side lot lines on the
building line.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. In the case of an interior lot, a line separating the lot
from the street or place and in the case of a corner lot a line separating the
narrowest street frontage of the lot from the street, except in cases where
deed restrictions in effect specify another line as the front lot line.
   LOT LINE, REAR. A lot line which is opposite and most distant from the front
lot line, and in the case of an irregular or triangular-shaped lot, a line ten
feet in length within the lot, parallel to and at the maximum distance from the
front lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any lot boundary line not a front lot line or a rear lot
line.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A dwelling unit, designed and built in a factory, which
bears a seal certifying that it was built in compliance with the Federal
Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Law (42 U.S.C. 5402), or
which meets the requirements of the state for certification as an
industrialized building system (I.C. 22-15-4-1).
   MOBILE HOME. A transportable structure more than 30 feet in length,
constructed to be towed on its own chassis and designed for long-term occupancy
(more than 45 days).
   PARKING AREA, PUBLIC. An open area, other than a street or alley designed
for use or used for the temporary parking of more than four motor vehicles when
available for public use, whether free or for compensation, or as an
accommodation for clients or customers.
   PARKING SPACE. A space other than on a street or alley designed for use or
used for the temporary parking of a motor vehicle, and being not less than nine
feet wide and 20 feet long exclusive of passageways.
   PLACE. An open unoccupied space other than a street or alley, permanently
reserved for use as the principal means of access to property.
   PRIVATE SCHOOL. Private preprimary, primary, grade, high or preparatory
school or academy.
   PROFESSIONAL OFFICE. Office of members of recognized professions, such as an
architect, artist, dentist, engineer, musician, physician, surgeon, or other
professional person.
   QUALIFIED CHILD CARE HOME. A business that meets the definition of CHILD
CARE HOME and the building is used as the primary residence of the person who
operates the child care home.
   QUALIFIED MANUFACTURED HOME. A manufactured home constructed after January
1, 1981 that exceeds 950 square feet of occupied space. It must have any
wheels, axles and towing chassis removed, and be attached to a permanent solid
foundation of masonry construction. A QUALIFIED MANUFACTURED HOME shall not be
considered a mobile home except to permit the siting placement of such dwelling
units in mobile home parks.
   SELF-SERVICE STORAGE FACILITY. A building or group of buildings in a
controlled access site that contains varying sizes of individual,
compartmentalized, and controlled access stalls or lockers for the storage of
customer’s goods or wares.
   SIGN. Any board, device or structure or part thereof used for advertising,
display or publicity purposes. Signs placed or erected by governmental agencies
for the purpose of showing street names or traffic directions or regulations
for other governmental purposes shall not by included herein.
   STREET. A right-of-way established for or dedicated to the public use by
duly recorded plat, which affords the principal means of access to abutting
property. A STREET may be designated as a highway, thoroughfare, parkway,
boulevard, road, avenue, lane, drive, place or other appropriate name. A STREET
may also be identified according to type of use as designated in the
thoroughfare plan, as follows:
      (1)   ARTERIAL STREETS are those designated for large volumes of traffic
movement. Certain arterial streets may be classified as business streets to
serve congested business sections, and others as limited access highways to
which entrances and exits are provided only at controlled intersections and
access is denied to abutting properties.
      (2)   COLLECTOR STREETS are important streets planned to facilitate the
collection of traffic from minor streets, and to provide circulation within
neighborhood areas and convenient ways for traffic to reach arterial streets.
      (3)   LOCAL OR RESIDENTIAL STREETS are those designated primarily to
provide access to abutting properties. Certain residential streets may be
marginal access streets parallel to arterial streets, which provide access to
abutting property and ways for traffic to reach access points on arterial
streets. Another type of residential street may be a cul-de-sac, a short street
having one end open to traffic and being permanently terminated by a vehicle
turn-around.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected which requires location on the
ground or attachment to something having a location on the ground.
   STRUCTURE, NONCONFORMING. An existing structure which fails to comply with
the requirements set forth in this chapter governing lot size, setback lines,
height, intensity, off-street parking and loading, signs and other regulations
applicable to structures in the district in which the structure is located.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION. Any change in the supporting members of a building,
such as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams or girders, or any
substantial change in the exterior walls or the roof.
   TOURIST HOME. A building in which one but not more than five guest rooms are
used to provide or offer overnight accommodations to transient guests for
compensation.
   TRADE OR BUSINESS SCHOOL. Secretarial or business school or college when not
publicly owned or not owned or conducted by or under the sponsorship of a
religious, charitable or non-profit organization, or a school conducted as a
commercial enterprise for teaching instrumental music, dancing, barbering or
hair dressing, drafting or for teaching industrial or technical arts.
   USE. The employment or occupation of a building, structure or land for a
person’s service or enjoyment.
   USE, NONCONFORMING. An existing use of land or structure which fails to
comply with the requirements set forth in this chapter applicable to the
district in which such use is located.
   USE, OPEN. The use of a lot without a building or including a building
incidental to the open use with a ground floor area equal to 5% or less of the
area of the lot.
   VARIANCE. A modification of the specific requirements of this chapter
granted by the Board in accordance with the terms of this chapter for the
purpose of assuring that no property, because of special circumstances
applicable to it, shall be deprived of privileges commonly enjoyed by other
properties in the same vicinity and district.
   VISION CLEARANCE ON CORNER LOTS. A triangular space at the street corner of
a corner lot, free from any kind of obstruction to vision between the heights
of three and 12 feet above established grade, determined by a diagonal line
connecting two points measured 15 feet equidistant from the street corner along
each property line.
   YARD. A space on the same lot with the principal building, open, unoccupied
and unobstructed by structures, except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the full width of the lot, unoccupied
other than by steps, walks, terraces, driveways, lamp posts and similar
structures, the depth of which is the least distance between the street right-
of-way line and the building line.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the full width of the lot between the
rear of the main building and the rear lot line unoccupied other than by
accessory buildings which do not occupy more than 30% of the required space,
the depth of which is the least distance between the rear lot line and the rear
of such main building.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard between the main building and the side lot line,
extending from the front yard or front lot line where no front yard is required
to the rear yard. The width of the required side yard is measured horizontally,
at 90 degrees with the side lot line, from the nearest part of the main
building.
(Ord. 480, passed 11-16-1970; Ord. 93-596, passed 7-26-1993; Ord. 95-611,
passed 10-4-1995)
§ 154.06 DETERMINATION AND INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   In determining the boundaries of districts and establishing the
regulations applicable to each district, due and careful consideration has been
given to existing conditions, the character of buildings erected in each
district, the most desirable use for which the land in each district may be
adapted, and the conservation of property values throughout the unincorporated
territory of the county.
   (B)   Where uncertainty exists as to the exact boundaries of any district
shown on the zone map, the following rules shall apply:
      (1)   In unsubdivided areas or where a district boundary subdivides a
lot, the exact location of the boundary shall be determined by use of the scale
of the zone map.
      (2)   In the case of further uncertainty, the Board shall interpret the
intent of the zone map as to the location of the boundary in question.
(Ord. 480, passed 11-16-1970)
§ 154.07 VACATED AND FILLED AREAS.
   Whenever any street, alley, public way, railroad right-of-way, waterway or
other similar area is vacated by proper authority, the Districts adjoining each
side of such street, alley, public way, railroad right-of-way, waterway, or
similar areas shall be extended automatically to the center of such vacation
and all area included in the vacation shall then and thenceforth be subject to
all appropriate regulations of the extended districts.
(Ord. 480, passed 11-16-1970)
§ 154.08 USE.
   No building or land shall be used and no building shall be erected,
reconstructed or structurally altered, which is arranged, intended or designed
to be used for any purpose other than a use which is permitted and specified in
a district in which such building or land is located.
(Ord. 480, passed 11-16-1970) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.09 HEIGHT.
   No building shall be erected, reconstructed or structurally altered to
exceed in height the limits established and specified for the use and the
district in which such building is located.
(Ord. 480, passed 11-16-1970) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.10 YARD, LOT AREA AND SIZE OF BUILDINGS.
   No building shall be erected, reconstructed or structurally altered in any
manner which will encroach upon, or reduce in any manner, the yards, lot area
per family, ground floor area of residential buildings, or lot coverage
regulations, established and specified for the use and the district in which
such building is located.
(Ord. 480, passed 11-16-1970) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.11 LOTS.
   Every building hereafter erected shall be located on a lot which fronts on a
street or place.
(Ord. 480, passed 11-16-1970)
§ 154.12 PARKING SPACES, LOADING AND UNLOADING BERTHS.
   Every building hereafter erected shall provide off-street parking space for
motor vehicles and loading and unloading berths as specified hereafter for the
use to which such building is to be devoted.
(Ord. 480, passed 11-16-1970)
LAND USE CONTROL STANDARDS
§ 154.25 ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS, ZONE MAP AND DESCRIPTION OF DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The town and the jurisdictional area are hereby classified and divided
into eight districts designated as follows:
District Designation Primarily For
District Designation Primarily For
MH                   Residential (Mobile Home)
R1                   Residential (Single-Family)
R2                   Residential (Two-Family)
R3                   Residential (Multi-Family)
LB                   Local Business
GB                   General Business
I                    Industrial
FP-R                 Flood Plain - Recreational
 
   (B)   The zone map, which accompanies and is hereby declared to be a part of
this chapter, shows the boundaries of the area covered by the districts;
notations, references, indications and other matters shown on the zone map are
as much a part of this chapter as if they were fully described herein.
   (C)   The Districts identified above are described as follows:
      (1)   Residential Districts. Four districts: R1, R2, R3 and MH are
established for residential use in conformity with the types of neighborhoods
which have occurred and are likely to develop in the areas so designated in the
zone map. The districts differ primarily with respect to requirements of lot
size, building ground floor area, and the number of families which may be
housed in one building. The specific permitted uses for each Residential
District are shown in Table 1 (§
154.27). Certain non-residential uses are automatically permitted in these
districts (see Table 1, §
154.27) and some special exceptions (see Table 1, §
154.27) may be permitted in these districts with the approval of the Council. A
brief description of each of the Residential Districts follows:
         (a)   R1. This District is to be used principally for single-family
dwellings, plus those variations noted in Table 1 (§
154.27). The R1 requirements as to minimum size of lots and ground floor area
of buildings are greater than those specified for the other Residential
District.
         (b)   R2. This District is a medium density residential district
designed primarily for single and two-family dwellings. Multi-family units will
be permitted, however, on a density of use basis.
         (c)   R3. This District is designed to accommodate the higher density
multi-family units of the area. It includes those areas of the town which
appear to be subject to this type of development.
         (d)   MH. This is a district exclusively intended for mobile home use.
      (2)   Business Districts. Two districts: LB and GB are designated to meet
the specific requirements for the several classes of business uses needed to
give adequate service throughout the area as related to present and future
development.
         (a)   LB. This District is designated to serve the shopping and
service needs of both the neighborhood and the accommodation needs of the
highway travelers. This primary function is to place convenience and impulse
goods close to the consumer.
         (b)   GB. This is a general business district providing for all types
of business and service uses.
      (3)   Industrial Districts. A single Industrial District is established
to meet the present and future needs of the area for industrial development.
This is designated as an exclusive district, thus serving the areas marked
Industrial for industrial use only.
      (4)   Flood Plain - Recreational District. The Flood Plain Recreational
District includes any lowland area subject to periodic flooding, any area of
such rugged terrain, or any other area committed to or planned solely for
recreational use.
(Ord. 480, passed 11-16-1970; Ord. 559, passed 8-16-1988)
§ 154.26 AUTHORIZED AND TEMPORARY USES.
   (A)   Authorized uses. Authorized uses in the districts established by or
under §
154.25 are categorically listed in Table 1 (§
154.27). Where the district designations are affixed with an asterisk, the use
is permitted in that district only if a special exception has been granted
under §
154.36.
   (B)   Temporary uses. The Council may grant a temporary use permit for a
period not to exceed one year, unless another time limit is specified by this
section, impose other conditions, for seasonal or transitory uses, if it finds
that the intended site is appropriate, that adequate operational safeguards
will be maintained, and that adjoining established uses will not be adversely
affected. The following uses are deemed to be temporary uses and shall also be
subject to the specific regulations and time limits which follow:
      (1)   Christmas tree sales.  In any district, a temporary use permit may
be issued for the display and open-lot sales of Christmas trees, but such
permit shall be issued for a permit not longer than 45 days.
      (2)   Seasonal sale of farm products. In any district, a temporary use
permit may be issued for the sale of farm produce grown only on the premises.
Such sales space shall be of portable or seasonal construction. Such stands
shall be removed so as to observe the setback line for permanent structures
when not in use. Such permit shall be valid for not more than four months per
year, but may be issued for a five-month period.
      (3)   Contractor’s office and equipment sheds. In any district, a
temporary use permit may be issued for a contractor’s temporary structures
incidental to a construction project. Such structures shall not contain
sleeping or cooking accommodations. Such permit shall be valid for not more
than one year, but may be renewed for a maximum of two one-year extensions.
Moreover, such structures shall be removed upon completion of the construction
project or upon, expiration of the temporary use permits whichever occurs
sooner.
(Ord. 480, passed 11-16-1970)
§ 154.27 PERMITTED USES.
Table 1
            District in Which Permitted
Primary Use Residential Commercial Industrial Flood Plain - Recreational
            R1 R2 R3 MH LB GB      I          FP-R
Table 1
                          District in Which Permitted
Primary Use               Residential     Commercial Industrial Flood Plain -
                                                                Recreational
                          R1  R2  R3  MH  LB  GB     I          FP-R
Residential uses
Bed and breakfast         R1* R2  R3      LB  GB
Boarding or lodging house     R2  R3
Dwelling, single-family   R1  R2  R3
Dwelling, two-family          R2  R3
Dwelling, multi-family        R2  R3
Fraternity, sorority or   R1* R2* R3*
student cooperative
Home for the aged         R1* R2* R3*
Nursing home, orphanage       R2* R3*
Planned residential       R1  R2  R3
development
Private swimming pool     R1  R2  R3  MH  LB  GB
Mobile homes                          MH
Qualified child care home R1  R2  R3      LB  GB
Agricultural uses
Artificial lake of 3 or   R1* R2* R3* MH* LB* GB*    I          FP-R*
more acres
Commercial greenhouse                     LB* GB*    I
Farm                      R1  R2  R3  MH  LB  GB     I          FP-R*
Greenhouse (not exceeding                 LB  GB     I
1,000 square feet)
Plant nursery                             LB  GB     I          FP-R
Industrial uses
Bottled gas storage and                              I*
distribution
Contractor’s storage yard                          I
Industrial park(1)                                   I
Industry                                             I
Junk yard                                            I*
Anhydrous ammonia or
similar liquified                                    I*
fertilizers, storage and
distribution (commercial)
Manufacturing, storage or                            I*
use of explosives
Material storage (open)                              I*
Mineral extraction,
borrow pit, topsoil       R1* R2* R3* MH*            I*         FP-R*
removal and storage areas
Petroleum tank farm                                  I*
(commercial)
Radio or television tower R1* R2* R3* MH* LB* GB*    I*         FP-R*
Truck freight terminal                        GB*
Warehouse, storage                        LB  GB
Public facilities
Assembly halls for use by                 LB  GB     I
non- profit organizations
Charitable institutions   R1  R2  R3      LB  GB
Church or temple          R1  R2  R3      LB  GB
Kindergarten or day       R1* R2* R3*     LB  GB
nursery
Municipal or government   R1  R2  R3      LB  GB     I
building
Penal or correctional                                I*
institution
Police station or fire    R1  R2  R3      LB  GB     I
station
Public library or museum  R1  R2  R3      LB  GB
Public park or            R1  R2  R3  MH  LB  GB     I          FP-R
recreational facility
Public or commercial
sanitary fill, refuse                                I
dump, or garbage disposal
plant
Sewage disposal plant         R2* R3*     LB* GB*    I*
(primary use)
Public or employee            R2* R3*     LB  GB     I          FP-R
parking area
Public water wells, water
stations, filtration      R1* R2* R3* MH* LB* GB*    I
plants, reservoirs and
storage tanks
Railroad right-of-way and R1* R2* R3* MH* LB* GB*    I          FP-R*
necessary uses
School, public or         R1  R2  R3      LB  GB     I
parochial
Telephone exchange or     R1* R2* R3*     LB  GB     I
public utility substation
Trade or business school  R1* R2* R3*     LB* GB     I
Transmission lines for
gas, oil, electricity or  R1  R2  R3  MH  LB  GB     I          FP-R
other utilities
University or college     R1* R2* R3*     LB  GB
building
Business uses: appliances   
Electric appliance                        LB  GB     I
service and sales
Radio-TV service and                      LB  GB     I
sales
Other similar uses                        LB  GB     I
Business uses: automobile services
Automobile sales room                     LB  GB     I
Automobile, mobile home
or trailer sales area,                    LB  GB     I
open
Automobile repair (all                    LB  GB     I
repair indoors)
Filling or service                        LB  GB     I
station
Public garage                                 GB     I
Public parking area       R1* R2* R3*     LB  GB     I          FP-R*
Truck service center                      LB* GB*    I
Other similar uses                        LB* GB*    I
Business uses: clothing services
Dressmaking shop                          LB  GB
Dry cleaning                              LB  GB
establishment(2)
Laundry agency                            LB  GB
Millinery shop                            LB  GB
Self-service laundry                      LB  GB
Shoe repair shop                          LB  GB
Tailor and pressing shop                  LB  GB
Other similar uses                        LB* GB*
Business uses: food sales and service
Bakery, retail                            LB  GB
Dairy, retail                             LB  GB
Delicatessen                              LB  GB
Grocery                                   LB  GB
Locker, cold storage, for                 LB  GB     I
individual use
Meat market                               LB  GB
Restaurant                                LB  GB
Roadside food sales stand R1* R2* R3*     LB* GB*
Supermarket                               LB  GB
Wholesale produce                                    I
terminal
Other similar uses                        LB* GB*    I*
Business uses: general
Bank                                      LB  GB     I
Business or professional          R3*     LB  GB     I
office
Postal station                    R3*     LB  GB     I
Radio or television                       LB  GB     I
station or studio
Telegraph office                          LB  GB     I
Other similar uses                        LB* GB*    I*
Business uses: personal services
Barber shop                               LB  GB
Beauty shop                               LB  GB
Reducing salon                            LB  GB
Other similar uses                        LB* GB*
Business uses: recreation
Bait sales                                LB* GB*    I*
Billiard room                             LB  GB     I*
Bowling alley                             LB  GB     I*
Country club or golf      R1* R2* R3*                I*         FP
course
Dancing academy                           LB  GB
Lodge or private club                     LB  GB     I
Night club                                LB  GB
Outdoor commercial                        LB  GB*    I          FP
recreational enterprise
Private recreational      R1* R2* R3*     LB  GB     I          FP
development
Public camp                                          I*         FP*
Race track                                           I*
Riding stable                                        I*         FP*
Shooting range, outdoor                              I*         FP*
Stadium, coliseum or      R1* R2* R3*     LB* GB*
athletic field
Tavern                                    LB  GB     I*
Theatre, indoor                           LB* GB*    I**
Theatre, outdoor                          LB  GB     I*
Other similar business                    LB  GB     I*
uses
Business uses: retail sales
Apparel shop                              LB  GB
Department store                          LB  GB
Drugstore                                 LB  GB
Flower shop(4)                            LB  GB
Garden shop                               LB  GB
Gift shop                                 LB  GB     I
Hardware store                            LB  GB     I
Jewelry store                             LB  GB     I
Newsdealer                                LB  GB     I
Record shop                               LB  GB     I
Retail showroom                           LB  GB     I
Stationery                                LB  GB     I
Variety store                             LB  GB     I
Other similar uses                        LB* GB*    I
Business uses: miscellaneous
Advertising sign(5)                       LB  GB     I          FP
Auction sales yard                                   I*
Boat sales, service and   R1* R2* R3*     LB  GB     I
storage
Cemetery or crematory                     LB  GB     I*
Child care nursery            R2* R3*     LB  GB
Clinic                                    LB  GB     I*
Commercial facility for
breeding and raising non-                 LB*        I
farm fowl and animals
Farm equipment, sales and                 LB  GB     I
service
Hospital                  R1* R2* R3*     LB  GB     I
Hotel or motel                            LB  GB     I
Kennel                                    LB         I
Laboratories for testing
and research excluding
the raising of animals                    LB* GB*    I
for research and
excluding the testing of
fissionable material
Mobile home park                      MH
Mortuary                      R2  R3      LB  GB     I*
Pet shop                                  LB  GB     I*
Photographic studio                       LB  GB
Railway station or motor                  LB  GB
bus station
Retail business not                       LB* GB*    I*
otherwise covered
Sales barn for livestock                             I*
Self-service storage                      LB*        I
facility
Planned shopping center                   LB* GB     I*
Studio business (art,
interior decorating           R2* R3* MH* LB  GB
music, and the like)(6)
Tourist home                              LB* GB*
Veterinary hospital for                   LB  GB     I*
small animals
Warehouse (grain storage                  LB         I
facilities)
Wholesale business                        LB  GB     I
*   Denotes permitted use when approved as a special exception, see §
154.36
**   Denotes use permitted in the district only if it has been approved by
the Commission as necessary to the convenience of employees and the effective
operation of an industrial use
(1)   When located on a tract not less than 20 acres in area
(2)   Using cleaning fluid which is non-explosive and non-inflammable, and
using not more than three clothes cleaning units of not more than 40 pounds
capacity
(4)   Including greenhouse not larger than 1,000 square feet in area
(5)   See §
154.35 for regulations
(6)   When located in an existing residential structure, the exterior and
character of which shall not be changed
 
(Ord. 480, passed 11-16-1970; Ord. 95-611, passed 10-4-1995)
§ 154.28 RESIDENTIAL USES AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Residential uses. The residential uses defined below, including
accessory buildings and uses are permitted in the districts indicated in Table
1 (§
154.27), when complying with the requirements of the minimum lot and dwelling
units in Table 2 (§
154.28), subject also to the requirements of §
154.34 and the provisions of division (B) and (C) of this section.
      (1)   A single-family dwelling is a detached building designed for or
occupied by one family exclusively.
      (2)   A two-family dwelling is a detached building designed for or
occupied by two families. A duplex dwelling has one family unit above the other
and a double dwelling has one family unit beside the other.
      (3)   A multi-family dwelling is a building designed for or occupied by
three or more families exclusively for dwelling purposes.
   (B)   Residential requirements.
      (1)   Minimum lot size; residential uses. A lot on which a dwelling is
erected or changed may not be smaller in area, in square feet per dwelling
unit, than that prescribed for it in Table 2 of this section.
      (2)   Minimum lot width. A lot on which a dwelling is erected or changed
may not be smaller in width in linear feet, than 100 feet, except when a
sanitary sewer system and an approved public or community water supply system
are installed and utilized by the dwelling, the minimum lot width may be
reduced to 80 feet.
      (3)   Height of structures. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter,
no residential structure shall exceed the height limits listed below:
 
Kind of Dwelling R1 R2 R3
Single-family    25 25 25
Two-family          25 25
Multi-family        25 25
 
      (4)   Minimum yard size. The following are minimum yard sizes, except as
otherwise provided in this chapter.
         (a)   Front yard. The minimum depth of front yard for a lot abutting a
major arterial street is 60 feet. The minimum depth of front yard for a lot
abutting a collector street is 40 feet. The minimum depth of front yard for a
lot abutting a local access street is 25 feet.
         (b)   Rear yard. The minimum depth of rear yard for a single-family
dwelling is 20 feet. The minimum depth of rear yard for two-family and multi-
family dwellings is 15 feet.
         (c)   Side yard. The minimum width of each side yard for a single-
family dwelling is 10% of the lot width. In no instance shall the width of each
yard be less than eight feet nor need not be more than 25 feet. The minimum
width of each side yard for a two-family or multiple family dwelling shall be
10% of the lot width but not less than eight feet.
      (5)   Minimum floor area; residential uses. No dwelling may be
established, erected or changed so that its ground floor area, in square feet,
is less than that prescribed by Table 2 of this section.
      (6)   Maximum lot coverage; residential uses. The residential buildings
on a lot may not exceed in coverage the following percentages of total lot
area:
 
Kind of Dwelling R1 R2 R3
Single-family    30 35 35
Two-family          35 35
Multi-family        35 35
 
      (7)   Setbacks; vision clearance at intersections. At the intersection of
each corner lot, the triangular space determined by the two lot lines at that
corner and by a diagonal line connecting the two points on those lot lines that
are 15 feet respectively from the corner shall be kept free of any obstruction
to vision between the heights of three and 12 feet above the established grade.
      (8)   Aesthetic requirements.
         (a)   Siding material. Siding material used on residential dwelling
units shall consist of any of the following: horizontal lap siding (wood, vinyl
or aluminum); V-grooved tongue and groove siding; wood-grained vertical siding
materials in a board and batten or reverse batten pattern; cedar or other wood
shakes; stucco, brick; stibe or a combination of such siding materials, shall
extend from the roof-line to the ground and completely enclose all under-floor
space foundation.
         (b)   Roofing materials. Roofing materials used on the residential
dwelling shall consist of the following: shingles, (asphalt, rubber or
fiberglass) shakes, slate or tile materials.
   (C)   Other provisions. Other provisions for residential uses are as
follows:
      (1)   Area and width. A single-family dwelling may be located on any lot
in any district in which single-family dwellings are permitted if the lot was
in single ownership or included in a subdivision which was of record in the
office of the County Recorder at the time of passage of this chapter even
though the lot does not have the minimum lot width or the minimum lot area
specified for the district.
      (2)   Accessory buildings. Accessory buildings are not permitted prior to
the erection of principal buildings. No accessory building shall be located
closer to a side or corner lot line than three feet nor exceed 18 feet in
height and, if detached from the principal building, shall be set back at least
75 feet from any street or highway right-of-way line.
      (3)   Accessory uses.
         (a)   Accessory uses such as utility installations, walks, driveways,
curbs, retaining walls, mail boxes, name plates, lamp posts, bird baths and
structures of a like nature are permitted in any required front, side or rear
yard. Fences, lattice-work screens, hedges or walls may be located in a
required side or rear yard when they do not exceed seven feet in height and in
a required front yard when they do not exceed four feet in height. Provided,
however, that nothing contained in this chapter shall prohibit the erection of
a fence of any height in connection with an agricultural use. Trees, shrubs,
flowers, or plants are permitted in any required front, side or rear yard,
subject to vision clearance requirements. Fence set back 18" from property line
for maintenance purpose.
         (b)   A fence may be constructed of wood, metal, masonry or other
material commercially sold for such purposes. Electrified wire, barbed wire,
razor wire and other similar types of wire which may be dangerous for human
contact shall not permitted in any residential district except in conjunction
with an agricultural use. If more than one type of material is used in the
construction of a fence, the materials must be used in a consistent design or
pattern for the entire length of the fence. Fences shall be of uniform height
and width for their entire length, with the exception of support posts which
may exceed the height of other parts of the fence by a maximum of one foot.
Fence support posts shall be of uniform height over the entire length of the
fence.
      (4)   Front yard.
         (a)   Where 25% or more of the lots in a block are occupied by
buildings, the average setback of such buildings determines the dimension of
the front yard in the block, however, if there are no other buildings within
330 feet of the proposed building in either direction, then the standard
setback for the district shall apply.
         (b)   Front yard or building setback lines established in recorded
subdivisions establish the dimension of front yards in such subdivisions,
except when such building setback lines may be less restrictive as provided in
§
154.03.
         (c)   On through and corner lots a front yard is required on each
street.
      (5)   Projections into yards.
         (a)   Architectural features (cornice, eave, sill, canopy or similar
feature) may extend or project into a required side yard not more than two
inches for each one foot width of such side yard, and may extend or project
into a required front or rear yard not more than 36 inches. Chimneys may
project into any required yard not more than two feet, provided that the width
of any side yard is not reduced to less than three feet thereby.
         (b)   An open platform or landing which does not extend above the
level of the first floor of the building may extend or project into any
required front or side yard not more than four feet or into any required rear
yard not more than 25% of the required rear yard depth.
      (6)   Tapered yard. Where a reversed interior lot abuts a corner lot, or
an alley separating such lots, an accessory building located on the rear lot
line of a corner lot shall set back from the side street as far as the dwelling
on the reverse interior lot. For each foot that such accessory building is
placed from the rear line toward the front line of the corner lot, the
accessory building may be set four inches closer to the side street line, but
in no case closer than five feet.
      (7)   Height. In the districts limiting height to 25 feet, a multi-family
dwelling may be increased in height, not to exceed 35 feet provided the
required side yards are increased an additional two feet for each foot such
structure exceeds 25 feet in height.
   (D)   Uses requiring special exceptions. The uses listed in Table 1 (§
154.27) are subject to the standard setbacks for residential uses in the
various districts unless otherwise specified in §
154.36.
Table 2
Kind of Dwelling Lot Area in Square Feet Per Dwelling Unit
                 R1 R2 R3
Table 2
Kind of Dwelling                      Lot Area in Square Feet Per Dwelling Unit
                                      R1     R2     R3
Single-family dwelling where no       16,000 16,000 16,000
utility systems are installed
Single-family dwelling where a
sanitary system is installed and      14,000 12,000 10,000
utilized
Single-family dwelling where an
approved public water supply is       14,000 12,000 10,000
installed and utilized
Single-family dwelling where both
sanitary and water systems are        12,000 11,000 9,000
installed and utilized
Medium density multi-family where no         10,000 10,000
utility systems are installed
Medium density multi-family where a
sanitary system is installed and             8,500  7,500
utilized
Medium density multi-family where an
approved public water supply is              9,000  8,000
installed and utilized
Medium density multi-family where
both sanitary and water systems are          8,000  6,500
installed and utilized
Urban density multi-family dwelling
where no utility systems are                        7,000
installed
Urban density multi-family dwelling
where a sanitary system is installed                5,500
and utilized
Urban density multi-family dwelling
where an approved public water supply               5,500
is installed and utilized
Urban density multi-family dwelling
where both sanitary and water systems               4,000
are installed and utilized
 
Table 2A
Ground Floor Area in Square Feet, Per Dwelling Unit
Kind of Dwelling R1 R2 R3
Table 2A
Ground Floor Area in Square Feet, Per Dwelling Unit
Kind of Dwelling              R1     R2     R3
One-story dwellings
   Single-family           1,200  960    960
   Two-family                     960    960
                              (Same as two-family for first two dwelling units
   Multi-family            plus 400 square feet living area per each
                              additional dwelling unit)
More than one-story dwellings
   Single-family           900(1) 800(2) 720(3)
   Two-family                     800(2) 720(3)
                              (Same as two-family for first two dwelling units
   Multi-family            plus 400 square feet living area per each
                              additional dwelling unit)
(1)   Not less than 1,350 square feet total for 1st and 2nd floors
(2)   Not less than 1,200 square feet total for 1st and 2nd floors
(3)   Not less than 1,100 square feet total for 1st and 2nd floors
 
(Ord. 480, passed 11-16-1970; Ord. 93-596, passed 7-26-1993; Ord. 95-611,
passed 10-4-1995)
§ 154.29 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   A home occupation may be conducted as an accessory use in any dwelling unit
subject to the following requirements, conditions and restrictions:
   (A)   The home occupation must be conducted entirely within the confines of
the dwelling unit to which it is accessory, or within the confines of an
accessory building located on the same premises and which is otherwise
permissible or lawfully existing, excepting the marketing of garden produce
grown on the lot or premises on which the dwelling is located or a lot adjacent
to that;
   (B)   When conducted within a dwelling unit, the home occupation may not
occupy more than 25% of the total floor space of the dwelling unit, and the
remaining floor space devoted to living purposes may not be less than the
minimum total floor are, if any prescribed for that type of dwelling unit in
the zoning district;
   (C)   No structural alterations, enlargements or exterior alterations
changing the residential appearance of the dwelling or lot may be made;
   (D)   No advertising signs or symbols indicating the conduct of the home
occupation may be displayed, except for a single nameplate not exceeding one
square foot in size and not illuminated;
   (E)   The principal operator of the home occupation must reside at the
dwelling where the home occupation is established;
   (F)   Persons who do not reside at the dwelling where the home occupation is
established may not participate in the home occupation without prior written
approval of the Plan Commission. Plan Commission approval shall be contingent
upon its determination that such approval would not tend to change the
character of the use of the premises as supporting a dwelling;
   (G)   Other than the incidental sale of items directly related to the
business entailing a permissible home occupation, no direct retail selling of
products or goods to the general public shall be conducted on the premises;
   (H)   If clients, patients, and the like are expected to come to the
premises for services or if a persons other than those residing in the dwelling
participation the home occupation, additional parking from that required under
§
154.28 shall be available. The amount, location and other characteristics of
this required additional parking shall be subject to the approval of the Plan
Commission;
   (I)   No hazardous substances shall be used in the home occupation without
the approval of the Plan Commission. Plan Commission approval shall be
contingent upon its determination that the storage and use of the substances do
not pose a risk to the public;
   (J)   The home occupation shall not interfere with the reasonable use and
enjoyment of adjacent properties; and
   (K)   The following uses are specifically prohibited as home occupations:
      (1)   Massage parlors;
      (2)   Taverns or food serving establishments (other than off-premises
catering);
      (3)   Veterinary clinics; and
      (4)   Animal breeding or livestock husbandry.
(Ord. 95-611, passed 10-4-1995)
§ 154.30 PLANNED RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   Purpose. To encourage good land and building site design, to encourage
and allow a variety of housing types, but subject to the general density of the
applicable zoning district with respect to the total area to be developed under
this procedure, and to allow the development of land areas so located or
situated as to require special consideration by granting specific exceptions to
the required standards.
   (B)   Procedure. The authorization of a planned residential development to
be located in any district as described in this section shall be subject to the
following conditions in addition to the regular procedure for zoning or
platting approval.
      (1)   Preliminary consultation and preliminary plan.
         (a)   The owner or owners proposing to develop land as a planned
development shall consult with the Building Commissioner before submitting the
development plan to the Commission for approval. At this consultation, two
copies of a preliminary plan of the proposed development, containing the
following information, shall be presented for staff advice:
            1.   Proposed layout of streets, buildings, lots and other elements
basic to the proposed use in relationship to site conditions.
            2.   Proposed locations of commercial, industrial, residential,
park, school, recreational and other public and semi-public uses within or near
the area proposed to be developed.
            3.   Proposed plan for handling vehicular traffic, parking, sewage
disposal, drainage, water supply and other pertinent site development features.
         (b)   The preliminary plan may be a freehand pencil drawing but shall
be superimposed upon a print of a topographic survey of the area proposed to be
developed and may include any other graphic mediums which will explain the
features to be contained within the development.
      (2)   At the conclusion of the consultation the Building Commissioner
shall make note in writing on the preliminary plans his or her unofficial
agreement or disagreement with the preliminary plans and the other information
presented. One copy of the preliminary plans shall be retained in the Offices
of the Commission for filing and one copy furnished to the applicant.
      (3)   Application for approval of a planned development may then be made
to the Commission by the submittal of three copies of a development plan and
any other desired supporting documents to the Commission. The Commission shall
carefully consider the development plan and recommendations thereto of the
Building Commissioner. The Commission may approve, recommend the development as
submitted, disapprove, or may modify, alter, adjust or amend the plan. The
development plan if approved shall be stamped “Conditionally Approved
Development Plan” and be signed by the officers of the Commission and one copy
shall be retained in the offices of the Commission for filing and one copy
furnished to the applicant.
      (4)   These recommendations and all conditions if any shall be recorded
in the minutes of the Commission meeting and the plan with any amendments
thereto, shall become a part of the records of the Commission and shall include
a finding as to whether the proposed development is consistent with the master
plan of the town.
      (5)   Approval by the Commission shall expire after a period of three
years unless all portions of the development have been platted and recorded,
unless an extension of time is granted by the Commission.
      (6)   (a)   After the development plan has been conditionally approved by
the Commission, application may then be made to the Commission for plat
approval of all or any portion of the land designated on the development plan
by the submittal of a plat or plats which shall set forth all the conditions as
required under division (B) and the Subdivision Control Ordinance.
         (b)   To carry out the design and conditions as shown or set forth in
the development plan and supporting documents, the applicant may be required by
the Commission to reserve or to provide for the reservation of land for park
and school purposes and the dedication of land for streets and other rights-of-
way; and by appropriate covenants, to restrict areas perpetually as open space,
private roads or other public or semi-public uses, and the like, for common
use.
   (C)   Conditions.
      (1)   If in approving any plat, the Commission finds that it is desirable
or necessary that there be special exceptions to the zoning ordinance, the
Commission may recommend to the Board that special consideration be given to
the granting of specific exceptions to the required standards of this zoning
ordinance. The Commission shall transmit to the Board a report setting forth
the reasons for its recommendations and indicating the suggested limit to any
special exceptions granted.
      (2)   The tract or parcel of land involved must be either in one
ownership or the subject of an application filed jointly by the owners of all
property included (the holder of a written option to purchase land shall for
purposes of such application be deemed to be an owner of such land) or by any
governmental agency. It must constitute an area of at least 3.5 acres, or be
bounded on all sides by streets, or by public open spaces, or the boundary,
lines of less restrictive use districts.
      (3)   The development plan may indicate a proposed subsequent division of
the land into separate units under one ownership or into one or more separately
owned and operated units. Such proposed subsequent divisions, if approved along
with the development plan, shall be permissible without any further approval of
said plan; otherwise, subsequent division of the land shall be permitted only
upon re-application to the Commission for approval of a revised development
plan and resubmittal to the Board. The separation of units for purposes of
platting shall follow the rules of the Subdivision Control Ordinance.
      (4)   The proposed development must be designed to produce an environment
of stable and desirable character in keeping with the principles of good
neighborhood design, and must provide standards of open space and areas for
parking adequate for the occupancy proposed, or equal to the requirements of
this chapter. It must include provisions for recreation areas to meet the needs
of the anticipated population or as specified in the master plan.
      (5)   A planned residential development may contain commercial,
industrial, professional, or special uses as an integral part of a residential
development but such uses shall be planned and gauged primarily for the service
and convenience of the residents of the Planned Development, except that when
such a development will interfere with the general pattern of commercial,
industrial, professional, or special use zoning, such uses shall not be
permitted.
      (6)   Upon the abandonment of a particular project authorized under this
section, or upon the expiration of three years from the authorization hereunder
of a planned development which has not been completed (or commenced with an
extension of time for completion granted according to the requirements of
division (B)(5), the authorization shall expire and the land and the structures
thereon shall only be used for any other lawful purpose permissible within the
zoning district in which the planned development is located.
      (7)   No improvement location permit, or certificate of occupancy shall
be issued until all requirements, conditions and facilities shown on the
development plan and supporting documents are adhered, to, unless specific
exceptions have been granted by the Board.
   (D)   Development plan. The development plan shall consist of at least the
following documents: site plan, area map, topographic map. Additional graphic
or explanatory materials may be included to explain or document the proposed
development. These plans may be prepared in such a manner that they may
subsequently be used to satisfy the requirements of the platting procedure, and
shall present the information and data specified for the submittal of a plat by
the subdivision control ordinance of the town.
   (E)   Covenants. Covenants when required by the Commission shall provide for
at least the following provisions satisfactory to the Commission.
      (1)   Organization. Adequate provision for some type of organization with
direct responsibility to, and control by, the property owners involved to
provide for the operation and maintenance of any and all common facilities
jointly shared by said property owners.
      (2)   Financial guarantee. Financial guarantee that satisfactory
maintenance shall be provided for all common facilities jointly shared by said
property owners providing that these common facilities shall be maintained to
agreed upon standards prescribed by the organization or property owners of the
area and set forth in the covenants and to be operated and maintained at no
expense to the county or any other governmental unit.
      (3)   Private streets. For private streets hereinafter established in the
town, the following procedure shall be followed:
         (a)   Construction standards. All private street rights-of-way and
pavement shall be constructed in conformance with the minimum street
specifications as set forth in the subdivision control ordinance unless special
exceptions are recommended by the Commission to the Board as a part of the
development plan and plat, and such special exception is granted by the Board.
The Board may, in approving a development plan which is proposed to contain
private streets, permit a narrower width of paved surface than is required by
the above specifications. Such approval for reduced widths shall be based upon
the street circulation system as shown in the development plan. In no event
shall the permitted pavement width be less than 18 feet.
         (b)   Posting. At or near the entrance of each intersection of a
private street with a dedicated public street there shall be erected and
maintained by applicant or organization a sign post to which is attached a sign
having an area of at least 15 inches by 21 inches upon which is printed and
clearly legible in at least two-inch letters the name of the private street and
the words “PRIVATE STREET” and in at least one-inch letters the words “NOT
DEDICATED FOR PUBLIC USE OR MAINTAINED BY THE PUBLIC”. The words, letters and
figures of the sign shall be arranged in substantially the following manner:
   (NAME OF STREET)
   PRIVATE STREET
   NOT DEDICATED FOR PUBLIC USE
   OR MAINTAINED BY THE PUBLIC
         (c)   Maintenance. All private streets shall be maintained by the
owners of property contiguous or adjacent thereto or by aforesaid private
organization in such a manner that adequate access by vehicular traffic is
provided at all times so that fire, police, health and sanitation vehicles and
public utility vehicles can serve the properties contiguous or adjacent
thereto, and so that said vehicles will have adequate turning area.
(Ord. 480, passed 11-16-1970)
§ 154.31 BUSINESS USES AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Permitted uses. The business uses specified in Table 1 (§
154.27) are permitted in the districts shown in the table, when complying with
the requirements specified in Table 3 (§
154.31) subject also to the provisions of §
154.34 and division (B) of this section.
   (B)   Other provisions and requirements for business uses.
      (1)   Parking spaces as set forth in §
154.34 shall be provided on the lot, or within 300 feet thereof on a site
approved by the Board. Parking is permitted in the required front yard in an LB
or GB District.
      (2)   Groups of uses requiring parking space may join in establishing
group public parking area, together with parking spaces for employees, with
capacity aggregating that required for each participating use.
      (3)   Filling station driveways and similar use areas subject to
vehicular traffic shall be paved with a dustproof or hard surface.
      (4)   One-half of an alley abutting the rear of a lot may be included in
the rear yard, but such alley space shall not be included for loading and
unloading berths.
      (5)   Loading and unloading berths as set forth in §
154.34 shall not be required for business uses which demonstrably do not
receive or transmit goods or wares in quantity by truck delivery.
      (6)   Where 25% or more of the lots in a block are occupied by buildings,
the setback of such buildings shall determine the dimension of the front yard
in the block.
      (7)   The maximum building height requirement in this section may be
increased if buildings are set back, from front and rear property lines, one
foot for each two feet of additional height above the maximum building height
requirement.
      (8)   Chimneys, cooling towers, elevator bulkheads, fire towers,
penthouses, stacks, tanks, water towers, transmission towers, or essential
mechanical appurtenances may be erected to any height not prohibited by other
laws or ordinances.
      (9)   No business operation or activity shall discharge, or cause to be
discharged, liquid or solid wastes into public waters, public ditches and
drains, sanitary and stormwater sewers or onto public streets, alleys or other
public property or right-of-ways, unless in compliance with all of the town
code requirements, the regulations of the Indiana Department of Environmental
Management and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and all other
applicable state and federal laws and regulations. Plans and specifications for
proposed sewage and other waste treatment and disposal facilities shall be
submitted to and approval obtained from the Indiana Department of Environmental
Management.
 
Table 3
Business Use Requirements
Requirements                                Specifications by District
Minimum side yard in blocks not including a None
Residential District
Vision clearance on corner lots required    Yes
 
(Ord. 480, passed 11-16-1970; Ord. 95-611, passed 10-4-1995)
§ 154.32 INDUSTRIAL USES AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   An industrial use is one which requires both buildings and open area
for manufacturing, fabricating, processing, extraction, heavy repairing,
dismantling, storage or disposal of equipment, raw materials, manufactured
products or wastes, and provided the use conforms to Table 4 and the following
performance standards:
      (1)   Smoke. No smoke is emitted of a density greater than No. 2
according to the Ringlemann’s Scale, except that smoke of a greater density
shall be permitted for a period of not in excess of six minutes in any one
hour.
      (2)   Fly ash. No particles from any flue or smokestack shall exceed 0.3
grains per cubic foot of flue gas at a stack temperature of 500º F.
      (3)   Dust. No dust of any kind produced by the industrial operations
shall be permitted to escape beyond the limits of the property being used.
      (4)   Odor. No noxious odor of any kind shall be permitted to extend
beyond the lot lines.
      (5)   Gases and fumes. No gases or fumes toxic to persons or injurious to
property shall be permitted to escape beyond the building in which it occurs.
      (6)   Glare. No glare shall be seen from any street or any residential
area.
      (7)   Vibration. No intense earth-shaking vibration shall be created or
maintained by any industry beyond the boundary lines of the tract on which it
is located.
      (8)   Noise and sound. A maximum of 70 decibels at the property line is
permitted. Noise is required to be muffled so as not to become objectionable
due to intermittance, beat frequency or shrillness. Sound may equal but not
exceed traffic noise in the vicinity during a normal day shift work period.
      (9)   These performance standards are in addition to any related
requirements imposed by the regulations of the Indiana Department of
Environmental Management and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and all
other applicable state and federal laws and regulations.
   (B)   Each industrial use shall provide parking space for each three
employees thereof located on the same lot as the use, or within 300 feet on a
site approved by the Board.
   (C)   Each industrial use shall provide loading and unloading berths located
on the same lot as the use, as specified in Table 5.
Table 4
Industrial Uses and Requirements
Requirement Type of Uses Industrial
Table 4
Industrial Uses and Requirements
Requirement                                   Type of Uses Industrial
District(s) in which use is permitted         I
Minimum side yard required in feet where      6
industrial use adjoins a residential district
Minimum side yard in feet, if provided        6
Minimum rear yard in feet                     15
Maximum building height in feet               75
Maximum lot coverage in percent of lot        None, except for required yards
Vision clearance on corner lots               Yes
 
 
Table 5
Industrial Uses - Loading and Unloading Berth Requirements
Gross Floor Area of Industrial Use in Square Feet Number of Berths Required
15,000 or less                                    1
15,001 to 40,000                                  2
40,001 to 100,000                                 3
Each 40,000 additional                            1 additional
 
(Ord. 480, passed 11-16-1970; Ord. 95-611, passed 10-4-1995) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.33 FLOOD HAZARD DISTRICT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   In addition to the permitted uses authorized for Flood Hazard or Flood
Plain - Recreational Districts indicated in §
154.27 (Table 1), the following primary and accessory uses are permitted in
this district:
      (1)   Driveways and parking areas for non-commercial automobiles and
trucks.
      (2)   Entrance gates, fences, and similar structures provided that they
do not interfere with the movement of water.
      (3)   Plantings of agricultural crops, grass, flowers, trees and scrubs.
      (4)   Structures only serving recreational activities.
   (B)   The boundaries of this district may be changed to remove an area or
parcel of property from the district if the Indiana Natural Resources
Commission determines that this would not endanger public welfare.
(Ord. 480, passed 11-16-1970; Ord. 95-611, passed 10-4-1995)
§ 154.34 PARKING SPACE AND LOADING BERTH REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Parking space. Parking spaces shall be provided as indicated in Table
6.
   (B)   Parking area.  A parking area for some uses may not be located closer
to a residential use than the distance, in feet, listed opposite it in Table 7.
   (C)   Loading.
      (1)   Business uses, except those that do not receive or transport goods
in quantity by truck delivery, shall be provided with loading berths (which, if
open, shall be paved with a hard or dustproof surface), as shown in Table 8.
      (2)   Each of the uses for which special exceptions are provided by §
154.36 shall be provided with loading berths, as shown in Table 9. Loading
berths so provided must not face on the bordering highway and must be at least
as far from the nearest residential use as the number of feet shown.
      (3)   For the uses, loading berths, if any, must be at least as far from
the nearest residential use as the number of feet respectively shown in Table
10.
      (4)   Industrial uses shall be provided with loading berths, as shown in
Table 11.
      (5)   Each loading berth prescribed by this section must provide at least
a 12-foot by 45-foot loading space, with a 14-foot height clearance.
      (6)   As used in this section, the term “loading berth” means an off-
street, off-alley area designed or used to load goods on, or unload from,
vehicles.
Table 6
Parking
Primary Use Parking Space Requirements
Table 6
Parking
Primary Use       Parking Space Requirements
Residential uses
Boarding or       1 for each 3 occupants plus 1 for visitors plus 1 for service
lodging house     vehicles
Dwelling, single- 2
family
Dwelling, two-    2 plus 1 for visitors
family
Dwelling, multi-  1½ per dwelling unit plus 2 for service vehicles
family
Fraternity,
sorority, or      1 for each 3 occupants
student
cooperative
Home for the      1 for each 2 employees plus 1 for each 5 occupants plus 3 for
aged, nursing     visitors and service vehicles
home
Planned
residential       2 per dwelling unit
development
Mobile home       See §
                  154.37
Agricultural uses
Commercial        1 per 3 employees plus 1 per 125 square feet of sales area
greenhouse
Greenhouse (not
exceeding 1,000   1 per 3 employees
square feet)
Plant nursery     1 per 3 employees plus 1 per 125 square feet of sales area
Industrial uses
Bottled gas
storage and       1 per 2 employees
distribution
Industrial park   1 per each 1% plant employee, plus 1 per each managerial
Industry          personnel

Junk yard         1 per 2 employees
Liquid fertilizer
storage and
distribution
Manufacturing,
storage or use of
explosives
Material storage, 2 per 3 employees
open
Mineral
extraction,
borrow pit,
topsoil removal
and storage areas
Petroleum tank    2 per 3 employees
farm
Radio or          1 per employee per shift
television tower
Truck freight     1 per employee plus 4 for customers
terminal
Public facilities
Assembly halls    1 for each 3 seats
Charitable        1 for each 2 employees plus 1 for each occupant plus 3 for
institutions      visitors and service vehicles
Church or temple* 1 for each 3 seats in main auditorium
Kindergarten or   1 per 2 employees plus 1 per 5 children to be accommodated
day nursery
Municipal or
government        1 for each 125 square feet ground floor area of building(s)
building
Penal or
correctional      1 per 3 employees plus 1 per 10 inmates at estimated capacity
institution
Police station or 2 per 3 employees per shift
fire station
Public library or 1 for each 125 square feet ground floor area of building(s)
museum
Public park or
recreational      As determined by Board
facility
Public or
commercial
sanitary fill,
refuse dump, or   1 per employee per shift
garbage disposal
plant
Sewage disposal
plant
Railroad right-
of-way and        1 per 2 employees where headquartered
necessary uses
School, public or 1 for each 3 members of staff plus one for each 6 seats in
parochial         auditorium
Telephone
exchange or       2 per 3 employees
public utility
substation
Trade or business 1 per 3 employees plus 1 per 6 students
school
Business uses: appliances
Electric
appliance service
and sales
Radio-TV service  1 per each 125 square feet of floor area
and sales
Other similar
uses
Business uses: automobile services
Automobile sales
room              1 for each 1000 square feet of the premises used for retail
Automobile or     purposes
trailer sales
area, open
Automobile repair 1 for each 200 square feet of floor area
(all indoors)
Filling or        1 per employee
service station
Other similar     As determined by the Board
uses
Business uses: clothing services
Dressmaking shop
Drycleaning
establishment
Laundry agency
Millinery shop
Self-service      One for each 125 square feet of floor area
laundry
Shoe repair shop
Tailor and
pressing shop
Other similar
uses
Business uses: food sales and services
Bakery, retail
Dairy, retail
Delicatessen
Grocery
Locker, cold
storage, for
individual use
Meat market       One for each 125 square feet of floor area
Restaurant
Roadside food
sales stand
Supermarket
Wholesale produce
terminal
Other similar
uses
Business uses: general business
Bank
Business or
professional
office            One for each 500 square feet of floor area
Postal station
Telegraph office
Other similar
uses
Radio or
television        One for each employee
station
Business uses: personal service
Barber shop
Beauty shop
Reducing salon    One for each 125 square feet of floor area
Other similar
uses
Business uses: recreation
Bait sales        1 for each 125 square feet of floor area
Billiard room
Bowling alley     3 for each lane plus 1 for each 6 spectator seats
Country club or   1 per 2 customers or members
golf course
Dancing academy   1 for each 200 square feet of floor area
Lodge or private  Space to accommodate 50% of the active membership at 1 space
club              per each 3 members
Night club        1 per 2 customers or members
Outdoor
commercial        1 per 3 employees plus 1 per 500 square feet of use area
recreational
enterprise
Private
recreational      1 per 2 customers or members
development
Public camp       1 per camp site and one per cabin
Race track        1 per 3 employees plus 1 per 500 square feet of use area
Riding stable     1 per 5,000 square feet
Shooting range    1 per employee plus 1 per 500 square feet of use area
Stadium or        3 per 4 employees plus 1 per 4 seats
coliseum
Tavern            1 for each 125 square feet of floor area
Theatre, indoor   1 for each 6 seats
Theatre, outdoor  1 per 2 employees
Other similar     As determined by the Board
uses
Business uses: retail sales
Apparel shop
Drugstore
Flower shop
Garden shop
Gift shop
Hardware store
Jewelry store     1 for each 125 square feet of floor area
Newsdealer
Pet shop
Record shop
Retail showroom
Stationer
Variety store
Department store  1 for each 200 square feet of floor area
Other similar     As determined by the Board
uses
Business uses: miscellaneous
Auction sales     As determined by the Board
yard
Boat sales,
service and       1 per 2 employees plus 4 for customers
storage
Cemetery or       1 per 2 employees plus 1 per 4 auditorium seats
crematory
Clinic            1 per 2 employees plus 3 per doctor
Commercial
facility for
breeding and      1 per 3 employees plus 1 per 125 square feet of sales area
raising non-farm
fowl and animals
Farm equipment,   1 per 2 employees plus 4 for customers
sales and service
Home occupation   1 additional
Home professional 2 additional
office
Hospital          1 per 4 beds plus 1 per doctor plus 1 per 3 employees plus 1
                  per hospital vehicle
Hotel             1 per each 3 employees plus 1 for each sleeping room
Motel             1 per employee plus 1 per sleeping accommodation
Kennel
Veterinary        1 per each 2 employees plus 1 space per each 3 animals to be
hospital for      confined in temporary or permanent pens
small animals
Laboratories      1 for each 1½ general employees plus 1 for each 8 managerial
                  personnel
Warehouse (grain
storage           1 per 2 employees
facilities)
Mobile home park  1 per 2 employees plus 1 per mobile home stand
(resident)
Mortuary          1 per 6 seats in main auditorium
Railway station   1 per each 3 employees plus 1 per each 10 seats in waiting
or motor bus      room; other retail uses in connection therewith shall provide
station           1 space for each 2 employees
Photographic      1 for each 5 seats in main auditorium
studio
Sales barm for    As determined by the Board
livestock resale
Tourist home      1 per employee plus 1 per sleeping accommodation
Travel trailer    1 per 2 employees plus 1 per trailer
park (transient)
Retail business
not otherwise     As determined by the Board
covered
Studio business   1 per 2 employees, plus 4 for customers
Shopping center   1 per 60 square feet of sales area
*   A church or temple requiring public parking area at times when nearby uses
do not need their parking facilities, by agreement approved by the Board, may
utilize such facilities-in lieu of providing their own parking facilities
 
Table 7
Parking Area
Use Distance from Residential Use (Feet)
Table 7
Parking Area
Use                                        Distance from Residential Use (Feet)
Clinic or medical health center            10
College building                           25
Country club or golf course                10
Fire station or police station             10
General industry                           25
Hospital                                   25
Industrial park                            25
Junk yard                                  300
Light industry                             25
Mobile home park, travel trailer park      25
Motel                                      25
Outdoor commercial recreational enterprise 25
Penal or correctional institution          300
Private recreational development           25
Produce terminal                           100
Public camp                                25
Raising and breeding of non-farm fowl and  25
animals, commercially except kennel
Shopping center                            50
Stadium or coliseum                        25
Truck freight terminal                     100
Sales barn for livestock resale            100
Warehouse (grain storage facilities)       100
Wholesale produce terminal                 100
 
 
Table 8
Loading Berths - Business Uses
Use                           Gross Floor Area (Square Feet)    Berths
Retail stores, department     3,000 or more but not more than   1
stores, wholesale             15,000
establishments, storage uses, Each 25,000 or fraction thereof,  1 additional
and other business uses       more than 15,000
                              100,000 or less                   2
                              More than 100,000 but not more    2
Office buildings              than 336,000
                              Each 200,000 or fraction thereof, 1 additional
                              more than 335,000
 
Table 9
Loading Berths
Use Berths Distance From Nearest Residential Use (Feet)
Table 9
Loading Berths
Use                      Berths                          Distance From Nearest
                                                         Residential Use (Feet)
Commercial facilities
for raising and breeding 1                               100
non-farm fowl and
animals
Commercial greenhouse       15,000 square feet or less50
                         Over 15,000 square feet     2
                            200 beds or less 1
Hospital                 More than 200 but not
                         more than 500 beds 2
                         More than 500 beds    3
Junk yard                2                               300
Riding stable            1
Studio business          1
Stadium or coliseum      2                               50
Sales barn for livestock 1                               100
resale
 
 
Table 10
Loading Berths
Use                                     Distance From Nearest Residential Use
                                        (Feet)
Mineral extraction, borrow pit, topsoil 300
removal, and their storage arenas
Outdoor commercial recreational         50
enterprise
Penal or correctional institution       300
Truck freight terminal                  100
 
 
Table 11
Gross Floor Area of Industrial Use (Square Feet)   Berths
15,000 or less                                     1
More than 15,000 but not more than 40,000          2
More than 40,000 but not more than 100,000         3
Each 40,000 or fraction thereof, more than 100,000 1 additional
 
(Ord. 480, passed 11-16-1970)
§ 154.35 ADVERTISING SIGNS.
   (A)   In any district, except as noted, the provisions of this section shall
be applied to effect the safety of motorists and facilitate traffic movement.
      (1)   No sign shall be erected or maintained at any location where, by
reason of its position, wording,, illumination, size, shape, or color it may
obstruct, impair, obscure or interfere with the view of, or be confused with
any authorized traffic control sign, signal or device.
      (2)   No sign shall contain or make use of any phrase, symbol, shape,
form, or character in such a manner as to interfere with, mislead, or confuse
moving traffic.
      (3)   No exterior sign having flashing, intermittent, or animated
illumination shall be permitted except in the LB and GB Districts wherein
general street lighting is provided and traffic movement on adjoining streets
is regulated at 40 miles per hour or less.
   (B)   In any district, the provisions of this section shall apply.
      (1)   No part of any sign which is attached to a building shall be
erected to a height greater than the height of the building.
      (2)   No illuminated signs shall be permitted within 100 feet of property
in any residence district unless the illumination of such sign is so designed
that it does not reflect or shine light onto such property.
      (3)   No part of any freestanding sign shall be erected to a height
greater than that specified for accessory structures in the district in which
the sign is located.
      (4)   The minimum set-back of freestanding signs from street rights-of-
way shall not be less than those specified by Table 12.
      (5)   The area of a sign shall be determined by the smallest circle,
triangle, or rectangle that can be used to enclose the sign, exclusive of
supporting members that bear no message.
      (6)   No freestanding sign shall be erected or maintained within ten feet
of any side lot line.
   (C)   In any residence district, the provisions of this division shall
apply.
      (1)   A nameplate which shall not exceed one square foot in area is
permitted for each dwelling unit of a single-family, two-family, or row house
structure; such nameplate shall indicate nothing other than name and/or address
of the occupant, and/or customary home occupation. No other sign shall be
allowed. This division shall not be constructed to prohibit each dwelling unit
from also displaying a house numbering plate for identification.
      (2)   Multiple-family residences and residential projects of all types
may display identification signs indicating nothing other than name and/or
address of the premises and/or the name of the management. Such signs shall not
exceed nine square feet in area.
      (3)   For uses other than those listed in subsections (1) and (2),
bulletin boards or identification signs indicating, nothing other than name
and/or address of the premises, and schedule of services or other information
relevant to the operation of the premises; such signs shall not exceed 12
square feet in area.
      (4)   For each use of subsections (2) and (3) eligible to display a sign,
only one sign per street frontage shall be permitted; except that uses
occupying extended frontages shall be permitted one such sign per 500 feet of
frontage.
   (D)   In any business district, except as herein provided, the provisions of
this division shall apply.
      (1)   Residential uses shall be subject to the provisions of division
(C).
      (2)   Each primary use other than those listed in subsection (1) shall be
permitted signs as accessory uses according to the number and net area of signs
set forth in Table 13.
      (3)   Except in those blocks where 25% of the lots are already occupied
by business uses and where overhanging signs are already established, no sign
shall project over a lot line and no sign shall project into a required yard by
more than two feet.
   (E)   In any industrial district, each business or industrial use shall be
permitted identification signs on the lot only as incidental uses, not to
exceed two such signs of the net area set forth in Table 14.
   (F)   The signs permitted by this division shall be allowed in any district.
      (1)   Each public recreation, community facility, or clinic use, shall be
permitted one bulletin board or identification sign, not to exceed 12 square
feet, except that uses occupying extended frontages shall be permitted one such
sign per 500 feet of frontage.
      (2)   Each permitted or required parking area that has a capacity of more
than five cars shall be permitted one sign, not more than two square feet in
area, designating each entrance or exit from such parking area; and one sign,
not more than nine square feet in area, identifying or designating the
conditions of use of such parking area for each 25 spaces, except that a
minimum of one such sign shall be permitted.
      (3)   One “for sale” or “for rent” sign not be more than 12 square feet
in area for each dwelling unit, garage, or other quarters where appropriate.
      (4)   One sign, not more than 20 square feet in area, pertaining to the
sale of agricultural products raised on the premises.
      (5)   Signs established by, or by order of, any governmental agency.
      (6)   One sign, not more than 12 square feet in area, for construction
and development, giving the name of the contractors, engineers, or architects,
shall be permitted but only during the time that construction or development is
actively under way.
      (7)   For an event of public interest such as a county fair, or church
event, one sign, not over 24 square feet in area and located upon the site of
the event shall be permitted. Such sign shall not be erected more than 30 days
before the event in question and shall be removed immediately after such event.
Also, directional signs not more than three square feet in area, showing only a
directional arrow and the name of the event of public interest shall be
permitted. Such signs shall not be erected more than 14 days before the event
in question and shall be removed immediately after such event.
      (8)   For each real estate subdivision that has been approved in
accordance with the subdivision regulations, one sign, not over 300 square feet
in area, advertising the sale of property in such subdivision shall be
permitted, but only when located on some portion of the subdivision being
advertised for sale. Such sign shall not encroach upon any required yard. Such
sign may be illuminated, but no flashing, intermittent, or animated
illumination is permitted. Such sign shall be maintained only during such time
as some portion of the land advertised for sale remains unsold. Permits for
such signs shall be issued for one-year periods and may be renewed for
additional one-year periods to allow time for reasonable display.
   (G)   This section shall apply to all signs hereafter erected and to
existing signs which shall be given approval by the Board. All advertising
signs or structures hereinafter erected shall conform to the requirements set
out in this section.
   (H)   The Building Commissioner shall record the location of all advertising
signs and structures hereinafter erected under the terms of this section and
identify same with the appropriate mark or tag.
   (I)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this section shall be
subject to the penalties and provisions as contained in this chapter. Owners of
real estate that permit the erection of advertising signs or structures on
their premises, in violation of this section, shall also be subject to the
penalty provisions of this chapter.
 
Table 12
Minimum Sign Set-Backs
Area of Sign Per Face   Minimum Set-Back (Feet)
5 square feet or less   2
5 to 14.9 square feet   10
15 to 49.9 square feet  20
50 to 9 9.9 square feet 30
100 or more square feet 60
 
 
Table 13
Business Use Signs and Sign Area
District Number of Signs Net Sign Area (each)
LB       1               30 square feet
GB       2               40 square feet
 
 
Table 14
Industrial Use Signs and Sign Area
District Net Sign Area (each)
I        300 square feet
 
(Ord. 480, passed 11-16-1970) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.36 SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS, REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Permitted uses. The special exceptions listed in Table 15 and their
accessory buildings and uses may be permitted by the Board in the Districts
indicated in Table 1 (§
154.27), in accordance with the procedure set forth in this section and the
requirements listed in Table 15.
   (B)   Requirements.
      (1)   Upon receipt of an application for an improvement location permit
for a special exception, the Building Commissioner shall refer such application
to the Commission for investigation as to the manner in which the proposed
location and character of the special exception will affect the master plan.
The Commission shall report the results of its study to the Board within 45
days following receipt of the application. If no such report has been filed
with the Board within this time period, the Board may proceed to process the
application.
      (2)   The Board shall then proceed with a hearing on the application in
the manner prescribed in §
154.71. Following the hearing, and upon an affirmative finding by the Board
that:
         (a)   The proposed special exception is to be located in a District
wherein such use may be permitted;
         (b)   The requirements set forth in Table 15 for such special
exception will be met, and
         (c)   1.   The special exception is consistent with the spirit,
purpose and intent of this chapter, will not substantially and permanently
injure the appropriate use of neighboring welfare.
            2.   The Board shall order the Building Commissioner to issue an
improvement location permit for the special exception.
   (C)   Existing uses. An existing use which is listed herein as a special
exception, and which is located in a district in which such special exception
may be permitted, is a conforming use. Any expansion of such special exception
involving the enlargement of the buildings, structures and land area devoted to
such use shall be subject to the procedure described in this section.
   (D)   Exceptions. The use of any land for the purposes for which it may be
acquired by purchase or condemnation by any person, corporation or other body
having the right to exercise the power of eminent domain, is excepted from the
provisions of this chapter. Any such person, corporation or other body shall at
least 60 days prior to construction inform and discuss the location of said
utility with the Plan Commission at a regularly scheduled meeting and within 60
days after the completion of the construction, erection or installation on or
in any such land of any structure, building or facilities relating to such use
or employment deliver to the Building Commissioner a map showing, at least
every half mile, the location of such structure, building or facilities in
relation to the nearest section corner, the location of streams, open and tile
ditches, and county highways crossed, and with respect to underground
facilities the depth thereof below the surface of the ground.
   (E)   Time limitation. In the event that the applicant has failed to
commence construction within 24 months after such permit has been issued, or
has failed to proceed with construction, once commenced, in accordance with
construction time tables commonly prevailing in the construction industry,
subject to the Board’s discretion as to the reasonableness of construction
delays, or fails to conform to the provisions of the development plan and
supporting data finally approved by the Board and upon the basis of which such
improvement location permit for special exception was issued, said Board may
upon its own motion or upon the written petition of any aggrieved person at-
public hearing require the applicant to show cause why the Board’s order should
not be withdrawn and the improvement location permit for special exception
revoked.
Table 15
Special Exceptions and Requirements
Requirement Designation Requirement
Table 15
Special Exceptions and Requirements
Requirement Designation Requirement
a.                      Classification of use permitted
   1.                Light Industrial
   2.                Local Business
b.                      Minimum Lot area
   1.                #
   2.                1,500 square feet
   3.                110 square feet per child
   4.                25,000 square feet
   5.                20,000 square feet plus 5,000 square feet per horse
                        over four horses
   6.                1 acre
   7.                5 acres
   8.                5 acres including 2,500 square feet per mobile home
                        stand
   9.                6 acres
   10.               20 acres
   11.               40 acres
   12.               80 acres
   13.               320 acres
   14.               Two times requirement for single-family dwelling
   15.               2 acres or more
c.                      Minimum Yards (Feet)
                        Front Side (Each)          Rear
   1.                #     #                    #
   2.                #     50                   50
   3.                #     10                   30
   4.                #     40                   40
   5.                #     –                  –
   6.                100   40                   40
   7.                100   Abutting residential 75
                             Abutting other use   35
   8.                #     20                   #
   9.                150   150                  150
   10.               100   100                  100
   11.               300   300                  300
d.                      Building setback from center line of interior road
                        (feet)
   1.                40
   2.                50
   3.                85
e.                      Use permitted not closer than 300 feet to a Residential
                        District
f.                      Minimum gross floor areas of principal building(s)
                        (square feet)
   1.                #
   2.                Over 1,000
   3.                Determined by number of children to be accommodated
   4.                400
   5.                Two times single-family dwelling
g.                      Plan of landscape development to be submitted with
                        application
h.                      Maximum height of structure (feet)
   1.                #
   2.                As required by appropriate state or federal agency
   3.                Same as Light Industrial
   4.                45
   5.                70
i.                      Fence
   1.                6-foot wire mesh where accessible to the public
   2.                6-foot wire mesh when located at ground level
   3.                4-foot wire mesh around play area
   4.                Solid wall or solid painted fence 8 feet high
   5.                4-foot wire mesh in residence area
   6.                Painted board fence 8 feet high
   7.                Adequate to protect abutting use
   8.                6-foot wire mesh
   9.                6-foot solid painted for refuse dump
j.                      Screen planting where abutting residential use (tight
                        screen, effective at all times)
   1.                6-foot height by 6-foot width
   2.                25 feet abutting Residential District or use
   3.                8-foot height by 6-foot width
   4.                Adequate to screen power substation from street view
   5.                6 feet high along streets for refuse dump
o.                      Plat approved by the Commission to be submitted with
                        application
p.                      Development plan to be submitted with application
q.                      Covenant by owners to perpetuate maintenance and
                        approve future improvements
r.                      Maximum number of principal entrances from major
                        thoroughfare
   1.                1
   2.                2
s.                      Acceptable relationship to major thoroughfare
t.                      Thoroughfares must be adequate to carry additional
                        traffic engendered by use
u.                      Other authority approval required
   1.                Indiana Department of Environmental Management
   2.                Indiana Department of Transportation
   3.                I.C. 36-7-4-1103
v.                      Outdoor advertising signs and outdoor artificial
                        lighting shall be approved by the Commission
w.                      Disposal of liquid and other wastes shall meet the
                        approval of the State Board of Health
x.                      No sales, dead storage, repair work or dismantling on
                        the lot
y.                      No parking in the front yard, except as provided in §
                        154.34
                        Except for approved exits and entrances, a masonry wall
                        4-feet in height and 6-inches thick erected at required
z.                      front line of building and may be required along
                        boundaries of parking area as determined by the
                        Commission for the protection of residentially zoned or
                        used property
Note: Use of # symbol in this table indicates that the requirements of the
district apply to the special exception where located

If the nature of the special exception involves more than one of those listed,
the applicant may apply for an improvement location permit for the special
exception which most closely relates to the primary use; provided that the
requirements of all the related uses will be met.

See Table 15A for key to use classification and requirement designations.
 
Table 15A
Special Exception Use Classification and Requirement Designations
Special Exception Requirement Designation
Table 15A
Special Exception Use Classification and Requirement Designations
Special Exception                       Requirement Designation
                                        b6 (heliport), b12 (airport), g, h2, i1
Airport of heliport                     (airport), i1 (heliport), j1, p, r1, s,
                                        t, u, v, w, y
Artificial lakes of 3 or more acres     c1, i1, j1, p, r1, u1, v, w, y
Bulk oil and bottled gas storage above  c11, h1
ground and petroleum tank form*
Cemetery or crematory                   b11, c2, i1, p, q, r1, v, w, y
Clinic or medical health center         b1, c3, h4, j1, r1, v, w, y
College building                        b1, c6, d3, g, h4, p1, t, v, y
Contractor’s equipment and storage yarc1, e, p, r1, v1, x
Conversion of single-family dwelling to b14, c1, f5, h1, p, y
two-family dwelling
Country club or golf course             c1, d3, j1, p, r1, v, w, y
Fire station or police station          b1, c1, h1, j1, s, y
Greenhouse, commercial                  b4, c6, f2, h1, r1, v, w, y
Home occupation                         b1, c1, f1, h1, v, y
Hospital                                b7, c6, g, h5, j1, p, s, t, v, y
Industrial park                         a1, b10, c7, d3, g, h3, j2, o, p, q,
                                        r1, s, t, v, w, y
Junk yard                               c1, e, h1, i4, r1, v, w, y
Kennel, animal                          b15, c9, h1, j1, r1, v, w, y
Kindergarten or day nursery             b3, c8, f3, h1, i3, j1, p, r1, v, y
Material storage, open                  c1, e, p, r1, v, x
Mineral extraction, borrow pit, top     c9, e, h1, i5, j1, r1, s, t, u3, v, w,
soil removal and their storage areas    y
Mobile home park, travel trailer park   b8, c6, d2, g, h1, j1, o, p, q, r1, s,
                                        u1, v, w, y
Motel, may include restaurant in        b4, c8, f1, g, h1, j1, p, r2, s, u, v,
connection therewith                    w
Nursing home, home for aged, orphanage  b1, c3, f1, h1, r1, u, v, w, y
Outdoor theater                         c6, i6, p, r1, s, t, v, w, y
Outdoor commercial recreational         c4, d1, h1, i1, j3, p, r2, s, t, v, w,
enterprise                              y
Penal or correction institution         b13, c10, e, g, p, r1, y
Practice golf-driving range             c6, i7, j3, r1, v, y
Private recreational development        c4, g, h1, j3, r1, v, w, y
Produce terminal, wholesale             b10, c7, d3, e, h1, i8, j1, p, r1, s,
                                        t, v, w, y
Public camp                             b7, c6, d1, h1, j3, r1, u1, v, w, y
Public or employee parking areas        b2, p, r1, s, t, v, x, y, z
Radio or television tower               r1, v
Railroad right-of-way and uses          h1, r1, v
essential to railroad operation
Raising and breeding of non-farm fowl   b4, c10, h1, j1, r1, v, w, y
and animals, commercial, except kennel
Riding stable                           b5, c10, h1, j1, r1, v, w, y
Public or commercial sanitary fill or   b11, c11, e, i9, j5, r1, u1, v, w, y
refuse dump
Seasonal fishing or hunting lodge       b1, c1, f4, v, w, y
Public or commercial garbage disposal   b15, c11, e, r1, u1, v, w, y
plant
Public or commercial sewage disposal    b11, c11, e, r1, u1, v, w, y
plant
Shopping center                         a2, b9, c2, g, j1, o, p, s, t, u1, v, y
Stadium or coliseum                     b7, c2, j1, p, r2, s, t, v, y
Studio business                         b1, c1, f1, h1, v, y
Truck freight terminal                  c1, e, j1, p, r1, s, t, v, w, y
Tourist home                            b1, c1, f1, h1, r1, v, y
Sales barn for livestock resale         c11
*   Requirement standards applicable to industrial uses as set out in §
154.31 shall apply also to the special exceptions
 
(Ord. 480, passed 11-16-1970; Ord. 95-611, passed 10-4-1995)
§ 154.37 MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   (A)   Permitted uses. A mobile home park has been designated as a separate
district. Prior to the consideration of an application for a mobile home park
by the Board, the applicant shall follow the procedure, planning considerations
and conditions established for Planned Residential Developments in §
154.30.
   (B)   Requirement standards.
      (1)   Minimum lot areas:
         (a)   Mobile home park: 2 acres; and
         (b)   Mobile home lot: 4,000 square feet.
      (2)   Yards and distances between structures:
         (a)   The minimum distance between mobile home stands on opposite
sides of the street shall be 60 feet.
         (b)   The minimum distance between a mobile home stand and a street
pavement, a common parking area, a common walk or other common area shall be
eight feet.
         (c)   The minimum distance between a mobile home stand and the park
boundary when:
            1.   Adjoining residential land use or a residential or feeder
street, shall be 15 feet; and
            2.   Adjoining land use is other than residential or an arterial
street, shall be 30 feet.
         (d)   Other minimum yard dimensions as shown in Figure 1.
   Figure 1: Required Minimum Distance from a Mobile Home Stand to its Lots
Lines and to Other Stands and Buildings
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f2d21c85da656a19b69fafb8ce1a18d1f930c479/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1077.jpg]
 
      (3)   Streets.
         (a)   Streets shall be provided on the site where necessary to furnish
principal traffic ways for convenient access to the mobile home stands and
other important facilities on the property. Streets shall be privately-owned.
         (b)   The street system shall provide convenient circulation by means
of minor streets and properly located collector streets. Closed ends of dead-
end streets shall be provided with adequate paved vehicular turning or backing
space. A turning circle shall be at least 80 feet diameter.
         (c)   Pavements shall be of adequate widths to accommodate the
contemplated parking and traffic load in accordance with the type of street
with ten feet minimum moving lanes for collector streets, nine feet minimum
lanes for parallel guest parking and two feet additional width for pedestrian
use where adjacent sidewalk is not provided.
            1.   All entrance streets and other collector streets with guest
parking both sides: 36 feet minimum*;
            2.   Collector street with no parking: 22 feet minimum*;
            3.   Minor or cul-de-sac street with no parking: 20 feet minimum*;
and
            4.   One-way minor street with no parking (acceptable only if less
than 500 feet total length and serving less than 25 mobile home stands): 11
feet minimum*.
*   Reduce by two feet if adjacent sidewalk is provided.
         (d)   Streets shall be adapted to the topography and shall have
suitable alignment and gradient for safety of traffic, satisfactory surface and
ground water drainage, and proper functioning of sanitary and storm sewer
systems.
         (e)   Street intersections shall generally be at right angles. Off-
sets at intersections and intersections of more than two streets at one point
shall be avoided.
         (f)   The street improvements shall extend continuously from the
existing improved street system to provide suitable access to the mobile home
stands and other important facilities on the property, to provide adequate
connections to existing or future streets at the boundaries of the property and
to provide convenient circulation for vehicles.
         (g)   Pavements and surfacings other than cement concrete shall be
protected at the edges by curbs, gutters or other suitable edging where
necessary to prevent ravelling of the wearing surface and shifting of the
pavement base.
         (h)   Street base shall be well-drained, uniformly graded, and
compacted.
      (4)   Driveways.
         (a)   Driveways shall be provided on the site where necessary for
convenient access to service entrances of buildings, to delivery and collection
points for refuse and other material, and elsewhere as needed.
         (b)   Driveway serving a single facility or single mobile home lot,
minimum eight feet; where used as walk, minimum ten feet.
      (5)   Parking spaces.
         (a)   Car parking spaces shall be provided in sufficient number to
meet the needs of the occupants of the property and their guests without
interference with normal movement of traffic. Such facilities shall be provided
at the rate of at least one car space for each mobile home lot plus an
additional car space for each four lots to provide for guest parking, for two-
car tenants and for delivery and service vehicles.
         (b)   Required car parking spaces shall be located for convenient
access to the mobile home stands. Insofar as practicable, one car space shall
be located on each lot and the remainder located in adjacent parking bays.
      (5)   Walks.
         (a)   Individual walks: to each mobile home stand from a paved street
or from a paved driveway or parking space connecting to a paved street.
         (b)   Common walks: in locations where pedestrian traffic is
concentrated; for example, at the park entrance, and to the park office and
other important facilities. Common walks should preferably be through interior
areas removed from the vicinity of streets.
      (6)   Recreation facilities.
         (a)   Recreation areas and facilities, such as playgrounds, swimming
pools, and community buildings shall be provided to meet the anticipated needs
of the clientele the park is designed to serve. Provision of separate adult and
tot lot recreation areas is encouraged.
         (b)   Not less than 10% of the gross site area shall be devoted to
designed and developed recreational facilities, generally provided in a central
location or, in the larger parks, decentralized. The minimum dimension of a
recreation area shall be 100 feet. Recreation area includes space for community
buildings, adult recreation and child play areas and swimming pools.
      (7)   Community facilities. Essential community facilities and services
for the type of mobile home park under consideration, such as schools,
recreation areas and police and fire projection shall be reasonably accessible
to the park, or provisions shall be made assuring these facilities and
services.
(Ord. 480, passed 11-16-1970)
§ 154.38 NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES AND USES.
   If at the time of the passage of this chapter or amendments thereof, a
structure had been lawfully constructed on or moved onto a lot, or a use being
made of the structure or (taking place on) the lot was lawful, the structure
may remain on the lot and/or the use continued even though the structure and/or
the use of the structure or lot no longer conforms to the provisions of this
chapter, subject to the following restrictions and conditions:
   (A)   A nonconforming structure may be maintained and repaired, but no
structural alterations, other than those required by law, shall be made.
   (B)   If a nonconforming structure or nonconforming portion of structure is
destroyed (or is damaged or has deteriorated by more than 50% of its prior
value) or is removed from the lot, it shall not be (repaired,) reconstructed or
replaced except in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   A nonconforming use taking place within a structure may be extended
throughout that structure, but not to other structures on (or added to) the lot
or to other parts of the lot.
   (D)   Whenever a nonconforming use has been changed to a conforming use, or
has been discontinued for a period of six months, the use of the lot shall
thereafter conform to the provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   The Board may grant variances from the nonconforming structure and use
restrictions contained in this section in the same manner as other variances
from this chapter.
   (F)   All nonconforming structures and uses that are allowed to continue as
a result of satisfying the terms and conditions of this section shall be
considered as “grand-fathered” by virtue of the fact that they were lawfully
constructed or commenced at a time when such structure or use was permitted
under the applicable zoning ordinance.
(Ord. 480, passed 11-16-1970; Ord. 95-611, passed 10-4-1995; Ord. 16, passed
10-14-2014)
DOWNTOWN BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 154.50 PREAMBLE; AREAS DESIGNATED.
   (A)   Preamble. This amendment deals with the designation of an area of the
town which will be known as the Downtown Business District and an additional
designated area, within the Downtown Business District which will be known as
the Row House District.
   (B)   Designated areas.
      (1)   The Downtown Business District Area, (which is located in the
Rockville Historic District), is intended to be a major center of the town’s
government, finance, offices, retail, professional offices, health care
facilities, services, and higher density residential; and is intended to
provide goods and services for a maximum concentration of consumer traffic.
Included are all properties and uses within the area bounded by and with
properties adjacent to:
Michigan Street     From Ohio Street to High Street
Market Street       From York Street to Pennsylvania Street
Jefferson Street    From York Street to Pennsylvania Street
Virginia Street     From York Street to Pennsylvania Street
Erie Street         From Ohio Street to Pennsylvania Street
York Street         From Market Street to Virginia Street
Ohio Street         From Michigan Street to Erie Street
High Street         From Michigan Street to Erie Street
Pennsylvania Street From Market Street to Erie Street
 
      (2)   The area designated as the Row House District shall have additional
restrictions (along with the restrictions and guidelines applicable to the
entire Downtown Business District) placed upon structures and land. This area
is defined as existing historic structures that share common walls and abut
existing sidewalks, and are all properties bounded by and with properties
adjacent to:
 
Market Street    From Ohio Street to High Street
Jefferson Street From Ohio Street to High Street
Ohio Street      From Michigan Street to Virginia Street
High Street      From Market Street to Jefferson Street
 
(Ord. 2007-715, passed 2-21-2007)
§ 154.51 USES AND RESTRICTIONS APPLICABLE TO ENTIRE DOWNTOWN BUSINESS DISTRICT
AREA.
   (A)   Uses.
      (1)   Establishments for the retailing of goods and merchandise such as
but not limited to: food, groceries, clothing, hardware, toiletries, furniture
and furnishings, gasoline, meals, alcoholic beverages, package stores, vehicles
including accessories and servicing, jewelry, appliances, books, boutiques,
farmer’s markets including seasonal fruit, vegetable and plant sales, antiques
and similar establishments.
      (2)   Establishments for the sale or provision of services such as, but
not limited to: personal appearance or care, health care, finance, legal,
insurance, real estate, accounting, clothing and goods repair, offices,
printing, entertainment, recreation, hotels, motels, educational institutions,
food and drink, apartments, and similar establishments.
      (3)   Establishments for community, cultural and educational purposes
such as, but not limited to: museums, libraries, churches, schools, art
galleries, theatres, boutiques, art and photography studios, picture framing,
printing, publishing, recreation and community centers, public safety
buildings, and similar institutions and establishments.
      (4)   All activities involving the production, processing, cleaning,
servicing, testing, or repair of materials, goods or products shall conform
with the established performance standards, provided that performance standards
shall in every case be applied at the boundaries of the lot on which such
activities take place.
   (B)   Accessory uses permitted. Accessory uses are allowed when they are
clearly incidental and subordinate to an adjoining permitted principal use.
Wholesaling, warehousing, or light industry will be considered only in mixed-
use properties with public and pedestrian oriented ground level facilities.
   (C)   Prohibited uses. The uses prohibited in the Business District area are
those which are land intensive, as opposed to people intensive, and include
prohibition of the following: industry and manufacturing; truck terminals and
freight yards; outdoor and land intensive recreation such as drive-in theaters
or race tracks; scrap or junk yards; stock yards; and similar uses.
   (D)   Dimensional requirements.
      (1)   Modifications to existing nonconforming buildings, including
parking lots and accessory uses, shall be exempt from the dimensional
requirements contained herein, provided however that any modification to a
building’s facade must comply with division (E)(4). A modification shall be
defined as an addition with its own footprint having an area no more than 50%
of the existing area of the building, parking lot, or accessory use being
modified.
      (2)   All new construction shall have its primary entrance facing the
front property line. This entrance must be readily apparent as a prominent
architectural component as well as displaying the street number. Lots fronting
more than one street shall designate one street as the front property line.
Plan submittals to the town shall clearly designate the front property line.
      (3)   Rear setback is five feet minimum.
      (4)   Side yard setbacks shall not be more than five feet from side
property lines except that one side yard setback may be a maximum of 20 feet.
   (E)   Off-street parking provisions.
      (1)   There shall be no parking required for individual establishments in
the Downtown Business District, except as noted hereinafter. This will
encourage the establishment of new enterprises which would find it especially
difficult to provide parking on relatively small building lots.
      (2)   All surface parking lots require a five foot minimum width
landscaping area between the vehicular use area and any street right-of-way,
adorned with visual screening (fencing or landscaping, or living hedge) between
30 and 42 inches in height, plus a minimum of one tree per 25 linear feet.
Landscape plans shall be approved by the Town Council. Automobile access to any
parking lot from the front property right-of-way is prohibited unless an alley
entry or side yard ingress/egress is not practical, as determined by the Town
Manager.
   (F)   Sign provisions. To be addressed in future addendum to Special
Ordinance #2007-715.
   (G)   Variance from special ordinance. Applications for variances are
permitted from any provision of this special ordinance except for the
provisions of division (D).
(Ord. 2007-715, passed 2-21-2007)
§ 154.52 SPECIAL USES.
   The special uses shall be:
   (A)   Drive-through lanes to serve customers in waiting motor vehicles, as
an accessory use contiguous to the primary use, provided that:
      (1)   Adequate stacking distance, as approved by the Town Superintendent,
shall be provided that does not interfere with any public right-of-way;
      (2)   Screening, other than berms, between 30 and 42 inches in height,
shall be provided to abate headlights from reaching windows and doors of
adjacent buildings;
      (3)   No electronic speaker devices shall be audible beyond the property
being served by them between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.; and
      (4)   Curb cuts for such a drive-through shall not total more than 24
feet in width along any street right-of-way.
   (B)   Lodging houses and motels which satisfy all other requirements of this
chapter, provided that:
      (1)   No outdoor recreation facilities are located adjacent to any public
street right-of-way; and
      (2)   All buildings and outdoor recreation facilities are at least 150
feet from any residentially zoned district or any other residential property
containing four or more residential units.
      (3)   Bus turn-arounds (allowed only out of Row House District).
      (4)   Parking structures which satisfy all the requirements of this
chapter and are located along a public right-of-way or adjacent to an existing
use.
      (5)   Surface parking lots not adjacent to the parcel containing the
primary use served by said parking lots.
      (6)   Uses which require an excessive number of parked vehicles, such as
special events (such as, bridge festival).
(Ord. 2007-715, passed 2-21-2007)
§ 154.53 ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS FOR ROW HOUSE DISTRICT.
   (A)   The ground floor of any building in the Row House District may not be
used for residence or significant warehousing/storage.
   (B)   A minimum of 60% of the ground-level front facade width in the Row
House District must be abutting the sidewalk or located at former building’s
original location for new construction. Buildings shall be set on the front
property line. This may be increased to ten feet at the building entrance, or
if the additional space is landscaped for outdoor retail dining.
   (C)   Front ground level facades parallel to the front property line, and
any facade parallel to and within 20 feet of a street right-of-way, shall have
no more than ten consecutive linear feet without a window, door, or other
prominent architectural feature in the Row House District. Front ground level
facades shall have no more than ten consecutive linear feet without a window,
door, display opening, or other prominent architectural feature, and not more
than 50% of the area between the height of two and ten feet shall be solid or
opaque. Buildings on street corner intersections shall designate one of the two
frontages as the primary facade, facing the front property line, and shall
comply with the frontage requirements above. The other, or secondary, facade
shall comply with the frontage requirements.
   (D)   Building height, minimum, in Row House District is 24 feet, measured
on the front facade of the building.
   (E)   Any off-street parking or loading area shall be located behind the
building that it serves. Under no circumstances shall surface parking be a
primary use on a lot located along Ohio Street and the Row House District.
(Ord. 2007-715, passed 2-21-2007)
§ 154.54 VARIANCES.
   (A)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall determine and vary the regulations
of this chapter in harmony with its general purpose and intent, only if the
Council makes specific findings of fact, that there are practical difficulties
or particular hardships in the way of carrying out the strict letter of the
regulations of this chapter which is unduly injurious to the property in
question and the owner of said property.
   (B)   Any property owner who acquires property in the Downtown Business
District Area after the adoption of this subchapter must apply for a variance
from any of the above conditions, or face penalties and/or fines consistent
with violations of the town nuisance ordinance presently in effect.
   (C)   All existing property owners with their existing buildings are exempt
from this subchapter and any violations of same are “grandfathered”. However,
if the ownership of a property within the described district changes or a
building is changed or lost, this subchapter will is applicable to the
property.
(Ord. 2007-715, passed 2-21-2007)
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS
§ 154.70 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Building Commissioner is hereby designated and authorized to enforce
this chapter.
   (A)   Any person, persons, firms or corporations which shall make
application for an improvement location permit shall furnish the Building
Commissioner with a site plan of the real estate upon which said application
for an improvement location permit is made. Said site plan shall be drawn to
scale showing the following items:
      (1)   Legal or site description of the real estate involved.
      (2)   Location and size of all buildings and structures.
      (3)   Width and length of all entrances and exits to and from said real
estate.
      (4)   All adjacent and adjoining roads or highways.
   (B)   Site plans so furnished to the Building Commissioner shall be filed by
the Building Commissioner and shall become a permanent record.
   (C)   The Building Commissioner may require the relocation of any proposed
building or structure or exit or entrance shown on said site plan and/or the
location of new exits or entrances not shown on said site plan before issuing
an improvement location permit when such action is necessary to carry out the
purpose and intent of this chapter.
   (D)   The Building Commissioner shall issue an improvement location permit
for a special exception only following receipt of notice from the Board that
the application therefore has been approved by the Board.
   (E)   The authority provided in an improvement location permit shall expire
six months after its issuance, unless 30% of the total work described in the
development plan has been completed. If work required by a development plan has
substantially stopped for a period of six months, the authority provided in the
improvement location permit shall have expired.
   (F)   The holder of an improvement location permit for a special exception
development plan may apply to the Board at any time for an alteration, change,
amendment or extension of the development plan upon which such permit is based.
      (1)   Upon receipt of such application, the Board shall proceed as in the
case of original application for special exceptions .
      (2)   In the event the Board shall approve and order such development
plan changed, altered, amended or extended, it shall so notify the Building
Commissioner who shall issue an amended improvement location permit
accordingly.
   (G)   No land shall be occupied or used and no building hereafter erected,
reconstructed or structurally altered shall be occupied or used, in whole or in
part, for any purpose whatsoever, until a certificate of occupancy shall have
been issued by the Building Commissioner stating that the building and use
comply with all of the provisions of this chapter applicable to the building or
premises or the use in the district in which it is to be located.
   (H)   No change in use shall be made in any building or part thereof, nor or
hereafter erected, reconstructed or structurally altered, without a certificate
of occupancy having been issued by the Building Commissioner, and no such
permit shall be issued to make such change unless it is in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (I)   A certificate of occupancy shall be applied for coincidentally with
the application for an improvement location permit and shall be issued within
ten days after the lawful erection, reconstruction or structural alteration of
such building shall have been completed.
   (J)   A record of all certificates of occupancy shall be kept on file in the
office of the Building Commissioner and copies shall be furnished upon request
to any person having a proprietary or tenancy interest in the building or land
affected.
   (K)   No improvement location permit shall be issued for excavation for, or
the erection, reconstruction or structural alteration of any building before
application has been made for a certificate of occupancy.
   (L)   Failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter subsequent to
the issuance of a certificate of occupancy shall result in a revocation of such
certificate.
(Ord. 480, passed 11-16-1970; Ord. 95-611, passed 10-4-1995) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.71 BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   A Board of Zoning Appeals is hereby established with powers and membership
as set forth in I.C. 36-7-4-901 to 36-7-4-907.
   (A)   At the first meeting of each year, the Board shall elect a Chairman
and a Vice-Chairman from among its members, and it may appoint and fix the
compensation of a secretary and such employees as are necessary for the
discharge of its duties, all in conformity to and in compliance with salaries
and compensation therefore fixed by the legislative-authority.
   (B)   The Board shall adopt rules and regulations as it may deem necessary
to effectuate the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   All meetings of the Board shall be open to the public. The Board shall
keep minutes of its proceedings, keep records of its examinations and other
official actions, prepare findings, and record the vote of each member voting
upon each question. All minutes and records shall be filed in the office of the
Board and shall be a public record.
   (D)   Any decision of the Building Commissioner in the enforcement of this
chapter may be appealed to the Board by any person claiming to be adversely
affected by such decision.
   (E)   The Board shall have the following powers and shall have the duty to:
      (1)   Hear and determine appeals from and review any order, requirement,
decision, or determination made by the Building Commissioner or any other town
official or agency, except the Plan Commission, under this chapter.
      (2)   Hear and approve or deny all applications for special exceptions or
other uses from the terms of this chapter as may be allowed under, this chapter
and state law.
      (3)   Authorize upon application in specific cases such variances from
the terms of this chapter that the Board determines, on the basis of facts
presented to it, that satisfy the requirements of this chapter and state law
for a variance approvals.
   (F)   In exercising its powers, the Board may reverse or affirm, wholly or
partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision or determination
appealed from as in its opinion ought to be done in the premises, and to that
end shall have all the powers of the Building Commissioner from whom the appeal
is taken.
   (G)   Every decision of the Board shall be subject to review to certiorari.
   (H)   (1)   The Board may approve a variance of use from the terms of this
chapter upon making a determination in writing that:
         (a)   The approval will not be injurious to the public health, safety,
morals and general welfare of the community;
         (b)   The use and value of the area adjacent to the property included
in the variance will not be affected in a substantially adverse manner;
         (c)   The need for the variance arises from some condition peculiar to
the property involved;
         (d)   The strict application of the terms of this chapter will
constitute an unnecessary hardship if applied to the property for which the
variance is sought; and
         (e)   The approval does not interfere substantially with the town’s
master plan. The Board may impose reasonable conditions as a part of its
approval.
      (2)   The Board may approve a variance from the development standards
(such as height, bulk or area) of this chapter upon making a determination in
writing that:
         (a)   The approval will not be injurious to the public health, safety,
morals and general welfare of the community;
         (b)   The use and value of the area adjacent to the property included
in the variance will not be affected in a substantially adverse manner; and
         (c)   The strict application of the terms of this chapter will result
in practical difficulties in the use of the property.
      (3)   Any variance approved by the Board shall expire six months from the
date of its approval, unless the activity necessitating the variance has
commenced on the property or unless an improvement location permit for
construction of the structure necessitating the variance has been obtained. If
the authority of an improvement location permit for construction of a structure
necessitating the variance expires without the substantial completion of the
structure as described in the development plan, the variance shall be
considered as having expired at the same time as the improvement location
permit.
   (I)   (1)   Prior to the determination of an appeal or a decision on a
permit for a special exception, the Board shall fix a reasonable time for the
hearing. Public notice shall be given at least ten days prior to the date set
for the hearing by publishing a notice thereof in a newspaper of general
circulation in the county setting forth the time and place of the hearing and
by giving due notice to the interested persons in accordance with the rules of
the Board.
      (2)   The Board shall require the party taking the appeal or requesting
the special exception to assume the cost of public notice and due notice to the
interested persons.
(Ord. 480, passed 11-16-1970; Ord. 95-611, passed 10-4-1995)
§ 154.72 AMENDMENTS.
   All amendments to this chapter shall be in conformance with I.C. 36-7-4-602
to 36-7-4-610.
(Ord. 480, passed 11-16-1970; Ord. 95-611, passed 10-4-1995)
§ 154.73 FILING FEES.
   (A)   Applications and petitions pursuant to the provisions of this chapter
shall be filed with the Town Clerk Treasurer and shall be submitted with
payment of the following fees:
      (1)   Certificate of occupancy: covered by payment of the improvement
location permit fee.
      (2)   Administrative appeal of a decision of the Building Commissioner to
the Council: $50.
      (3)   Special exception: $100.
      (4)   Variance from development standards: $100.
      (5)   Use variance: $200.
      (6)   Amendment to the ordinance or to the zone maps: $200.
   (B)   No part of any application or petition filing fee shall be returnable.
(Ord. 480, passed 11-16-1970; Ord. 95-611, passed 10-4-1995)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The Commission, Board , Building Commissioner, or any designated
enforcement official, or any person or persons, firm or corporation jointly or
severally aggrieved, may institute a suit for injunction in the Circuit Court
of the county to restrain an individual or a governmental unit from violating
the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Commission or the Board may also institute a suit for mandatory
injunction directing any individual, a corporation or a governmental unit to
remove a structure erected in violation of the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Any building, erected, raised, or converted, or land or premises used
in violation of any provisions of this chapter or the requirements thereof, is
hereby declared to be a common nuisance and as such may be abated in such
manner as nuisances are now or may hereafter be abated under existing law.
(Ord. 480, passed 11-16-1970)
APPENDIX: ZONING MAPS
Note: These Zoning Maps are available in PDF format, click HERE
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f2d21c85da656a19b69fafb8ce1a18d1f930c479/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1084.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f2d21c85da656a19b69fafb8ce1a18d1f930c479/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1086.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f2d21c85da656a19b69fafb8ce1a18d1f930c479/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1088.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f2d21c85da656a19b69fafb8ce1a18d1f930c479/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1090.jpg]
 
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS; BOUNDARIES
      
II.   FRANCHISES AND CONTRACTS
      
III.   STREETS AND ALLEYS
      
IV.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS; BOUNDARIES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        - -1869     Survey; residual annexation ordinances incorporated by
                     reference
                   (1984 Code, § 2-1-1)
                     Annexes land beginning at a point on the south line of the
93-600   - -         south half of the northwest quarter of Section 6, Township
                     15 North, Range 7 West, and 100 Pine Drive, Rockville,
                     Indiana
                     Annexes a part of the east half of Section 1, Township 15
1995-606 4-19-1995   North, Range 8 West; and a part of the east half of
                     Section 1, Township 15 North, Range 8 West
1996-627 12-17-1996  Annexes land commencing at the northwest corner of
                     Collings First Addition
                     Annexes land commencing at a concrete corner post marking
1999-647 6-22-1999   the northeast corner of the southeast quarter of Section
                     7, Township 15 North, Range 7 West
2002-677 11-5-2002   Re-establishes boundaries of five wards of the town
2004-685 4-6-2004    Annexes Memory Garden Cemetery
                    
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISES AND CONTRACTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
2007-720 7-6-2007    Second Amendatory Agreement to the Power Sales Contract
                     between Indiana Municipal Power Agency and the town
                    
 
TABLE III: STREETS AND ALLEYS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
1999-652 11-23-1999  Closes/vacates alleyway in town; Center Alley from York
                     Street, north to where it intersects with Walnut Alley
2004-687 6-15-2004   Changes certain street names within additions in the town
2009-744 - -2009     Vacates the 16-foot by 135-foot alley between lot 34 and
                     lot 35
2012-7   - -2012     Vacating the 16-foot right-of-way on Lot Number 40 on the
                     original plat of the town
2012-8   5-14-2012   Vacating Park Alley and a portion of Hybrid Alley
2020-07  9-17-2020   Confirming width of public right-of-way known as South
                     Market Street
                    
 
TABLE IV: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        1-3-1994    Zones land as R-1 and R-3
-        9-6-1995    Rezones land to from R-2 to GB
613-95   10-4-1995   Rezones land to R-1
2004-690 8-3-2004    Rezones real estate to GB
2004-691 9-7-2004    Rezones land from R-1 to GB
2004-692 10-5-2004   Rezones land from R-1 to GB
2006-712 3-21-2006   Zones property as LB
2020-02  8-10-2020   Rezones 406 South Jefferson Street from I to R-1
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to 1984 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Section Code Section
I.C. Section              Code Section
1-1-1-5                   10.04
1-1-1-7                   10.12
1-1-1-8                   10.06
1-1-4-5                   10.05
1-1-5-1                   10.11
1-1-6-1                   10.08
itle 3                    30.06
4-4-33                    50.04
4-4-33-1                  52.04
4-14-1-18                 31.13
4-21-13-2-7               152.11
5-3-1                     33.21,
                          96.034
5-11-10-1.6               33.23
5-11-10-1.6(c)(1)-(4)     33.23
5-13-1                    31.19
5-13-9                    33.06
5-14-1.5                  36.05
5-14-1.5-5                36.05
5-16-9                    72.04
5-16-9-5                  72.99,
                          Ch. 75
5-22                      33.22
5-22-10-10                33.21
5-22-11                   33.21
6-7-1-30.1                33.07
6-7-1-31.1                33.07
8-1-2-121(a)              52.04
8-1.5-3-11                33.01
8-1.5-3.5 et seq.         50.06
Title 9                   70.02,
                          73.07
9-4-1-18(c)               70.06
9-4-1-131(b)(1)           31.06
9-4-1-131(b)(2)           31.06
9-4-1-131(b)(3)           31.06
9-4-7-4(b)                31.10
9-4-7-6(a)                31.06
9-4-7-6(b)                31.06
9-4-7-6(c)                31.06
9-4-11-31(g)              31.15
9-5-1.1                   31.06
9-13-2                    70.01
9-13-2-18                 72.01
9-13-2-153                72.01
9-13-2-193                72.01
9-21-1-6 through 9-21-1-8 70.03
9-21-4-19                 Ch. 74
9-21-5-1 through 9-21-5-5 70.06
9-21-8-22                 71.16
9-21-13-2                 71.17
9-21-16-1                 72.01
9-21-16-7                 72.01
10-5-12-1                 112.02
10-5-13-1                 112.02
14-16-1-1 et seq.         73.05
16-41-27                  150.18
22-9-1-4 et seq.          92.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.          92.01
22-9.5-2-2                92.02
22-9.5-2-3                92.02
22-9.5-2-4                92.02
22-9.5-2-7                92.02
22-9.5-2-8                92.02
22-9.5-2-9                92.02
22-9.5-2-11               92.02
22-9.5-2-13               92.02
22-9.5-3                  92.03
22-9.5-3 et seq.          92.09
22-9.5-4-8                92.10
22-9.5-5                  92.02
22-9.5-6                  92.02,
                          92.10
22-15-3-1                 152.03
25-25-2-1                 112.02
25-37-1-2                 112.01
31-37-1-2                 133.08
32-30-6-6                 94.03
33-10.5-8-7               31.18
33-10.5-8-9               31.16
33-10.5-8-8(3)            31.14
33-10.5-11(1)             31.19
33-36-2-1 et seq.         34.01
34-4-32-1(b)              31.14
34-4-32-1(e)              31.10
34-4-32-2                 31.04
34-4-32-3                 31.04
34-4-32-4                 93.99
34-4-32-1(c)(2)           31.09
34-4-32-4(d)(1)           31.11
34-28-5                   10.99
34-28-5-5                 10.99
36-1-2                    93.40
36-1-3-8(a)(10)           10.99
36-1-4-11                 70.08
36-1-6-2                  31.18,
                          93.08
                          10.99,
36-1-6-4                  31.18,
                          93.59
36-1-8-5                  33.05
36-1-11                   31.19
36-5-2-2                  10.15
36-5-2-10(b)              132.03
36-5-4-12                 33.23
36-7-2-9                  152.02
36-7-4                    150.01
36-7-4-207(b)             150.01
36-7-4-217                150.01
36-7-4-218(b)             150.01
36-7-4-500 et seq.        153.01
36-7-4-600 et seq.        153.01
36-7-9 et seq.            152.12,
                          152.45
36-7-9-7 et seq.          152.12
36-7-10.1-4               93.23
36-7-12                   36.01
36-7-12-13(a)             36.05
36-8-17                   152.07
36-9-16-2                 33.04
36-9-36                   96.039
36-9-36-15                96.036
36-9-36-16                96.036
36-9-36-16                96.037
36-9-36-17                96.030,
                          96.035
36-10-3                   95.01,
                          95.05
36-19-16-3                33.04
                          
 
 
REFERENCES TO 1984 CODE
1984 Code Section 2014 Section
1984 Code Section 2014 Section
1-2-1             10.05
1-3-1             31.01
1-3-2             31.02
1-3-3             31.03
1-3-4             31.04
1-3-5             31.05
1-3-6             31.06
1-3-7             31.07
1-3-8             31.08
1-3-9             31.09
1-3-10            31.10
1-3-11            31.11
1-3-12            31.12
1-3-13            31.13
1-3-14            31.14
1-3-15            31.15
1-3-16            31.16
1-3-17            31.17
1-3-18            31.18
1-3-19            31.19
1-3-20            31.20
1-4-1             30.15
1-4-2             30.16
1-4-3             30.17
1-4-4             30.18
3-1-1             131.01,
                  131.99
3-1-2             131.02,
                  131.99
3-3-1             130.02
3-3-2             130.02
3-3-3             130.99
4-2-1             51.01
4-2-2             51.02
4-2-3             51.03
4-3-1             90.01,
                  90.99
4-3-2             90.02
4-3-3             90.03,
                  90.99
4-4-1             93.20
4-4-2             93.21
4-4-3             93.22
4-4-4             93.23
4-4-5             93.99
4-6-1             93.01
4-6-2             93.02
4-6-3             93.03
4-6-4             93.04
4-6-5             93.05
4-6-6             93.06
4-6-7             93.99
4-7-1             93.08
4-7-2             93.08
4-7-3             93.08
5-1-1             96.050
5-1-2             96.051
5-1-3             96.052
5-1-4             96.053
5-1-5             96.054
5-1-6             96.055
5-1-7             96.056
5-1-8             96.057
5-1-9             96.999
5-2-2             96.999
5-2-2             96.001
5-3-1             130.01
5-3-2             130.99
6-2-1             51.15
6-2-2             51.16
6-2-3             51.17
6-3-1             33.01
6-3-2             33.01
6-9-1             52.01
6-9-2             52.02
6-9-3             52.03
6-9-3A            52.04
7-1-1             70.01
7-1-2             70.02
7-1-3             70.03
7-1-4             70.04
7-1-5             70.05
7-1-6             70.99
7-2-1             72.01
7-2-2             72.02
7-2-3             72.03
7-2-4             Ch. 75, Sch. I
7-2-5             Ch. 75, Sch. II
7-2-6             Ch. 75, Sch. III
7-2-7             Ch. 75, Sch. IV
7-3-1             70.06
7-3-2             Ch. 74, Sch. I
7-4-1             70.07
7-4-2             Ch. 74, Sch. II
7-4-3             Ch. 74, Sch. III
7-5-1             71.01
7-5-2             71.02
7-5-3             71.03
7-6-1             71.15
7-6-2             71.16
7-6-3             71.17
8-1-1             150.02
8-1-2             150.99
8-2-1             150.15
8-2-2             150.16
8-2-3             150.17,
                  150.99
8-2-4             150.18
8-4-1             96.015
8-4-2             96.016
8-4-3             96.017
8-4-5             96.018
8-6-1             150.30
8-6-2             150.31
8-6-3             150.32
8-6-4             150.33
8-6-5             150.34
8-6-6             150.99
8-7-3             150.01
9-1-1             36.01
9-1-2             36.02
9-1-3             36.03
9-1-4             36.04
9-1-5             36.05
9-1-6             36.06
9-2-1             110.02
9-3-1             112.01
9-3-2             112.02
9-3-3             112.03
9-3-4             112.04
9-3-5             112.05
9-3-6             112.99
9-4-1             113.01
9-4-2             113.02
9-4-3             113.03
9-4-4             113.04
9-4-5             113.05
9-4-6             113.06
9-4-7             113.99
10-1-2            30.03
10-2-1            36.20
10-2-2            36.21
10-2-3            36.22
10-4-1            33.06
10-4-2            33.07
                  
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Ref. No. Date Passed Description
2013-5   4-22-2013   30.04
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        - -         TSO, Table I
3        - -         96.001,
                     96.999
8        - -         131.01,
                     131.99
10       - -         93.99
93-600   - -         TSO, Table I
213      - -         93.05,
                     93.99
253      - -         93.99
271      - -         93.04,
                     93.99
526      - -         93.08
                     150.30 -
536      - -         150.34,
                     150.99
542      - -         70.08
166      6-12-1878   131.02,
                     131.99
184      12-29-1879  TSO, Table III
195      6-27-1881   90.03,
                     90.99
206      5-1-1891    96.015 -
                     96.018
234      5-6-1907    TSO, Table III
243      4-9-1909    96.001,
                     96.999
253      3-21-1910   93.01 -
                     93.03
271      9-15-1913   93.08
279      10-5-1914   130.02,
                     130.99
288      7-2-1917    96.001,
                     96.999
295      6-20-1921   96.015 -
                     96.018
303      2-20-1922   TSO, Table I
                     113.01 -
319      12-30-1927  113.06,
                     113.99
                     113.01 -
361      4-6-1936    113.06,
                     113.99
374      9-2-1940    TSO, Table I
376      3-17-1941   Ch. 74, Sch. I
                     150.15 -
378      2-2-1942    150.18,
                     150.99
385      7-3-1944    71.01 -
                     71.03
417      4-2-1951    52.01,
                     52.02
419      10-1-1951   TSO, Table I
420      10-1-1951   TSO, Table I
431      1-16-1956   71.15 -
                     71.17
435      10-20-1958  110.02
438      10-21-1959  TSO, Table I
439      10-21-1959  TSO, Table I
442      1-18-1960   33.01
445      8-15-1960   TSO, Table I
448      7-15-1963   TSO, Table I
458      9-6-1966    150.01
471      11-5-1968   150.02,
                     150.99
473      10-7-1969   TSO, Table I
474      10-7-1969   TSO, Table I
475      10-7-1969   TSO, Table I
                     153.01 -
478      5-5-1970    153.04,
                     153.20 -
                     153.25
479      5-18-1970   90.01,
                     90.99
                     154.01 -
                     154.12,
                     154.25 -
                     154.28,
480      11-16-1970  154.30 -
                     154.38,
                     154.70 -
                     154.73,
                     154.99
481      12-1-1970   130.01,
                     130.99
491      4-16-1974   TSO, Table I
493      2-3-1976    TSO, Table I
                     96.050 -
494      2-17-1976   96.057,
                     96.999
495      2-17-1976   90.02
497      8-3-1976    36.01 -
                     36.06
499      12-7-1976   51.01 -
                     51.03
504      2-15-1978   52.03
511      5-15-1979   TSO, Table I
512      7-17-1979   TSO, Table II
513      11-20-1979  TSO, Table I
529      6-5-1984    36.20 -
                     36.22
543      10-1-1985   30.01
548      9-2-1986    72.04,
                     72.99
557      7-12-1988   54.02
559      8-16-1988   TSO, Table IV
560      1-3-1989    50.05
                     132.01 -
569      7-25-1989   132.03,
                     132.99
-        12-18-1989  96.030 -
                     96.039
567      2-6-1990    30.02
569      5-1-1990    50.01,
                     50.02
575      8-21-1990   90.04,
                     90.99
578      12-3-1990   72.03,
                     Ch. 75, Sch. V
582      2-4-1992    95.01 -
                     95.06
92-585   6-16-1992   33.02
590      8-15-1992   TSO, Table IV
93-594   7-7-1993    153.23
93-596   7-26-1993   154.05,
                     154.28
-        1-3-1994    TSO, Table IV
95-605   3-1-1995    52.07
-        3-15-1995   33.03
1995-606 4-19-1995   TSO, Table I
-        9-6-1995    TSO, Table IV
                     153.01,
                     153.02,
95-610   10-4-1995   153.21,
                     153.26,
                     153.99
                     154.01,
                     154.04,
                     154.05,
                     154.27,
                     154.28,
                     154.29,
95-611   10-4-1995   154.31,
                     154.32,
                     154.33,
                     154.36,
                     154.38,
                     154.70 -
                     154.73
613-95   10-4-1995   TSO, Table IV
1996-617 4-16-1996   50.01
1996-618 5-21-1996   93.07,
                     93.99
1996-622 8-6-1996    131.03,
                     131.99
                     55.20 -
624      9-3-1996    55.30,
                     55.99
623      9-17-1996   55.01 -
                     55.08
                     94.01 -
1996-625 11-6-1996   94.05,
                     94.99
1996-627 12-17-1996  TSO, Table I
1997-629 5-20-1997   Ch. 74, Sch. III
1997-630 7-1-1997    Ch. 75, Sch. IV
634-1998 2-17-1998   55.04
1998-636 7-7-1998    33.20
1998-637 7-7-1998    33.21
1999-642 1-5-1999    Ch. 74, Sch. III
1999-644 4-20-1999   36.35
1999-645 4-20-1999   36.20
1999-647 6-22-1999   TSO, Table I
1999-650 9-7-1999    55.04
-        11-23-1999  91.01
1999-652 11-23-1999  TSO, Table III
1999-653 11-23-1999  Ch. 74, Sch. III;
                     Ch. 74, Sch. IV
2000-660 7-5-2000    110.01,
                     110.99
2000-663 10-3-2000   Ch. 75, Sch. II
2000-664 10-3-2000   150.16
                     133.01 -
2000-665 10-17-2000  133.08,
                     133.99
2001-667 7-5-2001    93.07,
                     93.99
                     93.35 -
2001-668 7-17-2001   93.42,
                     93.99
2001-669 11-20-2001  Ch. 74, Sch. IV
2001-670 11-20-2001  Ch. 75, Sch. VIII
                     151.01 -
2002-672 1-22-2002   151.09,
                     151.99
                     90.15 -
2002-674 6-4-2002    90.17,
                     90.99
                     111.01 -
2002-676 9-17-2002   111.29,
                     111.99
2002-677 11-5-2002   TSO, Table I
2003-680 5-20-2003   50.02
2003-682 9-2-2003    151.07
2004-684 4-6-2004    35.01
2004-685 4-6-2004    TSO, Table I
2004-687 6-15-2004   TSO, Table III
2004-690 8-3-2004    TSO, Table IV
2004-691 9-7-2004    TSO, Table IV
2004-693 9-29-2004   Ch. 74, Sch. I
2004-692 10-5-2004   TSO, Table IV
2004-694 10-5-2004   Ch. 74, Sch. III
2004-695 10-19-2004  154.01
2004-696 12-7-2004   Ch. 74, Sch. III
2004-697 12-7-2004   Ch. 74, Sch. III
2005-698 6-21-2005   Ch. 75, Sch. VI
2005-699 6-21-2005   Ch. 75, Sch. VII
2005-701 9-20-2005   50.03
98-703   10-18-2005  33.22
2006-706 3-7-2006    52.05,
                     52.99
2006-709 3-21-2006   91.15 -
                     91.25
2006-712 3-21-2006   TSO, Table IV
717      5-16-2006   133.09
2007-715 2-21-2007   154.50 -
                     154.54
2007-716 5-16-2007   50.04
2007-720 7-6-2007    TSO, Table II
2007-720 9-5-2007    152.45 -
                     152.48
721-2007 9-19-2007   92.01 -
                     92.10
722-2007 9-19-2007   35.01
2008-732 - -2008     Ch. 75, Sch. IV
730      11-25-2008  52.06
737      - -2009     34.01 -
                     34.14
745-2009 - -2009     54.01
2009-739 - -2009     Ch. 75, Sch. IX
2009-742 - -2009     32.01 -
                     32.03
2009-744 - -2009     TSO, Table III
2009-734 5-12-2009   50.04
2009-736 5-12-2009   35.01
2009-741 6-9-2009    Ch. 75, Sch. IV
                     73.01 -
2009-02  6-18-2009   73.10,
                     73.99
2009-740 6-23-2009   33.04
2009-743 7-14-2009   Ch. 75, Sch. IX
2009-738 8-1-2009    53.01 -
                     53.06
                     152.01 -
2009-749 9-8-2009    152.12,
                     152.99
2009-750 10-27-2009  55.27
2010-756 1-12-2010   33.05
2010-766 9-28-2010   112.03
-        - -2011     Ch. 74, Sch. III
2011-771 4-26-2011   35.01
                     93.55 -
2011-776 8-9-2011    93.60,
                     93.99
2011-779 11-29-2011  96.070 -
                     96.085
2012-4   3-12-2012   Ch. 74, Sch. V
2012-6   3-28-2012   50.04
2012-7   - -2012     TSO, Table III
2012-8   5-4-2012    TSO, Table III
2012-10  6-25-2012   30.05
2012-11  6-25-2012   30.06
2012-12  8-13-2012   54.03
2012-13  10-22-2012  50.06
2012-15  - -2012     33.23
2013-1   4-22-2013   30.04
2013-3   3-25-2013   93.35,
                     93.99
2013-6   6-10-2013   70.09,
                     70.99
2013-7   6-10-2013   96.003,
                     96.999
2013-11  9-26-2013   96.002,
                     96.999
2014-13  7-14-2014   52.06
2014-14  7-14-2014   55.04
16       10-14-2014  154.38
17       10-14-2014  96.004,
                     96.999
2019-01  9-9-2019    30.03
2019-02  10-21-2019  Ch. 74, Sch. IV
2019-03  10-21-2019  Ch. 74, Sch. I
2020-01A 6-15-2020   Ch. 74, Sch. V
2020-02  8-10-2020   TSO, Table IV
2020-03  8-10-2020   114.01 -1114.05,
                     114.99
04       8-10-2020   54.01
05       8-10-2020   55.04
2020-05A 9-14-2020   30.19
2020-07  9-17-2020   TSO, Table III
2021-06  7-19-2021   54.01
                    
 
