TOWN OF SELMA, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-1 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2023-08, passed 10-10-23; and
State legislation current through Legislative Service, 2023 Acts, Pamphlet No.
3
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component codes, titles,
chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Selma Town Code”,
for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified ordinances” or “code” may
be substituted. Code title, chapter and section headings do not constitute any
part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning, application
or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate meaning in
law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town Council.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council.
      COUNTY. Delaware County, Indiana.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as
applied to any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      TOWN. The Town of Selma, Indiana.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing or other modes of
representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
non-severability provision, each division or part of every section is
severable. If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the
invalidity does not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section or amendment stating that the provisions of a
chapter, subchapter or section are severable as provided in division (B) above
does not affect the operation of division (B) above with respect to that
chapter, subchapter or section.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer or employee of the municipality
exercising the powers, duties or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or following the
effective date, the rights, powers, duties or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture or liability incurred under
the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture or
liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985).
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (I.C. 36-5-2-2).
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   TOWN COUNCIL
      
32.   TOWN OFFICIALS AND ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   FINANCE
      
34.   ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
      
35.   TOWN POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Compensation of officers and employees
§ 30.01 COMPENSATION OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   Officers and employees of the town shall be compensated at a rate as
established by Town Council ordinance from time to time.
(Ord. 2019-2, passed 12-3-2019)
CHAPTER 31: TOWN COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
31.001   Term of office
   
31.002   Residency required
   
31.003   Powers and duties
   
31.004   President
Meetings; General Provisions
   
31.020   Open meetings
   
31.021   Executive sessions
   
31.022   Notice of meetings
   
31.023   Agenda
   
31.024   Record of meetings
   
31.025   Quorum
   
31.026   Clerk of Council; tie-breaking vote
Meetings; Rules of Procedure
   
31.040   Presiding officer
   
31.041   Quorum for conducting business
   
31.042   Absence of President
   
31.043   Duties of the President
   
31.044   Duties of Council members
   
31.045   Seconding of motions required
   
31.046   Withdrawal of motions
   
31.047   Division of questions
   
31.048   Record of motions
   
31.049   Vote
   
31.050   Precedence of motion
   
31.051   Undebatable motions and exceptions to order
   
31.052   Motion to adjourn
   
31.053   Motion to postpone indefinitely
   
31.054   Motion to amend
   
31.055   Amendments
   
31.056   Reconsideration
   
31.057   Visitors and petitioners
   
31.058   Reports, communications, petitions and the like
   
31.059   Adoption of Robert’s Rules of Order, revised
   
31.060   Temporary suspension of rules; amendment of rules
Ordinances and Resolutions
   
31.080   Majority vote; when required
   
31.081   Two-thirds vote; when required
   
31.082   Date of adoption; publication
   
31.083   Record of ordinances
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.001 TERM OF OFFICE.
   Except as otherwise provided in I.C. 36-5-2-3(b), (c), (d), (e), (f) or (g),
the term of office of a member of the Town Council is four years, beginning at
12:00 p.m. January 1 after the member’s election and continuing until the
member’s successor is elected and qualified.
(I.C. 36-5-2-3(a))
§ 31.002 RESIDENCY REQUIRED.
   (A)   A member of the Town Council must reside within:
      (1)   The town as provided in Indiana Constitution, Article 6, § 6; and
      (2)   The district from which the member was elected, if applicable.
   (B)   A member of the Town Council who is elected by the voters of a
district forfeits office if the member ceases to be a resident of the district.
   (C)   A member of the Town Council who is elected by the voters of the
entire town, but is elected or selected as a candidate from a district forfeits
office if the member ceases to be a resident of the district.
   (D)   An at-large member of the Town Council forfeits office if the member
ceases to be a resident of the town.
(I.C. 36-5-2-6)
§ 31.003 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Town Council may:
   (A)   Adopt ordinances and resolutions for the performance of functions of
the town;
   (B)   Purchase, hold and convey any interest in property for the use of the
town; and
   (C)   Adopt and use a common seal.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9)
§ 31.004 PRESIDENT.
   The Town Council shall select one of its members to be its President for a
definite term, which may not exceed the member’s term of office as a member of
the Town Council.
(I.C. 36-5-2-7)
MEETINGS; GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.020 OPEN MEETINGS.
   All meetings of the Town Council shall be held in accordance with state law
regarding open meetings, being I.C. 5-14-1.5.
§ 31.021 EXECUTIVE SESSIONS.
   (A)   As used in this section, PUBLIC OFFICIAL means a person:
      (1)   Who is a member of a governing body of a public agency; or
      (2)   Whose tenure and compensation are fixed by law and who executes an
oath.
   (B)   Executive sessions may be held only in the following instances:
      (1)   Where authorized by federal or state statute;
      (2)   (a)   For discussion of strategy with respect to any of the
following:
            1.    Collective bargaining which does not include a discussion or
meeting under I.C. 20-29-6-7;
            2.   Initiation of litigation or litigation that is either pending
or has been threatened specifically in writing. As used in this clause,
LITIGATION includes any judicial action or administrative law proceeding under
federal or state law;
            3.   The implementation of security systems;
            4.   A real property transaction including: a purchase; a lease as
lessor; a lease as lessee; a transfer; an exchange; or a sale; by the Town
Council up to the time a contract or option is executed by the parties. This
clause does not affect a political subdivision’s duty to comply with any other
statute that governs the conduct of the real property transaction, including
I.C. 36-1-10 or I.C. 36-1-11.
            5.   School consolidation.
         (b)   However, all such strategy discussions must be necessary for
competitive or bargaining reasons and may not include competitive or bargaining
adversaries.
      (3)   For discussion of the assessment, design and implementation of
school safety and security measures, plans and systems;
      (4)   Interviews and negotiations with industrial or commercial prospects
or agents of industrial or commercial prospects by:
         (a)   The Indiana Economic Development Corporation;
         (b)   The Office of Tourism Development;
         (c)   The Indiana Finance Authority;
         (d)   The ports of Indiana;
         (e)   An Economic Development Commission;
         (f)   The Indiana State Department of Agriculture;
         (g)   The Indiana White River State Park Development Commission;
         (h)   A local economic development organization that is a non-profit
corporation established under state law whose primary purpose is the promotion
of industrial or business development in Indiana, the retention or expansion of
Indiana business or the development of entrepreneurial activities in Indiana;
or
         (i)   A governing body of a political subdivision.
      (5)   To receive information about and interview prospective employees;
      (6)   With respect to any individual over whom the Town Council has
jurisdiction:
         (a)   To receive information concerning the individual’s alleged
misconduct; and
         (b)   To discuss, before a determination, the individual’s status as
an employee, a student or an independent contractor who is a physician or a
school bus driver.
      (7)   For discussion of records classified as confidential by state or
federal statute;
      (8)   To discuss before a placement decision an individual student’s
abilities, past performance, behavior and needs;
      (9)   To discuss a job performance evaluation of individual employees.
This division (B)(9) does not apply to a discussion of the salary, compensation
or benefits of employees during a budget process;
      (10)   When considering the appointment of a public official, to do the
following:
         (a)   Develop a list of prospective appointees;
         (b)   Consider applications;
         (c)   Make one initial exclusion of prospective appointees from
further consideration; and
         (d)   Notwithstanding I.C. 5-14-3-4(b)(12), the Town Council may
release and shall make available for inspection and copying in accordance with
I.C. 5-14-3-3 identifying information concerning prospective appointees not
initially excluded from further consideration. An initial exclusion of
prospective appointees from further consideration may not reduce the number of
prospective appointees to fewer than three unless there are fewer than three
prospective appointees. Interviews of prospective appointees must be conducted
at a meeting that is open to the public.
      (11)   To train school board members with an outside consultant about the
performance of the role of its members as public officials;
      (12)   To prepare or score examinations used in issuing licenses,
certificates, permits or registrations under I.C. 25;
      (13)   To discuss information and intelligence intended to prevent,
mitigate or respond to the threat of terrorism; and
      (14)   To train members of a board of aviation commissioners appointed
under I.C. 8-22-2 or members of an airport authority board appointed under I.C.
8-22-3 with an outside consultant about the performance of the role of the
members as public officials. A board may hold not more than 1 executive session
per calendar year under this division.
   (C)   A final action must be taken at a meeting open to the public.
   (D)   Public notice of executive sessions must state the subject matter by
specific reference to the enumerated instance or instances for which executive
sessions may be held under division (B) above. The requirements stated in §
31.024 of this chapter for memoranda and minutes being made available to the
public is modified as to executive sessions in that the memoranda and minutes
must identify the subject matter considered by specific reference to the
enumerated instance or instances for which public notice was given. The Town
Council shall certify by a statement in the memoranda and minutes of the Town
Council that no subject matter was discussed in the executive session other
than the subject matter specified in the public notice.
   (E)   The Town Council may not conduct an executive session during a
meeting, except as otherwise permitted by applicable statute. A meeting may not
be recessed and reconvened with the intent of circumventing this division (E).
(I.C. 5-14-1.5-6.1)
§ 31.022 NOTICE OF MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings of the Town Council shall be held at a time and place
established by the Town Council.
   (B)   Public notice of the date, time and place of any meetings, executive
sessions or of any rescheduled or reconvened meeting shall be given by the Town
Council by posting a copy of the notice at the principal office of the Town
Council or, if no such office exists, at the building where the meeting is to
be held.
§ 31.023 AGENDA.
   (A)   The Town Council, when utilizing an agenda, shall post a copy of the
agenda at the entrance to the location of the meeting prior to the meeting. A
rule, regulation, ordinance or other final action adopted by reference to
agenda number or item alone is void.
(I.C. 5-14-1.5-4(a))
   (B)   The Town Council shall designate a person who shall prepare the agenda
for each meeting.
§ 31.024 RECORD OF MEETINGS.
   (A)   As the meeting progresses, the following memoranda shall be kept:
      (1)   The date, time and place of the meeting;
      (2)   The members of the Town Council recorded as either present or
absent;
      (3)   The general substance of all matters proposed, discussed or
decided;
      (4)   A record of all votes taken, by individual members if there is a
roll call; and
      (5)   Any additional information required under I.C. 5-14-1.5-3.5 or 5-
14-1.5-3.6 or any other statute that authorizes a governing body to conduct a
meeting using an electronic means of communication.
   (B)   The memoranda are to be available within a reasonable period of time
after the meeting for the purpose of informing the public of the Town Council’s
proceedings. The minutes, if any, are to be open for public inspection and
copying.
(I.C. 5-14-1.5-4(b) and (c))
§ 31.025 QUORUM.
   A majority of all the elected members of the Town Council constitutes a
quorum.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.2)
§ 31.026 CLERK OF COUNCIL; TIE-BREAKING VOTE.
   (A)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is the Clerk of the Town Council.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer is an ex officio member for the purpose of casting
the deciding vote to break a tie.
(I.C. 36-5-2-8)
MEETINGS; RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 31.040 PRESIDING OFFICER.
   The Council President shall take the chair at the hour appointed, or to
which the Council shall have adjourned, and shall immediately call the members
to order; whereupon, the Clerk of Council shall proceed to call the roll of
members. If a quorum is present, the Clerk of Council shall so announce and the
Council shall proceed with the order of business.
§ 31.041 QUORUM FOR CONDUCTING BUSINESS.
   (A)   A quorum shall consist of a majority of the entire Council, including
the Council President. A quorum shall be necessary to transact the business of
the Town Council.
   (B)   If no quorum is present, the Council shall not thereby stand
adjourned, but the members present shall adjourn or recess the Council by a
majority vote.
§ 31.042 ABSENCE OF PRESIDENT.
   At any meeting of the Council where a majority shall be assembled, and if
the President is temporarily absent but within or near the community, the Clerk
of Council shall preside and call the roll, whereupon the Council shall elect a
Temporary Chairperson from its membership. In the event that the absence of the
President shall be of a more permanent nature, a President Pro Tem shall be
elected.
§ 31.043 DUTIES OF THE PRESIDENT.
   (A)   The President shall serve as the Chair, shall preserve order and
decorum and may speak to points of order in preference to other members, and
shall decide all questions of order subject to appeal.
   (B)   If the President refuses to allow the Council members to exercise
their right to appeal a decision of the Chair, the Council members may consider
and pass upon the matter in spite of the Chair’s failure to grant them appeal.
   (C)   The President shall have the power to require the Council room to be
cleared, or to have any disorderly person or persons ejected, in case of any
disturbances or disorderly conduct which prevent the meeting from being
continued in an orderly manner.
   (D)   Nothing in this code shall preclude the President from making or
seconding a motion, or from voting on any matters coming before the Council.
§ 31.044 DUTIES OF COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   (A)   While the President is stating the motion, or deciding a point of
order, the members shall be seated and no member shall leave the Council room
during the session without permission from the presiding officer.
   (B)   Every member, prior to his or her speaking, making a motion or
seconding the same, shall address the presiding officer and shall not proceed
with his or her remarks until recognized and named by the Chair.
   (C)   A member so recognized by the Chair shall confine himself or herself
to the question under debate.
   (D)   No member shall speak more than once on the same question, except by
permission of the Chair, and then not until every other member desiring to
speak shall have had an opportunity to do so.
   (E)   No member shall speak longer than five minutes at any one time, except
by consent of the Chair.
   (F)   While a member is speaking, no member shall hold any private
discussion, nor pass between the speaker and the Chair.
   (G)   A member, when called to order by the Chair, shall thereupon
discontinue speaking. The order or ruling of the Chair shall be binding and
conclusive, subject only to the right to appeal.
   (H)   (1)   Any member may appeal to the Council from a ruling of the Chair
and, if the appeal is seconded, the member making the appeal may briefly state
his or her reason for the same, and the Chair may briefly explain his or her
ruling; but there shall be no debate on the appeal and no other member shall
participate in the discussion.
      (2)   The Chair shall then put the question, “Shall the decision of the
Chair be overruled?” Otherwise, it shall be sustained.
   (I)   The right of a member to address the Council on a question of personal
privilege shall be limited to cases in which his or her integrity, character or
motives are assailed, questioned or impugned.
§ 31.045 SECONDING OF MOTIONS REQUIRED.
   No motion shall be put or debated in the Council or in committee unless it
be seconded. When a motion is seconded, it shall be stated by the presiding
officer before debate.
§ 31.046 WITHDRAWAL OF MOTIONS.
   After a resolution or a motion is stated by the President, it shall be
deemed to be in the possession of the Council, but it may be withdrawn by the
maker thereof with or without the consent of the Council member seconding the
motion prior to the call for the vote by the President.
§ 31.047 DIVISION OF QUESTIONS.
   If any question under consideration contains several distinct propositions,
the Council, by a majority vote of the members present, may divide the
questions.
§ 31.048 RECORD OF MOTIONS.
   In all cases where a resolution or motion is entered in the journal, the
names of the members moving and seconding the same shall be entered.
§ 31.049 VOTE.
   (A)   The ayes and nays shall be taken upon the passage of all ordinances
and on all propositions to create any liability against the town, or for the
expenditure or appropriation of its money, and upon any question and in all
other cases at the request of any member of the Council. When the Clerk of
Council has commenced to call the roll of the Council for the taking of a vote
by “Ayes” and “Nays”, all debate on the question before the Council shall be
deemed concluded, and during the taking of the vote a member shall be permitted
to briefly explain his or her vote and shall respond to the calling of his or
her name by the Clerk of Council by answering “Aye” or “Nay”, as the case may
be.
   (B)   The names of each member of the Council shall be listed on the
official copy of every ordinance passed indicating specifically the names of
those voting “Aye” and those voting “Nay”.
   (C)   An abstention is neither an affirmative vote nor a negative vote.
Regardless of the number of abstentions, and except as otherwise provided by
law, an affirmative vote of the majority of the Council members is required to
pass a motion, ordinance, resolution or other action of the Town Council.
   (D)   The President shall announce the result of the Council’s vote and the
votes shall be entered in the journal of the proceedings.
§ 31.050 PRECEDENCE OF MOTION.
   When a question is before the Council, no motion shall be received, except
as specified in this section, and which shall have precedence in the following
order:
   (A)   To fix the time to which to adjourn;
   (B)   To adjourn;
   (C)   To take a recess;
   (D)   To raise a question of privilege;
   (E)   To call for the orders of the day;
   (F)   To lay on the table;
   (G)   To call for the previous question;
   (H)   To postpone to a certain time;
   (I)   To refer to committee;
   (J)   To amend;
   (K)   To postpone indefinitely; and
   (L)   To the main motion.
§ 31.051 UNDEBATABLE MOTIONS AND EXCEPTIONS TO ORDER.
   The motion to adjourn or to lay on the table shall be decided without
debate, and the motion to fix the time to which to adjourn and the motion to
adjourn shall always be in order, except:
   (A)   When a member is in possession of the floor;
   (B)   When the roll call votes are being called;
   (C)   While the members are voting;
   (D)   When adjournment was the last preceding motion; or
   (E)   When it has been decided that the previous question shall be taken.
§ 31.052 MOTION TO ADJOURN.
   A motion to adjourn cannot be amended; but a motion to adjourn to a given
day or time shall be open to amendment and debate.
§ 31.053 MOTION TO POSTPONE INDEFINITELY.
   When a question is postponed indefinitely, it shall not be taken up again
before the next regular meeting.
§ 31.054 MOTION TO AMEND.
   A motion to amend an amendment shall be in order, but a motion to amend an
amendment to an amendment shall not be entertained.
§ 31.055 AMENDMENTS.
   Only one amendment at a time may be offered to any question before the
Council. The vote shall first be taken on the amendment and, if the amendment
passes, then further amendments may be proposed. Finally, a vote shall be taken
on the principal motion as finally amended.
§ 31.056 RECONSIDERATION.
   (A)   A vote or question may be reconsidered at any time during the same
meeting, or at the first regular meeting held thereafter. A motion for
reconsideration, once having been made and decided in the negative, shall not
be renewed. A matter once having been decided and a motion to reconsider the
matter having been defeated, it may nonetheless come before the Council at a
future time by way of a motion to rescind or as a new motion. If the Chair
determines that new facts are to be presented to the Council, or that there is
a likelihood that the Council will reverse its previous decision, the Chair
shall rule the motion in order. If a motion is continuously brought before the
Council and rejected, the Chair may rule its reintroduction under a motion to
rescind or as a new motion to be out of order.
   (B)   No motion to reconsider the approval or denial of the recommendation
of an advisory body required to hold public hearings shall be entertained
except at the same meeting at which the original action was taken or after the
matter has been referred to the advisory body for a further hearing and
recommendation.
   (C)   A motion to reconsider must be made and seconded by members who voted
on the prevailing side of the question to be reconsidered, unless otherwise
provided by law; provided, however, that, where a motion has received a
majority vote in the affirmative, but is declared lost solely on the ground
that a greater number of affirmative votes is required by statute for the
passage or adoption of the motion, then in that case a motion to reconsider may
be made and seconded only by those who voted in the affirmative on the question
to be reconsidered, so long as the issue presented is the same, no new
information is forthcoming and the rights of third parties have not intervened.
§ 31.057 VISITORS AND PETITIONERS.
   Except during the time allotted for public discussion and comments, no
person other than a member of the Council shall address that body, except with
the consent of a majority of the members present.
§ 31.058 REPORTS, COMMUNICATIONS, PETITIONS AND THE LIKE.
   All communications, reports, petitions or any other papers addressed to the
Council shall be made available to the Clerk of Council prior to the meeting.
The Clerk of Council shall endeavor to distribute copies or read the material
to the members of the Council.
§ 31.059 ADOPTION OF ROBERT’S RULES OF ORDER, REVISED.
   The rules of parliamentary practice comprised in the latest published
edition of Robert’s Rules of Order, revised, shall govern the Council in all
cases to which they are applicable and in which they are not inconsistent with
the ordinances of the town, including these rules, or the statutes of the
state.
§ 31.060 TEMPORARY SUSPENSION OF RULES; AMENDMENT OF RULES.
   The rules of the Council may be temporarily suspended, altered or amended,
by concurrence of a majority vote of all the Council members then in office.
ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS
§ 31.080 MAJORITY VOTE; WHEN REQUIRED.
   (A)   A requirement that an ordinance, resolution or other action of the
Town Council be passed by a majority vote means at least a majority vote of all
the elected members.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.4(a))
   (B)   A majority vote of the Town Council is required to pass an ordinance
unless a greater vote is required by statute.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.6)
§ 31.081 TWO-THIRDS’ VOTE; WHEN REQUIRED.
   (A)   A requirement that an ordinance, resolution or other action of the
Town Council be passed by a two-thirds’ vote means at least a two-thirds’ vote
of all the elected members.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.4(b))
   (B)   A two-thirds’ vote of all the elected members, after unanimous consent
of the members present to consider the ordinance, is required to pass an
ordinance of the Town Council on the same day or at the same meeting at which
it is introduced.
   (C)   Division (B) above does not apply to the following:
      (1)   A zoning ordinance or an amendment to a zoning ordinance adopted
under I.C. 36-7; or
      (2)   An ordinance to increase the number of Town Council members adopted
under I.C. 36-5-2-4.2, unless the ordinance also establishes new Town Council
districts.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.8)
§ 31.082 DATE OF ADOPTION; PUBLICATION.
   (A)   An ordinance, order or resolution passed by the Town Council is
considered adopted when it is signed by the President of Council. If required
by statute, an adopted ordinance, order or resolution must be promulgated or
published before it takes effect.
   (B)   An ordinance prescribing a penalty or forfeiture for a violation must,
before it takes effect, be published in the manner prescribed by I.C. 5-3-
1 unless:
      (1)   It is published under division (C) below; or
      (2)   It declares an emergency requiring its immediate effectiveness and
is posted in:
         (a)   One public place in each district in the town; or
         (b)   A number of public places in the town equal to the number of
Town Council members, if the town has abolished Town Council districts under
I.C. 36-5-2-4.1.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (E) below, if the town publishes any of
its ordinances in book or pamphlet form, no other publication is required. If
an ordinance prescribing a penalty or forfeiture for a violation is published
under this division (C), it takes effect two weeks after the publication of the
book or pamphlet. Publication under this division, if authorized by the Town
Council, constitutes presumptive evidence:
      (1)   Of the ordinances in the book or pamphlet;
      (2)   Of the date of adoption of the ordinances; and
      (3)   That the ordinances have been properly signed, attested, recorded
and approved.
   (D)   This section (other than division (F) below) does not apply to a
zoning ordinance or to an amendment to a zoning ordinance, or a resolution
approving a comprehensive plan, that is adopted under I.C. 36-7.
   (E)   An ordinance increasing a building permit fee on new development must:
      (1)   Be published one time in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1, and not later
than 30 days after the ordinance is adopted by the Town Council in accordance
with I.C. 5-3-1; and
      (2)   Delay the implementation of the fee increase for 90 days after the
date the ordinance is published under division (E)(1) above.
   (F)   Subject to division (J) below, the Town Council shall:
      (1)   Subject to division (G) below, give written notice to the
Department of Environmental Management not later than 60 days before amendment
or repeal of an environmental restrictive ordinance; and
      (2)   Give written notice to the Department of Environmental Management
not later than 30 days after passage, amendment or repeal of an environmental
restrictive ordinance.
   (G)   Upon written request by the Town Council, the Department of
Environmental Management may waive the notice requirement of division (F)(1)
above.
   (H)   An environmental restrictive ordinance passed or amended after 2009 by
the Town Council must state the notice requirements of division (F) above.
   (I)   The failure of an environmental restrictive ordinance to comply with
division (H) above does not void the ordinance.
   (J)   The notice requirements of division (F) above apply only if the
municipal corporation received under I.C. 13-25-5-8.5(f) written notice that
the department is relying on the environmental restrictive ordinance referred
to in division (F) above as part of a risk based remediation proposal:
      (1)   Approved by the Department; and
      (2)   Conducted under I.C. 13-22, I.C. 13-23, I.C. 13-24, I.C. 13-25-4 or
I.C. 13-25-5.
(I.C. 36-5-2-10)
§ 31.083 RECORD OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Within a reasonable time after an ordinance of the Town Council is
adopted, the Clerk- Treasurer shall record it in a book kept for that purpose.
The record must include:
      (1)   The signature of the President of Council;
      (2)   The attestation of the Clerk-Treasurer; and
      (3)   The date of each recorded item.
   (B)   The record or a certified copy of it constitutes presumptive evidence
of the adoption of the ordinance.
(I.C. 36-5-2-10.2)
CHAPTER 32: TOWN OFFICIALS AND ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Clerk-Treasurer
   
32.01   Residency requirement
   
32.02   Election; term of office
   
32.03   Powers and duties
   
32.04   Deputies and employees
   
32.05   Office space
   
32.06   Vacancy in office
Town Marshal
   
32.20   Appointment; compensation
   
32.21   Removal from office; discipline
   
32.22   Powers and duties
   
32.23   Service as Street Commissioner and Fire Chief
   
32.24   Deputy Marshals; Humane Officer
   
32.25   Body armor
Organizations
   
32.40   Department of Redevelopment; Redevelopment Commission
   
32.41   Board of Storm Water Management
CLERK-TREASURER
§ 32.01 RESIDENCY REQUIREMENT.
    The Clerk-Treasurer must reside within the town as provided in Indiana
Constitution Article 6, § 6. The Clerk-Treasurer forfeits office if the Clerk-
Treasurer ceases to be a resident of the town. An individual who resides in
territory that is annexed by the town before the election is considered a
resident of the town for purposes of this section, even if the annexation took
effect less than one year before the election.
(I.C. 36-5-6-3(a))
§ 32.02 ELECTION; TERM OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Election. The Clerk-Treasurer shall be elected under I.C. 3-10-6 or 3-
10-7 by the voters of the whole town.
(I.C. 36-5-6-4)
   (B)   Term of office. Except as provided in I.C. 36-5-6-3(c), (d), (e) or
(f), the term of office of the Clerk-Treasurer is four years, beginning at 12:
00 p.m. on January 1 after election and continuing until a successor is elected
and qualified.
(I.C. 36-5-6-3(b))
§ 32.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)    Except as provided in I.C. 36-5-6.5, the Clerk-Treasurer is both the
Town Clerk and the Town Fiscal Officer.
(I.C. 36-5-6-2)
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer may administer oaths, take depositions and take
acknowledgments of instruments required by statute to be acknowledged.
(I.C. 36-5-6-5)
   (C)   This section does not apply to a town that has adopted an ordinance
under I.C. 36-5-6.5. The Clerk-Treasurer shall do the following:
      (1)   Receive and care for all town money and pay the money out only on
order of the Town Council;
      (2)   Keep accounts showing when and from what sources the Clerk-
Treasurer has received town money, and when and to whom the Clerk-Treasurer has
paid out town money;
      (3)   Prescribe payroll and account forms for all town offices;
      (4)   Prescribe the manner in which creditors, officers and employees
shall be paid;
      (5)   Manage the finances and accounts of the town and make investments
of town money;
      (6)   Prepare for the Town Council the budget estimates of miscellaneous
revenue, financial statements and the proposed tax rate;
      (7)   Maintain custody of the town seal and the records of the Town
Council;
      (8)   Issue all licenses authorized by statute and collect the fees fixed
by ordinance;
      (9)   Serve as Clerk of the Town Council by attending its meetings and
recording its proceedings;
      (10)   Administer oaths, take depositions and take acknowledgment of
instruments that are required by statute to be acknowledged, without charging a
fee;
      (11)   Serve as clerk of the town court under I.C. 33-35-3-2, if the
judge of the court does not serve as clerk of the court or appoint a clerk of
the court under I.C. 33-35-3-1;
      (12)   Perform all other duties prescribed by statute; and
(I.C. 36-5-6-6)
      (13)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-4-8-14 and I.C. 36-5-4-12 allows city and
towns legislative bodies to adopt an ordinance allowing the Fiscal Officers to
make claim payments in advance of Council allowance for the following kind of
expenses:
         (a)   Property or services purchased or leased from the United States
Government, of its political subdivisions;
         (b)   License or permit fees;
         (c)   Insurance premiums;
         (d)   Utility payments or utility connecting charges;
         (e)   General grant programs where advance funding is not prohibited
and the contracting party post sufficient security to cover the amount
advanced;
         (f)   Grant of state funds authorized by statute;
         (g)   Maintenance or service agreements;
         (h)   Leases or rental agreements;
         (i)   Bond or coupon payments;
         (j)   Payroll;
         (k)   State, federal and county taxes;
         (l)   Credit card payments to avoid late payments; and
         (m)   Board approved contracts.
(Ord. 2019-3, passed 12-3-2019)
§ 32.04 DEPUTIES AND EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall appoint the number of deputies and employees
needed for the effective operation of the office, with the approval of the Town
Council. The Clerk-Treasurer’s deputies and employees serve at the Clerk-
Treasurer’s pleasure.
   (B)   If the town owns a utility and the Clerk-Treasurer is directly
responsible for the billing and collection of that utility’s rates and charges,
the Clerk-Treasurer shall appoint those employees who are also responsible for
that billing and collection. These employees serve at the Clerk-Treasurer’s
pleasure.
   (C)   If the Clerk-Treasurer is unable to perform the fiscal requirements of
the Clerk-Treasurer’s position, the town shall hire or contract with a
qualified certified public accountant to:
      (1)   Provide guidance to the Clerk-Treasurer regarding the performance
of the Clerk- Treasurer’s responsibilities; or
      (2)   Perform the Clerk-Treasurer’s fiscal responsibilities.
   (D)   The Clerk-Treasurer is considered to be unable to perform the fiscal
requirements of the Clerk-Treasurer’s position if the town is declared
unauditable under I.C. 5-11-1-9(b).
(I.C. 36-5-6-7)
   (E)   (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer may hire or contract with competent
attorneys or legal research assistants on terms the Clerk-Treasurer considers
appropriate.
      (2)   Appropriations for the salaries of attorneys and legal research
assistants employed under this division (C) shall be approved in the annual
budget and must be allocated to the Clerk- Treasurer for the payment of
attorneys’ and legal research assistants’ salaries.
(I.C. 36-5-6-8)
§ 32.05 OFFICE SPACE.
   If office space exists in a building owned or leased by the town, the Town
Council shall provide suitable office space for the Clerk-Treasurer and staff
and records of the Clerk-Treasurer.
(I.C. 36-5-6-5.1)
§ 32.06 VACANCY IN OFFICE.
   (A)    This section applies if the office of Town Clerk-Treasurer is vacant
and the Town Council is unable to fill the office under I.C. 3-13-9-3.
   (B)   The Town Council may select a Town Council member, who shall assume
the duties of the office of Clerk-Treasurer. For purposes of Indiana
Constitution Article 2, § 9 and state law, if a Town Council member serves as
the ex officio Clerk-Treasurer, the duties assumed by the Town Council member:
      (1)   Are considered part of the duties prescribed by law for the office
of Town Council member; and
      (2)   Are not considered a second office. A Town Council member may not
receive any additional compensation for assuming the duties of the Clerk-
Treasurer.
   (C)   The town legislative body may either:
      (1)   Enter into an interlocal agreement under I.C. 36-1-7 with the
Clerk-Treasurer and town legislative body of another town in the state to
assist the town legislative body member selected under division (B) above in
performing the duties of the Clerk-Treasurer’s office, provided that the
agreement may not last longer than the remainder of the vacant Clerk-
Treasurer’s term and must meet the requirements of I.C. 36-1-7; or
      (2)   Enter into a contract with a certified public accountant to assist
the town legislative body member selected under division (B) above in
performing the duties of the Clerk-Treasurer’s office, provided that the
contract may not last longer than the remainder of the vacant Clerk-Treasurer’s
term.
   (D)   If, after reasonable diligence, the town is unable to meet the
requirements under division (C) above, the town may hire any qualified person
to perform the duties of the Clerk-Treasurer’s office until the vacancy can be
filled under I.C. 3-13-9-3, or until the end of the current Clerk-Treasurer’s
term, whichever is first.
(I.C. 36-5-6-9)
TOWN MARSHAL
§ 32.20 APPOINTMENT; COMPENSATION.
   The Town Council shall appoint the Town Marshal and shall fix his or her
compensation.
(I.C. 36-5-7-2)
§ 32.21 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE; DISCIPLINE.
   The Town Marshal serves at the pleasure of the Town Council. However, before
terminating or suspending a Town Marshal who has been employed by the town for
more than six months after completing the minimum basic training requirements
adopted by the Law Enforcement Training Board under I.C. 5-2-1-9, the Town
Council must conduct the disciplinary removal and appeals procedures prescribed
by I.C. 36-8 for municipal fire and police departments.
(I.C. 36-5-7-3)
§ 32.22 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Town Marshal is the chief police officer of the town and has the
powers of other law enforcement officers in executing the orders of the Town
Council and enforcing laws.
   (B)   The Town Marshal or his or her deputy:
      (1)   Shall serve all process directed to him or her by the Town Court or
Town Council;
      (2)   Shall arrest without process all persons who commit an offense
within his or her view, take them before a court having jurisdiction and detain
them in custody until the cause of the arrest has been investigated;
      (3)   Shall suppress breaches of the peace;
      (4)   May, if necessary, call the power of the town to his or her aid;
      (5)   May execute search warrants and arrest warrants; and
      (6)   May pursue and jail persons who commit an offense.
(I.C. 36-5-7-4)
§ 32.23 SERVICE AS STREET COMMISSIONER AND FIRE CHIEF.
   The Town Council may require the Town Marshal to serve as the Street
Commissioner, Chief of the Fire Department or both.
(I.C. 36-5-7-5)
§ 32.24 DEPUTY MARSHALS; HUMANE OFFICER.
   (A) The Town Council shall by ordinance fix the number of Deputy Marshals.
The Town Council may by ordinance authorize the Town Marshal to appoint Deputy
Marshals. Deputy Marshals have the powers and liabilities of the Town Marshal
in executing the orders of the Town Council or enforcing laws.
   (B)   One Deputy Marshal may be designated as the Town Humane Officer. He or
she has the duties prescribed by I.C. 36-8 for municipal humane officers.
   (C)   The Town Council shall fix the amount of bond, compensation and term
of service of deputy marshals. The Town Marshal may dismiss a deputy marshal at
any time. However, a deputy marshal who has been employed by the town for more
than six months after completing the minimum basic training requirements
adopted by the Law Enforcement Training Board under I.C. 5-2-1-9 may be
dismissed only if the procedure prescribed by §
32.21 of this chapter is followed.
(I.C. 36-5-7-6)
§ 32.25 BODY ARMOR.
   (A)   As used in this section, BODY ARMOR has the meaning set forth in I.C.
35-47-5-13(a).
   (B)   After December 31, 2010, a town shall provide the Town Marshal and
active Deputy Marshals of the town with body armor for the torso. The town
shall replace the body armor for the torso according to the replacement period
recommended by the manufacturer of the body armor for the torso.
   (C)   The Town Marshal and active Deputy Marshals of the town may not be
required to pay for maintenance of the body armor for the torso furnished under
this section.
   (D)   Body armor for the torso provided by a town under this section remains
the property of the town. The town may sell the property when it becomes unfit
for use, and all money received shall be paid into the General Fund of the
town.
(I.C. 36-5-7-7)
ORGANIZATIONS
§ 32.40 DEPARTMENT OF REDEVELOPMENT; REDEVELOPMENT COMMISSION.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Department of Redevelopment of the town
(the “Department of Redevelopment”), which shall be entitled to exercise all
the rights, powers, privileges and immunities accorded to such department by
I.C. 36-7-14.
   (B)   Such Department of Redevelopment shall be under the control of a Board
of five voting members and one non-voting member to be known as the “Town of
Selma Redevelopment Commission”.
   (C)   (1)   There is hereby created a board to be known as the “Town of
Selma Redevelopment Commission”. Three of said Commissioners shall be appointed
by the President of the Town Council, and two shall be appointed by the Town
Council. In addition, the Town Council President shall appoint one non-voting
member from the membership of a school board of a school corporation located
wholly or partly within the town. Each Redevelopment Commissioner shall serve
for one year from January 1 after his or her appointment and until his or her
successor is appointed and has qualified; except that, the original
Commissioners shall serve from the date of their appointment until January 1 in
the second year after their appointment. If a vacancy occurs, a successor shall
be appointed in the same manner as the original Commissioner, and the successor
shall serve for the remainder of the vacated term.
      (2)   Each Redevelopment Commissioner, before beginning his or her
duties, shall take and subscribe an oath of office in the form prescribed by
law, to be endorsed on the certificate of his or her appointment, which shall
be promptly filed with the Clerk-Treasurer of the town.
      (3)   Each Redevelopment Commissioners before beginning his or her
duties, shall execute a bond payable to the state, with surety to be approved
by the Town Council. The bond must be in a penal sum of $15,000 and must be
conditioned on the faithful performance of the duties of his or her office and
the accounting for all monies and property that may come into his or her hands
or under his or her control. The cost of the bond shall be paid by the
Redevelopment District.
   (D)   Such Commissioners shall have the qualifications prescribed by the
laws of the state as from time to time amended and shall qualify as therein
provided; and shall exercise and enjoy the rights and powers and assume the
duties and obligations conferred and imposed by I.C. 36-7-14, including, but
not limited to, the following qualifications.
      (1)   A Redevelopment Commissioner must be at least 18 years of age and
must be a resident of the town. If a Commissioner ceases to be qualified under
this section, he or she forfeits his or her office.
      (2)   No Redevelopment Commissioner of the town shall receive a salary;
but such Redevelopment Commissioners are entitled to reimbursement for expenses
necessarily incurred in the performance of their duties.
      (3)   A Redevelopment Commissioner may not have a pecuniary interest in
any contract, employment, purchase or sale made under the provisions of this
section and I.C. 36-7-14. However, any property required for redevelopment
purposes in which a Commissioner has a pecuniary interest may be acquired, but
only by gift or condemnation. A transaction made in violation of this division
(D) is void.
   (E)   The Clerk-Treasurer of the town charged by law with the performance of
duties in respect to the funds and accounts of the town, shall perform the same
duties with respect to the funds and accounts of the Department of
Redevelopment, except as otherwise provided for in I.C. 36-7-14.
(Ord. 2014-6, passed 5-7-2014)
§ 32.41 BOARD OF STORM WATER MANAGEMENT.
   (A)    The Town Council adopts the provisions of I.C. 8-1.5-5 establishing a
Department of Storm Water Management governed by a board of storm water
management and a storm water district.
   (B)   The Town Council creates a special taxing district that includes all
territory within the town’s corporate boundaries as provided in I.C. 8-1.5-5-5.
   (C)   The Town Council hereby expands the Storm Water Board from a three
member board to a five member board.
      (1)   The five Town Council Board members are hereby authorized to serve
as the Storm Water Board.
      (2)   There shall be no additional compensation paid to the Town Council
for this role.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 9-8-2015; Ord. 2023-01, passed 2-14-2023)
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE
Section
Disbursement of Funds
   
33.01   Appropriation required
   
33.02   Issue of warrants
   
33.03   Allowance of claims
   
33.04   Warrants for payment of claims
   
33.05   Payment of compensation to officer or employee prior to vacation leave
   
33.06   Claim payments in advance of allowance
   
33.07   Transfer of funds
Budgets
   
33.30   Preparation of annual budget estimates
   
33.31   Preparation and approval of ordinance fixing tax rate; making annual
appropriations
   
33.32   Increase or decrease of appropriations after approval of ordinance
General Town Fiscal Policies
   
33.45   Expenditures; authorizations
   
33.46   Credit card purchasing
   
33.47   Electronic funds transfers; online banking
   
33.48   Capital asset policy
   
33.49   Police Department fees
   
33.50   Promotion of the town’s best interests
   
33.51   Internal control standards and materiality threshold
DISBURSEMENT OF FUNDS
§ 33.01 APPROPRIATION REQUIRED.
   Unless a statute provides otherwise, town monies may be disbursed only after
an appropriation made by ordinance of the Town Council and recorded in a book
kept for that purpose by the Town Council. Each appropriation must be made from
the fund against which the expenses arose.
(I.C. 36-5-4-2)
§ 33.02 ISSUE OF WARRANTS.
   (A)   The Town Council or a board of the town may order the issuance of
warrants for payment of money by the town only at a meeting of the Town Council
or board.
   (B)   A town officer who violates this section forfeits his or her office.
(I.C. 36-5-4-3)
§ 33.03 ALLOWANCE OF CLAIMS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
33.06 of this chapter, the Town Council or a board of the town may allow a
claim:
      (1)   Only at a meeting of the Town Council or board; and
      (2)   Only if the claim was filed in the manner prescribed by I.C. 5-11-
10-2 at least five days before the meeting.
   (B)   A town officer who violates this section forfeits his or her office.
(I.C. 36-5-4-4)
§ 33.04 WARRANTS FOR PAYMENT OF CLAIMS.
   (A)   As used in this section, CLAIM means a bill or an invoice submitted
for goods or services.
   (B)   Except as provided in §
33.06 of this chapter, a warrant for payment of a claim against a town may be
issued only if the claim is:
      (1)   Supported by a fully itemized invoice or bill under I.C. 5-11-10-
1.6;
      (2)   Filed with the town’s Fiscal Officer;
      (3)   Certified by the Fiscal Officer before payment that each invoice is
true and correct; and
      (4)   Allowed by the Town Council or by the board of the town having
jurisdiction over allowance of the payment of the claim.
   (C)   The certification by the Fiscal Officer under division (B)(3) above
must be on a form prescribed by the State Board of Accounts.
(I.C. 36-5-4-6)
§ 33.05 PAYMENT OF COMPENSATION TO OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE PRIOR TO VACATION LEAVE.
   One to three days before the vacation leave period of a town officer or
employee begins, the town may pay him or her the amount of compensation he or
she will earn while he or she is on vacation leave.
(I.C. 36-5-4-7)
§ 33.06 CLAIM PAYMENTS IN ADVANCE OF ALLOWANCE.
   (A)    The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to make claim payments in advance
of Town Council allowance for the following types of expenses:
      (1)   Property or services purchased or leased from the United States
government, of its political subdivisions.
      (2)   License or permit fees.
      (3)   Insurance premiums.
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connecting charges.
      (5)   General grant programs where advance funding is not prohibited and
the contracting party post sufficient security to cover the amount advanced.
      (6)   Grant of state funds authorized by statute.
      (7)   Maintenance or service agreements.
      (8)   Leases or rental agreements.
      (9)   Bond or coupon payments.
      (10)   Payroll.
      (11)   State, federal and county taxes.
      (12)   Credit card payments to avoid late payments.
      (13)   Board approved contracts.
   (B)   Each payment of expenses under this section must be supported by a
fully itemized invoice or bill and certification by the Fiscal Officer.
   (C)   The Town Council shall review and allow the claim at the Council’s
next regular or special meeting following the preapproved payment of the
expense.
(I.C. 36-5-4-12) (Ord. 2022-07, passed 12-13-2022)
§ 33.07 TRANSFER OF FUNDS.
   Notwithstanding I.C. 8-14-1 and 8-14-2, the town may transfer money
distributed to the town from the Motor Vehicle Highway Account under I.C. 8-14-
1; the Local Road and Street Account under I.C. 8-14-2; or the Motor Vehicle
Highway Account under I.C. 8-14-1; and the Local Road and Street Account under
I.C. 8-14-2 to any other town fund after the passage of an ordinance or a
resolution by the Town Council that specifies the amount of the transfer, the
funds involved, the date of the transfer and the general purpose of the
transfer. However, the total amount of all money transferred by the town under
this section may not exceed $40,000.
(I.C. 36-5-4-13(b))
BUDGETS
§ 33.30 PREPARATION OF ANNUAL BUDGET ESTIMATES.
   Before the publication (before January 1, 2015) and before the submission of
notice of budget estimates required by I.C. 6-1.1-17-3, the town shall
formulate a budget estimate for the ensuing budget year in the following
manner, unless the town provides by ordinance for a different manner:
   (A)   Each department head shall prepare for the department head’s
department an estimate of the amount of money required for the ensuing budget
year, stating in detail each category and item of expenditure the department
head anticipates;
   (B)   The town’s Fiscal Officer shall prepare an itemized estimate of
revenues available for the ensuing budget year, and shall prepare an itemized
estimate of expenditures for other purposes above the money proposed to be used
by the departments;
   (C)   The President of Council shall meet with the department heads and the
Fiscal Officer to review and revise their various estimates; and
   (D)   After the President’s review and revision, the Fiscal Officer shall
prepare for the President a report of the estimated department budgets,
miscellaneous expenses and revenues necessary or available to finance the
estimates.
(I.C. 36-5-3-3)
§ 33.31 PREPARATION AND APPROVAL OF ORDINANCE FIXING TAX RATE; MAKING ANNUAL
APPROPRIATIONS.
   The town’s Fiscal Officer shall present the report of budget estimates to
the Town Council under I.C. 6-1.1-17. After reviewing the report, the Town
Council shall prepare an ordinance fixing the rate of taxation for the ensuing
budget year and an ordinance making appropriations for the estimated department
budgets and other town purposes during the ensuing budget year. The Town
Council, in the appropriation ordinance, may change any estimated item from the
figure submitted in the report of the Fiscal Officer. The Town Council shall
promptly act on the appropriation ordinance.
(I.C. 36-5-3-4)
§ 33.32 INCREASE OR DECREASE OF APPROPRIATIONS AFTER APPROVAL OF ORDINANCE.
   After the passage of the appropriation ordinance, the Town Council may make
further or additional appropriations by ordinance, unless their result is to
increase the tax levy set under I.C. 6-1.1-17. The Town Council may, by
ordinance, decrease any appropriation set by ordinance.
(I.C. 36-5-3-5)
GENERAL TOWN FISCAL POLICIES
§ 33.45 EXPENDITURES; AUTHORIZATIONS.
   (A)   Town employees shall seek and obtain approval pursuant to the
procedures set forth herein for all purchases of $500 or more prior to the
purchase being made.
   (B)   Town employees shall seek approval for said purchases from the Council
member assigned to oversee the department for which said purchase is being
made, subject to approval by the Clerk- Treasurer.
   (C)   The Council member shall make a determination as to whether the
expenditure request; provided, such expenditure request is approved by the
Clerk-Treasurer, should be granted.
   (D)   The procedure provided for herein shall not be required in the event
that the purchase is being made in response to an emergency situation.
   (E)   Each expenditure using the procedure provided for herein shall
nevertheless be covered under the approved budget.
(Ord. 2020-05, passed 3-10-2020)
§ 33.46 CREDIT CARD PURCHASING.
   (A)   The Town Council hereby approves of the continuing existence and use
of the credit card account, including the payment of any necessary annual fees.
However, no purchases shall be made using any credit card for any item(s) that
exceed a cost of $5,000 without the express prior approval of the Town Council.
   (B)   All credit cards issued in the name of the town shall be kept,
maintained and in the possession of the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
   (C)   The credit cards shall only be used when necessary, in the judgment of
the Clerk-Treasurer, for the efficient and expedient purchase of supplies and
materials for the ownership, use and benefit of the town.
   (D)   Any and all town employees needing to use a credit card as described
above shall present to their supervisor a request specifying the item(s) to be
purchased, the identity of the merchant, the cost of the item(s) and the town’s
fund that should be charged. If approved by the supervisor, the request shall
be presented to the Clerk-Treasurer, and the employee shall write down the date
and time of the return of the credit card. Upon return, the employee shall also
deliver to the Clerk-Treasurer a written or printed receipt for the item(s)
purchased. The Clerk-Treasurer shall maintain a log or accounting of all
approved written requests, dates and times of sign-outs and returns and will
provide receipts for items purchased to the accounts payable clerk.
   (E)   Any employee using a town credit card in violation of the above policy
shall be responsible for reimbursing the town for any and all amounts charged
on the credit cards, and shall further be subject to discipline pursuant to the
town’s employee rules, regulations and benefits.
(Ord. 2016-02, passed 6-7-2016)
§ 33.47 ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFERS; ONLINE BANKING.
   (A)   Automatic clearing house (ACH) transactions. ACH transactions are
hereby authorized for the Clerk-Treasurer to make certain payments via ACH.
Authorized payments are payroll, bond payments and payments for monthly bills.
Also authorized are any funds received via ACH.
   (B)   Electronic funds transfers (EFT) including online transfers. The Town
Council authorizes the use of online transfers for the purpose of transferring
funds to the Account Payable Checking Account from the general checking account
in the process of paying claims/invoices. Also authorized are any funds
received via EFT.
   (C)   Documentation. The Clerk-Treasurer is required to maintain adequate
documentation of the above-referenced transactions for future audits, as
provided by law.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 8-7-2018)
§ 33.48 CAPITAL ASSET POLICY.
   The capital asset policy of the town, attached to the ordinance codified
herein as Exhibit A and incorporated herein by reference, is hereby adopted by
Town Council and shall be used by each and every town department for inventory
control purposes beginning July 1, 2020.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 3-10-2020)
§ 33.49 POLICE DEPARTMENT FEES.
   (A)   The town’s Police Department is hereby authorized to charge and
collect the following fees as set forth herein and such fees shall be deposited
into the Continuing Education Fund of the town’s Police Department:
Accident/crash reports                          $8
Crash/crime scene photo prints, per print       $2
Crash/crime scene photo CD                      $20
Crash/crime scene video interview, per CD/DVD   $20
Crash/crime scene video copy                    $50
Criminal history checks                         $10
Facsimile transmission services                 $5
Fingerprinting services (excludes jail booking) $10
Incident/case reports, per page                 $0.35
Motor checks                                    $5
Out of county/state paper service, per service  $60
 
   (B)   Said funds are exempt from needing appropriation.
(Ord. 2014-8, passed 12-2-2014)
§ 33.50 PROMOTION OF THE TOWN’S BEST INTERESTS.
   (A)    The Town Council is hereby authorized to budget and appropriate funds
from the General Fund or from other funds to pay the expenses incurred in
promoting the betterment of the municipality.
   (B)   These expenses may include, but are not necessarily limited to, the
following:
      (1)   Membership dues in local, regional, state, and national
associations of a civic, educational, or governmental nature, which have as
their purpose the betterment and improvement of municipal operations;
      (2)   Direct expenses for travel, meals, and lodging in conjunction with
municipal business, meetings, or organizations to which the municipality
belongs;
      (3)   Expenses incurred in the promotion of tourism, residential
development, economic or industrial development for the municipality, including
meeting room rental, decorations, meals, travel, and promotional booths;
      (4)   Commemorative plaques, certificates, or objects such as
commemorative keys;
      (5)   Annual employee dinner to promote the betterment and morale of town
employees;
      (6)   Items to recognize employees such as a retirement gift, cake,
dinner, and the like, and gifts such as flowers for an illness of an employee
or death in family;
      (7)   Remembrance memorabilia for employees that have passed away;
      (8)   Expenses incurred in the promotion of the town such as town shirts,
cups, pens, and the like; and
      (9)   Other purposes which are deemed by the Town Council to directly
relate to the promotion and betterment of the town.
(Ord. 2022-02, passed 4-12-2022; Ord. 2023-06, passed 10-14-2023)
§ 33.51 INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS AND MATERIALITY THRESHOLD.
   The town hereby adopts the acceptable minimum level of internal control
standards in the Internal Control Policy attached to Ord. 2022-08 and
incorporated as Exhibit A.
(Ord. 2022-08, passed 12-13-2022)
CHAPTER 34: ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
Section
   
34.01   Establishment
   
34.02   Violations Clerk designated
   
34.03   Duties of Clerk
   
34.04   Schedule of fines
   
34.05   Right to trial
   
34.06   Denial; exercise of the right to trial
   
34.07   Failure to appear or to satisfy assessed civil penalty; report;
prosecution
   
34.08   Court costs fee; admitted violations
   
34.09   Disposition of civil penalties and costs collected
§ 34.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The Town Council may establish, by ordinance or code, an Ordinance
Violations Bureau.
(I.C. 33-36-2-1)
§ 34.02 VIOLATIONS CLERK DESIGNATED.
   (A)   Upon the creation of a Bureau, the Town Council shall provide for the
appointment of a Violations Clerk, who may be the Clerk-Treasurer of the
municipality, to be the administrator of the Bureau.
(I.C. 33-36-2-1)
   (B)   If the Town Council does not establish an Ordinance Violations Bureau
under §
34.01 of this chapter, the Clerk-Treasurer of the town is designated the
Violations Clerk for purposes of this chapter.
(I.C. 33-36-2-2)
§ 34.03 DUTIES OF CLERK.
   In ordinance violation cases, subject to the schedule prescribed under I.C.
33-36-3 by the Town Council, the Violations Clerk may accept the following:
   (A)   Written appearances;
   (B)   Waivers of trial;
   (C)   Admissions of violations; and
   (D)   Payment of civil penalties up to a specific dollar amount set forth in
an ordinance adopted by the Town Council, but not more than $250.
(I.C. 33-36-2-3)
§ 34.04 SCHEDULE OF FINES.
   (A)   Upon the appointment or designation of the Violations Clerk as
provided by §
34.01 of this chapter, the Town Council shall designate, by ordinance or code,
a schedule of ordinance and code provisions that are subject to admission of
violation before the Violations Clerk and the amount of civil penalty to be
assessed to a violator who elects to admit a violation under this chapter.
   (B)   Civil penalties shall be paid to, receipted by, and accounted for by
the Clerk under procedures provided for by the State Board of Accounts. Payment
of civil penalties under this chapter may be made in person, by mail, or to an
agent or agents designated by the Town Council.
(I.C. 33-36-3-1)
§ 34.05 RIGHT TO TRIAL.
   A person charged with an ordinance or a code violation is entitled to a
trial before a court as provided by law, unless the person waives the right to
trial and enters an admission of the violation with the Violations Clerk. Upon
an admission, the Clerk shall assess and receive from the violator the amount
prescribed by the schedule of civil penalties established under §
34.04 of this chapter.
(I.C. 33-36-3-2)
§ 34.06 DENIAL; EXERCISE OF THE RIGHT TO TRIAL.
   If a person charged with a violation wants to exercise the right to trial,
the person shall appear before the Violations Clerk and deny the violation or
enter a written denial with the Clerk.
(I.C. 33-36-3-3)
§ 34.07 FAILURE TO APPEAR OR TO SATISFY ASSESSED CIVIL PENALTY; REPORT;
PROSECUTION.
   (A)   If a person does any of the following, then the Violations Clerk shall
report this fact to the official having the responsibility to prosecute
ordinance violation cases for the town:
      (1)   Denies an ordinance or code violation under this chapter;
      (2)   Fails to satisfy a civil penalty assessed by the Violations Clerk
after having entered an admission of violation; or
      (3)   Fails to deny or admit the violation under this chapter.
   (B)   Proceedings in court against the person shall then be initiated for
the alleged ordinance violation.
(I.C. 33-36-3-5)
§ 34.08 COURT COSTS FEE; ADMITTED VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   An ordinance violation admitted under this chapter does not constitute
a judgment for the purposes of I.C. 33-37. An ordinance violation costs fee may
not be collected from the defendant under I.C. 33-37-4.
   (B)   An ordinance violation processed under this chapter may not be
considered for the purposes of I.C. 33-37-7-6 when determining the percentage
of ordinance violations prosecuted in certain courts.
(I.C. 33-36-3-6)
§ 34.09 DISPOSITION OF CIVIL PENALTIES AND COSTS COLLECTED.
   (A)   Subject to division (B) below, all sums collected by the Violations
Clerk as civil penalties for ordinance violations shall be accounted for and
paid to the town as provided by law.
   (B)   If a city or town that has not established a court under I.C. 33-35-
1 or an ordinance violations bureau under I.C. 33-36-2 has entered into an
interlocal agreement described in I.C. 33-36-2-4 with a municipal corporation,
the sums collected by the Violations Clerk that involve the city or town that
has not established a court or an ordinance violations bureau shall be
accounted for and paid as provided in the interlocal agreement.
(I.C. 33-36-3-7)
CHAPTER 35: TOWN POLICIES
Section
Tort Claims Against Town
   
35.01   Clerk-Treasurer to receive notice
   
35.02   Form and service of notice
Vacations of Streets and Alleys
   
35.15   Responsibility for costs and expenses
   
35.16   Recording costs and expenses
   
35.17   Tendered costs
Electronic Meeting Participation
   
35.30   Title; application
   
35.31   Electronic participation requirements
   
35.32   Electronic participation restrictions
   
35.33   Meeting minutes and memoranda
   
35.34   Final action restricts electronic participation
Cross-reference:
   Compensation for officers and employees, see
Ch. 30
   General fiscal policies, see
Ch. 33
TORT CLAIMS AGAINST TOWN
§ 35.01 CLERK-TREASURER TO RECEIVE NOTICE.
   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is hereby designated as the town official to
receive notice of a tort claim under I.C. 34-13-3-1 et seq.
§ 35.02 FORM AND SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   (A)   The notice of a tort claim against the town must be in writing and
must be delivered in person or by registered or certified mail.
(I.C. 34-13-3-12)
   (B)   The notice must comply with the provisions of I.C. 34-13-3-1 et seq.
VACATIONS OF STREETS AND ALLEYS
§ 35.15 RESPONSIBILITY FOR COSTS AND EXPENSES.
   All costs and expenses associated with providing notice by certified mail
and/or publication of any public hearing regarding a petition to vacate a
public way or place pursuant to I.C. 36-7-3-12 shall be the responsibility of
the person(s) petitioning for the vacation of the public way.
(Ord. 2017-04, passed 11-7-2017)
§ 35.16 RECORDING COSTS AND EXPENSES.
   All costs and expenses associated with recording any ordinance approving a
petition to vacate a public way pursuant to I.C. 36-7-3-12 shall be the
responsibility of the person(s) petition for the vacation of the public way.
(Ord. 2017-04, passed 11-7-2017)
§ 35.17 TENDERED COSTS.
   The Clerk-Treasurer of the town may require that the costs of providing
notice by certified mail and/or publication be tendered by the petitioner prior
to providing said notice(s).
(Ord. 2017-04, passed 11-7-2017)
ELECTRONIC MEETING PARTICIPATION
§ 35.30 TITLE; APPLICATION.
   (A)   The provisions of I.C. 5-14-1.5-1 et seq., as amended (the “Act”),
including definitions, apply to this subchapter.
   (B)   This subchapter shall be known as the “Electronic Meetings Policy” of
the Council and applies to the Council and to any committee appointed directly
by the Council or its presiding officer.
(Res. 2021-02, passed 7-13-2021)
§ 35.31 ELECTRONIC PARTICIPATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Subject to §§
35.32 and
35.34 of this chapter, any member may participate in a meeting by any
electronic means of communication that:
      (1)   Allows all participating members of the governing body to
simultaneously communicate with each other; and
      (2)   Other than a meeting that is an executive session, allows the
public to simultaneously attend and observe the meeting.
   (B)   A member who participates by an electronic means of communication:
      (1)   Shall be considered present for purposes of establishing a quorum;
and
      (2)   May participate in final action only if the member can be seen and
heard.
   (C)   All votes taken during a meeting at which at least one member
participates by an electronic means of communication must be taken by roll call
vote.
(Res. 2021-02, passed 7-13-2021)
§ 35.32 ELECTRONIC PARTICIPATION RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   At least 50% of the members must be physically present at a meeting at
which a member will participate by means of electronic communication. Not more
than 50% of the members may participate by an electronic means of communication
at that same meeting.
   (B)   A member may not attend more than 50% of the meetings in a calendar
year by an electronic means of communication unless the member’s electronic
participation is due to:
      (1)   Military service;
      (2)   Illness or other medical condition;
      (3)   Death of a relative; or
      (4)   An emergency involving actual or threatened injury to persons or
property.
   (C)   A member may attend two consecutive meetings (a set of meetings) by
electronic communication. A member must attend in person at least one meeting
between sets of meetings that the member attends by electronic communication
unless the member’s absence is due to:
      (1)   Military service;
      (2)   Illness or other medical condition;
      (3)   Death of a relative; or
      (4)   An emergency involving actual or threatened injury to persons or
property.
(Res. 2021-02, passed 7-13-2021)
§ 35.33 MEETING MINUTES AND MEMORANDA.
   The minutes or memoranda of a meeting at which any member participates by
electronic means of communication must:
   (A)   Identify each member who:
      (1)   Was physically present at the meeting;
      (2)   Participated in the meeting by electronic means of communication;
and
      (3)   Was absent.
   (B)   Identify the electronic means of communication by which:
      (1)   Members participated in the meeting; and
      (2)   Members of the public attended and observed the meeting if the
meeting was not an executive session.
(Res. 2021-02, passed 7-13-2021)
§ 35.34 FINAL ACTION RESTRICTS ELECTRONIC PARTICIPATION.
   No member of the Council may participate by means of electronic
communication in a meeting at which the Council may take final action to:
   (A)   Adopt a budget;
   (B)   Make a reduction in personnel;
   (C)   Initiate a referendum;
   (D)   Impose or increase a fee;
   (E)   Impose or increase a penalty;
   (F)   Exercise the Council’s power of eminent domain; or
   (G)   Establish, impose, raise or renew a tax.
(Res. 2021-02, passed 7-13-2021)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
[Reserved]
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.20   Establishment and maintenance of traffic-control devices
   
70.21   Obedience to signals
   
70.22   Interference with signals
   
70.23   Unauthorized signals or markings
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. The following vehicles:
      (1)   Fire Department vehicles;
      (2)   Police Department vehicles;
      (3)   Ambulances;
      (4)   Emergency vehicles operated by or for hospitals or health and
hospital corporations under I.C. 16-22-8;
      (5)   Vehicles designated as emergency vehicles by the State Department
of Transportation under I.C. 9-21-20-1;
      (6)   Motor vehicles that, subject to I.C. 9-21-20-2, are approved by the
State Emergency Medical Services Commission, that are:
         (a)   Ambulances that are owned by persons, firms, limited liability
companies or corporations other than hospitals; or
         (b)   Not ambulances and that provide emergency medical services,
including extrication and rescue services (as defined in I.C. 16-18-2-110).
      (7)   Vehicles of the Department of Correction that, subject to I.C. 9-
21-20-3, are:
         (a)   Designated by the Department of Correction as emergency
vehicles; and
         (b)   Responding to an emergency.
(I.C. 9-13-2-6)
   DRIVER. A person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
(I.C. 9-13-2-47)
   ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE. A self-balancing, two non-
tandem- wheeled device that is designed to transport only one person and that
has the following:
      (1)   An electric propulsion system with average power of 750 watts or
one horsepower; and
      (2)   A maximum speed of less than 20 mph when operated on a paved level
surface, when powered solely by the propulsion system referred to in division
(1) of this definition, and when operated by an operator weighing 170 pounds.
(I.C. 9-13-2-49.3)
   HIGHWAY or STREET. The entire width between the boundary lines of every
publicly maintained way when any part of the way is open to the use of the
public for purposes of vehicular travel in Indiana. The term includes an alley.
(I.C. 9-13-2-73)
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within:
         (a)   The prolongation or connection of the lateral curb lines, or if
none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways of two highways that join
at or approximately at right angles; or
         (b)   The area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways
joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
      (2)   Where a highway includes two roadways at least 30 feet apart, every
crossing of each roadway of the divided highway by an intersecting highway is
regarded as a separate intersection. If the intersecting highway also includes
two roadways at least 30 feet apart, every crossing of two roadways of the
intersecting highway is regarded as a separate INTERSECTION.
(I.C. 9-13-2-84)
   MOTOR VEHICLE.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this definition, a vehicle that is
self-propelled. The term does not include a farm tractor, an implement of
agriculture designed to be operated primarily in a farm field or on farm
premises, an electric bicycle, an electric foot scooter or an electric personal
assistive mobility device as those terms are defined in I.C. 9-13-2-56, 9-13-2-
77 and this section.
      (2)   MOTOR VEHICLE also means:
         (a)   A vehicle that is self-propelled; or
         (b)   A vehicle that is propelled by electric power obtained from
overhead trolley wires, but not operated upon rails.
(I.C. 9-13-2-105(a) and (b))
   MOTORCYCLE.
      (1)   A motor vehicle with motive power that:
         (a)   Has a seat or saddle for the use of the rider;
         (b)   Is designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact
with the ground; and
         (c)   Satisfies the operational and equipment specifications described
in 49 C.F.R. part 571 and I.C. 9-19.
      (2)   The term includes an autocycle, but does not include a farm
tractor, an electric bicycle or a motor driven cycle.
(I.C. 9-13-2-108)
   OPERATOR. An individual who operates a vehicle, watercraft, off-road vehicle
or snowmobile.
(I.C. 9-13-2-118)
   OWNER. A person, other than a lienholder that:
      (1)   Holds the property in or title to, as applicable, a vehicle,
manufactured home, mobile home, off-road vehicle, snowmobile or watercraft; or
      (2)   Is entitled to the use or possession of, as applicable, a vehicle,
manufactured home, off-road vehicle, snowmobile or watercraft, through a lease
or other agreement intended to operate as a security.
(I.C. 9-13-2-121(a))
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of a highway.
(I.C. 9-13-2-155)
   ROADWAY.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (2) below, that part of a highway
improved, designed or ordinarily used for vehicular travel.
      (2)   As used in I.C. 9-21-12-13, the part of a highway that is improved,
designed or ordinarily used for vehicular travel. The term does not include the
sidewalk, berm or shoulder, even if the sidewalk, berm or shoulder is used by
persons riding bicycles or other human powered vehicles.
(I.C. 9-13-2-157)
   STREET. See HIGHWAY.
   THROUGH HIGHWAY. A highway or portion of a highway at the entrance to which
vehicular traffic from intersecting highways is required by law to yield right-
of-way to vehicles on the through highway, in obedience to either a stop sign
or a yield sign.
(I.C. 9-13-2-178)
   VEHICLE. A device in, upon or by which a person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway. The term does not include the following:
      (1)   A device moved by human power;
      (2)   A device that runs only on rails or tracks;
      (3)   A wheelchair; and
      (4)   An electric foot scooter.
(I.C. 9-13-2-196(a))
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.20 ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The town may establish and maintain official traffic-control devices
necessary within the town. All traffic-control devices, including signs, shall
be employed to indicate one particular warning or regulation, shall be uniform
and as far as possible shall be placed uniformly. All traffic-control devices
and signs shall conform to required state specifications.
§ 70.21 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
signal of any official traffic- control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code or of a traffic barrier or sign erected by any
of the public departments or public utilities of the town, or any electric
signal, gate or watchman at railroad crossings, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer. However, the type and the right to or necessity for the barrier
or sign must be approved by the town.
   (B)   The sign, signal, marking or barrier shall have the same authority as
the personal direction of a police officer.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.22 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person without authority to attempt to or in
fact alter, deface, injure, knock down or remove any official control device or
any railroad sign or signal, or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or
any part thereof.
Penalty see §
70.99
§ 70.23 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain or
display on or in view of any street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or
device which purports to be, is an imitation of, or resembles an official
traffic device, railroad sign or signal which attempts or purports to direct
the movement of traffic, or which conceals or hides from view or interferes
with the effectiveness of any official control device or any railroad sign or
signal. No person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit on any street, any traffic sign or signal containing any commercial
advertising.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as restricting any
public department or public utility of the town in any emergency or temporarily
from marking or erecting any traffic barrier or sign whose placing has been
approved by the town.
   (B)   Every such prohibited sign, signal or marking is declared to be a
public nuisance and the town is empowered forthwith to remove it or cause it to
be removed.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this title for
which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine not exceeding $2,500. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Trucks prohibited on certain streets
   
71.02   Stop intersections
   
71.03   One-way streets
Cruising
   
71.20   Definitions
   
71.21   Cruising prohibited
   
71.22   Posting of signs
Statutory reference:
   Authority to enact local traffic regulations, see I.C. 9-21-1-3
   Authority to lower local speed limits, see I.C. 9-21-5-6
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 TRUCKS PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   No trucks, other than pickup trucks and passenger trucks and vans, shall be
allowed to operate on any posted town streets unless they must use the
particular street in question for the purpose of local pickup or delivery.
Posted streets are those which have signs on them indicating that their use by
through trucks is prohibited.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.02 STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The town may designate intersections as stop intersections and require
all vehicles to stop at one or more entrances to the intersections.
   (B)   The town shall post signs at designated intersections, giving notice
of the designation as a stop intersection.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to obey the markings or
signs posted under this section.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.03 ONE-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   The town may designate streets or highways as one-way streets or
highways, and may require that all vehicles operated on the street or highway
be moved in one specific direction.
   (B)   The town shall post signs at the entrance to the street or part of the
street that is affected, giving notice of the designation as a one-way street.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to obey the markings or
signs posted under this section.
Penalty, see §
70.99
CRUISING
§ 71.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONGESTED TRAFFIC.
      (1)   Traffic on any public street, alley or highway which is delaying to
the point that:
         (a)   Motor vehicles cannot move through a 100-yard approach corridor
to an intersection controlled by a traffic light within two complete green-
light cycles, where the delay in forward movement is due to the position of
other motor vehicles;
         (b)   Motor vehicles cannot move through a 100-yard approach corridor
to an intersection controlled by a traffic light, stop sign or yield sign
within a five-minute period of time, where the delay in forward movement is due
to the position of other motor vehicles; or
         (c)   Motor vehicles cannot readily move forward on portions of public
streets, alleys or highways between intersections because traffic speed is
slowed to less than five mph, and the delay in movement is due to the position
of other motor vehicles.
      (2)   The determination that a street, alley or highway is congested
shall be made by the Town Marshal or ranking peace officer on duty within the
affected area.
   CRUISING. The repetitive driving of any motor vehicle past a traffic-control
point in traffic which is congested at or near the traffic control point.
   GREEN LIGHT CYCLE. The period commencing upon the switching of a traffic
light from a red light to a green light through to the return of a red light.
   PEACE OFFICER. The Town Marshal, his or her designee, any member of the Town
Police Department, or other town, county or state official designated to
enforce this subchapter.
   PROPERTY IN THE PROXIMITY OF ANY POSTED NO-CRUISING ZONE. Any property which
is both visible from and located within 300 feet of any portion of a street,
alley or highway which is posted as a no-cruising zone pursuant to this
subchapter.
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL POINT. A location along a public street, alley or highway
utilized by the Town Marshal or a peace officer on duty within the affected
area as an observation point in order to monitor traffic conditions for
potential violations of this title.
§ 71.21 CRUISING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Conduct prohibited. It shall be unlawful to engage in the activity
known as “cruising”, as defined in this subchapter, on the public streets,
alleys or highways of the town in any area which has been posted as a no-
cruising zone.
   (B)   First violation. Any person who violates division (A) above may be
given a written warning stating that any subsequent passage past that traffic
control point within the next succeeding four hours will be a violation of this
subchapter.
   (C)   Subsequent violations. Any person who, after having received a written
warning under division (B) above, subsequently drives past or is a passenger in
a vehicle passing the same traffic-control point within the next succeeding
four hours shall be in violation of this subchapter.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.22 POSTING OF SIGNS.
   This subchapter may be enforced in any area which has been posted as a no-
cruising zone. “No Cruising” signs shall be posted at the beginning and the end
of any public street, alley or highway, or portion thereof, which is a no-
cruising zone.
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   No parking where posted
   
72.02   Limited parking
   
72.03   Other parking restrictions
   
72.04   Parking for persons with physical disability
 
   
72.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority to enact local parking regulations, see I.C. 9-21-1-3
§ 72.01 NO PARKING WHERE POSTED.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle upon the public streets of the
town at any place where official signs or where appropriate devices, marks or
painting, either upon the surface of the street or the curb immediately
adjacent thereto, prohibit those acts.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 LIMITED PARKING.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle upon the public streets of the
town where official signs are erected limiting the parking time thereon, for a
period of time in excess of the time as designated by the official signs.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 OTHER PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   The Town Council may order the placing of signs, devices or marks, or the
painting of streets or curbs, prohibiting or restricting the stopping, standing
or parking of vehicles on any street where, in its opinion, the stopping,
standing or parking is dangerous to those using the highway, or where the
stopping, standing or parking of vehicles would unduly interfere with the free
movement of traffic thereon. The signs, devices, marks or painting shall be
official signs, devices, marks or painting; and no person shall stop, stand or
park any vehicle in violation of the restrictions thereon or as indicated
thereby.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 PARKING FOR PERSONS WITH PHYSICAL DISABILITY.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      PERSON WITH A PHYSICAL DISABILITY. Any person who has been issued a
placard or special registration plate or decal for a motor vehicle by the State
Bureau of Motor Vehicles under I.C. 9-14-5, 9-18-18, 9-18-22 or the laws of
another state.
   (B)   Parking prohibited.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a motor vehicle,
motorcycle, moped, bicycle or other vehicle of any nature, which does not have
displayed a placard for a person with a physical disability issued under the
laws of this state or the laws of another state, in a parking space reserved
for a vehicle of a person with a physical disability.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly park in a parking
space reserved for a person with a physical disability while displaying a
placard to which neither the person nor the person’s passenger is entitled.
   (C)   Violation. If any vehicle is parked unlawfully in violation of any of
the provisions of this section, and the identity of the driver cannot be
determined, the owner or person in whose name the vehicle is registered shall
be held prima facie responsible for the violation.
   (D)   Towing. In addition to any fines which may be given as a result of
violations of this section, any vehicle which is parked in a manner in
violation of this section may be towed to an area designated by the town at the
owner’s expense. The owner shall also be required to pay any and all storage
fees resulting from this action.
Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see I.C. 5-16-9
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction,
be subject to a fine not exceeding $100. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
CHAPTER 73: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
   
73.01   Off-road vehicles
§ 73.01 OFF-ROAD VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      LICENSED PERSON. Any person holding a valid Indiana or other state motor
vehicle operator’s license.
      LOW SPEED VEHICLE. Any two-, three- or four-wheeled motor powered
vehicle:
         (a)   With a maximum design speed of not more than 35 mph;
         (b)   With a maximum weight not to exceed 2,200 pounds; and
         (c)   With the capacity to transport one or more persons from one
place to another for recreational use.
      PERSONAL ASSIST MOBILITY DEVICES. Any three- or four-wheeled motorized
vehicle whose purpose is to assist medically handicapped persons to travel from
one place to another for recreational use.
      UNREGISTERED/UNLICENSABLE VEHICLES. Any two-, three- or four-wheeled
motorized vehicle currently found to exist which the state does not require
registration and plating to utilize in going from one place to another either
for transportation or recreation.
   (B)   Exceptions. Any person, who by medical prescription, operates a
personal assist mobility device in and on the streets of the town (includes
S.R. 32) shall be allowed as to the benefit only of the prescribed person.
   (C)   Prohibition. Except as specifically provided in division (B) above,
the utilization of low speed vehicles, personal assist mobility devices and
unregistered/unlicensed vehicles in and on the streets of the town (including
S.R. 32) is prohibited and same shall be a violation of this section.
(Ord. 2014-7, passed 12-2-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Stop signs; preferential streets
SCHEDULE I. STOP SIGNS; PREFERENTIAL STREETS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Stop signs shall be posted at the following intersections within
the town limits:
Street Intersecting Street Number of Stop Signs
Street            Intersecting Street      Number of Stop Signs
Albany Street     Jackson Street           3
East Street       Jackson Street           1
East Street       Muncie Street            3
Jackson Street    Sunset Street (CR 650 E) 3
Liberty Drive     CR 550 East              1
Miller Street     Albany Street            1
Muncie Street     Albany Street            4
Muncie Street     Pittenger Road           4
Old SR 32         Jackson Street           1
Pittenger Road    Miller Street            4
Pittenger Road    Jackson Street           4
Railroad Street   Albany Street            1
Railroad Street   Pittenger Road           1
South Street      Jackson Street           1
South Street      Muncie Street            4
South Street      Railroad Street          1
Sunset Strip Road Sunset Street (CR 650 E) 1
Union Street      Washington Street        4
Union Street      Jackson Street           1
Union Street      Muncie Street            4
Union Street      Railroad Street          1
Union Street      Washington Street        4
Wapahani Drive    CR 550 East              1
Washington Street Albany Street            1
Washington Street South Street             1
Williams Street   Jackson Street           1
 
      (2)   In addition, a four-way stop intersection shall be located at the
conjunction of Muncie Street and Albany Street, Jackson Street and Pittenger
Road, Pittenger Road and Muncie Street, South Street and Muncie Street, Union
Street and Muncie Street, Union Street and Washington Street and Pittenger Road
and Miller Road. Also, a three-way stop will be located at Albany Street and
Jackson Street.
   (B)   Vehicle restrictions.
      (1)   Where stop signs are posted on the first named street in division
(A) above, traffic on the first-named street shall stop at their intersection
with the second named street and yield the right-of-way to approaching traffic
on such second named street.
      (2)   Wherever stop signs are posted at or near the entrance to any
intersection, each driver of a motor vehicle shall stop such vehicle at such
sign before entering the intersection.
   (C)   Size of stop signs. Every stop sign erected pursuant to this schedule
shall bear the word “STOP” in letters not less than six inches high.
   (D)   Penalty. Any person found guilty of violating division (B) above shall
be fined in a sum not to exceed $50.
(Ord. 2014-7, passed 12-2-2014; Ord. 2021-2, passed 4-13-2021)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND RIGHTS-OF-WAY
      93.   FAIR HOUSING
CHAPTER 90: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
90.01   Purpose
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Exceptions
   
90.04   Responsibility of owner
   
90.05   Vehicles in possession of person other than owner
   
90.06   Private or rental property
   
90.07   Removal of abandoned vehicles
   
90.08   Disposal of abandoned vehicles
   
90.09   Towing contracts
   
90.10   Liability for loss or damage
   
90.11   Liens on vehicles for towing services
Cross-reference:
   Additional abandoned vehicle provisions, see
Ch. 152
Editor’s note:
   Should any provisions regarding abandoned vehicles conflict, the more recent
shall prevail.
§ 90.01 PURPOSE.
   The Town Council finds that abandoned vehicles are a public nuisance and a
safety and health hazard.
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   ABANDONED VEHICLE.
      (1)   A vehicle located on public property illegally;
      (2)   A vehicle left on public property without being moved for 24 hours;
      (3)   A vehicle located on public property in such a manner as to
constitute a hazard or obstruction to the movement of pedestrian or vehicle
traffic on a public right-of-way;
      (4)   A vehicle from which the engine, transmission or differential has
been removed or that is otherwise partially dismantled or inoperable and left
on public property;
      (5)   A vehicle that has remained on private property without the consent
of the owner or person in control of that property for more than 48 hours;
      (6)   A vehicle that has been removed by a towing service or the town
upon request of an officer enforcing a statute or ordinance other than this
chapter, if the impounded vehicle is not claimed or redeemed by the owner or
the owner’s agent within 20 days of the vehicle’s removal;
      (7)   A vehicle that is at least three model years old, mechanically
inoperable, and is left on private property continuously in a location visible
from public property for more than 20 days. For purposes of this division (7),
a vehicle covered by a tarpaulin or other plastic, vinyl, rubber cloth or
textile covering is considered to be visible; and
      (8)   A vehicle:
         (a)   That was repaired or stored at the request of the owner;
         (b)   That has not been claimed by the owner; and
         (c)   For which the reasonable value of the charges associated with
the repair or storage remain unpaid more than 30 days after the date on which
the repair work is completed or the vehicle is first stored.
(I.C. 9-13-2-1)
   AUTOMOBILE SCRAPYARD. A business organized for the purpose of scrap metal
processing, vehicle wrecking or operating a junkyard.
(I.C. 9-13-2-8)
   BUREAU. The State Bureau of Motor Vehicles, unless otherwise indicated.
(I.C. 9-13-2-16)
   FISCAL BODY. The Town Council.
(I.C. 9-13-2-63)
   OFFICER. The Town Marshal, his or her designee, or a member of the Town
Police Department. (I.C. 9-22-1-2)
   OWNER. A person, other than a lienholder that:
      (1)   Holds the property in or title to, as applicable, a vehicle,
manufactured home, mobile home, off-road vehicle, snowmobile or watercraft; or
      (2)   Is entitled to the use or possession of, as applicable, a vehicle,
manufactured home, off-road vehicle, snowmobile or watercraft, through a lease
or other agreement intended to operate as a security.
(I.C. 9-13-2-121(a))
   PARTS. All components of a vehicle that, as assembled, do not constitute a
complete vehicle.
(I.C. 9-13-2-122)
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. All property other than public property.
(I.C. 9-13-2-136)
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. A public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park or
other state, county or municipal property.
(I.C. 9-13-2-144)
   TOWING SERVICE. A person who engages in moving or removing abandoned or
disabled vehicles and, once the vehicles are moved or removed, stores or
impounds the vehicles.
(I.C. 9-13-2-179)
   VEHICLE. A vehicle of a type that must be registered under I.C. 9-18-2
(before its expiration) or I.C. 9-18.1, other than an off-road vehicle or a
snowmobile under I.C. 9-18-2.5 (before its expiration) or I.C. 9-18.1-14.
(I.C. 9-13-2-196)
§ 90.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter does not apply to:
   (A)   A vehicle in operable condition specifically adapted or constructed
for operation on privately owned raceways;
   (B)   A vehicle stored as the property of a member of the armed forces of
the United States who is on active-duty assignment;
   (C)   A vehicle located on a vehicle sale lot;
   (D)   A vehicle located upon property licensed or zoned as an automobile
scrapyard;
   (E)   An antique vehicle registered and licensed under I.C. 9-18-12 (before
its expiration), a historic vehicle licensed under I.C. 9-18.5-34, or a
military vehicle registered under I.C. 9-18.1-8;
   (F)   A golf cart; or
   (G)   An off-road vehicle.
(I.C. 9-22-1-1)
§ 90.04 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (D) below, the owner of an abandoned
vehicle or parts is responsible for the abandonment and is liable for all of
the costs incidental to the removal, storage and disposal of the vehicle or the
parts under this chapter.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C) below, the costs for storage of an
abandoned vehicle may not exceed $2,000.
   (C)   The costs for storage of an abandoned vehicle with a length of at
least 30 feet may not exceed $2,500.
   (D)   If an abandoned vehicle is sold by a person who removed, towed or
stored the vehicle, the person who previously owned the vehicle is not
responsible for storage fees.
   (E)   If an abandoned vehicle is sold by a person who removed, towed or
stored the vehicle, and proceeds from the sale of the vehicle covered the
removal, towing, sale, disposal and storage expenses, any remaining proceeds
from the sale of the vehicle shall be returned as described in I.C. 9-22-1 or
I.C. 9-22-6, whichever is applicable.
(I.C. 9-22-1-4)
§ 90.05 VEHICLES IN POSSESSION OF PERSON OTHER THAN OWNER.
   (A)   When an officer discovers a vehicle in the possession of a person
other than the owner of the vehicle, and the person cannot establish the right
to the possession of the vehicle, the vehicle shall be taken to and stored in a
suitable place.
(I.C. 9-22-1-5)
   (B)   If the owner or lienholder under I.C. 9-22-1-8 does not appear and pay
all costs, or the owner of the vehicle cannot be determined by a search
conducted under §
90.08 of this chapter, the vehicle is considered abandoned and must be disposed
of in accordance with this chapter.
(I.C. 9-22-1-7)
   (C)   If the properly identified person who owns or holds a lien on a
vehicle appears at the site of storage before disposal of the vehicle or parts
and pays all costs relating to a tow, the storage of the vehicle, and all
allowable fees, as applicable, the vehicle or parts shall be released. A towing
service shall notify the appropriate public agency of all releases under this
section. The notification must include the name, signature and address of the
person that owns or holds a lien on the vehicle, a description of the vehicle
or parts, costs and the date of release.
(I.C. 9-22-1-8)
§ 90.06 PRIVATE OR RENTAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   A person who finds a vehicle believed to be abandoned on private
property that the person owns or controls, including rental property, may:
      (1)   Obtain the assistance of an officer under §
90.07(E) of this chapter to have the vehicle removed; or
      (2)   Personally arrange for the removal of the vehicle by complying with
divisions (B), (C) and (D) below.
   (B)   If the person wishes to personally arrange for the removal of the
vehicle, the person shall attach in a prominent place a notice tag containing
the following information:
      (1)   The date, time, name and address of the person who owns or controls
the private property, and a telephone number to contact for information;
      (2)   That the vehicle is considered abandoned;
      (3)   That the vehicle will be removed after 24 hours;
      (4)   That the person who owns the vehicle will be held responsible for
all costs incidental to the removal, storage and disposal of the vehicle; and
      (5)   That the person who owns the vehicle may avoid costs by removal of
the vehicle or parts within 24 hours.
(I.C. 9-22-1-15)
   (C)   If, after 24 hours, the person who owns a vehicle believed to be
abandoned on private property has not removed the vehicle from the private
property, the person who owns or controls the private property on which the
vehicle is believed to be abandoned may have the vehicle towed from the private
property.
(I.C. 9-22-1-16(a))
   (D)   Notwithstanding division (C) above, in an emergency situation a
vehicle believed to be abandoned on private property may be removed
immediately. As used in this section, EMERGENCY SITUATION means that the
presence of the vehicle believed to be abandoned interferes physically with the
conduct of normal business operations of the person who owns or controls the
private property or poses a threat to the safety or security of persons or
property, or both.
(I.C. 9-22-1-16(b))
   (E)   A towing service that tows a vehicle under divisions (C) and (D) above
shall give notice to the town that the abandoned vehicle is in the possession
of the towing service.
(I.C. 9-22-1-17)
§ 90.07 REMOVAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   (A)   An officer who finds or is notified of a vehicle or parts believed to
be abandoned shall attach in a prominent place a notice tag containing the
following information:
      (1)   The date, time, officer’s name, Town Police Department and address
and telephone number to contact for information;
      (2)   That the vehicle or parts are considered abandoned;
      (3)   That the vehicle or parts will be removed after:
         (a)   Twenty-four hours, if the vehicle is located on or within the
right-of-way of an interstate highway or any highway that is designated as part
of the state highway system under I.C. 8-23-4; or
         (b)   Seventy-two hours, for any other vehicle.
      (4)   That the person who owns the vehicle will be held responsible for
all costs incidental to the removal, storage and disposal of the vehicle; and
      (5)   That the person who owns the vehicle may avoid costs by removal of
the vehicle or parts within:
         (a)   Twenty-four hours, if the vehicle is located on or within the
right-of-way of an interstate highway or any highway that is designated as part
of the state highway system under I.C. 8-23-4; or
         (b)   Seventy-two hours, for any other vehicle.
(I.C. 9-22-1-11)
   (B)   If a vehicle or a part tagged under division (A) above is not removed
within the applicable period, the officer shall prepare a written abandoned
vehicle report of the vehicle or parts, including information on the condition
and missing parts. Photographs may be taken to describe the condition of the
vehicle or parts.
(I.C. 9-22-1-12)
   (C)   If the vehicle is a junk vehicle and the market value of an abandoned
vehicle or parts $1,000, the towing service shall immediately transfer the
vehicle to a storage yard. A copy of the abandoned vehicle report and
photographs, if applicable, relating to the abandoned vehicle shall be provided
to the storage yard. A towing service or storage yard may dispose of an
abandoned vehicle not less than 30 days after the date on which the towing
service removed the abandoned vehicle. A town that operates a storage yard
under I.C. 36-9-30-3 may dispose of an abandoned vehicle to an automobile
scrapyard or an automotive salvage recycler upon removal of the abandoned
vehicle. The Police Department, Town Marshal or storage yard shall retain the
original records and photographs for at least two years. If the vehicle is
demolished, a copy of the abandoned vehicle report shall be forwarded to the
State Bureau of Motor Vehicles by the automobile scrap yard after the vehicle
has been demolished.
(I.C. 9-22-1-13)
   (D)   If, in the opinion of the officer, the market value of the abandoned
vehicle or parts is at least $1,000, the officer, before placing a notice tag
on the vehicle or parts, shall make a reasonable effort to ascertain the person
who owns the vehicle or parts or who may be in control of the vehicle or parts.
After 72 hours, the officer shall require the vehicle or parts to be towed to a
storage yard or towing service.
(I.C. 9-22-1-14)
   (E)   Upon complaint of a person who owns or controls private property that
a vehicle has been left on the property for at least 48 hours without the
consent of the person who owns or controls the property, an officer shall
follow the procedures set forth in divisions (A) through (D) above.
(I.C. 9-22-1-18)
§ 90.08 DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   (A)    (1)   Within 72 hours after removal of a vehicle to a storage yard or
towing service under §§
90.06(C) or (D) or
90.07(C) or (D) of this chapter, the Police Department, Town Marshal or towing
service shall conduct a search of national data bases, including a data base of
vehicle identification numbers, to attempt to obtain the last state of record
of the vehicle in order to attempt to ascertain the name and address of the
person who owns or holds a lien on the vehicle.
      (2)   A public agency or towing service that obtains the name and address
of the owner of or lienholder on a vehicle shall, not later than 72 hours after
obtaining the name and address, notify the owner of the vehicle and any
lienholder on the vehicle, as indicated by the certificate of title or
discovered by a search under division (A)(1) above, of the following:
         (a)   The name, address and telephone number of the public agency or
towing service;
         (b)   That storage charges are being accrued and the vehicle is
subject to sale if the vehicle is not claimed and the charges are not paid; and
         (c)   The earliest possible date and location of the public sale or
auction.
      (3)   The notice must be made by certified mail or a certificate of
mailing or by means of an electronic service approved by the Bureau.
Notwithstanding I.C. 9-22-1-4, a public agency or towing service that fails to
notify the owner of or lienholder on the vehicle as set forth in this section
may not collect additional storage costs incurred after the date of receipt of
the name and address obtained.
(I.C. 9-22-1-19)
   (B)   The Bureau shall dispose of the vehicle in accordance with I.C. 9-22-
1-19.
§ 90.09 TOWING CONTRACTS.
   To facilitate the removal of abandoned vehicles or parts, the town may
employ personnel; acquire equipment, property and facilities; and enter into
towing contracts for the removal, storage and disposition of abandoned vehicles
and parts.
(I.C. 9-22-1-31)
§ 90.10 LIABILITY FOR LOSS OR DAMAGE.
   The following are not liable for loss or damage to a vehicle or parts
occurring during the removal or storage of a vehicle or parts under this
chapter:
   (A)   A person who owns, leases or occupies property from which an abandoned
vehicle or its contents or parts are removed;
   (B)   The town;
   (C)   A towing service;
   (D)   An automobile scrapyard;
   (E)   A storage yard; and
   (F)   An agent or a person or entity listed in divisions (A) through (E)
above.
(I.C. 9-22-1-32)
§ 90.11 LIENS ON VEHICLES FOR TOWING SERVICES.
   (A)   A person that provides towing services for a vehicle at the request of
a person on whose property an abandoned vehicle is located; or in accordance
with this chapter; has a lien on the vehicle for the reasonable value of the
charges for the towing services and other related costs in accordance with I.C.
9-22-6.
   (B)   A person that obtains a lien for an abandoned vehicle under this
section must comply with §§
90.06(C), (D) and (E) and
90.08 of this chapter, and I.C. 9-22-6.
(I.C. 9-22-1-21.5)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Limitation on keeping certain animals; sanitation
Dogs
   
91.15   Prohibited conduct; owner responsible
   
91.16   Running at large prohibited
   
91.17   Dogs in heat; confinement
Livestock
   
91.30   Definition
   
91.31   Livestock prohibited
   
91.32   Exception
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Fencing regulations, see
Ch. 151
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner, and not under the control of the
owner or his or her agent either by leash, cord, chain or otherwise.
   DOG. Any member of the canine family, six months of age or over, male or
female.
   OWNER. Every person having a right of property to an animal and every person
who keeps or harbors an animal, has it in his or her care or permits it to
remain on or about the premises owned or occupied by him or her.
§ 91.02 LIMITATION ON KEEPING CERTAIN ANIMALS; SANITATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to have or keep any goats, sheep, swine or pigs,
horses, mules, ponies, cattle, rabbits, chickens, ducks, geese, turkeys,
guineas or other farm animals or fowl within 200 feet of any residence, other
than the residence of the person so keeping or having these animals.
   (B)   No person shall cause or allow any stable or place where any animal or
fowl is or may be kept to become unsanitary.
Penalty, see §
91.99
DOGS
§ 91.15 PROHIBITED CONDUCT; OWNER RESPONSIBLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner to fail to exercise proper care and
control of his or her dog or dogs so as to prevent the following actions by it
or them:
   (A)   Molesting of passers-by;
   (B)   Chasing of passing vehicles;
   (C)   Attacking other domestic animals;
   (D)   Trespassing upon private property or school property;
   (E)   Damaging private or public property;
   (F)   Habitual barking or loud and continued noise; or
   (G)   Unnecessary foul or noxious odors which offend people in the
neighborhood.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.16 RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to permit any dog to run at large within the corporate
limits of the town. Any dog running at large within the town shall be
impounded.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.17 DOGS IN HEAT; CONFINEMENT.
   Every female dog in heat shall be confined in a building or secure enclosure
in such manner that the dog cannot come into contact with another dog, except
for planned breeding.
Penalty, see §
91.99
LIVESTOCK
§ 91.30 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LIVESTOCK. Shall mean:
      (1)   All cattle or animals of the bovine species;
      (2)   All horses, mules, burros and asses or animals of the equine
species;
      (3)   All swine or animals of the porcine species;
      (4)   All goats or animals of the caprine species; and
      (5)   All poultry.
(Ord. 2021-07, passed 1-11-2021)
§ 91.31 LIVESTOCK PROHIBITED.
   No person, firm or corporation occupying real estate within the corporate
boundaries of the town shall keep or harbor any livestock on such property,
except whereas stated in §
91.32 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2021-07, passed 1-11-2021) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.32 EXCEPTION.
   A person, firm or corporation occupying real estate within the corporate
boundaries of the town whose real estate is zoned as Farming District under the
zoning regulations of the town shall have the ability to keep or harbor
livestock on such property.
(Ord. 2021-07, passed 1-11-2021)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Violations of §§
91.30 through
91.32 of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $50. Each day
such person continues to keep or harbor any livestock on real estate in
violation of §§
91.30 through
91.32 is deemed to be a continuing and separate violation.
(Ord. 2021-07, passed 1-11-2021)
CHAPTER 92: STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND RIGHTS-OF-WAY
Section
Excavations and Construction
   
92.01   Opening permit required
   
92.02   Application and cash deposit
   
92.03   Restoration of pavement
   
92.04   Barriers around excavations
   
92.05   Warning lights
   
92.06   Sidewalk construction
Obstructions
   
92.20   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
92.21   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
92.22   Materials on street or sidewalk
Use of Rights-of-Way
   
92.35   Scope
   
92.36   Town Council to establish rules and regulations
   
92.37   Definitions
   
92.38   Activities requiring right-of-way use permit
   
92.39   Unlawful activities within right-of-way
   
92.40   Permit application
   
92.41   Contents of permit application
   
92.42   Insurance requirements
   
92.43   Bond requirements
   
92.44   Indemnity agreement
   
92.45   Installation and design of facility
   
92.46   Permit fees
   
92.47   Emergency work
   
92.48   Relocation when town installing facilities
   
92.49   Written notice required
 
   
92.99   Penalty
EXCAVATIONS AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 92.01 OPENING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than an authorized town official,
to make any opening in any street, alley, sidewalk or public way of the town
unless a permit to make the opening has been obtained prior to commencement of
the work.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02 APPLICATION AND CASH DEPOSIT.
   Each permit for making an opening shall be confined to a single project and
shall be issued by the authorized town official. Application shall be made on a
form prescribed by the Town Council, giving the exact location of the proposed
opening, the kind of paving, the area and depth to be excavated and other facts
as may be provided for. The permit shall be issued only after a cash deposit
sufficient to cover the cost of restoration has been posted with the authorized
town official, conditioned upon prompt and satisfactory refilling of
excavations and restoration of all surfaces disturbed.
§ 92.03 RESTORATION OF PAVEMENT.
   (A)   The opening and restoration of a pavement or other surface shall be
performed under the direction and to the satisfaction of the authorized town
official, and in accordance with rules, regulations and specifications approved
by the Town Council.
   (B)   Upon failure or refusal of the permittee satisfactorily to fill the
excavation, restore the surface and remove all excess materials within the time
specified in the permit or where not specified therein, within a reasonable
time after commencement of the work, the town may proceed without notice to
make the fill and restoration, and the deposit referred to in §
92.02 of this chapter shall be forfeited. Thereupon, the deposit shall be paid
into the appropriate town fund, except the part demanded and paid to the
permittee as the difference between the deposit and the charges of the town for
restoration services performed by it. If the amount of the services performed
by the town should exceed the amount of the deposit, the Clerk-Treasurer or
other proper administrative officer shall proceed to collect the remainder due
from the permittee.
§ 92.04 BARRIERS AROUND EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or opening any
street, sidewalk, alley or other public way shall have the excavation or
opening fully barricaded at all times to prevent injury to persons or animals.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 WARNING LIGHTS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or otherwise in any
manner obstructing a portion or all of any street, sidewalk, alley or other
public way, at all times during the night season shall install and maintain at
least two illuminated red lamps which shall be securely and conspicuously
posted on, at or near each end of the obstruction or excavation, and if the
space involved exceeds 50 feet in extent, at least one additional lamp for each
added 50 feet or portion thereof excavated or obstructed.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the authorized town official to supervise
construction or repair of sidewalks within the town. He or she shall cause
specifications to be prepared for the construction of the various kinds of
pavements and transmit the specifications to the Town Council for approval.
When the specifications are approved, the Town Council shall advertise for
proposals to do all the work which may be ordered by the town in construction
and repair of sidewalks, and shall authorize the town executive to contract
therefor, for a period not exceeding one year, with the lowest responsible
bidder, who shall give bond for the faithful performance of the work.
   (B)   The town executive, if authorized by Town Council, may make separate
contracts for the different kinds of work with different parties.
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 92.20 UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the town by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk or other public way, without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.21 STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk or other public way
within the town by erecting thereon any fence or building, or permitting any
fence or building to remain thereon. Each day that any fence or building is
permitted to remain upon the public way shall constitute a separate offense.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.22 MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk. No owner, occupant or
person having the care of any building or lot of land, bordering on any street
or sidewalk, shall permit it to be encumbered with barrels, boxes, cans,
articles or substances of any kind so as to interfere with the free and
unobstructed use thereof.
Penalty, see §
92.99
USE OF RIGHTS-OF-WAY
§ 92.35 SCOPE.
   The following subchapter shall apply to any use within a town right-of-way.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 92.36 TOWN COUNCIL TO ESTABLISH RULES AND REGULATIONS.
    The Town Council is hereby authorized to establish such specifications and
procedural instructions for work and activity within the right-of-way as may be
necessary to accomplish the purposes of this section. The specifications and
procedural instructions shall be kept on file in the office of the Town Hall
and may be amended from time to time by the Town Council.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 10-12-2021; Ord. 2023-03, passed 5-9-2023)
§ 92.37 DEFINITIONS.
    For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABOVE-GROUND UTILITY FACILITIES. Includes, without limitation, telephone,
wireless communication, electronic, electric, cable, fiber optic, gas, water,
sewer, heating and cooling facilities existing at, or above ground level.
   BELOW-GROUND UTILITY FACILITIES. Includes, without limitation, telephone,
electronic, electric, cable, fiber optic, gas, water, sewer, heating and
cooling facilities existing below ground level, and wells, including monitoring
wells.
   BOND. The posting of required surety to guarantee prompt and satisfactory
replacement and repair of facilities damaged or disrupted by the permitted
operations.
   COUNCIL. The Town Council of the Town of Selma, Indiana.
   INSPECTOR. The authorized representative of the Town Council assigned to
make detailed inspections of permitted performance.
   PERMIT. A form of written authorized to permit action to be done within the
right-of-way as per outlined specifications.
   PERSON. Shall include any natural person and any entity recognized by the
law.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The boundaries established by a recorded plat, a duly adopted
thoroughfare plan or usage for the purpose of providing public transportation
or utility services.
   TOWN. The Town of Selma, Indiana.
   UTILITY FACILITIES. Either above-ground or below-ground utility facilities
including, without limitation, telephone, electronic, electric, cable, fiber
optic, gas, water, sewer, heating, and cooling facilities.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 10-12-2021; Ord. 2023-03, passed 5-9-2023)
§ 92.38 ACTIVITIES REQUIRING RIGHT-OF-WAY USE PERMIT.
   (A)    Except as provided in §§
92.40 through
92.45, no person shall undertake any of the following activities within a
public right-of-way without first acquiring a right-of-way use permit to do so
from the town:
      (1)   Any construction, altering or removing of any surface or subsurface
material, digging, or excavating in a town right-of-way; and
      (2)   Installation or repair of above-ground utility facilities, below-
ground utility facilities, private connections to public utility facilities, or
facilities of any other entity having the right to use the public right-of-way;
and
      (3)   Installation of mailbox approaches, sidewalks, or any such object
of lawful encroachment, which would share right-of-way space with governmental
transportation needs, or to construct a temporary fence or barrier which may be
required for environmental or construction purposes.
   (B)   Exceptions. The following activities do not require a right-of-way use
permit:
      (1)   Maintenance of grass, drives, or sidewalks within the right-of-way;
and
      (2)   Any work or activities conducted in a right-of-way or public
grounds performed directly by the town or state; and
      (3)   Public road construction and maintenance done under a contract with
the town.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 10-12-2021; Ord. 2023-03, passed 5-9-2023)  Penalty, see
§
92.99
§ 92.39 UNLAWFUL ACTIVITIES WITHIN RIGHT-OF-WAY.
    Unless a special permit to encroach is issued by the Town Council, it shall
be unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Construct a parking area within a right-of-way; and
   (B)   Construct a fence within a right-of-way other than a temporary fence
required for environmental or construction purposes; and
   (C)   Place any advertising material within a right-of-way; and
   (D)   Perform any work not listed under §
92.38 of this chapter within a right-of-way without a permit.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 10-12-2021; Ord. 2023-03, passed 5-9-2023) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.40 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)    A person desiring to undertake any of the activities set out in §
92.38 of this chapter shall sign and file an application with the Clerk-
Treasurer of the town, and secure a right-of-way use permit before starting any
work or activity inside the right-of-way, all as set in the following sections.
A person is required to file the application at least 30 days prior to the
start of any work or activity inside the right-of-way, unless deemed an
emergency referenced in §
92.47 of this chapter.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer and/or Building Commissioner are the permit
issuing authorities for all activities other than set forth in §
92.38 of this chapter. The Clerk-Treasurer and/or Building Commissioner shall
exercise its discretion in the issuance or denial of a permit and may impose
such reasonable conditions as it sees fit prior to the issuance of a permit.
   (C)   No work shall be done or activity taken prior to the issuance of the
permit except in the event of an emergency requiring immediate remedial action
for utility facilities, in which case the utility shall comply with §
92.47 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 10-12-2021; Ord. 2023-03, passed 5-9-2023) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.41 CONTENTS OF PERMIT APPLICATION.
    The application for a right-of-way use permit shall be submitted to the
Clerk-Treasurer and/or Building Commissioner of the town and shall, at a
minimum, include the following information and documents:
   (A)   The name, address and phone number of the person or entity for whom
the work is to be done or the activity is to be conducted, and the name, title
and phone number of the person responsible for the work or activity; and
   (B)   The name and address of the contractor responsible for the work or
activity; and
   (C)   The reason for, estimated cost of and an exact description of the work
to be done or activity to be taken; and
   (D)   The precise location of the work or activity site and the location and
dimensions of any excavation; and
   (E)   Whether all or a portion of a street will be closed and for how long;
and
   (F)   The expected beginning and ending dates of the project; and
   (G)   The method of traffic control to be used by the applicant at the site;
and
   (H)   Any other pertinent information requested by the Clerk-Treasurer and/
or Building Commissioner.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 10-12-2021; Ord. 2023-03, passed 5-9-2023)
§ 92.42 INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)    There shall be furnished to the Clerk-Treasurer at the time of making
application written proof that the applicant or the contractor for the
applicant is covered by public liability insurance in an amount not less than:
      (1)   For property damage: $300,000;
      (2)   For injury to any one person: $1,000,000; and
      (3)   For any one occurrence: $2,000,000.
   (B)   The applicant shall prove to the satisfaction of the Clerk-Treasurer
the payment of a premium for the insurance so that the town will be protected
for a period of one year from the date of the commencement of the work.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 10-12-2021; Ord. 2023-03, passed 5-9-2023)
§ 92.43 BOND REQUIREMENTS.
    The applicant or contractor for the applicant, shall file a bond in an
amount not less than $5,000 or 10% of the estimated cost of the project,
whichever is greater, as determined by the Clerk-Treasurer and/or Building
Commissioner, conditioned on the performance of the work and the maintenance of
the work for a period of two years from the completion of such work, all in
accordance with the terms of this section. Upon review of the application, the
Clerk-Treasurer and/or Building Commissioner may exempt individual property
owners above stated bond requirement.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 10-12-2021; Ord. 2023-03, passed 5-9-2023)
§ 92.44 INDEMNITY AGREEMENT.
    The applicant shall furnish a written agreement to indemnify and hold
harmless the town, its officials, agents and employees from any liability due
to loss, damage, injuries or other casualties of any kind, or by whomsoever
caused, to the person or property of anyone on or off the right-of-way arising
out of, or resulting from the issuance of the permit or the work or activity
connected therewith, or from the installation, existence, use, maintenance,
conditions, repairs, alteration or removal of any equipment or material,
whether due in whole or in part to the negligent acts or omissions of:
   (A)   The town, its officials, agents or employees; or
   (B)   The applicant, his or her agents, contractors or employees, or other
persons engaged in the performance of the work or activity; or
   (C)   The joint negligence of any of the above, including any claims arising
out of the Workman’s Compensation Act or any other law, ordinance, order or
decree, for a period of the applicable statute of limitations. The indemnity
shall also provide that the applicant shall pay for all costs associated with
the removal and/or moving of the public utility facility or other object
located within the right-of-way or reimburse the town for all expenses it
incurs in the event that the town removes and/or moves the public utility
facility or object on behalf of the applicant. The indemnity shall also provide
that the applicant shall pay all reasonable expenses and attorney fees incurred
by or imposed by the town in connection herewith in the event that the
applicant shall default under the provisions of the indemnity agreement.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 10-12-2021; Ord. 2023-03, passed 5-9-2023)
§ 92.45 INSTALLATION AND DESIGN OF FACILITY.
   (A)    The applicant shall be responsible for the installation and design of
the facility to be installed within the right-of-way. The town will only be
responsible for the review and approval of the proposal with respect to the
locations of the facilities to be installed and the manner of installation.
Approval of the permit does not relieve the applicant of responsibility for the
design.
   (B)   The town does not alter current regulations or authority for
installing utility facilities nor for determining financial responsibility for
replacing or adjusting utility facilities. The town limits itself to matters
which preserve the safe operation, maintenance, and integrity of the town’s
rights-of-way.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 10-12-2021; Ord. 2023-03, passed 5-9-2023)
§ 92.46 PERMIT FEES.
    A permit fee shall be paid at the time of filing the application. The
permit fees are outlined in Ordinance No. 2023-02 and any amendments to that
ordinance, as well as in the right-of-way use application.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 10-12-2021; Ord. 2023-03, passed 5-9-2023)  Penalty, see
§
92.99
§ 92.47 EMERGENCY WORK.
   (A)    In the event of an emergency, work on a utility facility within the
public right-of-way may commence without submitting an application for a right-
of-way use permit.
   (B)   In such event, the person responsible for completing the work or
activity shall:
      (1)   Notify the town of the emergency and provide a brief description of
the work or activity to be done as soon as practicable after learning of the
emergency. Such emergency notification under this division (B)(1) must be
sufficient to notify the town at the earliest time possible following the
discovery of the emergency and may be either written or oral; and
      (2)   Submit an application, bond and indemnity agreement for a right-of-
way use permit within 24 hours of starting its work or the next working day to
the Clerk-Treasurer, whichever is sooner; and
      (3)   Attach to the application a full and complete written explanation
concerning the emergency and its cause; and
      (4)   In the event that the Town Council shall determine that in its
judgment an emergency did not exist, he or she shall forward a copy of the
application and all attachments to the Town Attorney as a violation of this
section.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 10-12-2021; Ord. 2023-03, passed 5-9-2023)  Penalty, see
§
92.99
§ 92.48 RELOCATION WHEN TOWN INSTALLING FACILITIES.
   (A)    The town shall require relocation of public utility facilities,
private connections to public utility facilities or facilities of any entity
having the right to use the public right-of-way when the town is installing
utility facilities in the right-of-way.
   (B)   The costs for the relocation of the utility facilities shall be paid
by those entities or persons that have installed the same in the town’s right-
of-way.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 10-12-2021; Ord. 2023-03, passed 5-9-2023)
§ 92.49 WRITTEN NOTICE REQUIRED.
    Unless specifically stated otherwise, all notifications required under this
section shall be in writing. Any notification other than an initial emergency
notification, which is not made in writing will be deemed to have never
occurred.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 10-12-2021; Ord. 2023-03, passed 5-9-2023)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any violation of the terms of §§
92.35 through
92.49 of this chapter or the specifications and instructions adopted by the
Town Council, Clerk-Treasurer and/or Building Commissioner pursuant to §§
92.35 through
92.49 shall be assumed to require additional inspection, and an additional
inspection fee shall be assessed for each such infraction.
   (C)   (1)   Failure to comply with the requirement of §
92.46(A) shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $3,000.
      (2)   Failure to comply with the requirement of §
92.46(B) shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $750.
      (3)   Failure to comply with the requirement of §
92.46(C) shall be punished as permitted by law.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 10-12-2021)
CHAPTER 93: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
93.01   Policy statement
   
93.02   Definitions
   
93.03   Unlawful practice
   
93.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
93.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
93.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage service
   
93.07   Interference, coercion, or intimidation
   
93.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
93.09   Equal access to housing in HUD programs
   
93.10   Exemptions
   
93.11   Administrative enforcement
§ 93.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the town to provide, within constitutional
limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for
under the federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended, the federal Housing and
Community Development Act of 1974, as amended, and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(Ord. 2023-08, passed 10-10-2023)
§ 93.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions set forth in this section shall apply throughout this
chapter.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-2)
   COMMISSION. The Indiana Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-
9-1-4 et seq.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-3)
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-4)
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
93.04,
93.05,
93.06,
93.07,
93.08 or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or part of a building or structure that
is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure, or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-8)
   FAMILIAL STATUS. One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18
years being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of
such individual or the written permission of such parent or other person. The
protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of familial status
shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process of securing
legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18 years.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual (I.C. 22-9.5-2-9), with the status of
such family being further defined above.
   HANDICAP. 
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person’s major life activities.
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment; or
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990.
         (e)   Any other impairment defined in 910 IAC 2-3.
      (2)   The term HANDICAP shall not include current illegal use of or
addictions to a controlled substance as defined in Section 802 of Title 21 of
the United States Code 910 IAC 2-3-2(14); nor does the term HANDICAP include an
individual solely because that individual is a transvestite 910 IAC 2-3-2(14).
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees,
trustees in cases under Title 11 of the United States Code, receivers, and
fiduciaries.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the rights to occupy the premises owned by the occupant.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-13)
(Ord. 2023-08, passed 10-10-2023)
§ 93.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) of this section, §
93.09 of this chapter, and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against
discrimination in the sale or rental of housing set forth Title 22-9.5-5-1 of
Indiana Code and in §
93.04 shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) below and I.C. 22-
9.5-3.
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) of this section, nothing in
§
93.04 apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that in the sale of such single family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24 month period. The
private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or
reserved on his or her behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the
proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses
at any one time. The sale or rental of any such single family house shall be
exempted from application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesman, or any person in the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any
such broker, agent or salesman, or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
93.04(C), but noting in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstracters, title companies and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title; or
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B), a person shall be deemed to be in
the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (2)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as agent,
other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in providing sales
or rental facilities or services in two or more transactions involving the sale
or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   They are the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 2023-08, passed 10-10-2023)
§ 93.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
93.03 and except as exempted by §
93.03(B) and §
93.09, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status or national origin.
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services of
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin.
   (C)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or published
any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, or an
intention to make any such preference, limitation or discrimination.
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin that any dwelling is not available
for inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is in fact so available.
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induct any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
   (F)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap
of:
      (1)   That buyer or renter;
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person.
   (G)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a handicap of:
      (1)   That person; or
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person.
   (H)   For purposes of division, discrimination includes:
      (1)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may where it is reasonable to do so condition permission for a modification on
the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
      (2)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
      (3)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13, 1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that;
         (a)   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
         (b)   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
         (c)   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
            1.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
            2.   Light, switches, electrical outlets, thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations;
            3.   Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
   (I)   Compliance with the appropriate requirement Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990 and of the American National Standard for Buildings
and Facilities providing accessibility an usability for physically handicapped
people (commonly cited as “ANSI A117.1”) suffices to satisfy the requirements
of division (H)(3)(c)3.
   (J)   Nothing in this division requires that a dwelling be made available to
an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health of
safety of other individuals of whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 2023-08, passed 10-10-2023)
§ 93.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED
TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap, or familial status.
(Ord. 2023-08, passed 10-10-2023)
§ 93.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICE.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers’
organization or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her
in the terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation, on
account of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national
origin.
(Ord. 2023-08, passed 10-10-2023)
§ 93.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION, OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
93.03,
93.04,
93.05 or
93.06 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2023-08, passed 10-10-2023)
§ 93.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under code or law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempt to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status, or national origin and because he or she is or has been
selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization, or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings; or
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A)
above; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate; or
   (C)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to
discourage such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in
any of the activities, services, organizations or facilities described in
division (A) above, or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly
opposing any denial of the opportunity to participate shall be fined according
to local, state and federal law; and if bodily injury results shall be fined
not more than $10,000 or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both; and if
death results shall be subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for
life.
(Ord. 2023-08, passed 10-10-2023)
§ 93.09 EQUAL ACCESS TO HOUSING IN HUD PROGRAMS.
   Pursuant to 24 CFR § 5.403 and 24 CFR § 574.3 the definition of FAMILY
includes, but is not limited to, families, as defined in §
93.02(B) of this chapter, regardless of the actual or perceived sexual
orientation, gender identity, or marital status of its members.
(Ord. 2023-08, passed 10-10-2023)
§ 93.10 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) of this section.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color or national
origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact
open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes
provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to its members
or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons. As used in this section, HOUSING FOR
OLDER PERSONS means housing:
      (1)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary of
the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the state civil
rights commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly person (as defined in the state or federal program) or;
      (2)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, person 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years
of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 2023-08, passed 10-10-2023)
§ 93.11 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commissioner as set forth
in division (B) hereof shall be vested in the Chief Elected Official of the
town.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the town, because
of lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under the chapter, herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of the articles of this
chapter by complainants to the Indiana Civil Rights Commission for
administrative enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6 and the Chief
Elected Official of the town, shall refer all said complaints to the Commission
as provided for under division (A) of this section to said Commission for
purposes of investigation, resolution and appropriate relief as provided for
under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the town shall administer
their departments, programs and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter
and shall cooperate with the Chief Elected Official and the Commission to
further such purposes.
   (D)   The Chief Elected Official of the town, or the Chief Elected
Official’s designee, shall provide information on remedies available to any
aggrieved person or complainant requesting such information.
(Ord. 2023-08, passed 10-10-2023)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
111.   CASUAL BUSINESS TRANSACTIONS
CHAPTER 110: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   License requirement
   
110.03   Application procedure
   
110.04   Standards for issuance
   
110.05   Revocation procedure
   
110.06   Standards for revocation
   
110.07   Appeal procedure
   
110.08   Exhibition of identification
   
110.09   Town policy on soliciting
   
110.10   Notice regulating soliciting
   
110.11   Duty of solicitors to ascertain notice
   
110.12   Prohibited solicitation
Statutory reference:
   Local regulation authorized, see I.C. 25-37-1-11
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler or solicitor, as defined in this section.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes but is not
restricted to wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the town and who, in
the furtherance of the business, uses any building, structure, vehicle or any
place within the town.
   PEDDLER. Any person, not an itinerant merchant, who:
      (1)   Travels from place to place by any means carrying goods for sale,
or making sales, or making deliveries; or
      (2)   Without traveling from place to place, sells or offers goods for
sale from any public place within the town.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a SOLICITOR is not
a peddler.
§ 110.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in that activity within the town.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set from
time to time by the Town Council.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the Clerk- Treasurer. This application shall be signed by the
applicant if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership, or by the
president if a corporation. The applicant may be requested to provide
information concerning the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the town;
         (b)   The local address of the individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of the individual; and
         (d)   The capacity in which the individual will act.
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant’s business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character and quality of the goods or services to
be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock; and
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom the goods are manufactured or grown,
and where the goods are at the time of application.
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
and
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, the individual identified in division
(A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified in division (A)(3) above has been
convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each offense
and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant; and
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their application, if required by the town, credentials from the person, if
any, for whom the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant
to act as the representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to any attachments required under division (C) above,
a statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior to
the date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless the investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant has done any of the following
will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors and the like;
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts.
§ 110.05 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the
Clerk-Treasurer after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
110.06 of this chapter. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in
writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time
and place of the hearing. The notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his or
her last known address, at least ten days prior to the date set for the
hearing.
§ 110.06 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals or general welfare
of the public.
§ 110.07 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
110.04 or
110.06 of this chapter shall have the right to appeal to the Town Council. The
appeal shall be taken by filing with the Town Council, within 14 days after
notice of the decision has been mailed to the person’s last known address, a
written statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The Town Council shall
set the time and place for a hearing, and notice for the hearing shall be given
to the person in the same manner as provided in §
110.05 of this chapter.
   (B)   The order of the Town Council after the hearing shall be final.
§ 110.08 EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than one place within the town shall be used to conduct the business licensed,
separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a license to each peddler or solicitor
licensed under this chapter. The license shall contain the words “Licensed
Peddler” or “Licensed Solicitor”, the expiration date of the license, and the
number of the license. The license shall be kept with the licensee during the
time he or she is engaged in the business licensed.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.09 TOWN POLICY ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the town that the occupants of the
residences in the town shall make the determination of whether solicitors shall
be, or shall not be, invited to their respective residences.
§ 110.10 NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING.
   (A)   Notice of the refusal of invitation to solicitors to any residence
shall be given on a weatherproof card, approximately three inches by four
inches in size, exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence,
indicating the determination by the occupant and containing the applicable
words, as follows:
   “NO SOLICITORS INVITED”
   (B)   The letters shall be at least one-third inch in height. For the
purpose of uniformity, the cards shall be provided by the Chief of Police to
persons requesting, at the cost thereof.
   (C)   The card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon.
§ 110.11 DUTY OF SOLICITORS TO ASCERTAIN NOTICE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every solicitor upon going onto any premises
in the town upon which a residence is located to first examine the notice
provided for in §
110.10 of this chapter if any is attached, and be governed by the statement
contained on the notice. If the notice states “NO SOLICITORS INVITED”, then the
solicitor, whether registered or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart
from the premises.
   (B)   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether
invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.12 PROHIBITED SOLICITATION.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or
create any sound in any manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of the residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof and engage in soliciting in defiance of the notice exhibited
at the residence in accordance with the provisions of §
110.10 of this chapter.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 111: CASUAL BUSINESS TRANSACTIONS
Section
   
111.01   Definition; limits
§ 111.01 DEFINITION; LIMITS.
   (A)   CASUAL BUSINESS is defined as, any business conducted for profit on
residentially zoned property within the boundaries of the town, which, if done
on a full-time or regular basis would require rezoning of the property in
question. The types of business transactions contemplated by this section shall
include, but not be limited to, rummage sales, yard sales, seasonal items
sales, sale of a motor vehicle and sales of collectibles or craft items.
   (B)   Limits on the amount of casual business conducted on residentially
zoned property are as follows:
      (1)   Motor vehicle sales: four sales per calendar year; and
      (2)   All other business: four events per calendar year, totaling no more
than 14 days in the aggregate during which business is transacted.
(Ord. 2001-1, passed 4-3-2001)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Firearms on town property
   
130.02   Discharge of firearms
   
130.03   Curfew for minors
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 FIREARMS ON TOWN PROPERTY.
   (A)   Prohibition. No person shall carry a concealed firearm in or on any
property, park, building or portion of a building now or hereafter owned,
leased as lessee, operated, occupied, managed or controlled by the town, as
well as the appurtenant premises to the buildings, upon which appropriate
signage has been placed indicating that concealed firearms are prohibited
therein.
   (B)   Signs required. Signs shall be visibly posted on the exterior of each
entrance by which the general public can access the building, appurtenant
premises or park. The town shall exercise discretion in determining the
necessity and appropriate location for other signs posted on the interior of
the building, appurtenant premises or park.
   (C)   Exemptions.
      (1)   The prohibitions set forth in this section shall not apply to
persons who are exempt from concealed weapons prohibitions under state or
federal law or to any duly authorized local, state or federal law enforcement
officer while on duty.
      (2)   The prohibitions set forth in this section shall not apply to
highways or public highways owned or administered by the town.
§ 130.02 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to shoot, fire or discharge any gun or
pistol (including, but not limited to, B-B guns, air rifles, pellet guns or
paintball guns) within the town limits. This section shall not apply to law
enforcement or military personnel performing their duty or to any person
defending his, her or their life, liberty or property.
(Ord. 2004-3, passed 3-2-2004) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   No parent, guardian or other custodian of any child between the full
ages of 13 years and 18 years shall permit that child to be in a public place
in the town:
      (1)   Between 12:01 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. on Saturday or Sunday;
      (2)   After 10:30 p.m. on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday;
or
      (3)   Before 5:00 a.m. on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday.
   (B)   No parent, guardian, or other custodian of any child under the age of
13 years shall permit that child to be in a public place in the town after 10:
00 p.m. or before 5:30 a.m. on any day.
   (C)   It is a curfew violation for any person 17 years of age or younger to
be present in any public street, alley, park or public place in the town from
October 15 to November 1 of every year between the hours of 9:00 p.m. to 5:00
a.m. (prevailing time) of the following day.
   (D)   This section does not apply to a child who is accompanied by parent,
guardian, custodian or the specified adult nominee of the parent, guardian or
custodian, nor does it apply to participation in or returning from lawful
employment, lawful athletic event, educational, religious or social event.
   (E)   Each member of the Police Department is directed to take into custody
any minor person violating the provisions of division (A) above, and to take
the minor person, while in custody, to his or her place of residence and
thereupon determine the name of the parent, guardian or other person having the
legal custody of the minor person. It shall be the duty of the apprehending
officer to cause a citation for violation of this section to be issued to the
offending parent, guardian or custodian.
(Ord. 2005-1, passed 4-5-2005) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person found guilty of violating §
130.02 of this chapter shall be fined in a sum not to exceed $500.
   (C)   Any person violating §
130.03 of this chapter shall be punished by a fine of not more than $100.
(Ord. 2004-3, passed 3-2-2004; Ord. 2005-1, passed 4-5-2005)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   FENCES
      
152.   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
150.01   State Building Code adopted by reference
   
150.02   State enforcement statutes adopted by reference
   
150.03   Unsafe buildings
   
150.04   Knox Box system
   
150.05   Permit fees
 
   
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01 STATE BUILDING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   Pursuant to the authority granted under I.C. 22-13-2-3, the town hereby
adopts by reference the Indiana Building Code, contained in 675 I.A.C. 13-2.6-
1 et seq., including any future amendments.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to adopt future building code amendments by reference, see I.C.
22-13-2-3
§ 150.02 STATE ENFORCEMENT STATUTES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority granted under I.C. 36-7-9-3, the town hereby
adopts by reference I.C. 36-7-9, pertaining to enforcement of building
standards.
   (B)   The enforcement authority responsible for the administration of the
statutes adopted under this section shall be the town executive, or such other
executive department as may be established or designated by ordinance.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST shall have
the same meaning as set forth in I.C. 36-7-9-2.
§ 150.03 UNSAFE BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Adoption of the Unsafe Building Law. The town hereby adopts I.C. 36-7-
9, which establishes the Indiana Unsafe Building Law and explicitly incorporate
by reference the definition of “substantial property interest” found in I.C.
36-7-9-2.
   (B)   Appointment of department to administer section. The Town Council
shall be the executive department authorized to administer this section. The
Town Planning Commission shall make recommendations to the Town Council
regarding properties which would be subject to the provisions of this section.
   (C)   Construction. Any reference to a state statute shall mean the statute
as amended from time to time, or any similar statutory provision that may
supersede it relating to the same or similar subject matter.
(Ord. 2013-1, passed 6-4-2013) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.04 KNOX BOX SYSTEM.
   (A)   The town has instituted a key box emergency access system to be
managed and governed by the Liberty Township Volunteer Fire Department. Prior
to January 1, 2018, the following structures shall install a rapid entry key
box system provided by the Knox Company (“Knox Box”) in an accessible location
to be specified by the Liberty Township Volunteer Fire Department:
      (1)   Any building within the town protected with an automatic sprinkler
system equipped with a local or transmitted water-flow alarm;
      (2)   Any building within the town equipped with any fire alarm system
with an outside audible/visual signaling device;
      (3)   Any building within the town equipped with any fire alarm system
where the alarm is transmitted to an off-site location, or to the fire alarm
center for the Liberty Township Fire Department; and
      (4)   Any new or remodeled commercial structure or multi-family structure
with a single locked point of entrance within the town.
   (B)   Each Knox Box shall contain labeled keys, easily identified in the
field to provide to provide access into the property and/or building; and to
any locked areas within said building as the Liberty Township Volunteer Fire
Department may direct.
(Ord. 17-1, passed 5-2-2017) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.05 PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Residential building permits.
      (1)   One- and two-family dwellings and additions, four inspections:
         (a)   Five dollars ($5) per 100 square feet (including attached garage
if applicable).
         (b)    Minimum: $60.
      (2)   Multi-family dwelling (three or more) and additions, four
inspections:
         (a)   Five dollars ($5) per 100 square feet.
         (b)   Minimum: $100.
      (3)   Mobile, modular, and manufactured homes, three inspections:
         (a)   Temporary placement: $75.
         (b)   Permanent placement: $125.
      (4)   Accessory structures (detached garages, pole barns, and the like),
two inspections:
         (a)   Forty dollars ($40) per 100 square feet.
         (b)   Minimum: $50.
      (5)   Building alterations (remodeling of existing), two inspections:
minimum $50.
      (6)   Additional inspections. If the building needs more inspections than
standard because of project phasing, re-inspection of corrected work, or other
reasons: $20 per inspection.
   (B)   Commercial, industrial, and agricultural building permits.
      (1)   Commercial building and additions (offices, retail sales, and the
like) four inspections:
         (a)   Five dollars ($5) per 100 square feet.
         (b)   Minimum: $60.
      (2)   Industrial buildings and additions (manufacturing, warehouse, and
the like), four inspections:
         (a)   Five dollars ($5) per 100 square feet.
         (b)   Minimum: $60.
      (3)   Industrial buildings (schools, churches, and the like) or
additions, four inspections:
         (a)   Five dollars ($5) per 100 square feet.
         (b)   Minimum: $60.
      (4)   Agricultural barns/storage buildings, two inspections:
         (a)   Four dollars ($4) per 100 square feet.
         (b)   Minimum: $50.
      (5)   Utility buildings - accessory buildings, two inspections:
         (a)   Forty dollars ($40) per 100 square feet.
         (b)   Minimum: $50.
      (6)   Communications towers:
         (a)   New tower including one equipment building, four inspections:
$200.
         (b)   Equipment upgrades to existing facility, one inspection: $50.
      (7)   Building alterations (remodeling of existing), three inspections:
         (a)   Four dollars ($4) per 100 square feet of remodeled area.
         (b)   Minimum: $50.
      (8)   Fuel service stations, three inspections: $5 per 100 square feet,
plus:
         (a)   Twelve pumps: $400.
         (b)   Twelve to 20 pumps: $700.
         (c)   Over 20 pumps: $150 each.
      (9)   Campgrounds: $400 minimum, plus $30 per stand.
      (10)   Mineral extraction: $700 minimum, plus $75 per acre with an annual
inspection fee of $250.
      (11)   Additional inspections. If the building needs more inspections
than the standard because of project phasing, re-inspections of corrected work
or other reasons: $20 per inspection.
   (C)   Certificate of occupancy permit.
      (1)   Residential permit: $50 minimum, plus $10 per unit above three
units.
      (2)   Institutional permit (schools, churches): minimum $50.
      (3)   Commercial, industrial, agricultural permit: 0 to 5,000 square feet
$50 plus $3 for each additional 100 square feet.
   (D)   Demolition permits.
      (1)   One- and two-family dwellings: $50.
      (2)   Accessory structures (barns, garages, and the like): $50.
      (3)   Commercial and industrial:
         (a)   Seventy dollars ($70) per 1,000 square feet.
         (b)   Minimum: $50,
   (E)   Swimming pool permits.
      (1)   Swimming pool (in-ground): $100.
      (2)   Swimming pool (above ground): $50.
   (F)   Electrical permit fees.
      (1)   Residential construction:
         (a)   New one- and two-family dwellings: $50 plus $5 inspection fee
per room.
         (b)   New multi-family dwellings and apartments:
            1.   Fifty dollars ($50) first unit plus $20 each additional unit.
            2.   Maximum: $800.
         (c)   Alterations, repairs, and remodeling: $50.
      (2)   Commercial and industrial:
         (a)   New construction:
            1.   One hundred (100) AMP and 200 AMP services is $125.
            2.   Inspection fee for 400 AMP and up to 1,000 AMP is $150.
            3.   Inspection fee for 1,000 AMP and up is $175.
         (b)   Alterations, repairs, and remodeling: $50, plus $5 inspection
fee per room.
      (3)   Agricultural:
         (a)   Permit fee for up to 400 AMPS: $50.
         (b)   Above 400 AMPS shall be same as commercial/industrial.
   (G)   Plumbing permit fees.
      (1)   Residential construction:
         (a)   New dwellings: $100.
         (b)   Additions/alterations: $60.
      (2)   Commercial/industrial constructions:
         (a)   New building: $100 plus $10 per restroom, kitchen, or mechanical
room.
         (b)   Additions/alterations: $60 plus $10 per restroom, kitchen, or
mechanical room.
   (H)   Heating and ventilating permit fees.
      (1)   Residential construction:
         (a)   New or replacement furnace: $40 per unit.
         (b)   New or replacement air conditioner: $40 per unit.
         (c)   New or replacement furnace and air conditioner installed
together: $75.
         (d)   Multi-family.
            1.   Forty Dollars ($40) first unit plus $25 for each additional
unit.
            2.   Maximum: $700.
      (2)   Commercial/industrial construction:
         (a)   New or replacement furnace/RTU: $35 plus $2.50 for 10 KW for
electric units or $35 plus $2.50 per 10,000 BTU for gas units.
         (b)   New or replacement air conditioner/chiller: $35 plus $2.50 per
ton.
   (I)   Miscellaneous permits.
      (1)   Special events: $35.
      (2)   Seasonal events: $50.
      (3)   Change of zoning: $50.
      (4)   Variances: $50.
   (J)   Penalties. Whenever permits are not obtained prior to beginning of
construction, a fee of $700 shall be required, over and above the cost of the
permit, for the first offense. The second offense shall carry an additional fee
of $700. The third offense shall constitute suspension of the building
contractor’s and/or skilled trade’s registration for one year from the date of
the third offense.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 4-11-2023)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Violations of §
150.03 of this chapter shall be addressed as established in I.C. 36-7-9, as it
may be amended from time to time.
   (C)   Any violation of §
150.04 of this chapter shall result in the imposition of a $25 fine for each
day of non-compliance with §
150.04 of this chapter, not to exceed a total fine of $2,500.
(Ord. 2013-1, passed 6-4-2013; Ord. 17-1, passed 5-2-2017)
CHAPTER 151: FENCES
Section
   
151.01   Requirements generally; exceptions
   
151.02   Installation requirements
   
151.03   Maintenance; prohibitions
   
151.04   Height and placement
§ 151.01 REQUIREMENTS GENERALLY; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall construct any fence on an area in the town to a height
greater than eight feet above the ground level, or construct on such area a
fence to a height greater than three feet between the front building line,
where set by ordinance, and the street. Chain link, wire mesh or similar types
of transparent fences may be constructed to a height no greater than three feet
between the front building line, where set by ordinance, and the street. Where
a through lot has two front building lines by definition, this division (A)
shall be construed to refer only to the side of the lot actually used as the
front yard. On through corner lots, a sight triangle shall be maintained.
   (B)   No person shall erect or maintain anywhere in the town a fence
equipped with or having barbed wire, spikes or any similar device, or any
electrical charge sufficient to cause shock, nor shall any such electrical or
barbed fence be erected or maintained in any area of the town.
   (C)   (1)   Circumstances justifying an exception to the requirements. The
Building Commissioner, upon application made by the property owner or
representative thereof, may grant a permit for the construction of a fence
which does not conform to the requirements set forth in divisions (A) and (B)
above for fences the town, if the Building Commissioner finds that the
deviation from those requirements is necessary to address either of the
following circumstances:
         (a)   The condition or the nature of the improvements located upon the
property pose a significant, demonstrable hazard to children and other members
of the public, including, but not limited to, public utility stations,
freestanding telecommunication towers, transmission towers and public swimming
pools; or
         (b)   The property has experienced a chronic problem with repeated
occurrences of trespassing or other criminal activity as verified in writing by
the Town Marshal.
      (2)   Application for a fence permit. The application for said permit
shall be submitted on a form provided by the Building Commissioner, and shall
include the following:
         (a)   A legal description of the area that will be surrounded or
bordered by the proposed fence;
         (b)   A site plan showing the location of the proposed fence on the
property;
         (c)   A drawing or other representation of the appearance of the
proposed fence which specifies the materials used in the construction and the
height of the fence and particular features of the fence which do not otherwise
comply with the requirements of divisions (A) or (B) above; and
         (d)   A statement or statements which articulate why the variation
should be granted.
      (3)   Decision of the Building Commissioner. The Building Commissioner
shall approve or deny the application for residential fence permit and shall
notify the applicant of the decision in writing within 30 days of the date of
any application which satisfies the requirements set forth in division (C)(2)
above. Failure of the Building Commissioner to render a decision in writing
within the 30 days prescribed above shall be construed as a denial of the
application.
      (4)   Appeal. The property owner may appeal any denial to the Planning
Commission by submitting a written request to the Building Commissioner within
ten days of the denial of the permit. The Planning Commission shall schedule
the matter for hearing within 15 days and upon conclusion of such hearing shall
make its recommendation to the Town Council as to whether to grant or deny such
application for permit.
(Ord. 2014-5, passed 6-3-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.02 INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Spacing the fence posts. As a rule, a person should set fence posts
about six feet to eight feet apart. All wood fence posts are to be set with
about one-third of their total length buried in the ground. Posts are to be
anchored with concrete. Fence lines and fences shall be maintained in good
repair. Anchor the posts more firmly by making the holes slightly larger at the
bottom than at the top. Place two or three shovels full of gravel in the bottom
of each hole before the post is placed into position. Pack the post with
concrete.
   (B)   Inspection of new fences. When any fence for which a permit has been
issued under this chapter is completed, it must be inspected. The Building
Commissioner shall be notified upon completion of the fence. The Building
Commissioner will issue a card of acceptance if the fence complies with the
provisions of this chapter, or reject the fence if it does not so comply.
(Ord. 2014-5, passed 6-3-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.03 MAINTENANCE; PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   All fences constructed under the provisions of this chapter shall be
maintained so as to comply with the requirements of this chapter at all times.
   (B)   No property owner shall allow any weeds, grasses, rank vegetation or
other uncontrolled plant growth to exceed eight inches in height on any area
within one foot of any fence unless such growth is objectively decorative in
nature or an otherwise exempt matter.
   (C)   All fence facing must be installed at an angle of 90 degrees from the
ground. Any fence measuring less than, or greater than, 75 degrees in one
direction or the other shall be repaired to stand at a 90-degree angle upon
proper notice of the violation and, if not adequately repaired, shall be
subject to abatement by the town.
(Ord. 2020-6, passed 8-11-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.04 HEIGHT AND PLACEMENT.
   (A)   How high a fence may be built depends on whether or not it is in the
front yard. Front yard fences may be three feet high fence. Fences not in the
front yard may be up to eight feet high.
   (B)   A fence may be placed up to, but not on your property line. This rule
applies to all portions of the fence, including posts, concrete and fence face.
The exact location of the property line must be determined before constructing
the fence.
(Ord. 2014-5, passed 6-3-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 152: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
Section
   
152.01   Abandoned and junk vehicles
   
152.02   Weeds and rank vegetation
   
152.03   Trash and junk
   
152.04   Debris on streets and public ways
   
152.05   Filing of complaints
   
152.06   Investigation
   
152.07   Violation notices
   
152.08   Notice of violation
   
152.09   Hearing
   
152.10   Property Maintenance Fund
 
   
152.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Additional abandoned vehicle provisions, see Ch. 90
Editor’s note:
   Should any provisions regarding abandoned vehicles conflict, the more recent
shall prevail.
§ 152.01 ABANDONED AND JUNK VEHICLES.
   The following provisions shall apply to abandoned vehicles within the town:
   (A)   Removal and disposal of abandoned vehicles. The town hereby adopts the
provisions of the I.C. § 9-13-2 et seq. and I.C. § 9-22-1 et seq., both as may
be amended from time to time, by reference and as if fully restated herein.
   (B)   Disposition of abandoned vehicles and/or parts valued at less than
$500. The market value of an abandoned vehicle and/or part below which an
officer of the Police Department may dispose of the vehicle and/or parts is
$500 per vehicle or part.
   (C)   Race and demolition derby cars. Vehicles in operable condition
specifically adapted or constructed for operation on privately-owned raceways,
or parts thereof, shall not be stored on private or public property unless
stored inside a closed structure out of public view. Race and demolition derby
cars that are scheduled to participate in local race or derby events are exempt
from this provision for a two-week period beginning seven days prior to the
start of the event and ending seven days after the end of the event.
   (D)   Junk vehicles. It shall be unlawful for any person to park a motor
vehicle without current license plates and registration or one that is in an
inoperable condition or incapable of movement by its own locomotion or power,
on private or public property unless stored inside a closed structure out of
public view.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 7-11-2023)
§ 152.02 WEEDS AND RANK VEGETATION.
   The following provisions shall apply to weeds and rank vegetation within the
town.
   (A)   Administration. The Town Council shall be responsible for the
administration of this chapter as provided herein.
   (B)   Definitions. For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      DESTRUCTION ORDER. The notice served by the Building Commissioner, or
other duly appointed official of the town, or the Town Council in cases of
appeal, on the property owner of the ordinance violation.
      EXEMPT MATTERS. The Indiana Cooperative Extension Service shall be the
referenced technical authority with respect to the definition of exempt
matters, shrubs, trees, cultivated plants and crops.
      PROPERTY OWNER. The owner of record of the property, the person occupying
the property, or a person having control over the property of another, such as
a right-of-way, easement, license, or lease.
      RANK VEGETATION. The uncontrolled, uncultivated growth of annual and
perennial plants.
      WEEDS AND GRASSES. Canada thistle, thistles, Johnsongrass, sorghum, alum
(such as allium), bur cucumber, and shattercane. WEEDS do not include shrubs,
trees, cultivated plants or crops; however, in no event shall cultivated plants
or crops include plants which have been defined by state statute or
administrative rule as being noxious or detrimental plants.
   (C)   Maximum heights. No property owner shall allow any weeds, grasses,
rank vegetation, or other uncontrolled plant growth on their property to exceed
eight inches in average height on 20% or more of the surface area of the
property.
   (D)   Abatement by the town.
      (1)   In the event that a property owner shall fail to comply with the
destruction order within seven calendar days and has not filed a request for
appeal as provided herein, the Town Council may employ the services of town
employees or outside contractors and remove the weeds to conform to this
chapter by all lawful means.
      (2)   Following abatement by the town, a continuous abatement notice may
be posted at the property at the time of abatement, which shall serve as notice
to the property owner that each subsequent violation of this chapter during the
same year for which the initial notice of the violation was provided may be
abated by the town.
   (E)   Cost of abatement.
      (1)   The property owner is liable for all costs of removal, cutting,
destruction, and abatement of weeds, grasses, and rank vegetation as defined by
this chapter, plus an administrative fee of $100.
      (2)   The property owner is also responsible for all costs associated
with the abatement, including but not limited to notice costs, court costs,
attorney’s fees, and interest on any unpaid amounts incurred by the town. If
the town uses municipal employees for the abatement, it shall set and assign an
appropriate hourly rate for employees, equipment, supplies, and chemicals which
may be used.
      (3)   All sums payable by the property owner are to be paid to the Clerk-
Treasurer and deposited in the general fund as compensation for expenses and
costs incurred by the town.
   (F)   Appeals. A property owner may contest the finding of a violation or a
destruction order by filing a written request for appeal with the Clerk-
Treasurer within two business days after the notice is received. A property
owner must demonstrate that the plants or vegetation in question are shrubs,
trees, cultivated plants, crops, or other exempt matters, or that the plant or
vegetation is not otherwise in violation of this chapter and not subject to
destruction pursuant to the provisions herein.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 7-11-2023)
§ 152.03 TRASH AND JUNK.
   The following provisions shall apply to trash and junk within the town.
   (A)   Administration. The Town Council shall be responsible for the
administration of this chapter as provided herein.
   (B)   Definitions. For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning:
      ACCUMULATE. As it pertains to junk and trash, means any one of the
following:
         (a)   Improperly collecting junk and trash in an inappropriate storage
container; or
         (b)   Collecting junk and trash in an accumulation greater than three
cubic yards.
      COMPOST. The product produced by the process of composting vegetative
matter and other types of organic material.
      COMPOSTING. The biological treatment process by which microorganisms
decompose the organic components of vegetative matter and other types of
organic material under controlled conditions to produce a usable product.
      JUNK. Refers to combustible and non-combustible waste materials; the term
shall include paper, rags, tin, metals, residue from burning, household goods
including, but not limited to, mattresses, furniture, minor and major
appliances, clothing, and other household items not intended for exposure to
rain and other inclement weather.
      STANDARD CONTAINER. Sturdy tied plastic bags, durable metal, plastic, or
similarly constructed containers designed for the storage of garbage. Food
scraps and other household trash that attracts animals and/or rodents must be
placed in a vermin-proof and waterproof container with a tight-fitting lid.
      TRASH. Animal or vegetable waste resulting from handling, preparation,
cooking, and consumption of food.
      VISIBLE. Capable of being seen by a person of normal visual activity
using the road or his or her own real property.
   (C)   Requirements.
      (1)   No person shall permit the accumulation of trash and/or junk:
         (a)   In a residential zone(s) per the town’s zoning ordinance; or
         (b)   Within 100 feet of any single-family residence; or
         (c)   Where such material is visible from any public road or right-of-
way.
      (2)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for the owner, or anyone
having a substantial property interest in real property, including open or
vacant property, within the town to deposit or allow to remain on the real
property any trash or junk, as defined above, which items might provide food or
harborage for insects, rodents, pests, or pose a fire safety hazard.
      (3)   No person shall permit junk or trash to be situated on his or her
property so that the material can be carried, by wind, to any highway, right-
of-way, easement, or upon the property of any other person.
      (4)   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to apply to town owned or
operated recycling, or salvage operations, or any other operation that is in
compliance with the town’s zoning ordinance.
      (5)   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to apply to compost and
composting.
      (6)   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to apply to the use of
standard containers or dumpsters for the temporary containment of trash or junk
awaiting disposal. Trash that attracts animals or rodents must be placed in a
vermin-proof and waterproof container with a tight-fitting lid. Such containers
shall be constructed, handled, and placed in a way that will not promote a
safety or health issue.
   (D)   Abatement and fines. In the event that the violation is not cured
within seven calendar days after the receipt of the notice of the designated
violation, the person found violating this section may be assessed a fine up to
$50 for each violation.
   (E)   Appeals. A property owner may contest the finding of a violation by
filing a written request for appeal with the Clerk-Treasurer within two
business days after the notice is received. A property owner must demonstrate
that the trash or junk in question is not in violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 7-11-2023)
§ 152.04 DEBRIS ON STREETS AND PUBLIC WAYS.
   The following provisions shall apply to the accumulation of mud, dirt, grass
clippings, and similar debris on streets and public ways located within the
town.
   (A)   The deposit and/or accumulation of mud, dirt, dust, debris, grass
clippings, or similar material on the roads and streets within the town is
prohibited. Except as otherwise provided in this section, a person found
violating this section may be assessed a fine up to $50 for each violation.
   (B)   In the event that mud, dirt, dust, debris and/or materials are
deposited upon any road or street within the town, the general contractor, sub-
contractor, property owner, and/or other responsible individual shall be
jointly and severally obligated (collectively referred to as the violator) to
immediately clean said deposit of mud, dirt, dust, debris and/or material from
the street. The corrective action shall include cleaning of streets, driveways,
paths, storm sewers, ditches, and all other areas affected by the violation. If
applicable, the corrective actions may also include changes to the practices
that caused the violation which adhere to the best practices described in the
latest version of the Indiana Handbook for Erosion Control in Developing Areas.
   (C)   The town will provide written notice of violation to the violator and
the violator must perform corrective actions within four hours of issuance of
said notice. Cleaning shall not be done in such a manner as to introduce mud,
dirt, dust, debris and/or material into the air or water. Specifically, dry
brooming and washing of the pavement into storm inlets, swales, or ditches
shall be prohibited. If cleaning occurs in violation of this provision, the
violator shall be subject to the penalty provided in division (A) above.
   (D)   If, after said notice, all corrective actions have not been taken by
the violator within four hours, work shall be stopped on the site to which the
condition is attributable, the violator shall be subject to the penalty
provided in division (A), and work shall not resume until the condition is
corrected. If applicable, the town may post a stop work notice in the event the
condition is not corrected after receiving the notice as provided for herein.
   (E)   In the event the condition is not corrected within four hours after
receiving notice of the violation, the town may cause such condition to be
corrected by employees of the town or by private contract. If the violation is
corrected by the town as stated herein, the actual cost of said corrective
action, plus an administrative fee of $100, shall be assessed against and
billed to the violator and/or property owner, as applicable, and shall be paid
within ten days after the billing date.
   (F)   If the violator fails to pay the costs within the time prescribed
herein, a certified copy of the statement of costs shall be filed in the office
of the Delaware County Auditor and the amount shown on the statement will be
added to the tax duplicate against such real estate to be collected as property
taxes are generally collected.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 7-11-2023)
§ 152.05 FILING OF COMPLAINTS.
   Any person, including the town, who believes a property located within the
corporate limits of the town has abandoned and/or junk vehicles, weeds and/or
rank vegetation, trash and/or junk, or debris on streets and/or public ways in
violation of this chapter, shall file a written complaint, which shall be
signed and dated, with the Clerk-Treasurer. If the town files the complaint, an
employee, officer, or Council member of the town shall file the complaint as
set out above.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 7-11-2023)
§ 152.06 INVESTIGATION.
   Upon receipt of a complaint, a person designated by the Town Council shall
inspect and prepare a written report for the Town Council regarding the
condition.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 7-11-2023)
§ 152.07 VIOLATION NOTICES.
   Upon concluding that there is a probable belief that this chapter has been
violated, the town Council’s designee shall forward written notification in the
form of a destruction order to the property owner and, if occupied by someone
other than the property owner, to the person occupying the property as that
information is contained within the records of the Clerk-Treasurer. Such notice
shall be served in writing by certified mail. The notice shall provide for the
following timeframes to remedy the violation:
   (A)   Abandoned and junk vehicles. That within 15 calendar days after the
receipt of the notice that the designated violation shall be removed by the
property owner and/or person occupying the property.
   (B)   Weeds and rank vegetation. That within seven calendar days after the
receipt of the notice that the designated violation shall be removed by the
property owner and/or person occupying the property.
   (C)   Trash and junk. That within 15 calendar days after the receipt of the
notice that the designated violation shall be removed by the property owner
and/or person occupying the property.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 7-11-2023)
§ 152.08 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Any person found to be in violation of any provision of this chapter shall
receive a notice of violation and a letter requesting the violator contact the
person designated by the Town Council to investigate the complaint within five
business days from the date of the notice of violation. If the recipient of the
notice of violation does not correct the violation, a second notice of
violation shall be served either in person or by certified or registered mail.
The person designated by the Town Council shall be responsible for issuing the
notice of violation which shall state:
   (A)   The department of the municipality or county responsible for the
administration of the chapter.
   (B)   The definition of the alleged violations.
   (C)   The date and location of the violation.
   (D)   The nature of the violation. For weeds or rank vegetation, it should
include the height at which weeds or rank vegetation becomes a violation.
   (E)   The procedure for issuing notice to the owner of real property of a
violation of the chapter, including any continuous abatement notice.
   (F)   The procedure under which the municipality or county, or its
contractors, may enter real property to abate a violation of the ordinance if
the owner fails to abate the violation.
   (G)   The procedure for issuing a bill to the owner of real property for the
costs incurred by the municipality in abating the violation, including
administrative costs and removal costs.
   (H)   The time period for correcting the violation.
   (I)   The fine and fines for subsequent violation(s).
   (J)   The procedures if the violation is not corrected in the time specified
on the notice of violation.
   (K)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person to contact
regarding the correction of the violation.
   (L)   The date, time, and location for the hearing before the hearing
authority to present evidence and arguments as to why the notice of violation
was issued in error.
   (M)   The procedure for appealing a notice of violation or a bill issued
under the chapter.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 7-11-2023)
§ 152.09 HEARING.
   (A)   Definition.
      HEARING AUTHORITY. Refers to a person or persons designated as such by
the executive of a city or county or by the legislative body of a town. An
employee of the enforcement authority may not be designated as the HEARING
AUTHORITY.
   (B)   Per the notice of violation, if the recipient of the notice of
violation believes he or she has received the notice in error, the recipient is
entitled to appear at the hearing before the Town Board hearing authority to
present evidence and arguments as to why the notice of violation was issued in
error.
   (C)   The hearing authority can affirm, modify, or rescind the notice of
violation.
   (D)   If the recipient of the notice of violation does not appear at the
hearing or does not comply with the notice of violation, the Town Board may
order the violation be corrected.
   (E)   If the notice of violation is affirmed or modified by the hearing
authority, the recipient has the right, pursuant to I.C. 36-7-9-8, to appeal
the hearing authority’s decision by filing a verified complaint, including the
alleged erroneous finding of fact and the action taken by the hearing authority
within ten days after the date when the action was taken.
   (F)   The hearing authority shall be the Town Board. The enforcement
authority shall be the Police Department.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 7-11-2023)
§ 152.10 PROPERTY MAINTENANCE FUND.
   (A)   The Town Board shall establish in its operating budget a fund
designated as the Property Maintenance Fund. Any balances remaining at the end
of the calendar years shall be carried over in the fund for the following year
and does not revert to the General Fund.
   (B)   All fines, penalties, and clean-up costs paid pursuant to this chapter
shall be deposited into the town’s Property Maintenance Fund, which shall be
administered under the direction of the Town Board.
   (C)   The funds deposited into the Property Maintenance Fund shall be used
for the following purposes:
      (1)   The removal and clean up of trash, junk, weeds, abandoned, and/or
junk vehicles that the Town Board has found to be in violation of the chapter.
      (2)   Court fees, costs, and expenses reasonably incurred to enforce the
chapter.
      (3)   Educational materials to inform residents of, and the publicizing
of, this chapter.
      (4)   Other expenditures as deemed appropriate by the Town Board.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 7-11-2023)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Penalties. Upon the failure or refusal of an owner, occupant, agent,
or person in possession of the premises (who was the recipient(s) of the notice
of violation) to correct the violation as state in the notice of violation, he
and/or she shall be subject to a $50 fine for a first violation. For the second
violation and subsequent violation(s) that are committed by a person within two
calendar years of a previous violation, he and/or she shall be subject to a
$100 fine.
   (B)   Work performed. The Town Board may authorize the removal of the trash,
junk, or weeds as listed in the notice of violation. The removal of trash,
junk, or weeds can be performed either by the town’s own works and equipment or
by a contractor hired by the town for this purpose. Compliance with abandoned
and/or junk vehicle violations will be handled by the Police Department.
   (C)   Invoice. The Town Board shall issue an invoice to the owner(s) of the
property for the total costs incurred by the town to bring the property into
compliance with this chapter, plus any fines that have not been paid. Payment
is due no later than 30 days following the date of the invoice. If the fine and
costs incurred by the town are not paid when due, they may be added to the
property taxes and/or be a lien against the property.
   (D)   Remedies. The town may bring actions in any Circuit Court of Delaware
County for mandatory or injunctive relief for the enforcement of, and to secure
compliance with, any order or orders to otherwise provide for the enforcement
of this chapter. Any such action for mandatory or injunctive relief may be
joined with an action to recover the penalties, costs, and expenses provided in
this chapter. In the event any legal action is necessary to enforce this
chapter, the town may seek recovery of costs and expenses incurred, including
reasonable attorney’s fees. The town may also enforce this chapter through any
other means provided by the law, including but not limited to I.C. 36-1-6.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 7-11-2023)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   REZONINGS
      
III.   FUNDS
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
-     - -    Annexing a piece of land (petitioned by Meredith Properties, Inc.)
1975- 12-1-  Annexing a part of the southwest quarter of the southwest quarter of Section
A-1   1975   10, Township 20 North, Range 11 East
1996- 1-18-  Annexing a part of the southeast quarter of Section 9, Township 20 North,
2     1996   Range 11 East
2002- 10-7-  Annexing certain territory for industrial business
1     2002
             Annexing:
                (1) A part of the east half of the northeast quarter of Section 15,
2004- 4-6-   Township 20 North, Range 11 East
2     2004      (2) A part of the northeast quarter of the northeast quarter of Section
             16, Township 20 North, Range 11 East (petitioned by Mary L. Barrett and Karen
             Gail Dodd)
2006- 5-3-   Annexing a part of the southwest quarter of the southwest quarter of Section
1     2006   15, Township 20 North, Range 11 East (petitioned by Anna Louise Cline,
             Christopher Cook and Marla Curtis)
2012- 1-3-   Annexing a part of the northeast quarter and a part of the northwest quarter
1     2012   of Section 15, Township 20, Range 11 East (petitioned by Liberty Perry School
             Corporation)
            
 
TABLE II: REZONINGS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
2001-2   4-3-2001    Rezoning the property located on the northwest corner of
                     Union Street and Muncie Street from R3 to R5
2001-4   11-6-2001   Rezoning 10004-1/2 East Muncie Street from R2 to CB
                    
 
TABLE III: FUNDS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
2020-08  12-8-2020   Establishing Town of Selma Coronavirus Relief Fund
2021-01  4-13-2021   Establishing ARP Grant Fund, fund number 177
2022-09  12-13-2022  Establishing Opioid Fund - Restricted
2022-10  12-13-2022  Establishing Opioid Fund - Unrestricted
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Cite Code Section
I.C. Cite          Code Section
1-1-1-5            10.04
1-1-1-7            10.12
1-1-1-8            10.06
1-1-4-5            10.05
1-1-5-1            10.11
1-1-6-1            10.08
3-10-6             32.02
3-10-7             32.02
3-13-9-3           32.06
5-2-1-9            32.21;
                   32.24
5-3-1              31.082
5-11-1-9(b)        32.04
5-11-10-1.6        33.04
5-11-10-2          33.03
5-14-1.5           31.020
5-14-1.5-1 et seq. 35.30—
                   35.34
5-14-1.5-3.5       31.024
5-14-1.5-3.6       31.024
5-14-1.5-4(a)      31.023
5-14-1.5-4(b)      31.024
5-14-1.5-4(c)      31.024
5-14-1.5-6.1       31.021
5-14-3-3           31.021
5-14-3-4(b)(12)    31.021
5-16-9             72.04
6-1.1-17           33.31;
                   33.32
6-1.1-17-3         33.30
8-1.5-5            32.41
8-1.5-5-5          32.41
8-14-1             33.07
8-14-2             33.07
8-22-2             31.021
8-22-3             31.021
8-23-4             90.07
9-13-2 et seq.     152.02
9-13-2-1           90.02
9-13-2-6           70.01
9-13-2-8           90.02
9-13-2-16          90.02
9-13-2-47          70.01
9-13-2-49.3        70.01
9-13-2-56          70.01
9-13-2-63          90.02
9-13-2-73          70.01
9-13-2-77          70.01
9-13-2-84          70.01
9-13-2-105         70.01
9-13-2-108         70.01
9-13-2-118         70.01
9-13-2-121(a)      70.01;
                   90.02
9-13-2-122         90.02
9-13-2-136         90.02
9-13-2-144         90.02
9-13-2-155         70.01
9-13-2-157         70.01
9-13-2-178         70.01
9-13-2-179         90.02
9-13-2-196         90.02
9-13-2-196(a)      70.01
9-14-5             72.04
9-18-2             90.02
9-18-2.5           90.02
9-18-12            90.03
9-18-18            72.04
9-18-22            72.04
9-18.1             90.02
9-18.1-8           90.03
9-18.1-14          90.02
9-18.5-34          90.03
9-19               70.01
9-21-1-3           Ch. 71;
                   Ch. 72
9-21-5-6           Ch. 71
9-21-12-13         70.01
9-21-20-1          70.01
9-21-20-2          70.01
9-21-20-3          70.01
9-22-1 et seq.     152.02
9-22-1             90.04
9-22-1-1           90.03
9-22-1-2           90.02
9-22-1-4           90.04;
                   90.08
9-22-1-5           90.05
9-22-1-7           90.05
9-22-1-8           90.05
9-22-1-11          90.07
9-22-1-12          90.07
9-22-1-13          90.07
9-22-1-14          90.07
9-22-1-15          90.06
9-22-1-16(a)       90.06
9-22-1-16(b)       90.06
9-22-1-17          90.06
9-22-1-18          90.07
9-22-1-19          90.08
9-22-1-21.5        90.11
9-22-1-31          90.09
9-22-1-32          90.10
9-22-6             90.04;
                   90.11
13-22              31.082
13-23              31.082
13-24              31.082
13-25-4            31.082
13-25-5            31.082
13-25-5-8.5(f)     31.082
16-18-2-110        70.01
16-22-8            70.01
20-29-6-7          31.021
22-9-1-4 et seq.   93.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.   93.01
22-9.5-2-2         93.02
22-9.5-2-3         93.02
22-9.5-2-4         93.02
22-9.5-2-8         93.02
22-9.5-2-9         93.02
22-9.5-2-11        93.02
22-9.5-2-13        93.02
22-9.5-3           93.03
22-9.5-3 et seq.   93.10
22-9.5-4-8         93.11
22-9.5-5           93.02
22-9.5-5-1         93.03
22-9.5-6           93.02,
                   93.11
22-13-2-3          150.01
25                 31.021
25-37-1-11         Ch. 110
33-35-1            34.09
33-35-3-1          32.03
33-35-3-2          32.03
33-36-2            34.09
33-36-2-1          34.01;
                   34.02
33-36-2-2          34.02
33-36-2-3          34.03
33-36-2-4          34.09
33-36-3            34.03
33-36-3-1          34.04
33-36-3-2          34.05
33-36-3-3          34.06
33-36-3-5          34.07
33-36-3-6          34.08
33-36-3-7          34.09
33-37              34.08
33-37-4            34.08
33-37-7-6          34.08
34-13-3-1 et seq.  35.01;
                   35.02
34-13-3-12         35.02
35-47-5-13(a)      32.25
36-1-3-8(a)(10)    10.99
36-1-6          152.99
36-1-7             32.06
36-1-10            31.021
36-1-11            31.021
36-4-8-14          32.03
36-5-2-3(a)        31.001
36-5-2-3(b)        31.001
36-5-2-3(c)        31.001
36-5-2-3(d)        31.001
36-5-2-3(e)        31.001
36-5-2-3(f)        31.001
36-5-2-3(g)        31.001
36-5-2-4.1         31.082
36-5-2-4.2         31.081
36-5-2-6           31.002
36-5-2-7           31.004
36-5-2-8           31.026
36-5-2-9           31.003
36-5-2-9.2         31.025
36-5-2-9.4(a)      31.080
36-5-2-9.4(b)      31.081
36-5-2-9.6         31.080
36-5-2-9.8         31.081
36-5-2-10          31.082
36-5-2-10.2        31.083
36-5-3-3           33.30
36-5-3-4           33.31
36-5-3-5           33.32
36-5-4-2           33.01
36-5-4-3           33.02
36-5-4-4           33.03
36-5-4-6           33.04
36-5-4-7           33.05
36-5-4-12          32.03;
                   33.06
36-5-4-13(b)       33.07
36-5-6-2           32.03
36-5-6-3(a)        32.01
36-5-6-3(b)        32.02
36-5-6-3(c)        32.02
36-5-6-3(d)        32.02
36-5-6-3(e)        32.02
36-5-6-3(f)        32.02
36-5-6-4           32.02
36-5-6-5           32.03
36-5-6-5.1         32.05
36-5-6-6           32.03
36-5-6-7           32.04
36-5-6-8           32.04
36-5-6-9           32.06
36-5-6.5           32.03
36-5-7-2           32.20
36-5-7-3           32.21
36-5-7-4           32.22
36-5-7-5           32.23
36-5-7-6           32.24
36-5-7-7           32.25
36-7               31.081;
                   31.082
36-7-3-12          35.15;
                   35.16
                   150.02;
36-7-9             150.03;
                   150.99
36-7-9-2           150.02;
                   150.03
36-7-9-3           150.02
36-7-9-8           152.09
36-7-14            32.40
36-8               32.21;
                   32.24
36-9-30-3          90.07
                   
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
2021-02  7-13-2021   35.30—
                     35.34
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        - -         TSO Table I
1975-A-1 12-1-1975   TSO Table I
1996-2   1-18-1996   TSO Table I
2001-1   4-3-2001    111.01
2001-2   4-3-2001    TSO Table II
2001-4   11-6-2001   TSO Table II
2002-1   10-7-2002   TSO Table I
2004-3   3-2-2004    130.02;
                     130.99
2004-2   4-6-2004    TSO Table I
2005-1   4-5-2005    130.03;
                     130.99
2006-1   5-3-2006    TSO Table I
2012-1   1-3-2012    TSO Table I
2013-1   6-4-2013    150.03;
                     150.99
2014-6   5-7-2014    32.40
                     151.01;
2014-5   6-3-2014    151.02;
                     151.04
2014-7   12-2-2014   73.01;
                     Ch. 74 Schd. I
2015-1   9-8-2015    32.41
2016-02  6-7-2016    33.46
17-1     5-2-2017    150.04;
                     150.99
2017-04  11-7-2017   35.15—
                     35.17
2018-02  8-7-2018    33.47
2019-2   12-3-2019   30.01
2020-03  3-10-2020   33.48
2020-05  3-10-2020   33.45
                     151.03;
                     152.01—
                     152.05;
2020-6   8-11-2020   152.20—
                     152.27;
                     152.40—
                     152.44;
                     152.99
2020-08  12-8-2020   TSO Table III
                     91.30—
2021-07  1-11-2021   91.32;
                     91.99
2021-01  4-13-2021   TSO Table III
2021-2   4-13-2021   Ch. 74 Schd. I
                     92.35—
2021-03  10-12-2021  92.49;
                     92.99
2022-02  4-12-2022   33.50
2022-07  12-13-2022  33.06
2022-08  12-13-2022  33.51
2022-09  12-13-2022  TSO Table III
2022-10  12-13-2022  TSO Table III
2023-01  2-14-2023   32.41
2023-02  4-11-2023   150.05
2023-03  5-9-2023    92.36—
                     92.49
                     152.01—
2023-05  7-11-2023   152.10,
                     152.99
2023-06  10-14-2023  33.50
2023-08  10-10-2023  93.01—
                     93.11
                    
 
