CITY OF SEYMOUR, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-21 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance 35, 2024, passed 11-25-2024; and
State legislation current through 2024 Indiana Legislative Service, Pamphlet #3
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 7
COUNCIL BILL NO. 10 (2004)
“An Ordinance of the City of Seymour, Indiana Enacting a Code of Ordinances,
Revising, Amending, Restating, Codifying and Compiling Certain Existing General
Ordinances of the Political Subdivision Dealing with Subjects Embraced in Such
Code of Ordinances.”
WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the political
subdivision are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in
form and substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of
its affairs; and
WHEREAS, the Acts of the General Assembly of the State of Indiana empower and
authorize the political subdivision to revise, amend, restate, codify and
compile any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted
or published and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book
form; and
WHEREAS, the Common Council of the City of Seymour, Indiana has authorized a
general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the
Political Subdivision of a general and permanent nature and publication of such
ordinance in book form; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE COMMON COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SEYMOUR,
INDIANA, THAT:
Section 1: The general ordinances of the City of Seymour, Indiana as revised,
amended, restated, codified and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as and
shall constitute the “Code of Ordinances of the City of Seymour, Indiana.”
Section 2: Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of the
following Titles:
   See Exhibit “A”
Section 3: All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such Code
of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of
this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in part
in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed or
penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of this
ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances levying
taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory, establishing
franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons, authorizing public
improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing of money,
authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property, granting or
accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use, vacating or
setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall such repeal
affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or pertaining to
subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
Section 4: Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Common Council and the Clerk-Treasurer of the City of
Seymour, Indiana is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code
of Ordinances in the Office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
Section 5: Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in Section
6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places off the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
Section 6: This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary for
the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare of
the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
   ADOPTED by the Common Council and APPROVED by me, as Mayor, this 8th day of
March, 2004, at 7:14 p.m.
   James E. Bullard /s/
   James E. Bullard, Mayor
   City of Seymour, Indiana
ATTEST:
Fred D. Lewis /s/
Fred D. Lewis, Clerk-Treasurer
City of Seymour, Indiana
Passed First Reading: 2/23/04
Passed Second Reading: 3/8/04
ORDINANCE NO. 17
COUNCIL BILL NO. 25
(2007)
“An Ordinance enacting and adopting a supplement to the Code of Ordinances for
the City of Seymour, Indiana and declaring an emergency.”
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Seymour,
Indiana, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent
nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Indiana Code; and
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Common Council to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Indiana; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF THE CITY OF SEYMOUR, INDIANA
Section 1: That the most recent supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Seymour, Indiana codified through December 31, 2007 as submitted by
American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached
hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as if set out in its
entirety.
Section 2: Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Common Council and the Clerk of the City is hereby
authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the copy of the Code of
Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Clerk.
Section 3: This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary for
the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety, and general welfare of
the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
Section 4: All prior ordinances or parts thereof inconsistent with any
provision of this ordinance are hereby repealed; and any ordinances previously
enacted by the Common Council and unintentionally omitted are deemed still
valid and of full force as if included in this Code of Ordinances.
Section 5: This ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after its
passage, approval by the Mayor, publication, and recording, all as by law
provided.
   ADOPTED by the Common Council and APPROVED by me, as Mayor, this 11th day of
June, 2007, at 7:08 p.m.
   James E. Bullard /s/
   James E. Bullard, Mayor
   City of Seymour, Indiana
ATTEST:
Fred D. Lewis /s/
Fred D. Lewis, Clerk-Treasurer
City of Seymour, Indiana
Passed First Reading: 5/29/07
Passed Second Reading: 6/11/07
            First      Second
            Y   N   Y   N
Lloyd Hudson          Y        Y  
Robert Beatty          Y        Absent
Mary L. Voss          Y        Y
Dexter Steele          Y        Y
Andrew Hagedorn       Y        Y
James Rebber          Y        Y
Michael Jordan       Y        Y
ORDINANCE NO. 18
COUNCIL BILL NO. 35
(2008)
“An Ordinance enacting and adopting a supplement to the Code of Ordinances for
the City of Seymour, Indiana and declaring an emergency.”
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Seymour,
Indiana, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent
nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Indiana Code; and
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Common Council to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Indiana; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE COMMON COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SEYMOUR,
INDIANA
Section 1:   That the most recent supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Seymour, Indiana codified through December 10, 2007 as submitted by
American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached
hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as if set out in its
entirety.
Section 2:   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
approval by the Common Council and the Clerk of the City is hereby authorized
and ordered to insert such supplement into the copy of the Code of Ordinances
kept on file in the Office of the Clerk.
Section 3:   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety, and general
welfare of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the
earliest date provided by law.
Section 4:    All prior ordinances or parts thereof inconsistent with any
provision of this ordinance are hereby repealed.
Section 5:   This ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after
its passage and approval by the Mayor all as by law provided.
   ADOPTED by the Common Council and APPROVED by me, as Mayor, this 28th day of
July, 2008, at 7:00 p.m.
Craig Luedeman /s/
   Craig Luedeman, Mayor
City of Seymour, Indiana
ATTEST:
Fred D. Lewis /s/
Fred D. Lewis, Clerk-Treasurer
City of Seymour, Indiana
Passed First Reading:       7/28/08
Passed Second Reading:    7/28/08
            First      Second
            Y   N   Y   N
Lloyd Hudson          Y        Y  
James Lucas          Y        Y
John J. Reinhart       Y        Y
Dexter Steele          Y        Y
Andrew Hagedorn       Y        Y
James Rebber          Y        Y
Michael Jordan       Absent     Absent
ORDINANCE NO. 4
COUNCIL BILL NO. 6
(2010)
“An Ordinance adopting supplements to the Code of Ordinances for the City of
Seymour, Indiana.”
WHEREAS,   American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
prepared supplements to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Seymour, Indiana,
which supplements incorporate all ordinances of a general and permanent nature
enacted since approval of a prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City by way of Ordinance 2008-18; and
WHEREAS,   American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Indiana Code; and
WHEREAS,   It is the intent of the Common Council to accept these updated
sections.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE COMMON COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SEYMOUR,
INDIANA
Section 1:   That the supplements to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Seymour, Indiana containing local municipal legislation adopted from December
11, 2007 through November 23, 2009 and Indiana legislation current through 2009
#7 as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio,
be and the same are hereby adopted by reference as if set out in their
entirety.
Section 2:   Such supplements shall be deemed published as of the day of their
approval by the Common Council and the Clerk of the City is hereby authorized
and ordered to insert such supplements into the copy of the Code of Ordinances
kept on file in the Office of the Clerk.
Section 3:   All prior ordinances or parts thereof inconsistent with any
provision of this ordinance are hereby repealed.   
Section 4:   This ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after
its passage and approval by the Mayor all as by law provided.
   ADOPTED by the Common Council and APPROVED by me, as Mayor, this 8th day of
March, 2010, at 7:09 p.m.
Craig Luedeman /s/ 
   Craig Luedeman, Mayor
City of Seymour, Indiana
ATTEST:
Fred D. Lewis /s/
Fred D. Lewis, Clerk-Treasurer
City of Seymour, Indiana
Passed First Reading:       2/22/10
Passed Second Reading:    3/8/10
               First      Second
               Y   N   Y   N
Lloyd Hudson             Y        Y  
James Lucas             Y        Y
John J. Reinhart          Y        Y
Dexter Steele             Y        Absent
Andrew Hagedorn          Y        Y
James Rebber             Y        Y
Michael Jordan          Y        Y
ORDINANCE NO. 6
COUNCIL BILL NO. 15
(2010)
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING SUPPLEMENTS TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF
SEYMOUR, INDIANA
WHEREAS,   American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
prepared supplements to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Seymour, Indiana,
which supplements incorporate all ordinances of a general and permanent nature
enacted since approval of a prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City by way of Ordinance 4, 2010 passed March 8, 2010; and
WHEREAS,   American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Indiana Code; and
WHEREAS,   It is the intent of the Common Council to approve and accept these
updated sections.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE COMMON COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SEYMOUR,
INDIANA
Section 1:   That the supplements to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Seymour, Indiana containing local municipal legislation adopted through March
8, 2010, and Indiana legislation current through 2009 #7 as submitted by
American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, be and the same are
hereby adopted by reference as if set out in their entirety.
Section 2:   Such supplements shall be deemed published as of the day of their
approval by the Common Council and the Clerk of the City is hereby authorized
and ordered to insert such supplements into the copy of the Code of Ordinances
kept on file in the Office of the Clerk.
Section 3:   All prior ordinances or parts thereof inconsistent with any
provision of this ordinance are hereby repealed.
Section 4:   This ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after
its passage and approval by the Mayor all as by law provided.
   ADOPTED by the Common Council and APPROVED by me, as Mayor, this 12th day of
July, 2010, at 7:11 p.m.
Craig Luedeman /s/ 
Craig Luedeman, Mayor
City of Seymour, Indiana
ATTEST:
Fred D. Lewis /s/
Fred D. Lewis, Clerk-Treasurer
City of Seymour, Indiana
Passed First Reading:       6/28/10
Passed Second Reading:    7/12/10
            First      Second
            Y   N   Y   N
Lloyd Hudson          Y        Y  
James Lucas          Y        Y
John J. Reinhart       Y        Y
Dexter Steele          Y        Y
Andrew Hagedorn       Y        Y
James Rebber          Y        Y
Michael Jordan       Y        Y
ORDINANCE NO. 6
COUNCIL BILL NO. 9
(2011)
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING SUPPLEMENTS
TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF SEYMOUR, INDIANA
WHEREAS,   American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
prepared supplements to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Seymour, Indiana,
which supplements incorporate all ordinances of a general and permanent nature
enacted since approval of a prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City by way of Ordinance 6, Council Bill 15 (2010); and
WHEREAS,   American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Indiana Code; and
WHEREAS,   It is the intent of the Common Council to approve and accept these
updated sections.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE COMMON COUNCIL OF THE CITY
OF SEYMOUR, INDIANA
Section 1:   That the supplements to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Seymour, Indiana containing local municipal legislation adopted from November
24, 2009 through January 10, 2011, and Indiana legislation current through
supplement 2010 #6 as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, be and the same are hereby adopted by reference as if set out
in their entirety.
Section 2:   Such supplements shall be deemed published as of the day of their
approval by the Common Council and the Clerk of the City is hereby authorized
and ordered to insert such supplements into the copy of the Code of Ordinances
kept on file in the Office of the Clerk.
Section 3:   All prior ordinances or parts thereof inconsistent with any
provision of this ordinance are hereby repealed.
Section 4:   This ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after
its passage and approval by the Mayor all as by law provided.
   ADOPTED by the Common Council and APPROVED by me, as Mayor, this 28th day of
March, 2011, at 7:07 p.m.
Craig Luedeman /s/ 
   Craig Luedeman, Mayor
City of Seymour, Indiana
ATTEST:
Fred D. Lewis /s/
Fred D. Lewis, Clerk-Treasurer
City of Seymour, Indiana
Passed First Reading:       3/14/11
Passed Second Reading:    3/28/11
                  First      Second
                  Y   N      Y   N
Lloyd Hudson          Y        Y  
James Lucas             Y        Y
John J. Reinhart          Y        Y
Dexter Steele            Absent       Absent
Andrew Hagedorn      Absent        Y
James Rebber          Y        Y
Michael Jordan          Y        Y
ORDINANCE NO. 4
COUNCIL BILL NO. 9
(2013)
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING SUPPLEMENTS
TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF SEYMOUR, INDIANA
WHEREAS,   American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
prepared supplements to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Seymour, Indiana,
which supplements incorporate all ordinances of a general and permanent nature
enacted since approval of a prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City by way of Ordinance 3, Council Bill 8 (2012); and
WHEREAS,   American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Indiana Code; and
WHEREAS,   It is the intent of the Common Council to approve and accept these
updated sections.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE COMMON COUNCIL OF THE CITY
OF SEYMOUR, INDIANA
Section 1:   That the supplements (2013 S-9) to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Seymour, Indiana containing local municipal legislation adopted from
December 13, 2011 through December 10, 2012, and Indiana legislation current
through supplement 2012 Legislative Service #5 as submitted by American Legal
Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, be and the same are hereby adopted
by reference as if set out in their entirety.
Section 2:   Such supplements shall be deemed published as of the day of their
approval by the Common Council and the Clerk of the City is hereby authorized
and ordered to insert such supplements into the copy of the Code of Ordinances
kept on file in the Office of the Clerk.
Section 3:   All prior ordinances or parts thereof inconsistent with any
provision of this ordinance are hereby repealed.
Section 4:   This ordinance shall be in full force and effect immediately from
and after its passage and approval by the Mayor all as by law provided.
   ADOPTED by the Common Council and APPROVED by me, as Mayor, this 11th day of
March, 2013, at 7:05 p.m.
Craig Luedeman /s/ 
   Craig Luedeman, Mayor
City of Seymour, Indiana
ATTEST:
Fred D. Lewis /s/
Fred D. Lewis, Clerk-Treasurer
City of Seymour, Indiana
ORDINANCE NO. 4, COUNCIL BILL NO. 9, (2013)
Passed First Reading:       2/25/13
Passed Second Reading:    3/11/13
                  First      Second
                  Y   N      Y   N
Brian D’Arco          Y        Y  
David Earley             Y        Y
Lloyd Hudson          Y        Y
James Rebber          Y       Absent
John J. Reinhart          Y        Y
Jennifer Siefker          Y        Y
Danny Sloan             Y        Y
ORDINANCE NO. 3 COUNCIL BILL NO. 3
(2015)
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING 2014 SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF
SEYMOUR, INDIANA
WHEREAS,   American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
prepared the 2014 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Seymour,
Indiana, which supplements incorporate all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances;
and
WHEREAS,   American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Indiana Code; and
WHEREAS,   It is the intent of the Common Council to approve and accept these
updated sections.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE COMMON COUNCIL OF THE CITY
OF SEYMOUR, INDIANA
Section 1:   That the 2014 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Seymour, Indiana containing local municipal legislation current through
December 22, 2014, and Indiana legislation current through supplement 2014
Legislative Service #5 as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, be and the same are hereby adopted by reference as if set out
in their entirety.
Section 2:   Such supplements shall be deemed published as of the day of their
approval by the Common Council and the Clerk-Treasurer of the City is hereby
authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the copy of the Code of
Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
Section 3:   All prior ordinances or parts thereof inconsistent with any
provision of this ordinance are hereby repealed.
Section 4:   This ordinance shall be in full force and effect immediately from
and after its passage and approval by the Mayor all as by law provided.
   ADOPTED by the Common Council and APPROVED by me, as Mayor, this 9th day of
February, 2015, at 7:07 p.m.
Craig Luedeman /s/ 
   Craig Luedeman, Mayor
City of Seymour, Indiana
ATTEST:
Fred D. Lewis /s/
Fred D. Lewis, Clerk-Treasurer
City of Seymour, Indiana
ORDINANCE NO. 3, COUNCIL BILL NO. 3, (2015)
Passed First Reading:       1/26/15
Passed Second Reading:    2/9/15
            First      Second
            Y   N   Y   N
Brian D’Arco          Y        Y  
David Earley          Y       Absent
Lloyd Hudson          Y        Y
James Rebber          Y        Y
John J. Reinhart       Y        Y
Darrin Boas          Y        Y
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Chapter
   
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
11.   CITY STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights, and liabilities
   
10.17   Copies of code; updates
   
10.18   Tampering with code book prohibited
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component codes,
titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Seymour
City Code,” for which designation “code of ordinances,” “codified ordinances,”
or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter, and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto, and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or subsection.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters, or sections of this code, as
originally enacted, or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered
by the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only, and do not affect the meaning,
application, or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only, and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent
or context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary, and
usual sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of those persons, unless
otherwise declared in the section giving that authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CITY. The City of Seymour, Indiana, or the area within the territorial
limits of the city, and that territory outside of the city over which the city
has jurisdiction or control by virtue of any constitutional or statutory
provisions.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk-Treasurer of the City Council.
      COUNCIL. The City Council or Common Council of the city.
      COUNTY. Jackson County, Indiana, in which the city is located.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads, and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      TOWNSHIP. The township or townships in which the city is located.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing, or other modes
of representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a statute stating that the provisions of an act are
severable as provided in division (B) dies bit affect the operation of division
(B) with respect to that act.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section, reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer, or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties, or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority, or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; or at the time of the effective date of that ordinance or
subsequent thereto, the rights, powers, duties, or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then that named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority, or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which those duties,
liabilities, powers, and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, that spelling shall be corrected and the word
or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of that act or the giving of that notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday, or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture, or liability incurred under
that section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of that penalty, forfeiture,
or liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code shall not be affected by
the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings, and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of that chapter or section. In addition to such
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-1960; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Am. Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (I.C. 36-5-2-2) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-
1985)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a statutory reference following
the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer to that
statute for further information. Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS, AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings, and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-
way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment, or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.17 COPIES OF CODE; UPDATES.
   Two copies of the city code shall be kept on file in the office of the
Clerk-Treasurer, preserved in looseleaf form. It shall be the express duty of
the Clerk-Treasurer, or someone authorized by him or her, to insert in their
designated places all amendments or ordinances which indicate the intention of
the Council to make the same a part of the code when the same shall have been
printed or reprinted in page form, and to extract from the code all provisions
which may be from time to time repealed by the Council. These copies of the
code shall be available to all persons desiring to examine the same and shall
be considered the official code of the city.
(1987 Code, § 1-12) (Ord. 31, 1987, passed 1-4-1988)
§ 10.18 TAMPERING WITH CODE BOOK PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to change or amend
by additions or deletions, any part or portion of this code, or to insert or
delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with this code in any
manner whatsoever which will cause the code, any ordinance, or the laws of the
city to be misrepresented thereby. Any person, firm, or corporation violating
this section shall be punished as provided in §
10.99 of this code.
(1987 Code, § 1-13) (Ord. 31, 1987, passed 1-4-1988)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   General penalty. Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any
provision of this code for which another penalty is not specifically provided
shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine not exceeding $2,500. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during which a violation occurs
or continues.
   (B)   Actions; alternative remedies. Any person violating any of the
provisions of this code shall be guilty of a code violation. Each day a
violation of this code is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a
separate offense.
      (1)   Any violations of this code may be enforced by an action brought in
accordance with I.C. 34-28-5 and judgment sought against any violator for a
fine. The fines shall continue to increase for each repeat offense but shall
not be more than the maximum fine herein for each offense.
      (2)   The Board of Public Works and Safety is authorized to amend the
fine schedules set out in Chapter 34 as deemed necessary, from time to time.
(Ord. 48, 1992, passed 12-28-1992; Am. Ord. 19, 2008, passed 9-8-2008)
      (3)   The city may bring a civil action to enjoin any person from:
         (a)   Violating any code provision regulating or prohibiting a
condition or use of property; or
         (b)   Engaging in conduct without a license if a code provision
requires a license to engage in the conduct.
      (4)   The court may suspend all or any part of a penalty imposed for a
code violation and may require as a condition of that suspension that the
defendant shall perform uncompensated work that benefits the community.
(1987 Code, § 1-9)
   (C)   Litigation expenses recoverable when city prevails. The city
acknowledges that it may be necessary, from time to time, to file a lawsuit to
compel the performance of or recover for the violation of any of its
ordinances, as are currently in force or as may hereinafter be enacted. In the
event that the city shall bring suit to compel performance of or to recover
damages or penalties for the violation of its ordinances, and the city shall
prevail, it shall be entitled to recover from the violator the following:
      (1)   Fines and penalties or other money damage judgments awarded by the
court;
      (2)   All attorney’s fees incurred in the prosecution of the violator and
enforcement of its ordinance;
      (3)   The costs of the action;
      (4)   Travel expenses that are incurred by the city in relation to:
         (a)   Having an employee or agent of the city file documents and
attend court proceedings related to the recovery of a judgment;
         (b)   Providing witnesses to testify in court proceedings related to
the recovery of a judgment; or
         (c)   Investigation of the violation.
      (5)   A reasonable amount to compensate the city for time used to:
         (a)   File documents and attend court proceedings related to the
recovery or a judgment; or
         (b)   Travel to and from activities described in division (C)(5)(a).
      (6)   Actual direct and indirect expenses incurred by the city to
compensate employees and agents for time used to:
         (a)   File documents and attend court proceedings related to the
recovery or a judgment; or
         (b)   Travel to and from activities described in division (C)(6)(a).
      (7)   Other litigation costs, including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Courier or messenger services;
         (b)   Recording and certifying docu-ments;
         (c)   Depositions and transcripts;
         (d)   Expert witness fees;
         (e)   Witness attendance fees;
         (f)   Copying materials and documents;
         (g)   Legal assistant, paralegal, and clerical staff time; and
         (h)   Postage.
      (8)   All other reasonable costs of collection.
(1987 Code, § 1-9.1) (Ord. 4, 1992, passed 2-10-1992)
   (D)   Fines and license fines. Whenever in §§
10.17 or
10.18 above, or in this code, an act is prohibited or is made or declared to be
unlawful or an offense, or whenever in that ordinance or in this code the doing
of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful,
the violation of any such provision of the ordinance or of this code shall be
punished by a fine not exceeding $2,500. The fine assessed for the violation of
any ordinance requiring a license may be a sum equal to the amount required by
the ordinance to be paid for that license, unless otherwise provided.
(1987 Code, § 1-14) (Ord. 31, 1987, passed 1-4-1988)
   (E)   Abatement of public nuisance. In addition to the penalties hereinabove
provided, any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the
provisions of this code shall be deemed a public nuisance and may be by the
city abated as provided by law, and each day that condition shall continue is
to be regarded as a new and separate offense.
(1987 Code, § 1-15) (Ord. 31, 1987, passed 1-4-1988)
Statutory reference:
   Power to prescribe fines up to $2,500, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
CHAPTER 11: CITY STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   City seal
   
Appendix: City Seal
§ 11.01 CITY SEAL.
   (A)   The city seal of the city is depicted in the appendix to this chapter.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be the custodian of the city’s seal and
shall affix it to documents and instruments as required.
(1987 Code, § 1-10)
APPENDIX: CITY SEAL
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dbbc9b9e11c1086bd5e62848c5bbdaa09aab0120/
IMAGES/0-0-0-11.gif]
 
(1987 Code, § 1-10)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
Chapter
   
30.   CITY GOVERNMENT
   
31.   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, AND COMMISSIONS
   
32.   CITY POLICIES
   
33.   CIVIL EMERGENCIES
   
34.   ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
   
35.   FUNDS AND ACCOUNTS
   
36.   FEES
CHAPTER 30: CITY GOVERNMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Organization
   
30.02   Record and recording of all public meetings
Executive Branch
   
30.15   Mayor
   
30.16   Board of Public Works and Safety
   
30.17   Departments
   
30.18   Mayoral appointments
   
30.19   Department powers
   
30.20   Standing committees
   
30.21   Parks and Recreation Board
   
30.22   Department of Redevelopment; Redevelopment Commission
   
30.23   Housing authority
Fiscal Branch
   
30.35   Clerk-Treasurer; duties; deputies
   
30.36   Clerk-Treasurer; election; term of office
   
30.37   Clerk-Treasurer; bond requirements
   
30.38   Pre-approved expenses and claims
   
30.39   Fixed Asset Ledger procedures
   
30.40   Non-reverting funds claims procedure
   
30.41   Captal asset policy
Legislative Branch
   
30.50   City Council
   
30.51   Clerk of the Council
   
30.52   Regular meetings
   
30.53   Presiding officer
   
30.54   Meetings; order of business
   
30.55   Addressing the Council; disorderly behavior
   
30.56   Ordinances and resolutions; introduction and adoption
   
30.57   Presiding officer; questions of order; appeal
   
30.58   Suspension of rules
   
30.59   Robert’s Rules of Order
   
30.60   Ordinances amending the city code
   
30.61   Councilmanic districts
   
Appendix: Form of Amending Ordinances
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 ORGANIZATION.
   The government of the city shall consist of two branches, those being:
   (A)   The executive branch; and
   (B)   The legislative branch.
(1987 Code, § 2-1) (Ord. 1, 1992, passed 1-6-1992)
§ 30.02 RECORD AND RECORDING OF ALL PUBLIC MEETINGS.
   (A)   All officially scheduled, special, and called open public meetings
shall be recorded in a manner that allows for the capture of audio including
without limitation:
      (1)   A sound-only recording; or
      (2)   A video recording with sound and video; and
      (3)   A digital or analog broadcast capable of being recorded.
   (B)   A recording of an open public meeting shall be maintained by the city
for a minimum of two years from the date of the open public meeting.
   (C)   The recording shall be maintained in a format that may be reproduced
upon request.
   (D)   The recording shall be published on the city’s webpage within three
business days of the origination.
   (E)   Divisions (A) and (B) above do not apply to:
      (1)   Executive sessions; or
      (2)   Other sessions which are not open to the public.
(Ord. 3, 2023, passed 2-13-2023)
EXECUTIVE BRANCH
§ 30.15 MAYOR.
   The Mayor is the city executive and head of the executive branch. He or she
shall faithfully perform the duties and responsibilities contained in I.C. 36-
4-5 and other statutes of the state.
(1987 Code, § 2-2) (Ord. 1, 1992, passed 1-6-1992)
Statutory reference:
   Election of Mayor, see I.C. 3-5-1 et seq.
   Mayor absent or incapacitated; procedures, see I.C. 36-4-5-8 and 36-4-5-9
   Mayor; general powers, see I.C. 36-4-5-1 through 36-4-5-7
§ 30.16 BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS AND SAFETY.
   (A)   The Board of Public Works and Safety is within the executive branch.
The Board shall be the chief administrative body of the city and shall have
control of the day-to-day operations of the following executive departments:
      (1)   The Police Department;
      (2)   The Fire Department;
      (3)   The Department of Public Works:
         (a)   Street division;
         (b)   Sanitation division.
      (4)   The Water Pollution Control Department:
         (a)   Sanitary sewer utility division;
         (b)   Storm water utility division.
      (5)   The Purchasing Agency.
   (B)   The time and date of the twice monthly meetings of the Board of Public
Works and Safety are the second and fourth Thursdays of each month at 11:00
a.m.
(1987 Code, § 2-3) (Ord. 1, 1992, passed 1-6-1992; Am. Ord. 18, 1998, passed 6-
22-1998; Am. Ord. 34, 1998, passed 8-10-1998; Am. Ord. 20, 2016, passed 11-28-
2016)
Cross-reference:
   Handicapped parking; application procedure, see §
73.51
§ 30.17 DEPARTMENTS.
   The following departments, established in Ord. 15, 1983, shall continue to
administer their respective areas of responsibility:
   (A)   The Parks and Recreation Department, pursuant to I.C. 36-10;
   (B)   The Department of Planning and Zoning, pursuant to I.C. 36-7;
   (C)   The Airport Authority, pursuant to I.C. 8-22; and
   (D)   The Department of Law, pursuant to I.C. 36-4.
(1987 Code, § 2-4) (Ord. 1, 1992, passed 1-6-1992; Am. Ord. 4, 1993, passed 2-
8-1993)
§ 30.18 MAYORAL APPOINTMENTS.
   The members of the Board of Public Works and Safety are the Mayor and two
voters of the city, who shall be chosen by the Mayor and serve at his or her
pleasure. The Chiefs of the Police and Fire Departments and the City Attorney
are appointed by the Mayor and serve at his or her pleasure. Pursuant to I.C.
36-4-9-2, the Mayor shall appoint the heads of the Departments of Public Works,
Airport Authority, Parks and Recreation, and Planning and Zoning. These
appointees serve at the pleasure of the Mayor.
(1987 Code, § 2-5) (Ord. 1, 1992, passed 1-6-1992; Am. Ord. 4, 1993, passed 2-
8-1993)
Statutory reference:
   Mayor’s appointment authority, see I.C. 36-4-9-8
§ 30.19 DEPARTMENT POWERS.
   Subject to the appropriation power of the City Council, the foregoing
departments shall have the ability to hire employees, and purchase or contract
for materials or services, as the Board of Public Works and Safety or other
governing board or commission deems necessary to perform their public
functions.
(1987 Code, § 2-6) (Ord. 1, 1992, passed 1-6-1992)
§ 30.20 STANDING COMMITTEES.
   (A)   There shall be established the following standing committees composed
of Council members:
      (1)   Finance;
      (2)   Governmental Affairs;
      (3)   Thoroughfare and Drainage;
      (4)   Public Utilities;
      (5)   Retail Development;
      (6)   Industrial Development; and
      (7)   Planning and Zoning.
   (B)   The members and chairs thereof shall be appointed by the Mayor.
(1987 Code, § 2-7) (Ord. 1, 1992, passed 1-6-1992)
§ 30.21 PARKS AND RECREATION BOARD.
   (A)   The Parks and Recreation Board shall be composed of:
      (1)   Four members appointed by the executive on the basis of their
interest in and knowledge of parks and recreation. No more than two members
shall be of the same political party; and
      (2)   Additional members shall include one member from the school board.
   (B)   As a member’s term expires, each new appointment shall be made by the
Mayor for a term of four years. All terms expire on the first Monday in
January, but a member shall continue in office until his or her successor is
appointed. If an appointment for a new term is not made by the executive by the
first Monday in April, the incumbent shall serve another term. If a vacancy
occurs, the executive shall appoint a new member for the remainder of the
unexpired term.
   (C)   At its first regular meeting in each year, the Board shall elect a
president and vice-president. The vice-president shall have authority to act as
the president of the Board during the absence or disability of the president.
The Board may select a secretary from within or without its own membership.
   (D)   The Board shall have the power to perform all acts necessary to
acquire and develop sites and facilities and to conduct programs as are
generally understood to be parks and recreation functions. In addition, the
Board shall have all the powers listed in I.C. 36-10-3 et seq.
   (E)   The Board shall prepare and submit an annual budget in the same manner
as other departments of the city government as prescribed by the state Board of
Accounts. The Board may accept gifts, donations, and subsidies for parks and
recreation purposes.
(1987 Code, § 2-8) (Ord. 3, 1990, passed 2-12-1990)
§ 30.22 DEPARTMENT OF REDEVELOPMENT; REDEVELOPMENT COMMISSION.
   (A)   The planning, replanning, development, and redevelopment of economic
development areas:
      (1)   Are public and governmental functions that cannot be accomplished
through the ordinary operations of private enterprise because of the necessity
for requiring the proper use of land so as to best serve the interests of the
city and its citizens, and the costs of these projects;
      (2)   Will benefit the public health, safety, morals, and welfare,
increase the economic well being of the city and the state, and serve to
protect and increase property values in the city and the state; and
      (3)   Are public uses and purposes for which public money may be spent
and private property may be acquired, all as provided and authorized by the
Act.
   (B)   (1)   There is created and established as part of the governmental
organization of the city, a Department of Redevelopment controlled by a board
to be known and legally designated as the Seymour Redevelopment Commission.
      (2)   The Seymour Redevelopment Commission shall consist of a board of
five commissioners, three of which shall be appointed by the Mayor and two of
which shall be appointed by the City Council. The Mayor shall also appoint an
individual to serve as a nonvoting adviser to the Redevelopment Commission. The
Seymour Redevelopment Commission is hereby authorized to undertake and carry
out all purposes authorized or permitted pursuant to I.C. 36-7-14.
   (C)   Each redevelopment commissioner shall serve for one year from the
first day of January after appointment until a successor is appointed and has
qualified.
   (D)   A redevelopment commissioner or a nonvoting adviser appointed by the
Mayor may not have a pecuniary interest in any contract, employment, purchase,
or sale made by the Seymour Redevelopment Commission. However, any property
required for redevelopment purposes in which a commissioner or nonvoting
adviser has a pecuniary interest may be acquired, but only by gift or
condemnation. A transaction made in violation of this subsection is void.
   (E)   The board shall meet and organize as by law provided. The
redevelopment commissioners shall hold a meeting for purposes of organization
annually on the first day in January that is not a Saturday, a Sunday, or a
legal holiday.
(1987 Code, § 2-9) (Ord. 17, 1992, passed 6-8-1992; Am. Ord. 15, 2009, passed
11-23-2009)
Statutory reference:
   Redevelopment, see I.C. 36-7-14 and 36-7-25
Cross-reference:
   City Redevelopment Authority, see §
31.56
§ 30.23 HOUSING AUTHORITY.
   (A)   There is an established governmental agency of the city, known as the
Seymour Housing Authority.
   (B)   The Housing Authority shall be managed by a board of seven
commissioners, appointed by the Mayor, one of whom must be a resident of a
housing project under the jurisdiction of the housing authority. No more than
four of the commissioners may be from the same political party.
   (C)   Each commissioner shall serve for four years from the first day of
January after appointment until a successor is appointed and has qualified.
   (D)   Each commissioner shall reside within the jurisdictional area of the
Housing Authority.
(Ord. 12, 2012, passed 6-11-2012)
FISCAL BRANCH
§ 30.35 CLERK-TREASURER; DUTIES; DEPUTIES.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer is the fiscal officer of the city. He or she shall
perform the duties assigned by I.C. 36-4-10, and other duties as the City
Council may, by ordinance, require.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized, pursuant to I.C. 36-4-11-4, to
appoint Deputy Clerk-Treasurers to be paid solely from funds appropriated for
the Office of Clerk-Treasurer. These deputies shall work under the exclusive
direction of the Clerk-Treasurer, and serve at the pleasure of the Clerk-
Treasurer.
(1987 Code, § 2-11) (Ord. 1, 1992, passed 1-6-1992)
Statutory reference:
   Clerk-Treasurer; general powers, see I.C. 36-4-10-1 through 36-4-10-5
§ 30.36 CLERK-TREASURER; ELECTION; TERM OF OFFICE.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be elected in the same manner as the Mayor.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall take office at 12:00 noon on the first day
of January following his or her election, and shall serve for four years and
until a successor is elected and qualified pursuant to I.C. 36-4-10-2.
(1987 Code, § 2-12)
§ 30.37 CLERK-TREASURER; BOND REQUIREMENTS.
   Pursuant to the requirements of state law the bonds to be furnished or
required of the City Clerk-Treasurer are fixed as follows:
   (A)   A general bond in the amount of $50,000;
   (B)   A bond as custodian of Barrett Law funds in the amount of $25,000; and
   (C)   A bond for special bond issues in the amount of $50,000.
(1987 Code, § 2-13) (Ord. 2-76, passed 1-5-1976)
Statutory reference:
   Bonded officers and employees, see I.C. 5-4-1-5.1
   Minimum bond requirements, see I.C. 5-4-1-18
§ 30.38 PRE-APPROVED EXPENSES AND CLAIMS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding I.C. 5-11-10, which allows for allowance of claims
with prior written approval of the Board of Public Works and Safety, the Clerk-
Treasurer of the city may make claim payments without prior approval of the
Board of Public Works and Safety for the following kinds of expenses:
      (1)   Property or services purchased or leased from the U.S. government,
its agencies, or its political subdivisions;
      (2)   License or permit fees;
      (3)   Insurance premiums;
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
      (5)   General grant programs where advance funding is not prohibited and
the contracting party posts sufficient security to cover the amount advanced;
      (6)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute;
      (7)   Maintenance or service agreements;
      (8)   Leases or rental agreements;
      (9)   Bond or coupon payments;
      (10)   Payroll; and
      (11)   State, federal, or county taxes.
   (B)   Prior to the payment of any expenses under this section, a fully
itemized claim supporting the expense must be submitted to the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (C)   Following payment of the pre-approved expense, the Board of Public
Works and Safety shall review and allow the claim at its next regular or
special meeting.
(1987 Code, § 2-232) (Ord. 21, 1992, passed 6-8-1992)
§ 30.39 FIXED ASSET LEDGER PROCEDURES.
   (A)   There is established a minimum value requirement of $5,000 in order
for assets to be listed on the Fixed Asset Ledger for the city.
   (B)   The city is authorized to delete all currently listed assets from the
Fixed Asset Ledger with values less than $5,000.
(1987 Code, § 2-231) (Ord. 28, 1995, passed 12-11-1995; Am. Ord. 8, 2015,
passed 3-9-2015)
§ 30.40 NON-REVERTING FUNDS CLAIMS PROCEDURE.
   (A)   There shall be established a non-reverting funds claims procedure for
all non-reverting funds maintained by the Clerk-Treasurer of the city, except
for petty cash funds.
   (B)   Revenues from various sources that are accepted into the funds shall
be subject to the following claims procedure.
   (C)   All expenditures from these funds shall first be approved utilizing
the following procedure:
      (1)   The donor of any individual or corporate contribution shall receive
a receipt from the appropriate department head or Clerk-Treasurer;
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall utilize the collection form specified by
the state Board of Accounts;
      (3)   The expenditure shall be approved by the appropriate board or
commission of the city;
      (4)   The expenditure shall then be approved by the Board of Public Works
and Safety; and
      (5)   No expenditure shall be approved without submission of the proper
claim form specified by the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 45, 2001, passed 12-10-2001; Am. Ord. 22, passed 11-28-2011)
§ 30.41 CAPITAL ASSET POLICY.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      CAPITAL ASSETS.
         (a)   Land and/or land improvements, including monuments, buildings,
building improvements, construction in progress, machinery and equipment,
vehicles, and infrastructure. All land will not be depreciated. All items with
a useful life of more than one year, and having a unit cost of $5,000 or more
shall be depreciated (including acquisitions by lease-purchase agreements or
donated items). A capital asset meeting the criteria will be reported and
depreciated in the government-wide financial statements.
         (b)   Assets that are not capitalized (items having a unit cost of
less than $5,000) are expensed in the year of acquisition. An inventory will be
kept on all computers and other equipment with a cost of less than $5,000.
Exceptions are:
            1.   Items costing less than the above-described limits which are
permanently installed as part of the cost of original construction on
installation of a larger building or equipment unit will be included in the
cost of the larger unit;
            2.   Modular equipment added subsequent to original equipment
construction of a larger building or equipment unit which may be put together
to form larger units costing more than the prescribed limits will be charged to
capital assets even though the cost of the individual items is less than such
limits; and
            3.   Cabinets, shelving bookcases, and similar items added
subsequent to original construction, which are custom-made for a specific place
and adaptable elsewhere will be capitalized.
      CAPITAL OUTLAYS. Expenditures which benefit both the current and future
fiscal periods. This includes costs of acquiring land or structures,
construction or improvement of buildings, structures or other fixed assets and
equipment purchases having an appreciable and calculable period of usefulness.
These expenditures resulting in the acquisition of or addition to the city's
general fixed assets.
      FIXED ASSETS. Tangible assets of a durable nature employed in the
operating of activities of the City and that are relatively permanent and are
needed for the production and sale of goods or services are termed property,
plant, and equipment or FIXED ASSETS.
      HISTORICAL COST. The cash equivalent price exchanged for goods or
services at the date of acquisition. Land, buildings, equipment, and most
inventories are common examples of items recognized under the HISTORICAL COST
attribute.
      LAND. Specified land, lots, parcels, or acreage.
      MACHINERY and EQUIPMENT. An apparatus, tool, or conglomeration of pieces
to form a tool. The tool will stand alone and not become part of a basic
structure of building. This category also includes any other asset or type of
physical property not otherwise classified in this subchapter.
      TANGIBLE ASSETS. Assets that can be observed by one or more of the
physical senses. These assets may be seen and touched and, in some
environments, heard and smelled.
   (B)   Specific capitalization provisions.
      (1)   Land.
         (a)   The city will maintain all land purchases at historical cost.
Exceptions to land depreciation are land purchased outright, as easements, or
right-of-way for infrastructure. Examples of infrastructure include roads and
streets, street lighting systems, curbs, parking meters, street signs,
viaducts, wharfs, and storm water collection.
         (b)   Original costs of land will include the full value given to the
seller, including relocation, legal services incidental to the purchase
(including title work and legal opinion), appraisal and negotiation fees,
surveying and costs for preparing the land for its intended purpose (including
contractors and/or city employees (salary and benefits)), such as demolishing
buildings, excavating, clean up and/or inspection. Land is not depreciated
under generally accepted accounting principles.
      (2)   Machinery and equipment.
         (a)   The city will depreciate items with an individual value equal to
or greater than $5,000. Machinery combined with other machinery to form one
unit with a total value greater than the above-mentioned limit will be one
unit.
         (b)   Improvement or renovations to existing machinery and equipment
will be capitalized only if the result of the change meets all of the following
conditions:
            1.   The total costs exceed $5,000;
            2.   The useful life is extended two or more years;
            3.   The total cost will be greater than the current book value and
less than the fair market value.
         (c)   Salvage value of machinery or equipment will be determined on an
asset-by-asset basis. Depreciation will be calculated at year-end.
      (3)   Buildings.
         (a)   The city will capitalize buildings at full cost with no
subcategories for tracking the cost of attachments. Examples of attachments are
roofs, heating, cooling, lighting or sprinkler systems, or any part of the
basic building. The department will include the cost of items designed or
purchased exclusively for the building.
         (b)   A new building will be capitalized only if it meets the
following conditions:
            1.   The total cost exceeds $5,000; and
            2.   The useful life is greater than two years.
         (c)   Improvements to an existing building will be capitalized only if
the result meets all of the following conditions:
            1.   The total cost exceeds $5,000;
            2.   The useful life is extended two years or more; and
            3.   The total cost will be greater than the current book value and
less than the fair market value.
         (d)   Any land, building, improvements, or equipment that has been
donated will be recorded at fair market value on the date of transfer.
      (4)   Improvements other than buildings. These assets are defined as
improvements to land for better enjoyment, attached or not easily removed, and
which will have a life expectancy of greater than two years. Examples are
walkways, parking areas and drives, golf cart paths, fencing, retaining walls,
pools, outside fountains, planters, underground sprinkler systems, water supply
mains, collection sewers, wells, dams, intake pipes, manholes, fire hydrants,
and other similar items. Improvements do not include roads, streets, or assets
that are of value only to the public. Roads or drives upon city-owned land that
provide support to city facilities are assets. A sidewalk down the road for
public enjoyment is an infrastructure improvement. Sidewalks installed upon
city-owned land for use by the public and for the support of city facilities
are capital assets.
      (5)   Recording and accounting. The city shall classify capital
expenditures as capital outlays within the fund from which the expenditure was
made in accordance with the Chart of Accounts of the Cities and Towns
Accounting Manual. The cost of the property, plant and equipment includes all
expenditures necessary to put the asset into position and ready for use. For
purposes of recording fixed assets of the city, the valuation of assets shall
be based on historical costs, or where the historical cost is indeterminable,
by estimation for those assets in existence.
      (6)   Composite/ground network. A network of assets is composed of all
assets that provide a particular type of service for government. A subsystem of
a network of assets is composed of all assets that make a similar portion or
segment of a network of assets.
         (a)   "Composite depreciation" refers to calculation of depreciation
for a collection of similar assets. A single composite rate is applied annually
to the acquisition cost of the collection as a whole. At year-end, an
adjustment will be made to the total cost to account for any additions/
disposals throughout the year. The accumulated depreciation associated with it
will also be adjusted. A gain or loss will never be reported on the asset when
using the composite method. A full year's depreciation will be taken when the
asset is placed in service and no depreciation will be recorded in the year it
is sold or disposed of. Dissimilar assets will be grouped by useful lives.
         (b)   To determine the appropriate depreciation rate for the composite
rate, divide one by the number of years the assets are depreciated. For
instance, a group of assets with a 25-year life will be depreciated at 4% each
year (1/25).
      (7)   Useful Life Schedule.
         (a)   The "useful life" of an asset, as set by the Indiana State Board
of Accounts ("SBOA"), shall be the "useful life" applied by the city. For
assets with regard to which the SBOA has not set a useful life, the city shall
assign its own. As the date of adoption of this section, and for purpose of
illustration, the current useful lives for various fixed assets are as follows:
Asset Class Useful Life Source
Asset Class                                      Useful Life Source
Land                                                         
   Land                                       NA          NA
   Land improvements                          NA          NA
   Right-of-way                               NA          NA
   Easement                                   NA          NA
Buildings                                                    
   Permanent structures                       50          SBOA
   Wood frame structures                      25          Internal
   Foundation, frame, floor structure         50          SBOA
   Interior construction                      15          SBOA
   HVAC systems/fire alarms                   20          SBOA
   Floor covering                             15          SBOA
   Carpet                                     5           SBOA
   Electrical                                 20          SBOA
   Plumbing                                   20          SBOA
   Elevators                                  20          SBOA
   Masonry interior/exterior construction     10          Internal
   Wood frame open structure (i.e. park shelte30          Internal
   Metal frame open structure                 50          Internal
   Roof                                       10          SBOA
Improvements Other Than Buildings                            
   Parking lots                               50          SBOA
   Street lights/traffic lights/flag poles    25          SBOA
   Fencing                                    20          SBOA
   Swimming pools                             20          SBOA
   Pedestrian bridges                         30          SBOA
   Major bridges                              50          SBOA
   Alleys                                     50          SBOA
   Outside irrigation systems                 25          SBOA
   Fountains                                  20          SBOA
   Tennis/basketball courts                   20          SBOA
   Tunnels                                    50          SBOA
   Roads                                      50          SBOA
   Signs                                      10          SBOA
Infrastructure                                               
   Sewers (including manholes and pipes)      100         SBOA
   Lift stations/gas stations                 50          SBOA
   Treatment plants                           50          SBOA
   Pumps                                      20          SBOA
   Storm drains                               50          SBOA
   Storm infrastructure                       50          Internal
Machinery and Equipment                                      
   Heavy mobile equipment                     12          SBOA
   Fire apparatus                             12          SBOA
   Fire equipment                             10          Internal
   General equipment                          12          SBOA
   Athletic/exercise equipment                10          SBOA
   Indoor recreation equipment                10           
   AV equipment                               7           SBOA
   Computer hardware                          5           SBOA
   Copiers                                    5           SBOA
   Communication equipment                    10          SBOA
   Servers                                    7           IRS
   Furniture                                  15          SBOA
   Appliances/food service equipment          10          SBOA
   General shop equipment                     20          SBOA
   General tools                              10          SBOA
   Outdoor recreation equipment               15          SBOA
   Trailers                                   12          SBOA
   Mowers                                     7           Internal
   Storm sirens                               20          Internal
Vehicles (Licensed)                                          
   Automobile                                 6           SBOA
   Golf cart                                  6           SBOA
   ATV                                        6           SBOA
   Truck                                      6           SBOA
   Van                                        6           SBOA
   SUV                                        6           SBOA
 
(Ord. 1, 2022, passed 1-24-2022)
LEGISLATIVE BRANCH
§ 30.50 CITY COUNCIL.
   (A)   Authority. The legislative branch of the city is the City Council. The
Council shall have exclusive authority to adopt ordinances and appropriate tax
monies received by the city, and to perform other necessary and desirable
legislative functions.
   (B)   City Council districts.
      (1)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-4-6-4, the City Council shall have a total of
seven members. Two Council members shall be at-large members elected by voters
from the whole city. Five members shall be elected by the voters in districts.
The city is hereby divided into five City Council districts, described as
follows:
         (a)   District 1: All of Jackson IE, portions of Redding Seymour City
east of Ewing St. and portions of Jackson 2E north of E. Tipton St.
         (b)   District 2: Portions of Jackson 2E east of Myers St. south of E.
Tipton St., east of Bush St., north of Highlawn Ave./E. Brown St., and east of
E. Brown St. and Marley Lane; all of Jackson 2W east of S. O'Brien St. to the
RR tracks and including all of Parkland Ave. on the south; and portions of
Jackson 7 north of E. County Rd. 440N and west of N. County Rd. 975E.
         (c)   District 3: Portions of Jackson 2E west of Bush St., south of
Highlawn Ave./E. Brown St., and west of E. Brown St./Marley Lane, and all of
Jackson 3S and Jackson 3N.
         (d)   District 4: Portions of Jackson 2W, east of O'Brien St. west of
the RR tracks and south of R. Pardieck Dr., and all of Jackson 4N, Jackson 4S,
and portions of Jackson 7 east of Walnut St. north of E. County Rd. 340N and
west of N. County Rd. 850E.
         (e)   District 5: Portions of Redding Seymour City west of Ewing St.,
and all of Jackson 5N and Jackson 5E.
      (2)   The precincts referred to herein are those precincts and precinct
boundaries as established by the Board of Commissioners of the county in 2022.
(1987 Code, § 3-1) (Ord. 1, 1992, passed 1-6-1992; Am. Ord. 25, 2012, passed
12-10-2012; Am. Ord. 44, 2022, passed 11-28-2022; Am. Ord. 45, 2022, passed 12-
12-2022)
§ 30.51 CLERK OF THE COUNCIL.
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be the Clerk of the Council and shall perform the
duties prescribed by I.C. 36-4-6-9 and other duties as the Council may direct.
(1987 Code, § 3-2) (Ord. 1, 1992, passed 1-6-1992)
§ 30.52 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   The regular meeting date and time for the City Council shall be at 7:00 p.m.
on the second and fourth Monday of each month. A special meeting may be called
by the Mayor or by a majority of members of the Council. Notice of the same
shall be issued by the Clerk-Treasurer.
(1987 Code, § 3-3) (Ord. 1, 1992, passed 1-6-1992)
Statutory reference:
   Open door law, see I.C. 5-14-1.5-1 through 5-14-1.5-7
   Regular and special meetings of the Council, see I.C. 36-4-6-7
§ 30.53 PRESIDING OFFICER.
   The Mayor, or in his or her absence, the President of the Council, shall be
the presiding officer of the Council pursuant to I.C. 36-4-6-8, and meetings
shall be conducted pursuant to the applicable statutes (I.C. 36-4-6-10 through
36-4-6-17) and in accordance with the following rules which are adopted as a
part of this chapter.
(1987 Code, § 3-4) (Ord. 1, 1992, passed 1-6-1992)
§ 30.54 MEETINGS; ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   The order of business to be followed at a meeting of the City Council shall
be as follows:
   (A)   Calling to order;
   (B)   Invocation and Pledge of Allegiance;
   (C)   Roll call by Clerk-Treasurer;
   (D)   Reading of minutes and approval;
   (E)   Reports from committees, boards, and commissions;
   (F)   Public hearings;
   (G)   Old business, including ordinances or resolutions already introduced;
   (H)   New business, including introduction of ordinances and resolutions;
   (I)   Miscellaneous business, including any matters not already considered;
and
   (J)   Adjournment.
(1987 Code, § 3-5) (Ord. 1, 1992, passed 1-6-1992)
§ 30.55 ADDRESSING THE COUNCIL; DISORDERLY BEHAVIOR.
   (A)   Addressing the Council. The Mayor or presiding officer shall decide
whether any person not a member of the Council shall be permitted to address
the Council, and the decision of the Mayor or presiding officer may not be
overruled except upon two-thirds vote of all the members of the Council. When
permission is granted, the person shall be limited in his or her remarks to
three minutes.
(1987 Code, § 3-6)
   (B)   Contempt and disorder in the Council room. No person shall use violent
or contemptuous language, behave in a disorderly manner, or refuse to obey the
orders of the Mayor or presiding officer in the Council room while the City
Council is in session. The Mayor or presiding officer may order the removal
from the Council room of anyone who intentionally disturbs the decorum of a
Council meeting.
(1987 Code, § 3-7)
(Ord. 1, 1992, passed 1-6-1992)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 30.56 ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS; INTRODUCTION AND ADOPTION.
   (A)   All ordinances shall be read two times by title only before passage,
and no ordinance shall pass on the same day in which it is introduced unless
the provisions of I.C. 36-4-6-13 are complied with. A synopsis of the ordinance
may be read aloud to assist the general public in understanding its content.
   (B)   Resolutions shall be passed by a majority vote on one reading by title
only.
   (C)   Ordinances and resolutions shall pass by title only. The Clerk-
Treasurer shall not be required to read the full text of any ordinance or
resolution unless so directed by a two-thirds vote of the City Council. The
Mayor and Clerk-Treasurer shall maintain copies of all proposed legislation on
file in their offices for interested persons.
   (D)   On the passage or adopting of any ordinance or resolution the yeas and
nays shall be taken and entered in the record, and the ordinance or resolution
shall be processed in accordance with I.C. 36-4-6-14 through 36-4-6-17.
   (E)   The Mayor shall have the right to cast a vote in the event of a tie
vote, but not otherwise.
   (F)   A presiding officer other than the Mayor shall have the right to vote
on all issues coming before the Council.
(1987 Code, § 3-8) (Ord. 1, 1992, passed 1-6-1992)
Statutory reference:
   Ordinance procedures, see I.C. 36-4-6-13
   Quorum, see I.C. 36-4-6-10
§ 30.57 PRESIDING OFFICER; QUESTIONS OF ORDER; APPEAL.
   (A)   Questions of order. The Mayor or presiding officer shall decide all
questions or order. He or she shall decide whether any question submitted to
the Council for adoption or rejection is decided in the affirmative or
negative.
(1987 Code, § 3-9)
   (B)   Appeal from decision of presiding officer. 
      (1)   From any decision of the presiding officer any member may appeal to
the Council.
      (2)   The appeal shall be by motion duly made and seconded.
      (3)   A majority vote as defined in I.C. 36-4-6-11 is necessary to
overrule the chair.
(1987 Code, § 3-10)
(Ord. 1, 1992, passed 1-6-1992)
§ 30.58 SUSPENSION OF RULES.
   The order of business may be suspended by a two-thirds vote of the members
of the Council.
(1987 Code, § 3-11) (Ord. 1, 1992, passed 1-6-1992)
§ 30.59 ROBERT’S RULES OF ORDER.
   All matters of procedure not specifically dealt with by state statute or
this chapter shall be governed by Robert’s Rules of Order, Revised.
(1987 Code, § 3-12) (Ord. 1, 1984, passed 1-2-1984)
§ 30.60 ORDINANCES AMENDING THE CITY CODE.
   All ordinances which are of a general and permanent nature, and which would
amend this code, shall be in the form set forth in the appendix to this
chapter.
(1987 Code, § 3-14)
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of ordinances; requirements; see I.C. 35-4-6-14
   Procedure for codification of ordinances, see I.C. 36-1-5-1 et seq.
§ 30.61 COUNCILMANIC DISTRICTS.
   The City Council is divided into five election districts with each district
electing a member of the City Council, while two members of the City Council
are elected at large by all registered voters of the city.
(1987 Code, § 3-13) (Ord. 50, 1992, passed 12-28-1992; Am. Ord. 30, passed 10-
28-2002)
Cross-reference:
   Council districts defined, see §
30.50
APPENDIX: FORM OF AMENDING ORDINANCES
   All ordinances which are of a general and permanent nature, and which would
amend this code, shall be in the following form.
   Ordinance No. ____________
   Council Bill No. ____________
(Include the last two digits of the calendar year followed by a dash and the
chronological number of the ordinance: Example: 86-1)
   (Short Title)
   An Ordinance of the Common Council of the City of Seymour, Indiana, amending
Title ______, Chapter ______, Section(s) ______, of the Seymour City Code by
the inclusion/deletion of Section(s) ______ entitled
__________________________________________________.
   WHEREAS, (Background statements setting forth the purpose or background of
the ordinance where appropriate).
   WHEREAS,
   WHEREAS,
   WHEREAS,
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE COMMON COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SEYMOUR,
INDIANA, AS FOLLOWS:
   Section I. Title ______, Chapter ______, Section(s) ______, of the Seymour
City Code, is/are hereby amended to read as follows: (set forth amendatory
language).
   Section II. All prior ordinances or parts thereof inconsistent with any
provision of this ordinance are hereby repealed.
   Section III. This ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after
its passage and approval by the Mayor and publication all as by law provided.
ADOPTED BY THE COMMON COUNCIL AND APPROVED BY ME, AS MAYOR, THIS ______ DAY OF
_________________, 20______, AT ______ P.M.
   ________________________________________________________
   Mayor, City of Seymour, Indiana
ATTEST:
   _______________________________________________
   Clerk-Treasurer, City of Seymour, Indiana
Passed First Reading: ___________________________
Passed Second Reading: _________________________
Passed Third Reading: __________________________
(1987 Code, § 3-14)
CHAPTER 31: DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Police and Fire Departments; Personnel Provisions
   
31.01   Personnel policy manuals adopted by reference
   
31.02   Collective Bargaining Act
Fire Department
   
31.15   Freeman Field; response
   
31.16   Reports; fee authorized; deposit and disbursement
Police Department
   
31.30   Ranks established
   
31.31   Authority; chain of command
   
31.32   [Reserved]
   
31.33   Service weapons; retiring officers
   
31.34   Rules and regulations
   
31.35   Motor vehicle regulations
   
31.36   Enforcement of rules and regulations
   
31.37   Copies of reports and the like; fees
Reserve Police Officer Program
   
31.40   Reserve police office program established
   
31.41   Administration and rules
   
31.42   Appointment of reserve officers
   
31.43   Limited benefits
Boards and Commissions
   
31.50   Regular meetings
   
31.51   Police Pension Board of Trustees
   
31.52   Firefighters’ Pension Board of Trustees
   
31.53   Economic Development Commission
   
31.54   Municipal Airport Authority Board
   
31.55   Tree Board
   
31.56   Redevelopment Authority
Cross-reference:
   City Government, see
Chapter 30
POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENTS; PERSONNEL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 PERSONNEL POLICY MANUALS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-1-3 et seq., there are now established in the city
separate personnel policies for the sworn employees of the Police and the Fire
Departments of the city, contained herein as outlined in each department’s
individual personnel policy manual, made a part hereof, and specifically
incorporated by reference as a part of this section.
   (B)   Two copies of these manuals are on file in the office of the Clerk-
Treasurer and may be made available for public inspection during regular
business hours.
(1987 Code, § 2-130) (Ord. 19, 1998, passed 6-22-1998)
§ 31.02 COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ACT.
   (A)   Title. This section may be cited as “the Police Officers and
Firefighters Collective Bargaining Act.”
(1987 Code, § 2-140)
   (B)   Public policy and strike prohibition. The protection of the public
health, safety, and welfare demands that the sworn firefighters and police
officers of the city Police Department and the city Fire Department not be
accorded the right to strike or engage in any work stoppage or slowdown. This
necessary prohibition does not, however, require the denial to the sworn
firefighters and police officers of other well recognized rights of labor, such
as the right to organize, to be represented by a labor organization of their
choice, and the right to bargain collectively concerning wages, rates of pay,
and other terms and conditions of employment. Members of the city Police
Department and the Fire Department may be represented by Donald M. Wynn Lodge
No. 108 of the Fraternal Order of Police and Local No. 577 of the International
Fire Fighters Association. It is declared to be the public policy of the city
to accord to the sworn firefighters and police officers of the city Police
Department and Fire Department all of the rights of labor other than the right
to strike, or engage in any work stoppage or slowdown. To provide for the
exercise of these rights, a method of arbitration of disputes is established.
(1987 Code, § 2-141)
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CORPORATE AUTHORITIES. The proper officials within the city whose duty or
duties it is to establish the wages, salaries, rates of pay, hours, and working
conditions of employment of the members of the city Police Department and the
city Fire Department, whether they be the Mayor, the City Council, the Board of
Public Works and Safety, or by whatever name the same might be designated, or
any combination thereof.
      FIREFIGHTER. The sworn firefighters of the city Fire Department.
      POLICE OFFICER. The sworn law enforcement officers of the city Police
Department that have the right to enforce the state laws and the ordinances of
the city.
   (D)   Exceptions. This collective bargaining section does not apply to the
Chief and Deputy Chief of the city Police Department, the Chief of the city
Fire Department, all civilian employees of both departments, and all
probationary employees of both departments.
(1987 Code, § 2-142)
   (E)   Right to bargain. The police officers and the firefighters of the city
shall have the right to bargain collectively with the city and to be
represented by the labor organizations designated above in that collective
bargaining as to wages, rates of pay, hours, and working conditions.
(1987 Code, § 2-143)
   (F)   Bargaining agents.
      (1)   The International Fire Fighters Association shall be recognized by
the city as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for all of the members of
the Fire Department, unless and until recognition of that labor organization is
withdrawn by vote of a majority of the firefighters.
      (2)   The Fraternal Order of Police shall be recognized by the city as
the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for all of the members of the city
Police Department, unless and until recognition of that labor organization is
withdrawn by vote of a majority of the police officers.
(1987 Code, § 2-144)
   (G)   Notice to bargain in good faith; duration of agreement. It shall be
the obligation of the city, acting through its corporate authorities, to
initiate the bargaining process in good faith with the bargaining agent within
ten days after receipt of written notice from that bargaining agent of the
request for a meeting for collective bargaining purposes. This obligation shall
include the duty to cause any agreement resulting from negotiations to be
reduced to a written contract, provided that no such contract shall exceed the
term of three years on the issues of working conditions and to allow multiple
year contracts with regard to salaries and wages.
(1987 Code, § 2-145)
   (H)   Arbitration. In the event that the bargaining agent and the corporate
authorities are unable to reach an agreement on a contract, any and all
unresolved issues shall be submitted to arbitration. The arbitration process
shall begin no later than April 3 and must be terminated no later than the
following May 31.
(1987 Code, § 2-146)
   (I)   American Arbitration Association (AAA). The party invoking arbitration
shall, within five working days after invoking arbitration, request the
American Arbitration Association (AAA) to submit simultaneously to both parties
an identical list of seven names of persons chosen from the labor panel. Each
party shall cross off any names objected to, number the remaining names
indicating the order of preference, and return the list to the AAA. From among
the persons who have been approved on both lists, and in accordance with the
designated order of mutual preference, the AAA shall invite the acceptance of
the arbitrator to serve. If the parties fail to agree upon any of the persons
named or if those named decline to act, or if for any other reason the
appointment cannot be made from the submitted list, the AAA shall submit a
second and, if necessary, third list. If the appointment cannot be made from
these lists, the AAA shall make the appointment from other members of the panel
without the submission of any additional lists. The parties, by written mutual
agreement, may submit more than one issue to the same arbitrator.
(1987 Code, § 2-147)
   (J)   Decision of arbitrator. The arbitrator may not amend, modify, nullify,
or ignore the provisions of this agreement. The arbitrator shall only consider
and make a decision with respect to the specific issue(s) of contract
interpretation or application appealed to arbitration and shall have no
authority to make a decision on any issues not submitted. The arbitrator shall
submit his or her written decision to the employer and to the union within 30
days following the close of hearing unless the parties agree to extension. The
decision shall be based solely upon the arbitrator’s interpretation of the
factors enumerated in governing ordinance. Subject to the arbitrator’s
compliance with provisions of this section, the decision of the arbitrator
shall be final and binding.
(1987 Code, § 2-148)
   (K)   Hearing; factors considered. The arbitrator shall conduct the hearings
and render a decision upon the basis of a prompt, peaceful, and just settlement
of wages or hour disputes between the members of police officers or the
firefighters and the city. The factors, among others, to be given weight by the
arbitrator in arriving at a decision may include:
      (1)   Comparison of the wage rates or hourly conditions of employment of
the Police Department or the Fire Department in question with prevailing wage
rates or hourly conditions of employment in the local operating area;
      (2)   Comparison of the wages or hourly conditions of employment of the
Police Department or Fire Department in question with wage rates or hourly
conditions of employment maintained for the same or similar work of employees
exhibiting like or similar skills under the same or similar working conditions
in the local operating area involving third class cities of comparable size in
the state;
      (3)   Interest and welfare of the public;
      (4)   Comparison of peculiarities of employment in regard to other trades
or professions, specifically:
         (a)   Hazards of employment;
         (b)   Physical qualifications;
         (c)   Educational qualifications;
         (d)   Mental qualifications; and
         (e)   Job training and skills.
      (5)   Any other factor that the arbitrator may consider relevant to the
determination of a just and fair settlement.
(1987 Code, § 2-149)
   (L)   Arbitration expenses. The expenses of the arbitrator shall be borne by
the party whose position is not sustained by the arbitrator. The arbitrator, in
the event of a decision not wholly sustaining the position of either party,
shall determine the appropriate allocation of expenses. Each party shall be
responsible for compensating its own repre-sentatives and witnesses. The cost
of a transcription shall be shared if the necessity of a transcript is mutually
agreed upon between the parties.
(1987 Code, § 2-150)
   (M)   Duration of agreements. Any agreements actually negotiated between the
bargaining agent and the corporate authorities either before, or within 30 days
after arbitration, shall constitute the collective bargaining contract
governing sworn police officers and firefighters and the city for the period
stated therein, provided that such a period shall not exceed three years,
except salary issues which are determined on an annual basis.
(1987 Code, § 2-151)
   (N)   Written notice required. Whenever wages, rates of pay, or any other
matters requiring the appropriation of money by the city are included as
matters of collective bargaining conducted under the provisions of this
section, it is the obligation of the bargaining agent to serve written notice
of request for collective bargaining on the corporate authorities at least 120
days before the last day on which money can be appropriated, the same being the
last Monday of each August, subject to amendment of the state code, of each
year hereafter, by the city to cover the contract period which is the subject
of the collective bargaining procedure.
(1987 Code, § 2-152)
   (O)   Benefits preserved. All benefits currently enjoyed by sworn police
officers and firefighters shall be preserved. These benefits include but are
not limited to:
      (1)   Longevity pay of 1% per year from years two through 20;
      (2)   Longevity pay of $1,000 each year for years 21 and beyond, this
longevity stipend being a flat amount which does not accumulate;
      (3)   Health incentive in the amount of $50 per quarter (police officers
only);
      (4)   Pay differential for increase in rank;
      (5)   Retention of service pistol at retirement (police officers only);
      (6)   All benefits incurred by the police and firefighters personnel
policy; and
      (7)   Health insurance.
(1987 Code, § 2-153)
(Ord. 27, 1990, passed 10-22-1990; Am. Ord. 11, 1994, passed 6-27-1994)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 31.15 FREEMAN FIELD; RESPONSE.
   The city Fire Department will answer any and all calls for or on behalf of
all buildings, equipment, or persons located on Freeman Field in the same
manner and fashion as though Freeman Field were located within the corporate
limits of the city.
(1987 Code, § 2-209) (Res. 52, 1974, passed 9-9-1974)
§ 31.16 REPORTS; FEE AUTHORIZED; DEPOSIT AND DISBURSEMENT.
   (A)   Fees for Fire Department reports; authority.
      (1)   The city Fire Department shall be granted authority to charge a fee
for any report prepared by the Department. The fee shall be paid by any person
requesting that report.
      (2)   The fees for each Fire Department report shall be as set forth in
Ch. 36 of this code.
(1987 Code, § 4-60)
   (B)   Deposits and disbursements.
      (1)   The fees generated by this section shall be deposited in the
Cumulative Fire Department Building, Equipment, and Firefighting Fund.
      (2)   All disbursements from the Cumulative Fire Department Building,
Equipment, and Fire-fighting Fund shall be for the purposes stated in §
35.45 of this code.
      (3)   The disbursements from the account shall be made on the order of
the Board of Public Works and Safety and paid by the Clerk-Treasurer upon
presentation of proper claims, approved as all other claims of that Board are
approved.
(1987 Code, § 4-61)
(Ord. 31, 1988, passed 12-12-1988)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 31.30 RANKS ESTABLISHED.
   Police ranks established. The following ranks are established within the
city Police Department: Chief of Police, Assistant Chief, Captain, Lieutenant,
Sergeant, Corporal, and Patrol Officer.
(1987 Code, §2-160)
(Ord. 38, 1987, passed 12-28-1987; Am. Ord. 10, 2021, passed 4-12-2021)
§ 31.31 AUTHORITY; CHAIN OF COMMAND.
   The Board of Public Works and Safety is, by statute, the governing body of
the city Police Department. The line of authority and chain of command begins
with the Chief of Police and flows through the lower ranks.
(1987 Code, § 2-161) (Ord. 38, 1987, passed 12-28-1987)
§ 31.32 [RESERVED].
§ 31.33 SERVICE WEAPONS; RETIRING OFFICERS.
   (A)   The city provides its police officers with a service weapon for use in
the line of duty.
   (B)   Upon retirement with 20 or more years of service to the city, police
officers are authorized to retain as their own the service weapon issued to
them as a tribute for their service.
   (C)   The Pension Board of the city Police Department is authorized to make
any determinations and settle any disputes on issues which may arise concerning
the award of a service weapon to a retired policeman for service to the city
Police Department.
(1987 Code, §2-215) (Ord. 20, 1984, passed 9-10-1984; Am. Ord. 20, 1986, passed
12-8-1986; Am. Ord. 3, 1987, passed 2-9-1987; Am. Ord. 10, 2021, passed 4-12-
2021)
§ 31.34 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The following rules and regulations shall govern the operation of the
city Police Department.
   (B)   (1)   A member will devote his or her entire time and attention to the
service of the Department. A member is prohibited from engaging in any other
business or occupation that in any way interferes with his or her service to
the Department.
      (2)   A member is subject to call to duty 24 hours a day if necessary.
      (3)   A member will treat as confidential the official business of the
department. He or she will not impart it to any except those for whom it is
intended, or as directed by his or her commanding officer or under due process
of law.
      (4)   A member is required to be neat and clean in person and dress at
all times when on duty.
      (5)   No member shall drink any kind of intoxicating liquor while on
duty.
      (6)   No member shall report for duty when he or she has been drinking
any kind of intoxicating liquor.
      (7)   Members will not apply for warrants for assaults upon themselves,
or adjust claims for damages, without consulting the Chief of Police.
      (8)   Members are forbidden to go on the bond or furnish bail for any
person arrested, nor shall they suggest or recommend any specific attorney or
counsel to the prisoner. If this is a member of his or her immediate family,
not to be lower in relationship than a brother or sister, a member of this
Department may go on their bond.
      (9)   Members are prohibited from seeking free admission for themselves
or others to any place of amusement or to seek free items of any kind from any
business establishment; this is to include theaters and coffee and food from
restaurants. Members may accept free admission from places of amusement and
items from a place of business if freely offered by the owner or manager of
same. This acceptance has to be made by the officer with the idea that the
person giving the free items will not receive any favoritism in police matters
concerning the same establishments.
      (10)   No member of this Department will accept any fee or reward from
any person or establishment, or any other person, for services performed in
line of duty.
      (11)   Members are prohibited from contrac-ting undisputed debts which
they are unwilling to pay; or neglecting or refusing to pay a just indebtedness
within a reasonable time without a reasonable excuse.
      (12)   Members are prohibited from appearing in a civil case, except in
obedience to a subpoena or to a court order, without the permission of the
commanding officer.
      (13)   Any member who shirks danger or responsibility in discharging his
or her duties will be deemed guilty of cowardice.
      (14)   The routine orders of the Department are general orders and
special orders. General orders are of importance and permanent and general
interest which are to be continuously observed by the entire Department.
Special orders are those which concern individuals or relate to matters that
need not be known to the whole command.
      (15)   Members will give their name and rank to any person who may
require same.
      (16)   Members of the uniformed sections of this Department are required
to be in complete uniform when on duty. No mixture of civilian clothes with
uniforms will be permitted. Members will not be permitted to wear any badge,
button, or insignia not authorized while in uniform without authorization from
the Chief of Police.
      (17)   All members are responsible for their own uniforms and leather
goods and will see to it that they are replaced as they wear out.
      (18)   The officer in permanent or temporary command of a shift is
responsible for all city owned property of the command, whether in use or in
storage, except that which may have been officially receipted for by
subordinates. It is his or her duty to attend personally to its security.
      (19)   If any article of city property is lost or damaged by neglect or
fault of any member of this Department, that member shall pay the value thereof
or the cost of repair at the rate as may be determined by a survey of the
property.
      (20)   Property lost or destroyed will be accounted for by an explanation
by form letter of the responsible officer.
      (21)   Members will double lock any prisoner being transported when that
prisoner is a felony prisoner.
      (22)   Members are prohibited from the unauthorized use of the police
motor vehicles assigned to them, and will not allow unauthorized persons to
ride with them in their vehicles without permission from the Chief of Police.
This means to go on patrol or ride around with an officer. If an officer has to
take a member of his or her family some place, and does not make it a habit,
this will be allowed.
      (23)   Probationers may be discharged at any time during their probation
period without the right of hearing.
      (24)   A member, upon resigning, dismissal, or retirement, will
immediately surrender all Department property to the Chief of Police, or
officer designated to accept the same by the Chief of Police.
      (25)   An officer who desires to be a candidate for public office must
resign from the Department.
   (C)   No officer shall be guilty of the following offenses, and if an
officer is guilty of same, charges may be preferred against the officer:
      (1)   Cowardice;
      (2)   Willful disobedience of rules and regulations or orders;
      (3)   Being under the influence of intoxicating liquor while on duty;
      (4)   Willful maltreatment of a prisoner or any other person;
      (5)   Conduct unbecoming to a police officer;
      (6)   Insubordination or disrespect toward a superior officer;
      (7)   Neglect or inattention to duty;
      (8)   General incompetency;
      (9)   Sleeping or lounging on duty;
      (10)   Laziness;
      (11)   Being absent from duty without permission;
      (12)   Using coarse, profane, or insolent language to a superior officer;
      (13)   Making a false official report;
      (14)   Neglecting to wear proper uniform while on duty or to appear clean
and tidy in person and dress at all times;
      (15)   Receiving bribes in money and other valuable things;
      (16)   Entering a dive or disorderly house not in performance of duty;
      (17)   Gossiping about a member of the Department concerning his or her
personal character or conduct to the detriment of that member;
      (18)   Publicly criticizing any order given by a superior officer;
      (19)   Communicating any information which may aid a person to escape
arrest, or to delay the apprehension of a criminal, or secure the removal of
stolen or embezzled goods, or other property or money;
      (20)   Communicating or giving any police information to any person
without authorization by the Chief of Police;
      (21)   Neglecting to pay a just indebtedness within a reasonable time
without a reasonable excuse;
      (22)   Refusing to give name and rank when reasonably requested;
      (23)   Neglecting to turn over all property taken from person arrested,
or found, or seized, to the proper officer without unnecessary delay;
      (24)   Using firearms except in extreme emergencies; or
      (25)   Misuse or mistreatment of any of the police equipment.
   (D)   (1)   During the absence of any appointed officer, the officer next in
rank shall perform his or her duties, and shall, during the absence of the
superior officer, possess all his or her powers. Every officer and patrol
officer will be held responsible for the proper discharge of the duties
assigned to him or her. He or she may deviate from this course only when an
officer of higher rank, who has the right to do so, may take upon himself or
herself the responsibility of giving direct and positive orders for his or her
conduct. All officers and patrol officers are especially warned against
commenting upon orders issued by the Chief of Police, or by superior officers.
      (2)   All members of the Department shall at all times be loyal to their
superior officers and those in charge of the Department, as the success of the
Department depends on the teamwork of all its members.
      (3)   Any member or employee feeling aggrieved by the treatment of, or by
the orders of superior officers, or any member of the Department, or wishing to
call attention to any matter of police business or neglect of duty, or to make
any suggestions for improvement of the service, shall not discuss this with
persons outside the Department, but shall instead, communicate in writing with
the Chief of Police. The communication will follow the chain of command, which
means the communication will be given to the next ranks above the aggrieved
member. When necessary, the communication will be followed by a personal
interview. Failure of a superior officer to forward a communication through
official channels will be treated as a serious dereliction of duty.
      (4)   When a member is off duty and in the public within the city, he or
she shall be equipped with his or her regulation credentials.
      (5)   Members shall give attentions to matters reported to them and make
investigation immediately, if possible, and close the matter as soon as
possible. Members will prevent unauthorized persons from entering upon the
scene of a crime. A member first upon the scene will make an immediate and
thorough investigation into the circumstances of the crime, obtaining names and
addresses of witnesses and all other important details. In the investigation at
the scene of the crime members will exercise every precaution to preserve all
evidence and fingerprints. In the preservation of physical evidence, a member
will make use of photography, moulage, and any other available methods. If
investigation is such that it requires the services of the other members of the
Department, he, she, or they are to be notified as soon as possible, with full
information given to them at that time.
      (6)   Members are required to make full written reports of all work done
by them, such as reports on accidents, arrests, names of witnesses, and
important particulars in each case and disposition of all cases. Records and
forms are provided for this purpose. All reports will be completed before going
off duty.
      (7)   Members who shall come into the possession of any lost or stolen
property, shall take the same to headquarters where it shall be legibly marked
and stored in a safe place.
      (8)   The appointment of any new member of the force shall be in keeping
with the state laws.
      (9)   If it is deemed necessary to hire additional personnel for duty
with the regular force, the Board of Public Works and Safety shall appoint the
additional member or members, but not until the City Council has made the
necessary appropriations to pay the salaries of the officers, and not without
the recommendation of the Chief of Police.
      (10)   Any new member placed on the force shall serve on probation for a
period of nine months. At the end of the nine months he or she may be appointed
as a regular member of the force with the rights thereof, or if it is deemed
advisable, be dismissed without the rights of a trial.
      (11)   Each new patrol officer shall be provided a full uniform within 60
days after being hired. The uniform shall be of standard design and quality as
adopted for the Department, and worn as prescribed by the Chief of the
Department.
      (12)   An annual clothing allowance will be given each member of the
Department for the replacement of worn out items.
      (13)   Any officer of this Department will report and be at his or her
assigned duty station at the time specified on the duty roster. Failure to do
so will submit the officer to a written reprimand to go in his or her service
record on the first two times. The third time an officer is late will submit
the officer to suspension to be determined by the commanding officer of the
shift, and finally by the Chief of Police.
      (14)   Minimum staffing. The staffing level for the Seymour Police
Department shall be established at a minimum of two officers per 1,000
residents. The Chief of Police will monitor staffing levels and report to the
Board of Public Works and Safety (“Board”) when any change in staffing levels
occurs. If staffing levels fall below two officers per 1,000 residents, the
Chief of Police shall present an action plan to the Board within two months.
Action plans must be presented during a regularly scheduled Board meeting.
(1987 Code, §2-217) (Board of Public Works and Safety Res. passed 7-26-1972;
Am. Ord. 20, passed 10-10-2011; Am. Ord. 31, 2021, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 31.35 MOTOR VEHICLE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   The objective of the city Police Department motor vehicle
program is to increase the potentiality for the suppressing violations of law
in the community. An individually assigned vehicle concept conveys a sense of
police omnipresence and this is best effected with a highly mobilized force. In
other words, the more men and more cars that are visible on the street, the
greater is the potential for preventing crime.
      (2)   To make the program practical, it is necessary to keep it
economically feasible. Therefore, it will be necessary to establish certain
restrictions, guidelines, and procedures to govern the use of the individually
assigned cars while in full use.
   (B)   Officers assigned vehicles that may be taken home when not on duty
shall, at all times when in the vehicle, have their police radio on, and carry
their firearm and police identification in case they can assist any other
officer.
      (1)   Any car in the immediate area of an emergency dispatch or officer’s
call for help shall be expected to respond.
      (2)   (a)   Response will not be Signal 10.
         (b)   Exception: Life and death situations. (However, not in violation
of division (G)(1) of this section).
   (C)   Use of the vehicles assigned to individuals on a full-time basis shall
be restricted as follows:
      (1)   Vehicles shall be used within the limits of the county or adjoining
counties unless otherwise authorized by the Chief of Police;
      (2)   Vehicles shall be used by that police officer only; they shall not
be driven by other family members, friends, or other officers, unless otherwise
authorized by the Chief of Police;
      (3)   Vehicles shall not be used in any other type of employment; and
      (4)   Officers assigned to the vehicle shall be responsible for seeing
that proper maintenance is scheduled and maintained.
         (a)   Scheduling shall be done through the designated maintenance
control officer appointed by the Chief of Police.
         (b)   Officers assigned to the vehicle shall be responsible for
compliance to maintenance or mechanical work appointments scheduled by the
above-mentioned control officer.
   (D)   (1)   No equipment other than that approved by the Chief of Police
shall be installed or carried in the vehicle.
      (2)   Each officer shall be responsible for any thefts of city equipment
from their assigned vehicle if left unlocked and any damage done to the vehicle
if not justified.
   (E)   No animals shall be hauled or transported in the vehicle unless the
car is designated an official K-9 unit by the Chief of Police.
   (F)   (1)   Each vehicle shall be kept clean inside and out at all times.
The appearance of the vehicle shall be maintained in top shape.
      (2)   The vehicle is subject to inspection by the Chief of Police or his
or her designated authority at any given time.
   (G)   Officers shall drive the vehicles at all times with reasonable
prudence to conserve their usefulness and preserve them at their highest
operating efficiency, and are to operate vehicles within the framework of state
law relative to speed, stopping or slowing down for traffic signals, and the
like, while on Signal 10 runs.
      (1)   Vehicles shall not run Signal 10 while the officer’s family is in
vehicle.
      (2)   Officers shall not patrol outside the city limits except in pursuit
of a vehicle or violator or any other emergency unless authorized by his or her
superior and then only when the incident is reported to the police dispatcher.
Officers on patrol shall keep the dispatcher informed as to location when they
request and shall obey the Rules and Regulations of the National Radio Code
(FCC).
      (3)   Officers shall not use the vehicle in any manner to cause
embarrassment or disgrace to the Department.
         (a)   Except in the performance of duty, the vehicle shall not be
parked or left unattended on any parking lot in front of or near taverns or
liquor stores or other places which reflect discredit to the Department.
         (b)   Except in the performance of duty, no alcoholic beverages shall
be transported in the vehicle.
   (H)   The city is not expected to furnish gasoline for the vehicle other
than that used in performance of duties.
   (I)   Officers operating any city owned vehicles shall not permit anyone
other than authorized employees of the Department to ride in that vehicle,
except persons required to be conveyed in the performance of duty or as
authorized by the order of the Chief of Police. Anyone approved to ride by the
Chief of Police must have signed a waiver which shall be filed in the
Department office.
      (1)   The vehicle’s assigned officer may be used for limited off-duty
transportation of his or her spouse and children. The officer will be held
directly responsible for the proper conduct and appearance of these passengers.
      (2)   All adult passengers shall utilize seat belts provided and small
children shall utilize approved car seats provided by officers.
   (J)   Any violation of these rules and regulations or any other abuse or
misconduct of these cars will result in disciplinary action and/or revocation
of the vehicle and will jeopardize future expansion of this program.
   (K)   These regulations will govern the operation and use of the motor
vehicles assigned to the city Police Department.
(1987 Code, § 2-216) (Board of Public Works and Safety Res. passed 9-10-1980)
§ 31.36 ENFORCEMENT OF RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Obedience required. Strict obedience to all rules and regulations, as
well as to orders from the Chief of Police and the Mayor, shall be required. A
willful violation of any of the rules and regulations as prescribed herein, or
habitual inattention to them, shall be deemed as sufficient cause for dismissal
from the force.
   (B)   Enforcement procedures.
      (1)   Charges in writing will be preferred against a member of the
Department for any infraction of these rules and regulations, Department
orders, inefficiency and discipline.
      (2)   Charges will be preferred under the supervision of the commanding
officer of the alleged delinquent and promptly forwarded through regular
channels to the Chief of Police with the recommendation of that commanding
officer. The Chief of Police shall determine whether the charges are of
sufficient importance to justify suspension.
      (3)   The Chief of Police may demote or temporarily suspend, for a period
not exceeding 30 days, any employee of the Department for cause after
preferring the charges in writing. Any employee so suspended shall have the
right to public hearing before the Board if the employee so demands within ten
days of receiving notice of the charges. The employee may be represented by
counsel.
      (4)   The mode of trial shall be by taking testimony under oath, first of
the complaining witness, then by the defense. A stenographic record of all
trials will be kept. The accused shall have the right to be represented by
counsel of his or her choice.
      (5)   Charges preferred by civilians against any member of the Department
must be in writing, in duplicate, and sworn to, or affirmed to.
      (6)   Any member under suspension of the Police Department shall be
prohibited from performing any police duties, special or otherwise, for the
period of time that he or she remains on suspension. He or she shall, at the
time of suspension, turn in to the Chief of Police all police identification he
or she may have, and his or her badge.
      (7)   The amount of punishment, and severity of that punishment, will be
at the discretion of the Chief of Police and shall include such types of
punishments as working days off, suspension for a certain number of days,
demotion, and the like. All suspensions will be without pay.
(1987 Code, § 2-218) (Board of Public Works and Safety Res. passed 7-26-1972)
§ 31.37 COPIES OF REPORTS AND THE LIKE; FEES.
   (A)   The charges made by the city Police Department for provision of
information copies to the general public shall be as set forth in
Ch. 36 of this code.
   (B)   Monies collected from these charges shall be placed into Police
Department Non-Reverting Fund 604, Law Enforcement/Training Fund.
(1987 Code, § 2-220) (Ord. 7, 2000, passed 2-14-2000)
RESERVE POLICE OFFICER PROGRAM
§ 31.40 RESERVE POLICE OFFICER PROGRAM ESTABLISHED.
   A police officer reserve program is hereby established for the city pursuant
to the provisions of I.C. 36-8-3-20.
(Ord. 34, 2013, passed 12-23-2013)
§ 31.41 ADMINISTRATION AND RULES.
   The reserve officer program shall be administered and managed by the Chief
of Police who shall establish rules and procedures for the program subject to
the approval of the Board of Public Works and Safety.
   (A)   No more than five police reserve officers may be appointed and
actively serving with the SPD at any given time.
   (B)   Police reserve officers shall serve with the SPD for a minimum of 144
hours per year, or 12 hours per month.
(Ord. 34, 2013, passed 12-23-2013; Am. Ord. 21, 2023, passed 9-25-2023)
§ 31.42 APPOINTMENT OF RESERVE OFFICERS.
   Reserve officers shall be appointed by the Board of Public Works and Safety.
(Ord. 34, 2013, passed 12-23-2013)
§ 31.43 LIMITED BENEFITS.
   Subject to available appropriations and subject to rules established for the
reserve program, reserve officers may be provided with the following benefits
allowed by I.C. 36-8-3-20, coverage under the medical treatment and burial
expenses provisions of the worker’s compensation law and the worker’s
occupational diseases law.
(Ord. 34, 2013, passed 12-23-2013)
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
§ 31.50 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   (A)   In accordance with I.C. 5-14-1.5-5, the following is a list of the
regularly scheduled meetings of the City Council and the various boards of the
city. Specially called meetings will be posted 48 hours prior to the meeting at
the place of meeting.
   (B)   Meetings of each body are scheduled as follows, as to day of month,
time, and place:
      (1)   City Council: second and fourth Mondays, 7:00 p.m., Council
Chamber;
      (2)   Board of Public Works and Safety: second and fourth Thursdays, 11:
00 a.m., Council Chamber;
      (3)   Plan Commission: second Thursday, 5:00 p.m., Council Chamber;
      (4)   Board of Zoning Appeals: fourth Tuesday, 7:00 p.m., Council
Chamber;
      (5)   Parks and Recreation: second Monday, 4:00 p.m., Council Chamber;
      (6)   Redevelopment Commission: fourth Monday, 4:00 p.m., Council
Chamber.
   (C)   The meetings listed in division (B) above shall comply with the
meeting recording requirements set forth in § 30.03, or the corresponding
section of any future city code.
(1987 Code, § 2-200) (Public Notice of 1-1-1991) (Am. Ord. 11, 2016, passed 9-
12-2016; Am. Ord. 47, 2022, passed 12-12-2022; Am. Ord. 6, 2023, passed 3-13-
2023)
§ 31.51 POLICE PENSION BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   There shall continue to be a Police Pension Board of Trustees to perform
certain duties prescribed by I.C. 36-8-6 (1925 Fund) and I.C. 36-8-8 (1977
Fund) concerning the statutory pensions of city police.
(1987 Code, § 2-16) (Ord. 1, 1992, passed 1-6-1992)
§ 31.52 FIREFIGHTERS’ PENSION BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   There shall continue to be a Firefighters’ Pension Board of Trustees to
perform certain duties prescribed by I.C. 36-8-7 (1925 Fund) and I.C. 36-8-8
(1977 Fund) concerning the statutory pensions of city firefighters.
(1987 Code, § 2-17) (Ord. 1, 1992, passed 1-6-1992)
§ 31.53 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION.
   (A)   (1)   There is created and established a department of economic
development which shall be controlled by the city Economic Development
Commission as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 1985, passed 10-9-1967)
      (2)   There shall be five commissioners of the city Economic Development
Commission. Each successive commissioner shall be appointed for a term of four
years beginning February 1 following the expiration of the initial terms.
(Ord. 7, 1980, passed 3-24-1980)
      (3)   The Commission shall have all the rights, privileges, duties, and
responsibilities prescribed by statute.
(1987 Code, § 2-202)
   (B)   There shall continue to be established an Economic Development
Commission organized under I.C. 36-7.
(1987 Code, § 2-18) (Ord. 1, 1992, passed 1-6-1992)
Statutory reference:
   Economic development commissions, see I.C. 36-7-12-5
   Powers and investigative duties, see I.C. 36-7-12-17 and 36-7-12-18
§ 31.54 MUNICIPAL AIRPORT AUTHORITY BOARD.
   (A)   There is created a city Airport Authority pursuant to I.C. 8-22-3-1 et
seq. The city Airport Authority Board shall be known as the Municipal Airport
Authority.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 8-22-3-4, a newly constituted city Airport Authority
Board shall be appointed as soon as possible after the adoption of this
section. The city Airport Authority Board shall be known as the Municipal
Airport Authority.
(Ord. 4, 1993, passed 2-8-1993)
   (C)   The jurisdiction of the city Airport Authority is over a district with
boundaries co-terminal with the jurisdictional boundaries of the city.
   (D)   Powers and duties of the Airport Authority Board are as defined in
I.C. 8-22-3-1 et seq.
(Ord. 47, 1992, passed 11-30-1992)
(1987 Code, § 2-19)
§ 31.55 TREE BOARD.
   (A)   Creation and establishment of a city Tree Board. There is hereby
created and established a city Tree Board which shall consist of five members
who are residents of the county and who shall be appointed by the Mayor.
   (B)   Term of office. The term of the five persons to be appointed by the
Mayor shall be three years, except that the term of two of the members
appointed to the first board shall be for only one year and the term of two
members of the first board shall be for two years. In the event that a vacancy
shall occur during the term of any member, the successor shall be appointed for
the unexpired portion of the term.
   (C)   Compensation. Members of the Board shall serve without compensation.
   (D)   Duties and responsibilities. It shall be the responsibility of the
Board to study, investigate, counsel, and develop and/or update annually, and
administer a written plan for the care, preservation, pruning, planting,
replanting, removal, or disposition of trees and shrubs in parks, along
streets, and in other public areas. Such plan will be presented annually to the
City Council and upon their acceptance and approval shall constitute the
official comprehensive city tree plan for the city. The Board, when requested
by City officials, shall consider, investigate, make finding, report, and
recommend upon any special matter of question coming within the scope of its
work.
   (E)   Operation. The Board shall choose its own officers, make its own rules
and regulations, and keep a journal of its proceedings. A majority of the
members shall be a quorum for the transaction of business.
   (F)   Definitions.     For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      LARGE TREE. A type of tree that reaches a mature height greater than 50
feet.
      MEDIUM TREE. A type of tree that reaches a mature height of greater than
20 feet but no more than 50 feet.
      PARK TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation in
public parks having individual names, and all areas owned by the city, or to
which the public has free access as a park.
      SMALL TREE. A type of tree that reaches a mature height of no more than
20 feet.
      STREET TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation on
land lying between property lines on all streets, avenues, boulevards, or other
public ways within the city.
   (G)   Listing of desirable trees. The Board shall develop and maintain a
list of desirable small, medium, and large trees for planting on public
property. In addition, the Board shall develop and maintain a list of trees not
desirable or suitable for planting on public property.
   (H)   Spacing. The spacing of street trees will be in accordance with the
three tree sizes listed in division (F) of this section, and no trees may be
planted closer together than the following: small trees, 30 feet; medium trees,
40 feet; and large trees, 50 feet; except in special plantings designed or
approved by a landscape architect.
   (I)   Distance from curb and sidewalk. The distance trees may be planted
from curbs or curblines will be in accordance with the three species size
classes listed in division (F) of this section, and no trees may be planted
closer to any curb than the following: small trees, two feet; medium trees,
three feet; and large trees, four feet; and no tree may be planted closer to
any sidewalk than one foot.
   (J)   Distance from street corners and fireplugs. No street tree shall be
planted closer than 35 feet from any street corner, measured from the point of
nearest intersecting curbs or curblines. No street tree shall be planted closer
than ten feet from any fireplug.
   (K)   Utilities. No street trees other than those species listed as small
trees in division (F) of this section may be planted under or within ten
lateral feet of any overhead utility wire, or over or within five lateral feet
of any underground water line, sewer line, transmission line, or other utility.
   (L)   Public tree care. The city shall have the right to plant, prune,
maintain, and remove trees, plants, and shrubs within the lines of all streets,
alleys, avenues, lanes, parks, squares, and public grounds, as may be necessary
to insure public safety or to preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of
such public grounds. The city Tree Board may remove, or cause or order to be
removed, any tree or part thereof which is in an unsafe condition or which by
reason of its nature is injurious to sewers, electric power lines, gas lines,
water lines, or other public improvements, or is affected with any injurious
fungus, insect, or other pest. This provision does not prohibit the planting of
street trees by adjacent property owners providing that the selection and
location of said trees is in accordance with this section.
   (M)   Tree topping. It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any
person, firm, or city department to top any street tree, park tree, or other
tree on public property. TOPPING is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs
to stubs larger than three inches in diameter within the tree's crown to such a
degree so as to remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees severely
damaged by storms or other causes or certain trees under utility wires or other
obstructions where other pruning practices are impractical may be exempted from
this section at the determination of the city Tree Board.
   (N)   Pruning, corner clearance.
      (1)   Every owner of any tree overhanging any street or right-of-way
within the city shall prune the branches so that such branches shall not
obstruct the light from any street lamp or obstruct the view of any street
intersection and so that there shall be a clear space of 13 feet above the
surface of the street and eight feet above the surface of the sidewalk. The
owners shall remove all dead, diseased, or dangerous trees, or broken or
decayed limbs which constitute a menace to the safety of the public. The city
shall have the right to prune any tree or shrub on private property when it
interferes with the proper spread of light along the street from a streetlight
or interferes with visibility of any traffic control device or sign.
      (2)   The city shall have the right to cause the removal of any dead or
diseased trees on private property within the city when such trees constitute a
hazard to life and property, or harbor insects or disease which constitute a
potential threat to other trees within the city. The city Tree Board will
notify in writing the owners of such trees. Removal shall be done by the owners
at their own expense within 60 days after the date of service of notice. In the
event of failure of owners to comply with such provisions, the city shall have
the authority to remove such trees and file a property tax lien for the cost of
removal and related expenses.
   (O)   Removal of stumps. All stumps of street and park trees shall be
removed below the surface of the ground so that the top of the stump shall not
project above the surface of the ground.
   (P)   Interference with city Tree Board. It shall be unlawful for any person
to prevent, delay, or interfere with the city Tree Board, or any of its agents,
while engaging in and about the planting, cultivating, mulching, pruning,
spraying, or removing of any street trees, park trees, or trees on private
grounds, as authorized in this section.
   (Q)   Review by Board of Public Works and Safety. Any person that is
aggrieved by any act, conduct, or decision of the City Tree Board may appeal to
the Board of Public Works and Safety. The Board of Public Works shall hear the
appeal and make a final decision.
(Ord. 11, 2012, passed 6-11-2012; Am. Ord. 12, 2024, passed 3-11-2024)
§ 31.56 REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY.
   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-14.5-7, the city Redevelopment Authority (the
“Redevelopment Authority”), is hereby created as a separate body corporate and
politic and as an instrumentality of the city for the purposes and to exercise
the powers set forth in statute or otherwise granted by law. The Redevelopment
Authority shall be governed by a board of directors consisting of three
members, each of whom shall be appointed by the executive of the city.
(Ord. 4, 2012, passed 3-26-2012)
Cross-reference:
   Redevelopment Commission, see §
30.22
CHAPTER 32: CITY POLICIES
Section
Use of City Buildings
   
32.01   City Hall; smoking restricted
Purchasing
   
32.15   Purchasing agency; Board of Public Works and Safety
   
32.16   Supplies less than $25,000
   
32.17   Services
   
32.18   Supplies manufactured in the United States
   
32.19   Purchasing agents
   
32.20   Issuance and use of credit cards
   
32.21   Suspension and/or debarment of vendor when federal funds/federal
assistance is involved
   
32.22   Purchasing and procurement policy
Personnel
   
32.30   Personnel Policy adopted by reference
   
32.31   Substance Abuse Policy adopted by reference
   
32.32   Per Diem Policy
General City Authority
   
32.45   Law enforcement system
   
32.46   Firefighting and prevention system
   
32.47   Regulation of conduct and property
   
32.48   Regulation of air and sound
   
32.49   Regulation of public gatherings
   
32.50   Offenses against public health, order, and decency; state law
   
32.51   Interference with official action unlawful
   
32.52   Board of Public Works and Safety; review authority
   
32.53   Anti-nepotism policy with regard to employment and contracting
   
32.54   Internal Control Policy
   
32.55   Recovering costs for water for public fire protection purposes
   
32.56   Conflicts of interest regarding the issuance of building permits, etc.
   
32.57   Electronic funds transfer
Cross-reference:
   Fees, see
Chapter 36
   General Regulations, see Title IX
USE OF CITY BUILDINGS
§ 32.01 CITY HALL; SMOKING RESTRICTED.
   (A)   Purpose. This section is enacted with the purpose of protecting and
providing for the health, safety, and general welfare of the citizens of the
city who utilize the City Hall, all pursuant to the terms and provisions of
I.C. 16-41-37-1 et seq., which is also known by the title Clean Indoor Air Law.
(1987 Code, § 6-220)
   (B)   Application. The provisions of this section shall apply to City Hall
providing that building comes within the scope of the definition of public
building pursuant to I.C. 16-41-37-2, which is an enclosed structure or part of
an enclosed structure that is occupied by an agency of state or local
government, but regardless that public building must be occupied or otherwise
owned or under the control of the city.
(1987 Code, § 6-221)
   (C)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      SMOKING. The carrying or holding of a lighted cigarette, cigar, pipe, or
any other lit smoking equipment, or the inhalation or exhalation of smoke from
any lit smoking equipment as is defined in I.C. 16-41-37-3.
(1987 Code, § 6-222)
   (D)   Smoking prohibited; smoking areas.
      (1)   In City Hall, smoking, as defined in I.C. 13-1-13, is prohibited in
lobbies, hallways, and stairwells.
      (2)   In all offices of City Hall, smoking is prohibited in all counter
areas.
(1987 Code, § 6-223)
   (E)   No smoking in meeting and hearing rooms. Regardless of any other
provision of this section, when any room in City Hall is used for a public
meeting or hearing, there shall be no smoking in that room during the meeting
or hearing.
(1987 Code, § 6-225)
   (F)   Violations. A person who smokes in a public building except as in an
area designated as a smoking area, in violation of this section, does commit a
Class C infraction pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 16-41-37-4.
(1987 Code, § 6-222)
(Res. 12, 1991, passed 8-12-1991)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Cross-reference:
   Smoking in public places and places of employment, see
Ch. 98
Editor’s notes:
   I.C. 13-1-13 was repealed by P.L. 1-1996, Sec. 99.
   I.C. 16-41-37 was repealed by P.L. 141-2012, Sec. 9.
PURCHASING
§ 32.15 PURCHASING AGENCY; BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS AND SAFETY.
   The Board of Public Works and Safety is hereby designated as the purchasing
agency for the city, with all powers and duties authorized under I.C. 5-22. The
Board, as purchasing agency, shall designate in writing the purchasing agents.
(1987 Code, § 6-250) (Ord. 18, 1998, passed 6-22-1998)
§ 32.16 SUPPLIES LESS THAN $25,000.
   Any purchasing agent so designated by the Board of Public Works and Safety
may purchase individual supplies with an estimated cost of less than $25,000 on
the open market without inviting or receiving quotes or bids.
(1987 Code, § 6-251) (Ord. 18, 1998, passed 6-22-1998)
§ 32.17 SERVICES.
   Any purchasing agent so designated by the Board of Public Works and Safety
may, for his or her department, purchase services in whatever manner the
purchaser determines to be reasonable and prudent.
(1987 Code, § 6-252) (Ord. 18, 1998, passed 6-22-1998)
§ 32.18 SUPPLIES MANUFACTURED IN THE UNITED STATES.
   Supplies manufactured in the United States shall be specified for all
purchases and shall be purchased unless the city determines that:
   (A)   The supplies are not manufactured in the U.S. in reasonably available
quantities;
   (B)   The price of the supplies manufactured in the U.S. exceeds by an
unreasonable amount the price of available and comparable supplies manufactured
elsewhere;
   (C)   The quality of the supplies manufactured in the U.S. is substantially
less than the quality of comparably priced available supplies manufactured
elsewhere; or
   (D)   The purchase of supplies manufactured in the U.S. is not in the public
interest.
(1987 Code, § 6-253) (Ord. 18, 1998, passed 6-22-1998)
§ 32.19 PURCHASING AGENTS.
   All department heads of departments of the city and other city personnel as
may be designated are named purchasing agents of the city, and may make
purchases of supplies in the manner designated by this subchapter and
applicable state statute.
(1987 Code, § 6-254) (Ord. 30, 1998, passed 7-27-1998)
§ 32.20 ISSUANCE AND USE OF CREDIT CARDS.
   (A)   Credit card issuance.
      (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer is solely authorized to make application for
business credit cards for the use by city officials and employees for travel
expenses and for the purchase of city goods or services. Every such application
shall also be signed by the Mayor.
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer may obtain business credit cards from a credit
card company or bank. A separate credit card account may be opened for each
department of the city and the Mayor. The department heads shall be responsible
for safekeeping of the department’s cards. Department heads may authorize an
employee in that department to use the department card provided that a written
record (signed by the employee and the department head) is kept of the date of
issuance, purpose of use and date of return of the card.
      (3)   Business credit cards so issued shall have a maximum limit of
$2,000. No single purchase of any city credit card shall exceed $500.
   (B)   Credit card use policies and procedures.
      (1)   City officials and employees may use credit cards for the purpose
of city travel expenses limited to the following:
         (a)   Hotel or motel room;
         (b)   Meals, including a maximum 15% gratuity; and/or
         (c)   Fees associated with attending schools, conventions, seminars
and the like.
      (2)   Excluded charges include alcoholic beverages, room service, non-
business telephone calls, in-room movies, cash advances, and non-business
expenses of any kind.
      (3)   Accounts payable vouchers filed in connection with the use of
credit cards shall be submitted to the appropriate department head for
processing within 72 hours of use and shall be properly itemized and documented
as provided in I.C. 5-11-10 before being submitted to the Clerk-Treasurer’s
office to be approved and paid. The charge card account should be paid in full
every billing cycle. Improperly itemized and documented items shall be the
personal responsibility of the individual user. Signed charge slips showing a
total charge only, with no itemization of items purchased, are not acceptable.
It is the responsibility of the employee authorizing the charge to obtain
proper itemized receipts. If the employee delays in submitting proper
documentation results in added interest, carrying charges or penalties will be
the responsibility of the employee.
      (4)   Separate gasoline credit cards may be obtained from a petroleum
distributer and issued to employees at the discretion of the department heads,
per departmental policies for the purchase of petroleum products for use in
city vehicles only. Other city business credit cards may be used for the
purchase of goods or services. Receipts that do not meet audit requirements are
the responsibility of the employee authorizing the charge. No city employee or
elected official shall be authorized to use any city credit card for personal
use in any purchase. The city will take all necessary steps to obtain
reimbursement for charges which do not meet audit requirements from the
employee authorizing the charge, including, but not limited to, the garnishment
of the charging employee’s city wages.
      (5)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be notified immediately if a credit card
is lost or stolen. If a credit card is lost due to the negligence on the part
of a city employee, the employee shall be responsible for any and all expenses
incurred on the lost card.
      (6)   The Clerk Treasurer is authorized to revoke credit cards that have
been used in violation of city policy.
(Ord. 6, 2013, passed 5-28-2013)
§ 32.21 SUSPENSION AND/OR DEBARMENT OF VENDOR WHEN FEDERAL FUNDS/ FEDERAL
ASSISTANCE INVOLVED.
   The following specific provisions are applicable under the purchasing policy
and procedure of the city for determining suspension and/or debarment status of
any vendor doing business with the city for which federal funds and/or federal
assistance are being utilized by the city, namely:
   (A)   SAM search, verification by contracted vendor; or contractual
provision. Prior to any purchase for which federal funds and/or federal
assistance is being utilized by the city, the purchasing agency, or its
designee, shall:
      (1)   Examine and verify the status of any vendor participating in or to
be contracted for business with the city utilizing federal funds and/or federal
assistance for debarment and suspension status to determine whether such vendor
is qualified to participate. The check or verification for debarment and
suspension shall be performed using the System for Award Management ("SAM"), or
any similar such system as then currently approved for such purposes. The city
department responsible for facilitating, coordinating, and utilizing federal
funds and/or federal assistance will be required to conduct and complete the
SAM search, or its approved equivalent, as such procedures and methods are
amended, on all vendors with whom the city intends to conduct business
utilizing such federal funds. Further, the city or entity responsible shall
provide a hard copy proof and verification of each SAM search, or its approved
equivalent search, which will be required to be provided to the Clerk-Treasurer
for maintenance and record keeping in the Office of the Clerk-Treasurer;
      (2)   Require each contracted vendor that is utilizing federal funds and/
or federal assistance to certify that the contracted vendor was not suspended
or debarred; or
      (3)   Add a clause to appropriate contract to ensure that the contracted
vendors were not suspended or debarred.
   (B)   No business with debarred or suspended entity. It is specifically
directed and required that the city will not conduct any business with any
firm, individual, or entity which has been identified and verified as having
been debarred or suspended for such purposes in conformance with applicable
law, as the same may be amended from time to time. Further, these policy
requirements for determination of suspension and/or debarment status of any
vendor doing business with the city in which federal funds and/or federal
assistance is utilized shall pertain to "covered transactions" under 2 CFR pt.
180 subpt. B, which include those government contracts for goods and services
awarded under a non-procurement transaction (e.g., grant or cooperative
agreement) that are expected to equal or exceed $25,000, or meet certain other
specified criteria.
(Ord. 30, 2024, passed 9-23-2024)
§ 32.22 PURCHASING AND PROCUREMENT POLICY.
   (A)   For purchasing with no federal involvement, the city will follow state
law outlined in I.C. 5.22, et seq., as well as any other applicable state
provisions.
   (B)   For purchasing involving federal funds or federal oversight, the
following procedure shall be followed:
      (1)   The city will maintain records sufficient to detail the history of
procurement. These records will include, but are not necessarily limited to,
the following:
         (a)   Rationale for the method of procurement;
         (b)   Selection of contract type;
         (c)   Contractor selection or rejection; and
         (d)   The basis for the contract price.
      (2)   Informal procurement methods. When the value of the procurement for
property or services under a federal award does not exceed the simplified
acquisition threshold (SAT), as defined by federal law, formal procurement
methods are not required. The city may use informal procurement methods to
expedite the completion of its transactions and minimize the associated
administrative burden and cost. The informal methods used for procurement or
property or services at or below the SAT include:
         (a)   Micro-purchases.
            1.   Distribution. The acquisition of supplies or services. the
aggregate dollar amount of which does not exceed the micro-purchase threshold
established by federal law. To the maximum extent practicable, the city should
distribute micro-purchases equitably among qualified suppliers.
            2.   Micro-purchase awards. Micro-purchases may be awarded without
soliciting competitive price or rate quotations if the city considers the price
to be reasonable based on research, experience, purchase history or other
information and documents it files accordingly.
            3.   Micro-purchase thresholds. The city adopts the federally-
determined threshold for micro-purchases, reserving the right to increase the
threshold based on an evaluation of risk.
            4.   If the city decides on a threshold above the federal standard,
the city must include any of the following:
               a.   A qualification as a low-risk auditee, in accordance with
the federally-set criteria for the most recent audit;
               b.   An annual internal institutional risk assessment to
identify, mitigate, and manage financial risks; or
               c.   For public institutions, a higher threshold consistent with
state law.
            5.   If the city increases the micro-purchase threshold over
$50,000, it must be
approved by the cognizant agency for indirect costs. The city must submit a
request with all federal requirements. The increased threshold is valid until
there is a change in status in which the justification was approved.
         (b)   Small purchases.
            1.   Small purchase procedures. The acquisition of property or
services, the aggregate dollar amount of which is higher than the micro-
purchase threshold but does not exceed the simplified acquisition threshold.
Price or rate quotations must be obtained from an adequate number of qualified
sources as determined appropriate by the City Council.
            2.   Simplified acquisition thresholds. The city adopts the federal
simplified acquisition threshold.
         (c)   Formal procurement methods. When the value of the procurement
for property or services under a federal financial assistance award exceeds the
SAT, formal procurement methods are required. Formal procurement methods
require the following documented procedures. Formal procurement methods also
require public advertising unless a non competitive procurement can be used in
accordance with federal law. The following formal methods of procurement are
used for procurement of property or services above the simplified acquisition
threshold or a value below the simplified acquisition threshold:
            1.   Sealed bids. Bids shall be publicly solicited and a firm
fixed-price contract (lump sum or unit price) is awarded to the responsible
bidder whose bid, conforming with all the material terms and conditions of the
invitation for bids, is the lowest in price.
            2.   Sealed bids applicability. Sealed bids will be used when the
following conditions are present:
               a.   A complete, adequate, and realistic specification or
purchase description;
               b.   Two or more responsible bidders are willing and able to
compete effectively for the business; and
               c.   A firm fixed-price contract and the selection of the
successful bidder can be made principally on the basis of price.
            3.   If sealed bids are used, the following requirements apply:
               a.   Bids must be solicited from an adequate number of qualified
sources, providing them sufficient response time prior to the date set for
opening the bids, for local and tribal governments, the invitation for bids
must be publicly advertised;
               b.   The invitation for bids, which will include any
specifications and pertinent attachments, must define the items or services in
order for the bidder to properly respond;
               c.   All bids will be opened at the time and place prescribed in
the invitation for bids, and for local and tribal governments, the bids must be
opened publicly;
               d.   A firm fixed-price contract award will be made in writing
to the lowest responsive and responsible bidder. Where specified in bidding
documents, factors such as discounts, transportation cost, and life cycle costs
must be considered in determining which bid is lowest. Payment discounts will
only be used to determine the low bid when prior experience indicates that such
discounts are usually taken advantage of; and
               e.   Any or all bids may be rejected if there is a sound
documented reason.
            4.   Proposals. A procurement method in which either a fixed-price
or cost-reimbursement type contract is awarded. Proposals are generally used
when conditions are not appropriate for the use of sealed bids. If they are
awarded in accordance with the following requirements:
               a.   Requests for proposals must be publicized and identify all
evaluation factors and their relative importance. Proposals must be solicited
from an adequate number of qualified offerors. Any response to publicized
requests for proposals must be considered to the maximum extent practical;
               b.   The city will hire experts to provide technical evaluations
of the proposals received and advice making selections;
               c.   Contracts must be awarded to the responsible offeror whose
proposal is most advantageous to the city, with price and other factors
considered; and
               d.   The city may use competitive proposal procedures for
qualifications- based procurement of architectural/engineering (NE)
professional services whereby offerors' qualifications are evaluated and the
most qualified offeror is selected, subject to negotiation of fair and
reasonable compensation. The method where price is not used as a selection
factor can only be used in procurement of NE professional services. It cannot
be used to purchase other types of services though NE firms that are a
potential source to perform the proposed effort.
         (d)   Noncompetitive procurement. There are specific circumstances in
which noncompetitive procurement can be used. Noncompetitive procurement can
only be awarded if one or more of the following circumstances apply:
            1.   The acquisition of property or services, the aggregate dollar
amount of which does not exceed the micro purchase threshold;
            2.   The item is available only from a single source;
            3.   The public exigency or emergency for the requirement will not
permit a delay resulting from publicizing a competitive solicitation;
            4.   The federal awarding agency or pass-through entity expressly
authorizes a noncompetitive procurement in response to a written request from
the city; or
            5.   After solicitation of a number of sources, competition is
determined inadequate.
      (3)   The city shall conduct procurement in a manner that prohibits the
use of statutorily or administratively imposed stale, local, or tribal
geographical preferences in the evaluation of bids or proposals, except in
those cases where applicable federal statutes expressly mandate or encourage
geographic preference.
      (4)   When contracting for architectural and engineering (NE) services,
geographic location may be a selection criterion provided its application
leaves an appropriate number of qualified firms, given the nature and size of
the project, to compete for the contract.
      (5)   The city will follow procedures outlined in CFR 180.300,
particularly that it will verify that the person with whom the city intends to
do business is not excluded or disqualified, by checking:
         (a)   SAM exclusions;
         (b)   Collecting a certification from that person; or
         (c)   Adding a clause or condition to the covered transaction with
that person.
(Ord. 35, 2024, passed 11-25-2024)
PERSONNEL
§ 32.30 PERSONNEL POLICY ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The current Personnel Policy of the city, as it may be amended from time to
time, is hereby adopted by reference and shall be a part of this code as if set
forth in full herein.
§ 32.31 SUBSTANCE ABUSE POLICY ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The current Substance Abuse Policy of the city, as it may be amended from
time to time, is hereby adopted by reference and shall be a part of this code
as if set forth in full herein.
§ 32.32 PER DIEM POLICY.
   (A)   Generally. Expenses incurred by a city employee who must travel to
carry out that employee’s official city duties, responsibilities or activities,
or to obtain approved training, are reimbursable within the limits stated
below.
   (B)   Definitions.
      EMPLOYEE. Any person who is paid a wage or salary by the city. This term
shall include, but is not limited to, persons employed in any city department,
the Common Council, the city executive and staff, a member of a city board,
commission, or any other elected city official. This term shall not include an
independent contractor or any person, whether employed or not, who is incurring
such expense as a result of a separate contractual relation with the city,
which contractual relation provides for or includes such expense.
      TRAVEL. To commute from the city to locations outside the city, including
the two-mile fringe, by means of automobile, taxi cab, bus, train, airplane,
truck, or other conventional and accepted means of transportation. Locations
outside the city shall not include TRAVEL to the employee or official’s home
from their office in the city.
   (C)   Per diems and meal expenses.
      (1)   A per diem is a flat rate reimbursement for expenses incurred in a
certain reimbursable travel category. The city will pay per diems for meal
expenses only. No receipts are required for a per diem payment, which shall be
made only after the employee completes travel and submits a claim for
reimbursement. However, the employee must provide a copy of their travel
itinerary to document actual time of travel. Per diem rates shall be:
         (a)   Forty-six dollars, including tips, if traveling outside the
State of Indiana; and
         (b)   Forty dollars, including tips, if traveling within the State of
Indiana.
         (c)   Overnight travel is not required for employees to receive per
diem for meal expenses, however, per diem rates shall be prorated for partial
day travel. (Travel that ends after midnight will not qualify an employee for
an additional partial-day per diem. Eligible expenses incurred after midnight
on a return trip will be reimbursed only if receipts are provided.) Twenty-
five dollars per diem for day of travel.
      (2)   If a meal is provided by an outside party, there shall be a
proportionate reduction in the per diem rate.
      (3)   The city must not pay for an employee’s meal more than once. This
includes, but is not limited to, meals included in registration fees or by
hotels in the room charge. If a person in travel status received a meal without
charge, then the subsistence allowance must be reduced. However, no deductions
from subsistence shall be taken for continental breakfasts or meals served on
airplanes.
(Ord. 26, 2020, passed 9-28-2020)
GENERAL CITY AUTHORITY
§ 32.45 LAW ENFORCEMENT SYSTEM.
   The city may establish, maintain, and operate a police and law enforcement
system to preserve public peace and order and may provide facilities and
equipment for that system.
(1987 Code, § 6-2)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to preserve public peace and order, see I.C. 36-8-2-2
§ 32.46 FIREFIGHTING AND PREVENTION SYSTEM.
   The city may establish, maintain, and operate a firefighting and fire
prevention system and may provide facilities and equipment for that system.
(1987 Code, § 6-5)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to establish firefighting system, see I.C. 36-8-2-3
§ 32.47 REGULATION OF CONDUCT AND PROPERTY.
   The city may regulate conduct, or the use or possession of property, which
might endanger the public health, safety, or welfare of its citizens.
(1987 Code, § 6-1)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate conduct and property for public health and safety, see
I.C. 36-8-2-4
§ 32.48 REGULATION OF AIR AND SOUND.
   The city may regulate the introduction of any substance or odor into the
air, or any generation of sound.
(1987 Code, § 6-3)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate air and sound, see I.C. 36-8-2-8
§ 32.49 REGULATION OF PUBLIC GATHERINGS.
   The city may regulate public gatherings, such as shows, demonstrations,
fairs, conventions, sporting events, and exhibitions.
(1987 Code, § 6-4)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate public gatherings, see I.C. 36-8-2-9
§ 32.50 OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH, ORDER, AND DECENCY; STATE LAW.
   All offenses against public health, order, and decency not addressed by this
code shall be governed by applicable state statute.
(1987 Code, § 6-6)
Statutory reference:
   Offenses against public health, order, and decency, see I.C. 325-45-1-1 et
seq.
§ 32.51 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIAL ACTION UNLAWFUL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to knowingly or
intentionally interfere, or attempt to impede or interfere with any city
official or employee in the performance of his or her official duties.
   (B)   It is a defense to prosecution under this section that the
interference alleged consisted of speech only.
(1987 Code, § 6-7)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Statutory reference:
   Resisting a law enforcement officer, see I.C. 35-44-3-3
§ 32.52 BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS AND SAFETY; REVIEW AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall have review authority for
all police and fire disciplinary matters where the discipline requested by the
Chief, or agreed to by the officer to be disciplined, is in excess of five days
suspension.
   (B)   The Board of Public Works and Safety review authority shall include
approval, denial, or a neutral recommendation, as determined by the Board. No
discipline in excess of five days shall be final until the Board makes its
determination in accordance with this review authority.
(Ord. 22, 2007, passed 8-27-2007)
§ 32.53 ANTI-NEPOTISM POLICY WITH REGARD TO EMPLOYMENT AND CONTRACTING.
   (A)   It is necessary and desirous to adopt a policy of conduct with regard
to nepotism in the employment with the city and in contracting with the city in
order to continue to be able to provide local government services to its
residents and to comply with the new laws effective July 1, 2012, known as I.C.
36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21, respectively.
   (B)   Beginning July 1, 2012, the city shall have a nepotism and a
contracting with the city policy that complies with the minimum requirements of
I.C. 36-1-20.2 (hereinafter “nepotism policy”) and I.C. 36-1-21 (hereinafter
“contracting with the city by a relative policy”) and implementation will
begin.
   (C)   The city nepotism policy is hereby established, effective July 1,
2012, by adopting the minimum requirements provisions of I.C. 36-1-20.2, and
including all future supplements and amendments thereto which become law from
time to time, and making them a part hereof as if fully set out herein. In
addition a copy of I.C. 36-1-20.2, Nepotism, in effect on July 1 is attached to
Ord. 13, 2012. The personnel policy of the city as adopted by reference in §
32.30 of the city code is amended in accordance with this section.
   (D)   The city contracting with the city by a relative policy is hereby
established, effective July 1, 2012, by adopting the minimum requirements
rovisions of I.C. 36-1-21, and including all future supplements and amendments
thereto which become law from time to time, and making them a part hereof as if
fully set out herein. In addition a copy of the I.C. 36-1-21, Nepotism, in
effect on July 1 is attached to Ord. 13, 2012. The purchasing policy of the
city as specified in §
32.15 of the city code is amended in accordance with this section.
   (E)   The city finds that both I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21 specifically
allow a unit to adopt requirements that are “more stringent or detailed” and
that more detailed requirements are necessary.
   (F)   The city further finds that a single member of the legislative body
cannot act for the body to make work assignments, compensation, grievances,
advancement, or a performance evaluation without prior authority of a majority
of the body, and therefore without such authority by the majority he/she will
not be in the direct line of supervision. (See I.C. 36-4-6-11.)
   (G)   The city finds that a single member of governing bodies with authority
over employees in the city cannot act for the governing body to make work
assignments, compensation, grievances, advancement, or a performance evaluation
without prior authority of a majority of the body, when a statute provides that
a majority is needed to act, and therefore, without such authority by the
majority the single member will not be in the direct line of supervision. (See
Municipal Code §
30.16, Board of Works and Safety; §
30.17(B), Plan Commission; §
30.21, Parks and Recreation Board; §
31.56, Redevelopment Commission).
   (H)   All elected and appointed officials and employees of the city are
hereby directed to cooperate fully in the implementation of the policies
created by this section and to demonstrate compliance with these same policies.
   (I)   Failure to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, compliance,
and certifications connected with the nepotism policy is a violation and may
result in the discipline, including termination, of an employee or a transfer
from the direct line of supervision or other curative action. An elected or
appointed official of the city who fails to abide by or cooperate with the
implementation, with the compliance, and with mandated certifications of the
nepotism policy may be subject to action allowed by law.
   (J)   Failure to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, compliance,
and certifications connected with the contracting with the city by a relative
policy is a violation and may result in the discipline, including termination,
of an employee or a curative action. An elected or appointed official of the
city who fails to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, with the
compliance, and with mandated certifications of the contracting with the city
by a relative policy may be subject to action allowed by law.
   (K)   The polices created by this section are hereby directed to be
implemented by any of the following actions: a) posting a copy of this section
in its entirety in at least one of the locations in the city where it posts
employer posters or other notices to its employees; b) providing a copy of this
section to its employees and elected and appointed officials; c) providing or
posting a notice of the adoption of this section; or d) any such other action
or actions that would communicate the polices established by this section to
its employees and elected and appointed officials. Upon the taking of any of
these actions the policies are deemed implemented by the city.
   (L)   A copy of the provisions of I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21, effective
July 1, 2012, are annexed to Ord. 13, 2012.
   (M)   Two copies of I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21, and as supplemented or
amended, are on file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer for the city for
public inspection as maybe required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
   (N)   If any section, clause, sentence, or phrase of this section is held to
be invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, then
said holding shall in no way effect the validity of the remaining portions of
this section.
(Ord. 13, 2012, passed 6-25-2012)
§ 32.54 INTERNAL CONTROL POLICY.
   (A)   The city adopts the Internal Control Policy, attached as Exhibit A to
Resolution 13, 2016, by reference as if fully set forth herein.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer and the Human Resources Director are directed to
ensure that all personnel receive training concerning the internal control
procedures adopted by the city.
   (C)   The city adopts a materiality threshold of $500 for purposes of the
internal control procedures.
(Res. 13, 2016, passed 6-13-2016)
§ 32.55 RECOVERING COSTS FOR WATER FOR PUBLIC FIRE PROTECTION PURPOSES.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 8-l-2-103(d), the costs for the protection, storage,
transmission, sale, delivery, and furnishing of water for fire protection
purposes ("public fire costs") shall be included in the basic rates and charges
of all and charges of all customers of Indiana-American within the city in the
manner and to the extent permitted by such statute.
   (B)   Effective upon the date of this change in the manner of recovering
public fire costs, Indiana-American shall cease directly billing the city for
public fire costs (other than charges for the construction cost for new
hydrants installed on and after the date of the change as hereinafter set
forth).
   (C)   On and after the effective date of this section, the construction cost
of any fire hydrant installed at the request of the city to Indiana-American
shall be paid for by the city, but any hydrant requested by a developer to
Indiana-American in response to a city requirement that a hydrant, or hydrants,
be installed, shall be paid by the developer.
   (D)   Public fire costs shall also be reflected in the rates of customers
located in areas adjacent to the city and within 1,000 feet of a hydrant
located within the city.
   (E)   The change in the method of recovering public fire costs described in
I.C. 8-l-2-103(d) shall be effective upon the first day of the first month
following approval by the IURC of a new schedule of rates implementing the
change. Indiana-American is requested to file such revised rate schedules with
the IURC within a reasonable time after being notified of the final passage of
this section.
(Ord. 16, 2017, passed 10-23-2017)
§ 32.56 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST REGARDING THE ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMITS, ETC.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to satisfy the requirements of I.C. 36-
1-27-4.
   (B)   As used in this section, "conflict of interest" means a direct or
indirect financial interest in the issuance of a permit, pursuant to I.C. 36-1-
27-1.
   (C)   As used in this section, "permit" has the meaning set forth in I.C.
36-7-4-1109(b).
   (D)   A Building Commissioner, Building Code Official, or Inspector of the
city may not issue a permit or oversee the issuance of a permit through a
subordinate if the Building Commissioner, Building Code Official, or Inspector
has a conflict of interest.
   (E)   A Building Commissioner, Building Code Official, Inspector, or other
employee of the city shall report a conflict of interest to the Mayor and the
City Attorney.
   (F)   Promptly upon receipt of a conflict of interest report made under this
division, the Mayor, in consultation with the City Attorney, shall appoint a
qualified temporary replacement Building Commissioner, Building Code Official,
or Inspector.
(Ord. 17, 2019, passed 9-23-2019)
§ 32.57 ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER.
   (A)   Electronic fund transfers. The City of Seymour is hereby authorized to
use electronic fund transfers for official business of the City of Seymour.
   (B)   Authority of Clerk-Treasurer. The City Clerk-Treasurer is hereby
authorized and responsible for:
      (1)   Selecting the financial institution(s) to be used by the City of
Seymour, Indiana for electronic fund transfers;
      (2)   Executing the application and agreement with the selected financial
institutions for the City of Seymour, Indiana;
      (3)   Overseeing the use of electronic fund transfers for official city
business;
      (4)   Maintaining the agreement and the relationship between the City of
Seymour, Indiana and the financial institution(s);
      (5)   Establishing appropriate security procedures for passwords, codes,
controls, and other authorizations to protect and preserve the funds and assets
of the City of Seymour, Indiana;
      (6)   Reviewing all transactions and confirmation in connection with the
use of electronic fund transfers for property authorization, documentation,
itemization, and purpose.
   (C)   Administration of payments.
      (1)   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall not draw a warrant for an electronic
fund transfer unless:
         (a)   There is a fully itemized invoice or bill for each expense;
         (b)   Each invoice or bill is approved by the city employee or
representative receiving the goods or services;
         (c)   The invoice or bill is filed with the City Clerk-Treasurer;
         (d)   The City Clerk-Treasurer audits and certifies before payment
that the invoice or bill is true and correct; and
         (e)   Payment of the invoice or bill is allowed by the City of Seymour
Common Council on the accounts payable register.
      (2)   All electronic fund transfers must be for official business of the
City of Seymour, Indiana and shall not be personal in nature.
   (D)   Electronic fund transfers. Electronic fund transfers shall include
automated clearinghouse payments (ACH), wire transfers, direct deposit, on-line
banking transactions, telephone transfers, and other electronically authorized
or implemented transfers or payments.
   (E)   Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, the city shall comply
with all other requirements regarding the payment of claims by a political
subdivision.
   (F)   This resolution shall be in full force and effect from and after its
passage and approval by the Mayor, all as by law provided, and shall remain in
full force and effect until revoked or modified by the City of Seymour Common
Council.
(Res. 21, 2022, passed 8-8-2022)
CHAPTER 33: CIVIL EMERGENCIES
Section
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Declaration
   
33.03   General curfew authorized
   
33.04   Mayor; powers and orders
   
33.05   Violations
§ 33.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CIVIL EMERGENCY.
      (1)   A riot of unlawful assembly, charac-terized by the use of actual
force of violence, or any threat to use force, if accompanied by immediate
power to execute such force, by three or more persons acting together without
authority of law; or
      (2)   Any natural disaster, or human-made calamity, including but not
limited to a flood, conflagration, cyclone, tornado, earthquake, or explosion
within the corporate limits of this city, resulting in the death or injury of
persons, or the destruction of property, to such an extent that extraordinary
measures must be taken to protect the public health, safety, and welfare.
   CURFEW. A prohibition against any person or persons walking, running,
loitering, standing, or motoring upon any alley, street, highway, public
property, or vacant premises within the corporate limits of the city during the
hours in which a curfew has been imposed, excepting persons officially
designated to duty with reference to the civil emergency.
(1987 Code, § 6-25) (Ord. 1580, passed 12-22-1969)
§ 33.02 DECLARATION.
   When in the judgment of the Mayor a civil emergency, as defined herein, is
deemed to exist, the Mayor shall proclaim in writing the existence of the same.
In case of the absence of the Mayor from the city, the vice-chair of the Board
of Public Works and Safety shall be authorized to act in his or her stead.
(1987 Code, § 6-26) (Ord. 1580, passed 12-22-1969)
§ 33.03 GENERAL CURFEW AUTHORIZED.
   After proclamation of a civil emergency by the Mayor, he or she may order a
general curfew applicable to those geographical areas of the city, or to the
city as a whole, as he or she deems advisable and applicable, during those
hours of the day or night as he or she deems necessary, in the interest of the
public safety and welfare.
(1987 Code, § 6-28) (Ord. 1580, passed 12-22-1969)
§ 33.04 MAYOR; POWERS AND ORDERS.
   (A)   After proclamation of a civil emergency, the Mayor may also, in the
interest of public safety and welfare, make any or all of the following orders:
      (1)   Order the closing of all retail liquor stores;
      (2)   Order the closing of all taverns;
      (3)   Order the closing of all private clubs or portions thereof wherein
the consumption of intoxicating liquor or beer is permitted;
      (4)   Order the discontinuance of the sale of beer;
      (5)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing, or giving away
of gasoline or other liquid flammable or combustible products, in any container
other than a gasoline tank, properly affixed to a motor vehicle;
      (6)   Order the closing of gasoline stations and other establishments,
the chief activity of which is the sale, distribution, or dispensing of liquid
flammable or combustible products;
      (7)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing, dispensing, or
giving away of firearms or ammunition; and
      (8)   Issue other orders as are imminently necessary for the protection
of life and property.
   (B)   During the period of a declared state of emergency, the Mayor shall
also have the power to invoke any, or all, of the following provisions.
(1987 Code, § 6-29)
      (1)   Alcoholic beverages. No person shall consume any alcoholic
beverages in any public street or place which is publicly owned, or in any
motor vehicle driven or parked thereon, which is within a duly designated
restricted area.
      (2)   Weapons. No person shall carry or possess any rock, bottle, club,
brick, or weapon, who uses or intends to use the same, unlawfully against any
other persons or property of another.
      (3)   Incendiary missiles. No person shall make, carry, possess, or use
any type of Molotov cocktail, gasoline or petroleum base fire bomb, or other
incendiary missile.
      (4)   Restricted areas. No person shall enter any area designated by the
Mayor as a restricted area, unless in the performance of official duties, or
with written permission from the Mayor, or his or her duly designated
representative, or that the person shall prove residence therein.
(1987 Code, § 6-30)
(Ord. 1580, passed 12-22-1969)
§ 33.05 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, or any order made by the
Mayor of the city, or vice-chair of the Board of Public Works and Safety, as
the case may be, all in accordance with the terms of this chapter, shall on
conviction thereof be punished by a fine and subject to the provisions as
specifically referenced in §
10.99 of this code.
(1987 Code, § 6-31) (Ord. 1580, passed 12-22-1969)
CHAPTER 34: ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
Section
   
34.01   Establishment
   
34.02   Violations clerk; appointment
   
34.03   Violations clerk; duties
   
34.04   Schedule of violations and fines; designation
   
34.05   Procedures
   
34.06   Accounting
   
34.07   Admission not a judgment
   
34.08   Ordinance Administrator; enforcement authority
§ 34.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   Pursuant to state law, there is established an Ordinance Violations Bureau
for the city.
(1987 Code, § 2-14) (Ord. 11, 1993, passed 4-26-1993)
§ 34.02 VIOLATIONS CLERK; APPOINTMENT.
   The Clerk-Treasurer for the city is appointed as violations clerk, to be the
administrator of the Bureau.
(1987 Code, § 2-14) (Ord. 11, 1993, passed 4-26-1993)
§ 34.03 VIOLATIONS CLERK; DUTIES.
   The violations clerk may accept written appearances, waivers of trial,
admissions of violations, and payment of civil penalties or fines in ordinance
violation cases, pursuant to the schedules specified in §§
34.04 and
34.08.
(1987 Code, § 2-14) (Ord. 11, 1993, passed 4-26-1993; Am. Ord. 19, 2008, passed
9-8-2008)
§ 34.04 SCHEDULE OF VIOLATIONS AND FINES; DESIGNATION.
   (A)   The Board of Works shall designate, by resolution, a schedule of
ordinance and code provisions of the city that are subject to admission of
violation before the violations clerk and the amount of civil penalty to be
assessed a violator who elects to admit a violation under this chapter. Civil
penalties shall be paid to, receipted, and accounted for by the violations
clerk under procedures provided for by the State Board of Accounts. Payment of
civil penalties under this chapter may be made in person, by mail, or to an
agent or agents designated by the Board of Works.
   (B)   Violations of the following provisions of the Code of Ordinances of
the City of Seymour, Indiana are subject to civil penalties, and upon admission
of the violation, fines shall be paid by the violator to the violations clerk
as follows:
 
Code Section             First Violation Second Violation Third Violation
Chapter 51 - Garbage and $50             $100             $250
Refuse
 
Code Section                   First Violation Second Violation Third Violation
Chapter 71 - Traffic Rules and
Chapter 72 - Freeman Field     $75
Regulations (other than
speeding violations)
Chapter 73 - Parking
Regulation (except two-hour    $25             $50              $100
violations)
Section 73.04 and Chapter 75 -
(Schedule II-D): Two-Hour      $3 if paid same day; $5 if paid after issue date
Parking Limits in Downtown
Area and West Brown St.
Chapter 92 - Fire Prevention;  $75             $100             $125
Burning Regulations
Chapter 93 - Abandoned         $250            $500             $1,000
Vehicles
Chapter 94 - Streets and       $100            $250             $500
Sidewalks
Chapter 95 - Nuisances         $100            $250             $500
Section 95.01 - Nuisance and   $100            $250             $500
Public Nuisance; Abatement
Chapter 96 - Parks and         $100            $250             $500
Recreation
Chapter 97 - Animals           $100            $250             $500
Chapter 98 - Smoking in Public
Places and Places of           $50
Employment
Chapter 111 - Peddlers and     $100            $250             $500
Solicitors; Advertisements
Section 111.21 - Prohibited
Areas Section 111.25 - Fines   $500            $750             $1,000
and Enforcement
Chapter 112 - Amusements;      $250            $500             $1,000
Carnivals and Circuses
Chapter 113 - Taxicabs         $100            $250             $500
Chapter 130 - General Offenses $100            $250             $500
Section 130.15 - Disturbing    $100            $250             $500
the Peace
 
(1987 Code, § 2-14) (Ord. 11, 1993, passed 4-26-1993; Am. Ord. 19, 2008, passed
9-8-2008; Am. Ord. 12, 2010, passed 9-13-2010; Am. Ord. 21, 2018, passed 12-10-
2018)
§ 34.05 PROCEDURES.
   (A)   A person charged with an ordinance or code violation under this
chapter is entitled to a trial before a court as provided by law, unless the
person waives the right to trial and enters an admission of the violation with
the violations clerk. Upon such an admission, the clerk shall assess and
receive from the violator the amount prescribed by the schedule of civil
penalties established under §
34.04 of this code.
    (B)   If a person charged with a violation under this chapter wishes to
exercise the right to trial, the person shall appear before the violations
clerk and deny the violation or enter a written denial with the clerk.
   (C)   If a person does any of the following, the violations clerk shall
report this fact to the official having the responsibility to prosecute
ordinance violation cases for the municipal corporation:
      (1)   Denies an ordinance or code violation under this chapter;
      (2)   Fails to satisfy a civil penalty assessed by the violations clerk
after having entered an admission of violation; or
      (3)   Fails to deny or admit the violation under this chapter.
   (D)   Proceedings in court against a person qualifying under division (C) of
this section shall then be initiated for the alleged ordinance violation.
(1987 Code, § 2-14) (Ord. 11, 1993, passed 4-26-1993)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 34.06 ACCOUNTING.
   All sums collected by the violations clerk as civil penalties for ordinance
violations shall be accounted for and paid to the city as provided by law.
(1987 Code, § 2-14) (Ord. 11, 1993, passed 4-26-1993)
§ 34.07 ADMISSION NOT A JUDGMENT.
   An ordinance violation admitted under this chapter does not constitute a
judgment, and an ordinance violation costs fee may not be collected from the
defendant. In addition, an ordinance violation processed under this chapter may
not be considered when determining the percentage of ordinance violations
prosecuted in certain courts.
(1987 Code, § 2-14) (Ord. 11, 1993, passed 4-26-1993)
§ 34.08 ORDINANCE ADMINISTRATOR; ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Ordinance Administrator of the city shall be vested with
enforcement authority for the Property Maintenance Code and Zoning Code as
follows:
Chapter 51   Garbage and refuse
Chapter 93   Abandoned vehicles
Chapter 94   Streets and sidewalks
Chapter 95   Health and sanitation; nuisances
Chapter 110  General licensing provisions
Chapter 111  Itinerant merchants
Chapter 112  Amusements
Chapter 114  Junk yards and junk dealers
Chapter 117  Sale of vehicles
Chapter 130  General offenses
Chapter 150- Land usage
157
 
   (B)   In addition to other fines, fees, penalties, civil actions,
forfeitures, and the like, provided for in this code, as administered by the
City Attorney, Building Commissioner, and other departments, commissions, and
agencies of the city, the Ordinance Administrator shall have the authority to
issue citations for fines as follows:
Code Section First Violation Second Violation Third Violation
Code Section                   First Violation Second Violation Third Violation
Ch. 51 (garbage and refuse)    $50             $100             $250
Ch. 93 (abandoned vehicles)    $250            $500             $1,000
Ch. 94 (streets and sidewalks) $100            $250             $500
Ch. 95 (nuisance)              $100            $250             $500
Ch. 95 (grass, weeds, and rank $50             $100             $250
vegetation)
Ch. 95 (trees and tree         $50             $100             $250
trimming)
Ch. 96 (public park            $100            $250             $500
violations)
Ch. 97 (animals)               $100            $250             $500
Ch. 110 (business licenses)    $250            $500             $1,000
Ch. 111 (peddler and           $100            $250             $500
solicitors)
Ch. 112 (amusements and        $250            $500             $1,000
carnivals)
Ch. 113 (taxicabs)             $100            $250             $500
Ch. 114 (junk yards in junk    $500            $1,000           $2,500
dealers)
Ch. 117 (sale of vehicles)     $500            $1,000           $2,500
Ch. 151 (building regulations) $500            $1,000           $2,500
Ch. 153 (unsafe buildings)     $500            $1,000           $2,500
Ch. 157 (land usage)           $100            $250             $500
 
   (C)   The Ordinance Administrator shall also have the authority to recommend
to the Board of Public Works and Safety that such fines and penalties be
suspended in the event of compliance within a time limit specified by the
Ordinance Administrator.
   (D)   In the event that the city prevails at the trial of a matter described
in the table above, the city shall also be awarded attorney fees as well as the
fines, fees, late charges, and penalties set out herein.
   (E)   The governing entity for the setting of fines, fees, late charges, and
penalties for such regulation shall henceforth be the Common Council of the
city.
   (F)   The Clerk-Treasurer of the city shall be responsible for collecting
all fees, fines, late charges, and penalties set forth in this section.
   (G)   The fines, fees, late charges, and penalties collected pursuant to
this section shall be deposited in the General Fund and used for the purposes
allowed by this section for that fund.
(Ord. 3, 2007, passed 5-14-2007; Am. Ord. 8, 2017, passed 6-12-2017)
CHAPTER 35: FUNDS AND ACCOUNTS
Section
Public Works Funds and Accounts
   
35.01   Concession Funds
   
35.02   Alcohol and Drug Abuse Education and Prevention Fund
   
35.03   Landfill Cost Fund
   
35.04   Transit Fund
   
35.05   Accident Report Account; fees
   
35.06   Petty Cash Fund
   
35.07   SMSU On-Line Account
   
35.08   Sidewalk Fund
   
35.09   Transit Operational Reserve Fund
Parks and Recreation Funds and Accounts
   
35.13   Skate Park Fund
   
35.14   Trails Development Fund
   
35.15   Department Petty Cash Fund
   
35.16   League Fee Assessment Fund
   
35.17   Community Center Maintenance and Utility Fund
   
35.18   Bus Maintenance Account
   
35.19   Non-Reverting Activity Fund
   
35.20   [Reserved]
   
35.21   Park and Recreation On-Line Account
Airport Funds
   
35.30   Airport Railroad Maintenance Fund
   
35.31   Municipal Airport Authority Concession Fund
   
35.32   Freeman Army Air Field Museum Fund
Fire Department Funds
   
35.45   Cumulative Fire Department Building, Equipment, and Firefighting Fund
   
35.46   Hazardous Waste Clean-Up Fund
Police Department Funds
   
35.60   Law Enforcement Continuing Education Fund
   
35.61   Police Equipment, Firearms Training, and Procedural Training Fund
   
35.62   Forfeiture Fund
   
35.63   Petty Cash Fund
   
35.64   K-9 Fund
   
35.65   D.A.R.E. Fund
   
35.66   Local Law Enforcement Block Grant Fund
   
35.67   Expenditure of confidential funds
   
35.68   Police Department On-Line Account
General Funds
   
35.80   City Promotional Fund
   
35.81   Cumulative Capital Improvement Fund
   
35.82   City Economic Development Commission Fund
   
35.83   Cumulative Capital Development Fund
   
35.84   Building Commissioner Unsafe Structures Fund
   
35.85   Electrical Training Program Fund
   
35.86   Grants Holding Fund
   
35.87   Bond Construction Fund
   
35.88   Additional funds
   
35.89   Economic Development Income Tax Fund
   
35.90   Rainy Day Fund
   
35.91   Cumulative Building or Remodeling, Firefighting and Police Radio Fund
   
35.92   LOIT Special Distribution Fund
   
35.93   Planning and Zoning On-Line Account
   
35.94   Cumulative Capital Fund
Cross-reference:
   Non-reverting funds claims procedure, see §
30.40
PUBLIC WORKS FUNDS AND ACCOUNTS
§ 35.01 CONCESSION FUNDS.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-1-3 et seq., there is now established in the
Office of the Clerk-Treasurer a non-reverting fund to be known as the
Department of Public Works Concession Fund. This Fund shall be under the
control of the Board of Public Works and Safety and is subject to the following
conditions.
      (1)   Monies from gifts to this Fund, receipts from scrapped items put
out by persons for city trash pick-up, and concessions sold from machines at
the Department of Public Works facility shall be accepted into the Fund.
      (2)   All disbursements made from this Fund shall be for or on behalf of
the Department of Public Works, and used for replenishing concession items,
providing food for city employees for a Departmental Christmas party, and as
needed for food and needed items for workers during state of emergency working
conditions and during safety training sessions and other work-related
functions, retirement parties, gifts, funeral flowers, employee awards and the
like. These disbursements shall be made on the order of the Board of Public
Works and Safety to the Clerk-Treasurer and payable upon presentation of proper
claims as specified in §
30.40 of the City Code.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-1-3 et seq., there is now established in the
Office of the Clerk-Treasurer a non-reverting fund to be known as the City Hall
Concession Fund. This Fund shall be under the control of the Board of Public
Works and Safety and is subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   Monies from gifts to this Fund, receipts from sales of coffee, soda
and concessions sold from machines at City Hall shall be accepted into the
Fund.
      (2)   All disbursements made from this Fund shall be for replenishing
concession items, providing food for city employees for a Christmas party, and
as needed for food and needed items for city employees during training sessions
and other work-related functions, retirement parties, gifts, funeral flowers,
employee awards and the like. These disbursements shall be made on the order of
the Board of Public Works and Safety to the Clerk-Treasurer and payable upon
presentation of proper claims as specified in §
30.40 of the City Code.
   (C)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-1-3 et seq., there is now established in the
Office of the Clerk-Treasurer a non-reverting fund to be known as the Police
Department Concession Fund. This Fund shall be under the control of the Board
of Public Works and Safety and is subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   Monies from gifts to this Fund, receipts from sales of coffee, soda
and concessions sold from machines at Seymour Police Department headquarters
shall be accepted into the Fund.
      (2)   All disbursements made from this Fund shall be for replenishing
concession items, providing for a Police Department for a Christmas party, and
as needed for food and needed items for city employees during training sessions
and other work-related functions, retirement parties, gifts, funeral flowers,
employee awards and the like. These disbursements shall be made on the order of
the Board of Public Works and Safety to the Clerk-Treasurer and payable upon
presentation of proper claims as specified in § 30.40 of the City Code.
(1987 Code, § 2-170) (Ord. 54, 1996, passed 10-28-1996; Am. Ord. 10, 2013,
passed 7-8-2013)
§ 35.02 ALCOHOL AND DRUG ABUSE EDUCATION AND PREVENTION FUND.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-1-3 et seq., there is now established in the
Office of the Clerk-Treasurer a non-reverting fund to be known as the Alcohol
and Drug Abuse Education and Prevention Fund.
   (B)   The Fund shall be under the control of the Board of Public Works and
Safety and is subject to the following conditions.
      (1)   Monies from gifts and appropriations shall be accepted into the
Fund.
      (2)   All disbursements from the Fund shall be for alcohol and drug abuse
education and prevention and shall be made on the order of the Board of Public
Works and Safety and payable by the Clerk-Treasurer upon presentation of proper
claims.
(1987 Code, § 2-174) (Ord. 14-83, passed 9-12-1983)
§ 35.03 LANDFILL COST FUND.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer is directed to establish a non-reverting fund to
be known as the Landfill Cost Fund, which Fund shall be under the control of
the Director of Public Works and the Board of Public Works and Safety of the
city.
   (B)   All monies received from commercial garbage pick-up and from special
trash and garbage pick-ups, as determined by the Director of Public Works,
shall be deposited therein.
   (C)   All disbursements from the Fund shall be on the order of the Board of
Public Works and Safety and payable by the Clerk-Treasurer upon the
presentation of proper claims, approved by the Board of Public Works and
Safety.
   (D)   This Fund is established pursuant to I.C. 36-1-3 et seq., Home Rule.
(1987 Code, § 2-177) (Ord. 7, 1989, passed 7-10-1989)
§ 35.04 TRANSIT FUND.
   (A)   There is established in the Office of the Clerk-Treasurer of the city
a non-reverting fund known as the Transit Fund, pursuant to I.C. 36-1-3 et seq.
The Fund is to be controlled by the Director of Public Works and Board of
Public Works and Safety.
   (B)   (1)   The purpose of the Transit Fund is for the payment of the Parks
and Recreation Department’s portion of the costs related to the operations,
reporting, and compliance with federal and state regulations.
      (2)   The Transit Fund will have the additional stated purpose of being
the repository of receipts, reimbursements, and funding of the Department’s bus
(es). The funds deposited in the account will be used for the operations and
maintenance of the Department’s bus(es).
   (C)   All disbursements from the Transit Fund shall be for the purposes
stated above as defined by the grant received by the city. These disbursements
shall be made upon the order of the Board of Public Works and Safety and
payable by the Clerk-Treasurer upon presentation of proper claims.
(1987 Code, § 2-178) (Ord. 9, 1988, passed 5-9-1988; Am. Ord. 10, 1992, passed
3-23-1992)
§ 35.05 ACCIDENT REPORT ACCOUNT; FEES.
   (A)   The fee for each accident report shall be as set forth in
Ch. 36 of this code.
   (B)   Pursuant to state law, there is now established in the Office of the
Clerk-Treasurer a non-reverting account known as the Accident Report Account,
which Account shall be under the control of the Board of Public Works and
Safety and is subject to the following conditions.
      (1)   All monies received in accident report fees shall be deposited
therein.
      (2)   All disbursements from the Account shall be for the purposes
hereinabove stated and made on the order of the Board of Public Works and
Safety and payable by the Clerk-Treasurer upon presentation of proper claims,
approved as other claims of the Board are approved.
(1987 Code, § 2-179) (Ord. 18-81, passed 8-10-1981)
§ 35.06 PETTY CASH FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established in the Office of the Clerk-Treasurer a
fund known as the "Seymour Department of Public Works Petty Cash Fund,"
pursuant to I.C. 36-1-3 et seq. This fund is separate from the city’s General
Fund and money in the "Seymour Department of Public Works Petty Cash Fund" at
the end of a fiscal year does not revert to the city’s General Fund or to any
other fund.
   (B)   The purpose of the Petty Cash Fund is for the payment of minor,
miscellaneous expenses of the Department of Public Works. The Fund is to be
under direct supervision and control of the Director of the Department of
Public Works.
   (C)   Distribution of money from the fund shall be made without the
necessity of first obtaining and appropriation from the City Council.
   (D)   The total cash on hand in the fund shall not exceed the sum of $100.
   (E)   The Fund shall be reimbursed, on a line item basis, at the next
available claims period for each amount used.
   (F)   All disbursements from the Fund shall be for the purposes stated
above. Theses disbursements shall be made upon the directive of the Director of
the Department of Public Works and shall be the sole responsibility of the
Director.
(Ord. 23, 2011, passed 11-28-2011)
§ 35.07 SMSU ON-LINE ACCOUNT.
   (A)   There is now established in the Office of the Clerk-Treasurer a fund
to be known as the SMSU On-Line Account.
   (B)   All monies received from credit card or debit card payments made to
the Seymour Municipal Sanitation Utility (SMSU) shall be deposited into this
account.
   (C)   At least one time per month the Clerk- Treasurer shall transfer all
monies held in the SMSU On-Line Account to the appropriate line item(s) in the
SMSU Operating Fund.
(Ord. 5, 2018, passed 5-29-2018)
§ 35.08 SIDEWALK FUND.
   (A)   There is now established in the Office of the Clerk-Treasurer a non-
reverting fund to be known as the Sidewalk Fund.
   (B)   This Fund shall be under the control of the Department of Public
Works, and is subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   All monies received from donations for the construction,
reconstruction and maintenance of public sidewalks and curbs shall be accepted
and deposited into the Fund.
      (2)   The sum of $15,000 shall be deposited by the Clerk-Treasurer in the
Sidewalk Fund as previously established by the City Council.
      (3)   All disbursements made from this Fund shall be for or on behalf of
the Department of Public Works, and used solely for construction,
reconstruction and maintenance of public sidewalks and curbs within the
boundaries of the city, and in accordance with the rules established by the
Board of Public Works and Safety for the Shared Cost Sidewalk Program. These
disbursements shall be made on the order of the Board of Public Works and
Safety to the Clerk-Treasurer, and payable to applicant upon presentation of
proper claims as specified in § 30.40 of the City Code.
(Ord. 18, 2015, passed 5-26-2015; Am. Ord. 5, 2018, passed 5-29-2018; Am. Ord.
8, 2023, passed 4-10-2023)
§ 35.09 TRANSIT OPERATIONAL RESERVE FUND.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall create and maintain a fund for the receipt
and disbursement of funds for purchasing of city transit vehicles. Said Fund
shall be entitled the Transit Operational Reserve Fund.
   (B)   The moneys deposited in the Fund shall not revert to the General Fund
from time to time, but rather shall be non-reverting and continue perpetually
until further order of the Common Council.
   (C)   The purpose of this Fund shall be consistent with grant agreements and
state and federal regulations, as applicable, as well as the Transit Operating
Reserve Policy.
   (D)   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall be vested with the
responsibility and discretion for making expenditures from this Fund in
accordance with applicable law and without need for appropriation or budgeting,
it being understood that this Fund supports a transit program operating under
state and federal regulations and grant agreements developed pursuant thereto.
(Res. 19, 2020, passed 7-13-2020)
PARKS AND RECREATION FUNDS AND ACCOUNTS
§ 35.13 SKATE PARK FUND.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-1-3 et seq., there is now established in the
Office of the Clerk-Treasurer a non-reverting fund to be known as the Skate
Park Fund.
   (B)   This Fund shall be under the control of the Board of Parks and
Recreation and is subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   All monies received from donations for the acquisition,
construction and maintenance of public skate park facilities shall be accepted
and deposited in the Fund.
      (2)   All disbursements made from this Fund shall be for or on behalf of
the Department of Parks and Recreation, and used solely for acquisition,
construction and maintenance of public skate park facilities. These
disbursements shall be made on the order of the Board of Public Works and
Safety to the Clerk-Treasurer and payable upon presentation of proper claims as
specified in § 30.40 of the City Code.
(Ord. 23, 2014, passed 7-14-2014)
§ 35.14 TRAILS DEVELOPMENT FUND.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-1-3 et seq., there is now established in the
Office of the Clerk-Treasurer a non-reverting fund to be known as the Trails
Development Fund.
   (B)   This Fund shall be under the control of the Board of Parks and
Recreation and is subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   All monies received from donations for the acquisition,
construction and maintenance of public trails shall be accepted and deposited
into the Fund.
      (2)   All disbursements made from this Fund shall be for or on behalf of
the Department of Parks and Recreation, and used solely for acquisition,
construction and maintenance of public trails. These disbursements shall be
made on the order of the Board of Public Works and Safety to the Clerk-
Treasurer and payable upon presentation of proper claims as specified in §
30.40 of the City Code.
(Ord. 18, 2014, passed 5-12-2014)
§ 35.15 DEPARTMENT PETTY CASH FUND.
   (A)   There is established in the Office of the Clerk-Treasurer of the city
a non-reverting fund known as the Parks and Recreation Department Petty Cash
Fund, pursuant to I.C. 36-1-3 et seq. The Fund is to be controlled by the
Superintendent of Parks and Recreation and the Parks and Recreation Board.
   (B)   The purpose of the Petty Cash Fund is for the payment of fees to
sports league officials for officiating games and recreational activities
supervised by the Parks and Recreation Department for the various athletic
leagues, tournaments, and other events conducted by or under the direction of
the Department. Distribution of money from the Petty Cash Fund shall be made
without the necessity of first obtaining an appropriation from the City
Council.
   (C)   All disbursements from the Petty Cash Fund shall be for the purposes
stated above. These disbursements shall be made upon the directive of the Parks
and Recreation Department Director and shall be the sole responsibility of the
Director and his or her staff.
(1987 Code, § 2-172) (Ord. 42, 1990, passed 12-10-1990)
§ 35.16 LEAGUE FEE ASSESSMENT FUND.
   (A)   There is now established in the Office of the Clerk-Treasurer of the
city a non-reverting fund known as the Parks and Recreation Department League
Fee Assessment Fund, pursuant to I.C. 36-1-3 et seq. The Fund is to be
controlled by the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation and the Parks and
Recreation Board.
   (B)   The purpose of the League Fee Assessment Fund is for the collection
and deposit of dues, fees, and assessments of any kind or character levied by
the Parks and Recreation Department for the various athletic leagues,
tournaments, and other events conducted by or under the direction of the
Department.
      (1)   The funds are derived from fees, dues, and assessments paid by
league participants in athletic events conducted by or under the direction of
the Department.
      (2)   Distribution of money from the League Fee Assessment Fund shall be
made without the necessity of first obtaining appropriation from the City
Council. To make a claim the Parks and Recreation Department will submit to the
Clerk-Treasurer of the city a standard claim form as prescribed by the state
Board of Accounts.
      (3)   All monies derived from these fees shall be utilized for league
expenses, including, but not limited to, scorekeepers, umpires, equipment,
awards, supervisors, and supplies.
   (C)   All disbursements from the League Fee Assessment Fund shall be for the
purposes stated above. These disbursements shall be made upon the order of the
Board of Public Works and Safety and payable by the Clerk-Treasurer upon
presentation of proper claims.
(1987 Code, § 2-173) (Ord. 4, 1990, passed 3-12-1990)
§ 35.17 COMMUNITY CENTER MAINTENANCE AND UTILITY FUND.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-1-3 et seq., there is now established in the
Office of the City Clerk-Treasurer a non-reverting fund to be known as the
Community Center Maintenance and Utility Fund.
   (B)   This Fund shall be under the control of the Board of Parks and
Recreation of the city, and the Fund is subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   All monies received from the operation and use of the Community
Center shall be deposited therein;
      (2)   All monies received from donations for utilities and maintenance of
the Community Center shall be deposited therein; and
      (3)   All disbursements from the Fund shall be on the order of the Board
of Parks and Recreations of the city and payable by the City Clerk-Treasurer
upon presentation of proper claims, approved as other claims of the Board are
approved.
(1987 Code, § 2-182) (Ord. 8-80, passed 3-24-1980)
§ 35.18 BUS MAINTENANCE ACCOUNT.
   (A)   The City Clerk-Treasurer is expressly authorized to establish, as a
new and separate account, a Bus Maintenance Account.
   (B)   The City Clerk-Treasurer is expressly so authorized, empowered, and
directed to deposit in this Account, as heretofore established, any and all
donations as received by the Parks and Recreation Department, its servants,
employees, and agents, or any other department or agency of the city, funds
donated for the maintenance of the bus to be receipted into the Bus Maintenance
Account, it being further directed that no monies received by the city from
other sources shall be commingled therewith.
   (C)   After the Account is established, the City Clerk-Treasurer is
expressly authorized to disburse from the account, on proper claims, approved
by the Board of Public Works and Safety as other claims are approved, without
specific appropriation thereof, the disbursements to be made only for the
specific purpose, or purposes, of the fund.
(1987 Code, § 2-184) (Res. 9-78, passed 3-13-1978)
§ 35.19 NON-REVERTING ACTIVITY FUND.
   There is created in the Parks and Recreation Department a special Non-
Reverting Activity Fund as authorized by state law.
(1987 Code, § 2-185) (Ord. 1616, passed 8-9-1971)
§ 35.20 [RESERVED].
§ 35.21 PARK AND RECREATION ON-LINE ACCOUNT.
   (A) There is now established in the Office of the Clerk-Treasurer a fund to
be known as the Park and Recreation On-Line Account.
   (B)   All monies received from credit card or debit card payments made to
the Park and Recreation Department shall be deposited into this account.
   (C)   At least one time per month the Clerk- Treasurer shall transfer all
monies held in the Park and Recreation On-Line Account to the appropriate line
item(s) in the Park and Recreation section of the city’s General Fund.
(Ord. 5, 2018, passed 5-29-2018)
AIRPORT FUNDS
§ 35.30 AIRPORT RAILROAD MAINTENANCE FUND.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-1-3 et seq., there is now established in the
Office of the Clerk-Treasurer a non-reverting fund to be known as the Airport
Railroad Maintenance Fund.
   (B)   This Fund shall be under the control of the Airport Authority of the
city, and the Fund shall be more conditioned as follows:
      (1)   All monies received from the operation and use of the Freeman Field
railroad spur shall be deposited therein;
      (2)   In addition thereto, in case of need for capital expenditures in
excess of amounts available from the Fund, the Airport Authority may
temporarily deposit in the Fund other sums derived from its general operations,
subject to budgetary authorization thereof, and which sums, as so advanced,
shall be returned to the regular accounts of the Airport Authority as and when
the balance in the Airport Railroad Maintenance Fund is sufficient to permit
the return thereof, as aforementioned; and
      (3)   All disbursements from the Fund shall be on the order of the
Airport Authority and payable by the City Clerk-Treasurer upon presentation of
proper claims, approved as other claims of the Airport Authority are approved.
(1987 Code, § 2-183) (Ord. 11-79, passed 5-28-1979; Am. Ord. 4, 1993, passed 2-
8-1993)
§ 35.31 MUNICIPAL AIRPORT AUTHORITY CONCESSION FUND.
   (A)   There shall be established a non-reverting Municipal Airport Authority
Concession Fund for receipt of monies from:
      (1)   Recyclable or scrap items set out by companies or persons for
disposal or pick-up;
      (2)   Scrap metal from repairs and renovations at various sites and
locations at Freeman Field Airport and Industrial Park; and
      (3)   Donations.
   (B)   Revenues from these sources shall be accepted into the non-reverting
Municipal Airport Authority Concession Fund in which to place monies realized
from this program by the Municipal Airport Authority.
   (C)   All monies received and spent will be for and on behalf of the
Municipal Airport Authority, and used for providing food for city employees for
Departmental functions, and other necessary items for workers during state of
emergency working conditions and during education, safety, and training
sessions and other work-related functions, or to be used as designated by the
individual or corporate donor(s).
   (D)   All expenditures from this Fund shall first be approved utilizing the
following procedure:
      (1)   The donor of any individual or corporate contribution shall receive
a receipt from the Airport Manager or Clerk-Treasurer;
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall utilize the collection form specified by
the state Board of Accounts;
      (3)   The expenditure shall be approved by the Municipal Airport
Authority;
      (4)   The expenditure shall then be approved by the Board of Public Works
and Safety; and
      (5)   No expenditure shall be approved without submission of the proper
claim form specified by the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 30, 2001, passed 11-12-2001)
§ 35.32 FREEMAN ARMY AIR FIELD MUSEUM FUND.
   There is created a Freeman Army Air Field Museum non-reverting fund for
deposit of all money donated for the benefit of the Freeman Field Army Air
Museum. All funds donated to this account shall be exclusively for the
operation and maintenance of the Freeman Army Air Field Museum.
(1987 Code, § 2-190)
FIRE DEPARTMENT FUNDS
§ 35.45 CUMULATIVE FIRE DEPARTMENT BUILDING, EQUIPMENT, AND FIREFIGHTING FUND.
   (A)   The Cumulative Fire Department Building and Equipment Fund and the
Cumulative Firefighting Fund are combined into one fund known as the Cumulative
Fire Department Building, Equipment, and Firefighting Fund.
   (B)   This Fund shall be used for the following purposes: the purchase,
construction, renovation, or addition to buildings used by the Fire Department
and for the purchase of firefighting equipment, including making the required
payments under a lease rental with the option to purchase and acquire
equipment, and for all other purposes allowed by I.C. 36-8-14-1 et seq.
   (C)   The levying of an additional tax at the rate of $0.10 on each $100 of
taxable real and personal property within the taxing district shall continue to
be imposed to provide monies for the Fund until reduced or rescinded, as
provided in I.C. 36-8-14-1 et seq.
(1987 Code, § 2-181) (Ord. 7-84, passed 4-9-1984; Ord. 34, 1987, passed 12-14-
1987)
§ 35.46 HAZARDOUS WASTE CLEAN-UP FUND.
   (A)   There is established in the Office of the Clerk-Treasurer of the city
a non-reverting fund known as the city Fire Department Hazardous Waste Clean-Up
Fund, pursuant to I.C. 36-1-3 et seq. The Fund is to be controlled by the Chief
of the city Fire Department.
   (B)   The purpose of the Hazardous Waste Clean-Up Fund is for the receipt of
monies received for hazardous waste clean-up conducted by the Fire Department.
   (C)   All claims for disbursement from this Fund must be approved by the
Board of Public Works and Safety. Distribution of money from the Hazardous
Waste Clean-Up Fund shall be made without the necessity of first obtaining an
appropriation from the City Council.
   (D)   Monies from the Hazardous Waste Clean-up Fund shall be utilized for
the following purposes only:
      (1)   Hazardous waste education;
      (2)   Hazardous waste training; and
      (3)   To replace hazardous waste equipment.
   (E)   A hazardous materials response fee structure shall be implemented for
the use of the city’s services as set forth in
Ch. 36 of this code.
(1987 Code, § 2-191) (Ord. 2, 1995, passed 2-20-1995)
POLICE DEPARTMENT FUNDS
§ 35.60 LAW ENFORCEMENT CONTINUING EDUCATION FUND.
   (A)   There is established in the Office of the Clerk-Treasurer of the city
a non-reverting fund known as the Law Enforcement Continuing Education Fund,
pursuant to I.C. 36-1-3 et seq. The Fund is to be controlled by the Chief of
Police and the Board of Public Works and Safety.
   (B)   The purpose of the Law Enforcement Continuing Education Fund is for
the payment of training costs for the city Police Department and its officers
pursuant to I.C. 5-2-1 et seq.
      (1)   The funds are derived from court costs paid to the County Clerk by
defendants in the Circuit Court and Superior Court.
      (2)   Distribution of money for the Law Enforcement Continuing Education
Fund shall be made without the necessity of first obtaining an appropriation
from the City Council. To make a claim, the city Police Department will submit
to the County Auditor a verified statement of case numbers for fees collected
that are attributable to the efforts of the city Police Department. The city
Police Department shall submit this claim for fees in the same fiscal year in
which the fees are collected.
      (3)   All monies derived from these fees shall be utilized for the
continuing education and training of officers of the city Police Department.
   (C)   All disbursements from the Continuing Education Fund shall be for the
purposes stated above as defined by the Indiana Code. These disbursements shall
be made upon the order of the Board of Public Works and Safety and payable by
the Clerk-Treasurer upon presentation of proper claims.
(1987 Code, § 2-176) (Ord. 28, 1989, passed 9-25-1989)
§ 35.61 POLICE EQUIPMENT, FIREARMS TRAINING, AND PROCEDURAL TRAINING FUND.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 35-47-2-3 and 36-1-3 et seq., the former non-
reverting funds formerly known as the Firearms Training Fund and the Police
Equipment and Training Benefaction Fund are combined into one fund known as the
Police Equipment, Firearms Training, and Procedural Training Non-Reverting
Fund.
   (B)   All monies received from applicants for handgun licenses shall be
deposited into this non-reverting Fund. All donations to the Police Department
shall also be deposited into this non-reverting Fund.
   (C)   All disbursements from this Fund shall be for the purposes hereinabove
stated and made on the order of the Board of Public Works and Safety, payable
by the Clerk-Treasurer upon the presentation of proper claims, and approved as
other claims of the Board are approved.
(1987 Code, § 2-180) (Ord. 19-81, passed 8-10-1981; Am. Ord. 34, 1987, passed
12-14-1987)
Editor’s note:
   I.C. 35-47-2-3 was repealed by P.L. 32-2019, Sec. 36.
§ 35.62 FORFEITURE FUND.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36, the City Council creates a non-reverting fund for
accumulation of assets recovered, seized, and forfeited by the city Police
Department during criminal investigations to be known as the city Police
Department Forfeiture Fund.
   (B)   The funds accumulated in the city Police Department Forfeiture Fund
shall be utilized only for those purposes set forth in the U.S. Code and the
Indiana Code governing the recovery, seizure, and forfeiture of assets
accumulated during the investigation of criminal felons and misdemeanants.
(1987 Code, § 2-193) (Ord. 35, 1992, passed 9-28-1992)
§ 35.63 PETTY CASH FUND.
   (A)   There is established in the Office of the Clerk-Treasurer of the city
a non-reverting fund known as the city Police Department Petty Cash Fund,
pursuant to I.C. 36-1-3 et seq. The Fund is to be controlled by the Chief of
the city Police Department.
   (B)   The purpose of the Petty Cash Fund is for the payment of postage,
travel expense advancements, and other miscellaneous expenses.
   (C)   Distribution of money from the Petty Cash Fund shall be made without
the necessity of first obtaining an appropriation from the City Council.
   (D)   The total Fund, cash on hand, shall not exceed the sum of $150.
    (E)   The Fund shall be reimbursed, on a line item basis, at the next
available claims period for each amount used.
    (F)   All disbursements from the Petty Cash Fund shall be for the purposes
stated above. These disbursements shall be made upon the directive of the Chief
of the city Police Department and shall be the sole responsibility of the Chief
and his or her staff.
(1987 Code, § 2-194) (Ord. 24, 1992, passed 7-27-1992)
§ 35.64 K-9 FUND.
   A non-reverting fund is created for monies donated to the city Police
Department and the city for its dog units known as K-9. These monies shall be
used for the care and maintenance of the animals as well as purchase of
necessary equipment related to K-9 and training of the animals and police
personnel assigned to the K-9 units.
(1987 Code, § 2-196) (Ord. 12, 1992, passed 4-13-1992)
§ 35.65 D.A.R.E. FUND.
   (A)   There shall be established a non-reverting Drug Awareness and
Resistance Education (D.A.R.E.) Fund in which to place monies realized from
this program in the city Police Department. All monies received and spent will
be used solely for this program.
   (B)   All expenditures from this Fund shall first be approved by the Chief
of the city Police Department.
(Ord. 36, 1999, passed 12-13-1999)
§ 35.66 LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT BLOCK GRANT FUND.
   (A)   There shall be established a non-reverting Local Law Enforcement Block
Grant fund in which to place monies realized from this program by the city
Police Department. All monies received and spent will be used solely for this
program.
   (B)   All expenditures from this Fund shall first be approved by the Chief
of the city Police Department.
(Ord. 1, 2001, passed 1-8-2001)
§ 35.67 EXPENDITURE OF CONFIDENTIAL FUNDS.
   (A)   The procedure set out in this section shall be applicable to all
expenditures by the Seymour Police Department that are needed in the course of
criminal investigations to pay informants for information, make drug purchases,
or other purchases in order to gather evidence to make an arrest. These
procedures shall be used for all such expenditures, no matter the source of the
monies that are being expended, including, but not limited to forfeiture funds,
grant funds or tax funds.
   (B)   Appropriation for such purpose must be obtained in the manner
authorized by state statutes.
   (C)   If petty cash funds are used, procedures set out in I.C. 36-1-8-3 must
be followed.
   (D)   A minimum documentation procedure must be followed, similar to either:
      (1)   "Guidelines for the Expenditure of Confidential Funds," published
by the U.S. Department of Criminal Justice, or
      (2)   "Guidelines for Obtaining and Accounting for Confidential Funds
Used in Support of Criminal Investigations," (Revised S.O.P. PR-INV-0017), by
the Indiana State Police Department.
(Ord. 7, 2017, passed 3-27-2017)
§ 35.68 POLICE DEPARTMENT ON-LINE ACCOUNT.
   (A)   There is now established in the Office of the Clerk-Treasurer a fund
to be known as the Police Department On-Line Account.
   (B)   All monies received from credit card or debit card payments made to
the Police Department shall be deposited into this account.
   (C)   At least one time per month the Clerk- Treasurer shall transfer all
monies held in the Police Department On-Line Account to the appropriate line
item(s) in the Police Department section of the city’s General Fund.
(Ord. 5, 2018, passed 5-29-2018)
GENERAL FUNDS
§ 35.80 CITY PROMOTIONAL FUND.
   (A)   A fund known as the city Promotional Fund is established. The City
Council is authorized to budget and appropriate funds from the General Fund or
from other funds to the Promotional Fund to pay expenses which are deemed by
the Mayor to directly relate to the promotion or betterment of the city.
   (B)   The City Council is further authorized to budget and appropriate funds
from the General Fund or from other funds to individual departmental budgets to
provide for membership fees for the city and the elected and appointed
officials and members of various municipal boards, councils, departments, or
agencies in local, regional, state, and national associations of a civic,
educational, or governmental nature which have as their purpose the betterment
and improvement of municipal operations.
   (C)   The City Council is further authorized to budget and appropriate funds
to pay the expenses of duly authorized representatives to attend the meetings
and functions of organizations to which the municipality belongs.
(1987 Code, § 2-175) (Ord. 14-82, passed 8-9-1982)
§ 35.81 CUMULATIVE CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT FUND.
   (A)   There is created a special fund to be known as the Cumulative Capital
Improvement Fund of the city, into which the cigarette taxes allotted to the
city by reason of the state Cigarette Tax Law being I.C. 6-7-1, as amended,
shall be deposited. This Fund shall be a cumulative fund and all of the monies
deposited into the Fund shall be appropriated and used solely for capital
improvements as hereinafter defined, and none of the monies shall revert to the
General Fund or be used for any purposes other than capital improvements.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS.
         (a)   The construction or improvement of any property owned by the
city, including but not limited to streets, thoroughfares, and sewers, and the
retirement of general obligation bonds of the city, issued, and the proceeds
used for the purpose of construction capital improvements.
         (b)   The term shall not include salaries of any public officials or
employees except those which are directly chargeable to a capital improvement.
(1987 Code, § 2-186) (Ord. 1448, passed 11-29-1965)
§ 35.82 CITY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION FUND.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer is directed to establish a non-reverting fund to
be known as the city Economic Development Commission Fund, which Fund shall be
under the control of the Economic Development Commission of the city.
   (B)   All monies received from the operation of the Economic Development
Commission, including but not limited to application fees, appropriations, or
levies, shall be deposited therein.
   (C)   All disbursements from the Fund shall be on the order of the Economic
Development Commission and payable by the Clerk-Treasurer upon the presentation
of proper claims, approved by the Economic Development Commission.
   (D)   This fund is established pursuant to I.C. 36-1-3 et seq., Home Rule.
(1987 Code, § 2-187) (Ord. 32, 1987, passed 11-23-1987)
§ 35.83 CUMULATIVE CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT FUND.
   (A)   Application. This section applies to the city.
    (B)   Authorization of Fund purpose. The City Council, with the approval of
the state Board of Tax Commissioners, establishes a Cumulative Capital
Development Fund to provide money for which purpose for the property taxes may
be imposed within the municipality under the authority of: I.C. 8-16-3, Bridges
and Tunnels; I.C. 8-22-3-25, Airport Authorities; I.C. 14-33-1 et seq.,
Conservancy Districts; I.C. 16-23-1 et seq., City Hospitals; I.C. 36-8-14,
Cumulative Building and Equipment Fund; I.C. 36-9-4-48, Urban Mass
Transportation; I.C. 36-9-16-2, Cumulative Building Fund; I.C. 36-9-16-3,
Cumulative Capital Improvement Fund; I.C. 36-9-16.5, Cumulative Street Fund;
I.C. 36-9-17, General Improvement Fund; I.C. 36-9-26, Cumulative Sewer Building
Fund; or I.C. 36-10-3-21 or 36-10-4-36, Parks Building Fund.
   (C)   Notice and hearing on proposed Fund.
      (1)   The city, in establishing a Cumulative Capital Development Fund,
shall:
         (a)   Give notice of the proposal to the affected taxpayers; and
         (b)   Hold a public hearing on the proposal before presenting it to
the state Board of Tax Commissioners for approval.
      (2)   Notice of the proposal and of the public hearing shall be given by
publication in accordance with I.C. 5-14-1.5-5.
   (D)   Submission to Tax Commissioners; notice; objections; hearings;
decisions.
      (1)   If, after the public hearing held under division (C) of this
section, the proposal is submitted for approval to the state Board of Tax
Commissioners, the Board shall require notice of the submission to be given to
the taxpayer of the municipality in the manner prescribed by division (C)(2) of
this section. Fifty or more of the taxpayers in the municipality may file a
petition setting forth their objections to the proposed levy with the County
Auditor not later than 30 days after the publication under this division.
       (2)   The County Auditor shall immediately certify a petition filed
under division (D)(1) above to the state Board of Tax Commissioners. The Board
shall, within a reasonable time, fix a date for a hearing on the petition,
which shall be held in the affected municipality. Notice of the hearing shall
be given to the County Auditor and to the first ten taxpayers whose names
appear upon the petition by a letter that is signed by the secretary or any
member of the Board and mailed to the Auditor and the taxpayers at their usual
place of residence at least five days before the date fixed for the hearing.
      (3)   After the hearing, the state Board of Tax Commissioners shall
certify its approval, disapproval, or modification of the proposal to the
Auditor of the county. The action of the Board with respect to the proposed
levy is final and conclusive.
   (E)   Municipal plans; presentation in notice and hearings. In the notice
provided to the public and at the required hearings, the municipality shall
present a plan that describes the tax levy that will impose for the fund, the
length of time (up to a maximum of three years) during which the municipality
plans to impose a property tax under this section, and the use that the
municipality plans to make of the taxes raised.
   (F)   Tax levy; rate of tax.
      (1)   The municipal fiscal body shall provide money for the Cumulative
Capital Development Fund by levying a tax on the taxable property in the
municipality.
      (2)   The maximum property tax rate that may be imposed for property
taxes first due and payable during a particular year in a municipality that is
either wholly or partially located in a county in which the county option
income tax or the county adjusted gross income tax is in effect on January 1 of
that year depends upon the number of years the municipality has previously
imposed a tax under this chapter and is determined under the following table:
 
Number of Years Maximum Tax Rate per $100 of Assessed Valuation
0               $0.05
1               $0.10
2 or more       $0.15
 
      (3)   Beginning with the first annual tax levy after the state Board of
Tax Commissioners approves the tax rate, the municipal fiscal body may levy the
tax annually for any period not exceeding three years. A tax levy under this
section must be advertised annually in the same manner as other tax levies.
      (4)   After a tax levy has been imposed under this section for the period
approved by the state Board of Tax Commissioners, a new tax levy may not be
imposed under the authority of this section until the municipality has complied
with the hearing and notice requirements provided by this section for the
establishment of a Cumulative Capital Development Fund.
   (G)   Reduction or rescission of tax levy.
      (1)   A municipal legislative body may reduce or rescind a tax levy made
under division (F) of this section.
      (2)   Fifty or more taxpayers in the municipality may file with the
County Auditor, not later than August 1 of any year, a petition for reduction
or rescission of a tax levy made under division (F) of this section. The
petition must set forth the taxpayers’ objections to the levy and be certified
to the state Board of Tax Commissioners. The Board shall give notice and
conduct a hearing in the manner prescribed by division (D) of this section.
After the hearing, the Board may reduce or rescind the levy, and its action is
final and conclusive.
   (H)   Deposits and expenditures.
      (1)   The tax money collected under this section shall be held in a
special fund to be known as the Cumulative Capital Development Fund. The money
may not be expended for any purpose other than the purpose for which the tax
was levied.
       (2)   Expenditures from the Cumulative Capital Development Fund may be
made only after an appropriation made in the manner provided by law for making
other appropriations.
       (3)   Notwithstanding divisions (H)(1) and (H)(2), money held in the
Cumulative Capital Development Fund may be spent for purposes other than the
purposes stated in division (B) of this section, if the purpose is to protect
the public health, welfare, or safety in an emergency situation that demands
immediate action or to make a contribution to an authority established under
I.C. 36-7-23, money may be spent under the authority of this division only
after the executive of the municipality:
         (a)   Issues a declaration that the public health, welfare, or safety
is in immediate danger that requires the expenditure of money in the Fund; or
         (b)   Certifies in the minutes of the municipal legislative body that
the contribution is made to the authority for capital development purposes.
(1987 Code, § 2-195) (Ord. 18, 1992, passed 6-8-1992)
§ 35.84 BUILDING COMMISSIONER UNSAFE STRUCTURES FUND.
   (A)   There is now established in the Office of the Clerk-Treasurer of the
city a non-reverting fund known as the Building Commissioner Unsafe Structures
Fund, pursuant to I.C. 36-1-3 et seq. The Fund is to be controlled by the
Building Commissioner for the city.
   (B)   (1)   The purpose of the Unsafe Structures Fund is for payment of the
costs associated with the demolition and clean-up of unsafe properties and
structures as ordered by the Building Commissioner for the city.
      (2)   The funds are to be derived from the following sources:
         (a)   Building permit fees;
         (b)   Improvement location permit fees;
         (c)   Certificates of occupancy;
         (d)   Fees generated by the Board of Zoning Appeals and the Plan
Commission (i.e., application fees for a variance or rezoning, as well as plat
fees);
         (e)   Monies generated from the sale of code books; and
         (f)   Monies generated from the sale of zoning maps.
      (3)   Distribution of money from the Building Commissioner Unsafe
Structures Fund shall be made without the necessity of first obtaining an
appropriation from the City Council. To make a claim the Building Commissioner
will submit to the Clerk-Treasurer for the city a standard claim form as
prescribed by the state Board of Accounts.
      (4)   Monies derived from the above named sources shall be utilized for
costs expended in the demolition and clean-up of unsafe properties and
structures.
      (5)   Any additional funds may be utilized for the purchase of office
equipment to help in the management of the Department and this Fund.
   (C)   All disbursements from the Building Commissioner Unsafe Structure Fund
shall be for the purposes stated above. These disbursements shall be made upon
the order of the Board of Public Works and Safety and payable by the Clerk-
Treasurer upon presentation of proper claims.
(1987 Code, § 2-189) (Ord. 7, 1991, passed 2-25-1991)
§ 35.85 ELECTRICAL TRAINING PROGRAM FUND.
   (A)   There is created an Electrical Training Program non-reverting fund for
deposit of all fees for licenses collected pursuant to
Ch. 152 of this code.
   (B)   All claims for payment from this Fund shall be submitted to the Clerk-
Treasurer by the Building Commissioner and must be approved by two members of
the Board of Public Works and Safety.
   (C)   Education paid for from the fund monies can be any educational classes
or programs beneficial to the Planning and Zoning department and are not
limited to electrical education classes.
   (D)   The fund shall be permitted to have a maximum amount of $12,000.
   (E)   In the event that the fund accumulates more than $12,000, an annual
transfer of excess funds shall be made to the city’s general fund. Such
transfer should occur on or before April 30 of each calendar year.
(1987 Code, § 2-197) (Ord. 30, 1993, passed 9-27-1993; Am. Ord. 35, 2004,
passed 12-13-2004)
§ 35.86 GRANTS HOLDING FUND.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer of the city shall create and maintain a fund for
the retention of grant funds received from federal and state agencies until
their disbursement according to the provisions of grant related agreements, and
for the retention of grant program related income. This fund shall be entitled
the Grants Holding Fund.
   (B)   The monies deposited in a Fund created under division (A) shall not
revert to the General Fund from time to time, but rather shall be non-reverting
and continue perpetually until further order of the City Council.
   (C)   The purpose of this Fund shall be for the undertaking of economic and
community development activities consistent with the controlling grant
agreement(s) where applicable, or as approved by the Board of Public Works and
Safety.
   (D)   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall be vested with the
responsibility and discretion of making expenditures from this Fund in
accordance with applicable law.
(1987 Code, § 2-192) (Ord. 20, 1993, passed 7-26-1993)
§ 35.87 BOND CONSTRUCTION FUND.
   There is created the city Bond Construction Fund in which to place certain
proceeds realized from the 1998 general obligation bonds of the city.
(Ord. 62, 1998, passed 12-14-1998)
§ 35.88 ADDITIONAL FUNDS.
   (A)   The following funds are continued in effect.
   (B)   Each shall be funded and operated in accordance with all statutory
requirements:
      (1)   Airport Improvement;
      (2)   General Fund;
      (3)   Police Pension Fund, established by Ord. 11-52, passed 2-20-1951;
      (4)   Fire Pension Fund, established by Ord. 1076, passed 9-21-1943;
      (5)   Thoroughfare Fund;
      (6)   Parks and Recreation Fund;
      (7)   Motor Vehicle Highway Fund;
      (8)   Eastside Industrial Park;
      (9)   Region XI; and
      (10)   Federal Revenue Sharing Trust Fund.
      (11)   Federal Seizure, Fund 602; and
      (12)   Curb Appeal Program, Fund 231.
(1987 Code, §2-188) (Ord. 34, 1987, passed 12-14-1987; Am. Ord. 4, 2021, passed
2-8-2021; Am. Ord. 7, 2021, passed 3-22-2021)
§ 35.89 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT INCOME TAX FUND.
   (A)   The city hereby creates an Economic Development Income Tax Fund for
the purpose of receipt of its share of the County Economic Development Income
Tax levy pursuant to I.C. 6-3.6.
   (B)   Revenues from the County Economic Development Income Tax will be paid
into and retained in the city Economic Development Income Tax Fund until spent
pursuant to its Capital Improvement Plan.
(Ord. 12, 2003, passed 7-28-2003)
§ 35.90 RAINY DAY FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a fund known as the “Rainy Day Fund.” This
fund is separate from the city’s General Fund, and money in the Rainy Day Fund
at the end of a fiscal year does not revert to the city’s General Fund or to
any other fund.
   (B)   Sources of funding for the Rainy Day Fund may include the following:
      (1)   Unused and unencumbered funds under:
         (a)   I.C. 36-1-8-5; or
         (b)   I.C. 6-3.6-9-15.
      (2) Any other funding source:
         (a)   As directed by the Seymour Common Council; and
         (b)   Not otherwise prohibited by law.
   (C)   Money in the Rainy Day Fund may be expended for any lawful municipal
public purpose upon appropriation by the Seymour Common Council using the same
appropriation process as other funds that receive tax money.
(Ord. 6, 2008, passed 2-25-2008)
§ 35.91 CUMULATIVE BUILDING OR REMODELING, FIREFIGHTING AND POLICE RADIO FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a fund known as the Cumulative Building or
Remodeling, Firefighting and Police Radio Fund for all uses as set out in I.C.
36-8-14-2(c).
   (B)   This Council will adhere to the provisions of I.C. 36-8-14. The
proposed fund will not exceed $0.0333 on each $100 of assessed valuation. Said
tax rate will be levied beginning with taxes for 2010 payable 2011.
   (C)   Said Cumulative Fund is subject to the approval of the Department of
Local Government Finance.
(Res. 13, 2010, passed 7-12-2010)
§ 35.92 LOIT SPECIAL DISTRIBUTION FUND.
   (A)   There is now established in the Office of the Clerk-Treasurer a non-
reverting fund to be known as the LOIT Special Distribution Fund.
   (B)   This Fund shall be subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   At least 75% of monies received in 2016 from a one-time special
distribution of LOIT (local option income taxes) pursuant to I.C. 6-3.6-9-17
shall be accepted and deposited into the Fund.
      (2)   All disbursements made from this Fund shall be exclusively for the
following purposes:
         (a)   Engineering, land acquisition, construction, resurfacing,
maintenance, restoration, or rehabilitation of both local and arterial road and
street systems;
         (b)   The payment of principal and interest on bonds sold primarily to
finance road, street, or thoroughfare projects;
         (c)   Any local costs required to undertake a recreational or
reservoir road project under I.C. 8-23-5;
         (d)   The purchase, rental, or repair of highway equipment;
         (e)   Providing a match for a grant from the local road and bridge
matching grant fund under I.C. 8-23-30; or
         (f)   Capital projects for aviation related property or facilities,
including capital projects of a Board of Aviation Commissioners established
under I.C. 8-22-2 or an Airport Authority established under I.C. 8-22-3-1.
   (C)   These disbursements shall be made on the order of the Board of Public
Works and Safety to the Clerk-Treasurer and payable upon presentation of proper
claims as specified in § 30.40.
(Ord. 7, 2016, passed 5-23-2016)
§ 35.93 PLANNING AND ZONING ON-LINE ACCOUNT.
   (A)   There is now established in the Office of the Clerk-Treasurer a fund
to be known as the Planning and Zoning On-Line Account.
   (B)   All monies received from credit card or debit card payments made to
the Planning and Zoning Department shall be deposited into this account.
   (C)   At least one time per month the Clerk- Treasurer shall transfer all
monies held in the Planning and Zoning On-Line Account to the appropriate line
item(s) in the Planning and Zoning section of the city’s General Fund.
(Ord. 5, 2018, passed 5-29-2018)
§ 35.94 CUMULATIVE CAPITAL FUND.
   (A)   For all uses set out in I.C. 36-9-15.5.
   (B)   This Council will adhere to the provisions of I.C. 36-9-15.5. The
proposed fund will not exceed $0.0500 on each $100 of assessed valuation. Said
tax rate will be levied beginning with taxes for 2022 payable 2023.
(Ord. 3, 2022, passed 2-28-2022)
CHAPTER 36: FEES
Section
   
36.01   License fees authorized
   
Appendix: Fee Schedules
Cross-reference:
   General Licensing Provisions, see
Ch. 110
   Schedule of Sewage Rates, see Ch. 50, App. B
§ 36.01 LICENSE FEES AUTHORIZED.
   The city has the authority to impose a license fee reasonably related to the
administrative cost of exercising its regulatory powers.
(1987 Code, § 4-1)
Statutory reference:
   City authority to impose license fee, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(5)
APPENDIX: FEE SCHEDULES
   (A)   General license, permit, and service fees.
Activity Fee 2003 Code Details Ord. No. Date Passed 1987 Code
Activity           Fee         2003    Details        Ord.    Date     1987
                               Code                   No.     Passed   Code
                                       Each of the
                                       first 3 false
Alarm systems;     $50 per     91.08   alarms beyond  14,     5-20-    6-237
fire response      alarm               the permitted  1991    1991
                                       number in a
                                       calendar year
                                       Each of the
                                       next 3 false
Alarm systems;     $100 per    91.08   alarms beyond  14,     5-20-    6-237
fire response      alarm               the permitted  1991    1991
                                       number in a
                                       calendar year
                                       Each
Alarm systems;     $200 per            subsequent     14,     5-20-
fire response      alarm       91.08   false alarm in 1991    1991     6-237
                                       the calendar
                                       year
                                       Fourth or
Alarm systems;     $25 per     91.08   fifth false    14,     5-20-    6-237
police response    alarm               alarm in a     1991    1991
                                       calendar year
                                       Each false
Alarm systems;     $50 per     91.08   alarm beyond 5 14,     5-20-    6-237
police response    alarm               in a calendar  1991    1991
                                       year
Animals;                               Pet shop;      13,
commercial animal  $75         97.39   annual permit  1995    5-8-1995 6-118
establishment
Animals;                               Auction;       13,
commercial animal  $25         97.39   annual permit  1995    5-8-1995 6-118
establishment
Animals;                               Circus; annual 13,
commercial animal  $25         97.39   permit         1995    5-8-1995 6-118
establishment
Animals;                               Other          13,
commercial animal  $25         97.39   establishment; 1995    5-8-1995 6-118
establishment                          annual permit
                   3% per
Cable television   annum, of           Paid in        26,     11-13-
franchise license  basic cable 115.03  quarterly      1989    1989     14-72
                   service             installments
                   revenue
Circus or          $100 per    112.06  Per day of     437     2-3-1930 4-17
carnival; permit   day                 operation
Copy fees for which no other fees have been established:
Large format       $0.40       --      Per square     19,     6-8-2015 --
plotter copies                         foot           2015
Large format       $0.05       --      Per square     19,     6-8-2015 --
plotter scans                          foot           2015
Photocopies on     $1.00       --      Per page       19,     6-8-2015 --
paper                                                 2015
Scanned copies     $0.10       --      Per page       19,     6-8-2015 --
                                                      2015
                                       Each
Electrical work;                       additional     23,
reinspection due   $25         152.05  inspection     1993    8-2-1993 7-123
to nonconformance                      beyond 2
                                       inspections
Electrician,
electrical                             Initial
business, or       $25         152.21  license; 1     23,     8-2-1993 7-102
electrical                             year           1993
contractor;
license
Electrician,
electrical
business, or       $15         152.21  Annual renewal 23,     8-2-1993 7-102
electrical                                            1993
contractor;
license
                                       Each
Electrician,                           additional
electrical                             person engaged
business, or       $10         152.21  in electrical  23,     8-2-1993 7-102
electrical         additional          work by        1993
contractor;                            licensee;
license                                initial fee
                                       for 1 year
Electrician,                           Annual renewal
electrical                             for each
business, or       $5                  additional     23,
electrical         additional  152.21  person engaged 1993    8-2-1993 7-102
contractor;                            in electrical
license                                work by
                                       licensee
                   $20 to turn
Electricity        on electric                        10,
serivice at city-  power plus                       2017    5-8-2017  
owned facilities   usage
                   charges
                                                      31,     12-12-
Fire Department    $5 each     31.16   Reports up to  1988;   1988; 5- 4-60
reports                                6 pages        10,     8-2017
                                                      2017
                   $1 per                             31,     12-12-
Fire Department    additional  31.16   Pages beyond 6 1988;   1988; 5- 4-60
reports            page                pages          10,     8-2017
                                                      2017
For-profit                             One-time fee;  58,     12-14-
business license   $5          110.04  renewal at no  1998    1998      
                                       charge
Hazardous                              Command and
materials          $100 per    35.46   control        2, 1995 2-20-    2-191
response; initial  vehicle             vehicles               1995
response
                                       Fire engine,
                                       fire truck,
Hazardous                              fire
materials          $250 per            apparatus,             2-20-
response; initial  vehicle     35.46   hazardous      2, 1995 1995     2-191
response                               material
                                       response unit,
                                       or fire rescue
                                       unit
                                       Command and
Hazardous          $50 per             control
materials          hour per    35.46   vehicles; per  2, 1995 2-20-    2-191
response; on-scene vehicle             hour or                1995
assistance                             fraction
                                       thereof
Hazardous                              Other
materials          $100 per            vehicles; per          2-20-
response; on-scene hour per    35.46   hour or        2, 1995 1995     2-191
assistance         vehicle             fraction
                                       thereof
                                       Expendable
                                       materials,
Hazardous          Actual              e.g.,
materials          replacement 35.46   absorption     2, 1995 2-20-    2-191
response; clean-up cost                materials,             1995
                                       emulsifiers,
                                       other clean-up
                                       agents
                                       Removal of
                                       debris,
Hazardous                              chemicals,
materials          Actual              fuels, or
response;          removal and 35.46   contaminated   2, 1995 2-20-    2-191
materials          disposal            materials from         1995
collection         cost                a spill and
                                       disposal at
                                       authorized
                                       location
Junk yard license  $100        114.08  Annual license 1469    6-27-    4-37; 6-
                                                              1966     161
                                                      10,     5-8-2017
Parks Department   $125                             2017;   ; 12-10-  
ballfield rental                                      20,     2018
                                                      2018
Parks Department   $50                              10,     5-8-2017  
bleacher rental                                       2017
Parks Department                                      10,
Community Center   $50                              2017    5-8-2017  
key deposit
Parks Department                                      10,     5-8-2017
Community Center   $100                             2017;   ; 12-10-  
rental                                                20,     2018
                                                      2018
Parks Department   $180                             10,     5-8-2017  
company picnics                                       2017
Parks Department   $10                              10,     5-8-2017  
park area rental                                      2017
Parks Department                       Rental fee for
picnic table       $20                trailer load   10,     5-8-2017  
rental                                 of 7 picnic    2017
                                       tables
                                       Rental fee for
                                       1 - 100        10,
Parks Department                       people,        2017,   5-8-2017
shelter house      $40                additional     20,     ; 12-10-  
rental                                 rental fee for 2018    2018
                                       100 or more
                                       people
Parks Department                       Additional
shelter house      $5                 rental fee for 10,     5-8-2017  
rental                                 100 or more    2017
                                       people
                                                      7,      2-14-
Police Department; $7          31.37                 2000;   2000; 5- 2-220
accident reports                                      10,     8-2017
                                                      2017
                                                      7,      2-14-
Police Department;                                    2000;   2000; 5-
digital pictures   $15         31.37                 10,     8-2017;  2-220
per DVD                                               2017,   12-10-
                                                      20,     2018
                                                      2018
Police Department; $5                 Per person     11,     5-11-     
fingerprinting                                        2020    2020
                                                      7,      2-14-
                                                      2000;   2000; 5-
Police Department; $15         31.37                 10,     8-2017;  2-220
videotapes per DVD                                    2017,   12-10-
                                                      20,     2018
                                                      2018
Police Department; $5                 Per inspection 11,     5-11-     
VIN inspection                                        2020    2020
Sexually oriented                                     39,     4-13-
business; permit   $100        116.32  Nonrefundable  1998    1998     4-108
application fee
Sexually oriented  $1,000      116.35  Annual fee     39,     4-13-    4-111
business; permit                                      1998    1998
Short-term rental                      One-time fee;  14,     8-14-
permit             $75                annual renewal 2023    2023      
                                       at no charge
Signs; initial     $75 per     157.255 Including      39,     9-9-1996 10-45
permit             zone lot            inspection     1996
Signs;             $25         157.255               39,     9-9-1996 10-45
reinspection                                          1996
Signs; temporary   $100 per    157.255 Private        39,     9-9-1996 10-45
sign permit        sign                property       1996
Signs; temporary   $25 base            Public         39,
sign permit        fee, plus   157.255 property       1996    9-9-1996 10-45
                   $2 per sign
                   $25 each,   94.01   Permit for             11-24-
Streets; usage     maximum     et seq. potentially    1556    1969     8-120
                                       damaging usage
Streets;                                              1581;   12-22-
excavation or      $10         94.38   Regular permit 30,     1969; 8- 7-20
construction                                          2021    23-2021
Streets;                               Emergency      1581;   12-22-
excavation or      $20         94.38   permit         30,     1969; 8- 7-20
construction                                          2021    23-2021
Taxicab driver’s $5          113.10  Annual license 6, 1985 2-25-    4-56
license                                                       1985
Taxicab; vehicle   $100 per    113.05  First 1 or 2   34,     12-26-   4-56
license            vehicle             vehicles       1977    1977
Taxicab; vehicle   $25 per             Each           34,     12-26-
license            vehicle     113.05  additional     1977    1977     4-56
                                       vehicle
 
   (B)   Filing fees. All permit fees will be doubled if construction is
started before securing a building permit.
(Ord. 9, 1999, passed 5-10-1999)
Category Item Details Fee Ord. No. Date Passed
Category    Item            Details         Fee         Ord. No. Date Passed
            Commercial or
Commercial  business        Base fee        $100        9, 1999  5-10-1999
            buildings
            Commercial or   Additional fee,
Commercial  business        per square foot $0.06       9, 1999  5-10-1999
            buildings
Commercial  Fuel tanks                     $25         9, 1999  5-10-1999
Commercial  Institutional   Fee per square  $0.05       9, 1999  5-10-1999
                            foot
Commercial  Golf courses    Per green       $20         9, 1999  5-10-1999
Commercial  Remodel                        $100        9, 1999  5-10-1999
            Structures      Grain bins,
Commercial  other than      radio and       $75         9, 1999  5-10-1999
            buildings       television
                            towers
Permit      Structure       Flat fee per    $5          10, 2020 5-11-2020
                            structure
Petition    Electrical                     $25         9, 1999  5-10-1999
            service upgrade
                            Major
Petition    Final plat      subdivision     $300        9, 1999  5-10-1999
                            (more than 4
                            lots)
                            Minor
Petition    Final plat      subdivision (4  $200        9, 1999  5-10-1999
                            lots or less)
Petition    Land use                       $300        9, 1999  5-10-1999
            variance
                            Major
Petition    Preliminary     subdivision     $150        9, 1999  5-10-1999
            plan            (more than 4
                            lots)
            Preliminary     Minor
Petition    plan            subdivision (4  $100        9, 1999  5-10-1999
                            lots or less)
Petition    Re-subdivision  Major           $200        9, 1999  5-10-1999
            (replat)        subdivision
Petition    Re-subdivision  Minor           $100        9, 1999  5-10-1999
            (replat)        subdivision
Petition    Rezoning                       $300        9, 1999  5-10-1999
Petition    Secondary plat  Major           $300 per    9, 1999  5-10-1999
                            subdivision     section
Petition    Technical       Fence           $100        9, 1999  5-10-1999
            variance
Petition    Technical                      $150        9, 1999  5-10-1999
            variance
Petition    Vacate                         $150        9, 1999  5-10-1999
                            Includes
                            storage
                            buildings, pole
                            barns, or any
Residential Accessory       structure       $50         9, 1999  5-10-1999
            structures      greater than
                            200 square feet
                            or on a
                            permanent
                            foundation
Residential Agricultural                   No permit   9, 1999  5-10-1999
            buildings
Residential Decks                          $25         9, 1999  5-10-1999
                            Includes
                            residences,
            New             duplexes,       $0.06 per
Residential construction    garages,        square foot 9, 1999  5-10-1999
                            manufactured
                            houses on
                            foundation
Residential New mobile home                $25         9, 1999  5-10-1999
            permits
Residential Remodel or      Value less than No permit   9, 1999  5-10-1999
            addition        $750
                            Includes
                            structural,
                            carports,
                            electrical, or
                            plumbing
                            changes,
            Remodel or      excluding
Residential addition        cosmetic        $50         9, 1999  5-10-1999
                            alterations
                            such as new
                            windows,
                            drywall, re-
                            roofing,
                            siding, and the
                            like
Residential Swimming pools  In-ground only  $50         9, 1999  5-10-1999
                            Ground,
Signage     All types       building, pole, $25         9, 1999  5-10-1999
                            or portable
 
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
Chapter
   
50.   WATER AND SEWERS
   
51.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE
   
52.   [RESERVED]
   
53.   STORMWATER UTILITY
CHAPTER 50: WATER AND SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
50.001   Authority to establish water utility
   
50.002   Authority to establish sewage utility
   
50.003   Purpose and policy
   
50.004   Administration authority
   
50.005   Definitions
   
50.006   Abbreviations
   
50.007   Availability of manuals
   
50.008   Bylaws, rules, and regulations
   
50.009   Application
   
50.010   Right of amendment
   
50.011   Water wells and groundwater use
Construction and Connections
   
50.020   Permit required
   
50.021   Extensions and connections outside corporate limits
   
50.022   Violations; notice to abate; liability
   
50.023   Properly designed sewers
   
50.024   Overloading prohibited
   
50.025   Connection surcharge
   
50.026   Connection surcharge outside corporate limits
   
50.027   Connection surcharge for subdivisions
   
50.028   Expenses; responsibility of owner
   
50.029   Independent building sewers
   
50.030   Old building sewers
   
50.031   Materials and methods of construction
   
50.032   Building sewer elevation
   
50.033   Runoff drainage connections and the like prohibited
   
50.034   Combined sanitary and storm sewers prohibited
   
50.035   New combined sewer tributaries restricted
   
50.036   Separate inflow/clear water and sanitary connection
   
50.037   Codes applicable
   
50.038   Inspections
   
50.039   Excavations; barricades; restoration
Discharge to Public Sewers
   
50.050   Unsanitary deposits prohibited
   
50.051   Discharges to natural outlets restricted
   
50.052   Private sewage disposal restricted
   
50.053   Connection to public sewer required
   
50.054   Storm water and unpolluted drainage
Private Sewage Systems
   
50.065   Unavailable public sewer; private system required
   
50.066   Permit required
   
50.067   Inspection
   
50.068   State health requirements
   
50.069   Sanitary operation required
   
50.070   Additional health requirements
   
50.071   Connection to public sewer
   
50.072   Time limit to connect
Wastewater Treatment System; Regulations and Standards
   
50.085   General discharge prohibitions
   
50.086   National categorical pretreatment standards
   
50.087   State requirements
   
50.088   Right of revision
   
50.089   Dilution
   
50.090   Supplementary discharge limitations
   
50.091   Accidental discharges
   
50.092   Pretreatment of wastewater
   
50.093   Approval of pretreatment facilities
   
50.094   Additional pretreatment measures
   
50.095   Hauled wastewater
   
50.096   Lift stations; specifications
Prohibited Industrial Discharges
   
50.110   Prohibited substances
   
50.111   Obstruction or damage; responsibility
   
50.112   Special agreements
   
50.113   Industrial wastes; additional exclusions
   
50.114   Surcharge for excess pollutants
   
50.115   NPDES requirements adopted
Admissible Industrial Wastes
   
50.125   Wastes requiring prior approval
   
50.126   Pretreatment facilities
   
50.127   Approval of pretreatment facilities
   
50.128   Operation of pretreatment facilities
   
50.129   Grease and sand traps
   
50.130   Data submission and permit requirements
   
50.131   Control manholes
   
50.132   Waste sampling; right of access
   
50.133   Laboratory procedures
   
50.134   Representative analyses
   
50.135   EPA review
Wastewater Treatment Systems; Administration and Enforcement
   
50.145   Wastewater dischargers; compliance required
   
50.146   Industrial users; data disclosure requirements
   
50.147   Industrial users; reporting requirements
   
50.148   Monitoring facilities
   
50.149   Inspection and sampling; right of access
   
50.150   Confidential information
   
50.151   Wastewater discharge permit
   
50.152   Records; three-year retention requirement
   
50.153   Credits and adjustments
   
50.154   Emergency suspension
   
50.155   Revocation of service
   
50.156   Notice of violation; administrative adjustments
   
50.157   Consent orders
   
50.158   Show cause hearing
   
50.159   Judicial proceedings
   
50.160   Enforcement actions; annual publication
   
50.161   Right of appeal
   
50.162   Operating upsets defense
   
50.163   Prohibited discharge standards defense
   
50.164   Bypass
   
50.165   Falsifying information unlawful
   
50.166   Violations; recovery of costs; remedies not exclusive
Administration and Enforcement
   
50.180   Property damage
   
50.181   Inspection; right of access; safety rules
Rates and Charges
   
50.195   Wastewater treatment system charges
   
50.196   Charges based on water usage; metering
   
50.197   Exempt water; metering
   
50.198   Sewage meter
   
50.199   Schedule of sewage rates
   
50.200   Multiple dwelling units
   
50.201   Properties that use well water
   
50.201.1 Incentive for well users to install meters
   
50.202   Optional summer adjustments for sanitary sewer usage
   
50.203   Water for fire protection
   
50.204   Service to city
   
50.205   Amendment
   
50.206   Special consideration
   
50.207   Delinquent payments
   
50.208   Senior citizen reduction
   
50.209   New tap fee
   
50.210   Strength-of-wastes surcharge
   
50.211   Billing
   
50.212   Responsibility for payment
   
50.213   Delinquency; collection procedures
   
50.214   Operational Maintenance Fund
   
50.215   Sinking Fund
   
50.216   Improvement Fund
   
50.217   SMSU-Stormwater Utility Fund
Illicit Storm Water Discharge and Connection
   
50.225   Purpose; intent
   
50.226   Definitions
   
50.227   Applicability
   
50.228   Responsibility for administration
   
50.229   Ultimate responsibility
   
50.230   Discharge prohibitions
   
50.231   Suspension of MS4 system access
   
50.232   Industrial or construction activity discharges
   
50.233   Discharge inspections and monitoring
   
50.234   Requirement to prevent, control, and reduce storm water pollutants by
the use of best management practices
   
50.235   Storage of hazardous and toxic material
   
50.236   Watercourse protection
   
50.237   Notification of spills
   
50.238   Enforcement
   
50.239   Appeal of notice of violation
   
50.240   Enforcement measures after appeal
   
50.241   Cost of abatement of the violation
   
50.242   Injunctive relief
   
50.243   Compensatory action
   
50.244   Violations deemed a public nuisance
   
50.245   Civil penalties
   
50.246   Remedies not exclusive
   
Appendix A: Form of Connection Agreement
   
Appendix B: Schedule of Sewage Rates
Statutory reference:
   Authority to furnish or regulate utility service, see I.C. 36-9-2-15
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.001 AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH WATER UTILITY.
   The city may regulate the furnishing of water to the public. It may also
establish, maintain, and operate waterworks.
(1987 Code, § 9-1) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to furnish water to the public, see I.C. 36-9-2-14
§ 50.002 AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH SEWAGE UTILITY.
   The Board of Public Works and Safety may erect, maintain, and operate works
for the collection, treatment, and disposal of sewage.
(1987 Code, § 9-2) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Right to operate a sewage plant, see I.C. 36-9-6-11
§ 50.003 PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for users of the publicly
owned treatment works for the city and enables the city to comply with all
applicable state and federal laws, including the Clean Water Act (33 USC 1251
et seq.) and the General Pretreatment Regulations (40 CFR 403).
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the publicly owned
treatment works that will interfere with its operation;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the publicly owned
treatment works that will pass through the publicly owned treatment works,
inadequately treated, into receiving waters, or otherwise be incompatible with
the publicly owned treatment works;
      (3)   To protect both publicly owned treatment works personnel who may be
affected by wastewater and sludge in the course of their employment, and the
general public;
      (4)   To promote reuse and recycling of industrial wastewater and sludge
from the publicly owned treatment works;
      (5)   To provide for fees for the equitable distribution of the cost of
operation, maintenance, and improvement of the publicly owned treatment works;
and
      (6)   To enable the city to comply with its National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System permit conditions, sludge use and disposal requirements, and
any other federal or state laws to which the publicly owned treatment works are
subject.
   (C)   This chapter shall apply to all users of the publicly owned treatment
works. The chapter authorizes the issuance of wastewater discharge permits,
provides for monitoring, compliance, and enforcement activities, establishes
administrative review procedures, requires user reporting, and provides for the
setting of fees for the equitable distribution of costs resulting from the
program established herein.
(1987 Code, § 9-3) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
§ 50.004 ADMINISTRATION AUTHORITY.
   Except as otherwise provided herein, the Superintendent shall administer,
implement, and enforce the provisions of this chapter. Any powers granted to or
duties imposed upon the Superintendent may be delegated by the Superintendent
to other city personnel.
(1987 Code, § 9-4) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
§ 50.005 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, or for terms as used in the rules and
regulations adopted by the Board of Public Works and Safety to implement the
provisions of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The Director in an NPDES state with an approved state
pretreatment program, or the Administrator of the EPA in a non- NPDES state
without an approved state pretreatment program.
   AUTHORITY. The Industrial Waste Program Director of the city.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE USER.
      (1)   If the user is a corporation:
         (a)   The president, secretary, treasurer, or a vice-president of the
corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who
performs similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation; or
         (b)   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production, or
operation facilities employing more than 250 persons or having gross annual
sales or expenditures exceeding $25,000,000 (in second-quarter 1980 dollars),
if authority to sign documents has been assigned or delegated to the manager in
accordance with corporate procedures.
      (2)   If the user is a partnership or sole proprietorship: a general
partner or proprietor, respectively.
      (3)   If the user is a federal, state, or local governmental facility: a
director or highest official appointed or designated to oversee the operation
and performance of the activities of the government facility, or his or her
designee.
      (4)   The individuals described in divisions (1) - (3) of this
definition, may designate another AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE if the
authorization is in writing, the authorization specifies the individual or
position responsible for the overall operation of the facility from which the
discharge originates or having overall responsibility for environmental matters
for the company, and the written authorization is submitted to the city.
   AVERAGE MONTHLY DISCHARGE LIMITATION. The highest allowable average of daily
discharges over a calendar month, calculated as the sum of all daily discharges
measured during a calendar month divided by the number of daily discharges
measured during that month.
   AVERAGE WEEKLY DISCHARGE LIMITATION. The highest allowable average of daily
discharges over a calendar week, calculated as the sum of all daily discharges
measured during a calendar week divided by the number of daily discharges
measured during that week.
   BENEFICIAL USES. These uses include, but are not limited to: domestic,
municipal, agricultural, and industrial use, power generation, recreation,
aesthetic enjoyment, navigation, and the preservation and enhancement of fish,
wildlife, and other aquatic resources or reserves, and other uses, both
tangible or intangible, as specified by state or federal law.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES or BMP. Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices to implement
the prohibitions listed in §
50.085(A) and (B). BMP's include treatment requirements, operating procedures,
and practices to control plant site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or waste
disposal, or drainage from raw materials storage.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or BOD. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures
for five days at 20°C, usually expressed as a concentration (e.g., mg/l).
   BUILDING DRAIN or HOUSE DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a
building drainage system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and
other drainage pipes inside the walls of the building and conveys it to a point
approximately three feet outside the foundation wall of the building.
   BUILDING SEWER or HOUSE SEWER. The pipe which is connected to the building
or house drain at a point approximately three feet outside the foundation wall
of the building and which conveys the building's discharge from that point to
the public sewer or other place of disposal. Also known as “lateral” or
"sanitary lateral."
   CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STAN- DARD or CATEGORICAL STANDARD. Any regulation
containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in accordance with
Sections 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 USC 1317) which apply to a specific
category of users and which appear in 40 CFR Chapter I, Subchapter N, Parts 405
- 471.
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or COD. In regard to sewage, sewage effluent,
polluted waters, or industrial wastes, a measure of the oxygen equivalent of
that portion of the organic matter in a sample that is susceptible to oxidation
by a strong chemical oxidant. The laboratory determination shall be made in
accordance with procedures set forth in Standard Methods.
   CITY. The City of Seymour, Indiana, or any duly authorized officials acting
in its behalf.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH, and
fecal coliform bacteria, plus additional pollutants identified in the NPDES
permit if the publicly owned treatment works was designed to treat those
pollutants, and in fact does remove those pollutants to a substantial degree.
   COMPOSITE SAMPLE. Should contain a minimum of eight discrete samples taken
at equal time intervals over the compositing period or proportional  to the
flow rate over the compositing period. More than the minimum number of discrete
samples will be required where the wastewater loading is highly variable.
   DAILY DISCHARGE. Discharge of a pollutant measured during a calendar day or
any 24-hour period that reasonably represents the calendar day for the purposes
of sampling.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   EFFLUENT. The water, together with any wastes that may be present, flowing
out of a drain, sewer, receptacle, or outlet.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY or EPA. The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency, or, where appropriate, the term may also be used as a designation for
the administrator or other duly authorized official of the agency.
   EQUIPMENT. All movable, non-fixed items necessary to the wastewater
treatment process.
   GARBAGE. Any solid wastes from the preparation, cooking, or dispensing of
food and from handling, storage, or sale of produce.
   GRAB SAMPLE. A sample which is taken from a wastestream without regard to
the flow in the wastestream and over a period of time not to exceed 15 minutes.
   GROUND OR SHREDDED GARBAGE. Garbage that is shredded to such a degree that
all particles will be carried freely in suspension under the conditions
normally prevailing in the sewerage system, with no particle being greater than
one-half inch in dimension.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant which is not a COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT as
defined in this section.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE or DISCHARGE. The introduction of pollutants into the
POTW from any nondomestic source regulated under Section 307(b), (c), or (d) of
the Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317.
   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any industrial or commercial establishment that discharges
industrial (process) wastewater to a publicly owned treatment works.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. Any solid, liquid, or gaseous substance or form of energy
discharged, permitted to flow, or escaping from an industrial, manufacturing,
commercial, or business process or from the development, recovery, or
processing of any natural resource carried on by any person as defined in this
section, and shall further mean any waste from an industrial user as defined in
this section.
   INFILTRATION. The water entering a sewer system, including sewer service
connections, from the ground, through such means as, but not limited to,
defective pipes, pipe joints, connections, or manhole walls.
   INFLOW. The water discharged into a sewer system, including service
connections from such sources as, but not limited to, roof leaders, cellar,
yard, and area drains, foundation drains, cooling water discharges, drains from
springs and swampy areas, manhole covers, cross connections from storm sewers
and combined sewers, catch basins, storm waters, surface runoff, street wash
waters, or drainage. INFLOW does not include and is distinguished from
INFILTRATION.
   INFLUENT. The water, together with any wastes that may be present, flowing
into a drain, sewer, receptacle, or outlet.
   INSTANTANEOUS MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE DISCHARGE LIMIT. The maximum concentration
of a pollutant allowed to be discharged at any time, determined from the
analysis of any discrete or composite sample collected, independent of the
industrial flow rate and the duration of the sampling event.
   INTERFERENCE. A discharge that, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, does one of the following:
      (1)   Inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment processes or
operations, its sludge processes, or its selected sludge use or disposal
methods.
      (2)   Causes a violation of any requirement of the POTW's NPDES permit,
including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation.
      (3)   Prevents the use of the POTW's sewage sludge or its sludge disposal
method selected in compliance with the following statutory provisions,
regulations, or permits issued thereunder or more stringent state or local
regulations:
         (a)   Section 405 of the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. 1345).
         (b)   The Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA) (42 U.S.C. 6901), including:
            1.   Title II, more commonly referred to as the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA); and
            2.   The rules contained in any state sludge management plan
prepared pursuant to Subtitle D of the SDWA (42 U.S.C. 6941).
         (c)   The Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7401).
         (d)   The Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C. 2601).
         (e)   The Marine Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries Act (16 U.S.C.
1431 and 33 U.S.C. 1401).
   MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE INDUSTRIAL LOADING or MAIL. The total maximum daily loads
that can be discharged by permitted significant industrial users.
   MAXIMUM DAILY DISCHARGE LIMITATIONS. Highest allowable daily discharge.
   MAY. The act is referred to is permissive. The term indicates a
discretionary condition.
   MEDICAL WASTE. Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood
products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes, and dialysis
wastes.
   NEW SOURCE.
      (1)   Any building, structure, facility, or installation from which there
is (or may be) a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced
after the publication of proposed pretreatment standards under Section 307(c)
of the Act which will be applicable to the source if those standards are
thereafter promulgated in accordance with that section, provided that:
         (a)   The building, structure, facility, or installation is
constructed at a site at which no other source is located;
          (b)   The building, structure, facility, or installation totally
replaces the process production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an existing source; or
         (c)   The production or wastewater generating processes of the
building, structure, facility, or installation are substantially independent of
an existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source, should
be considered.
      (2)   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located
results in a modification rather than a NEW SOURCE if the construction does not
create a new building, structure, facility, or installation meeting the
criteria of division (1)(b) or (1)(c) above but otherwise alters, replaces, or
adds to existing process or production equipment.
      (3)   Construction of a NEW SOURCE as defined herein has commenced if the
owner or operator has:
         (a)   Begun, or caused to begin, as part of a continuous on-site
construction program:
            1.   Any placement, assembly, or installation of facilities or
equipment; or
            2.   Significant site preparation work including clearing,
excavation, or removal of existing buildings, structures, or facilities which
is necessary for the placement, assembly, or installation of NEW SOURCE
facilities or equipment.
         (b)   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase
of facilities or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation
within a reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be
terminated or modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility,
engineering, and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation
under this division.
   NONCONTACT COOLING WATER. Water used for cooling which does not come into
direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste product, or
finished product.
   NPDES PERMIT. National Pollution Discharge Elimination System permit which
sets the conditions for the discharge of any pollutant or combination of
pollutants to the navigable waters of the United States pursuant to Section 402
of PL 95-217, being 33 U.S.C. 1342.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE EXPENSES. All annual expenses including
replacement related directly to operating and maintaining the sewage works as
identified in Uniform System of Accounts for Wastewater Utilities or as
prescribed by the state Board of Accounts under general headings Plant
Operation and Maintenance, Sewer Operation and Maintenance, Customer Accounts,
Administrative and General, Insurance Taxes.
   OUTLET. Any outlet, natural or constructed, which is the point of final
discharge of sewage or of treatment plant effluent into any watercourse, pond,
ditch, lake, or other body of surface or ground water.
   PASS THROUGH. A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the United
States in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a
discharge or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any
requirement of the city’s NPDES permit, including an increase in the magnitude
or duration of a violation.
   PERSON. Any and all persons, including any individual, firm, company,
municipal or private corporation, partnership, copartnership, joint stock
company, trust, estate, association, society, institution, enterprise,
governmental agency, this state, the United States, or other legal entity, or
their legal representatives, agents, or assigns. The masculine gender includes
the feminine, and the singular includes the plural where indicated by context.
This definition includes all federal, state, and local governmental entities.
   pH. A measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a solution, expressed in
standard units.
   POLLUTANT. Dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, filter backwash,
sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, medical wastes, chemical wastes,
biological materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discarded
equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt, municipal, agricultural, and industrial
wastes, and certain characteristics of wastewater (e.g., pH, temperature, TSS,
turbidity, color, BOD, COD, toxicity, or odor).
   POLLUTION. An alteration of the quality of the waters of the state by waste
to a degree which unreasonably affects those waters for beneficial uses or
facilities which serve beneficial uses. The human- made or human-induced
alteration of the chemical, physical, biological, and radiological integrity of
water.
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment imposed on a user, other than a pretreatment standard.
   PRETREATMENT STANDARDS or STANDARDS. Pretreatment standards, prohibited
discharge standards, categorical pretreatment standards, and local limits.
   PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS or PROHIBITED DISCHARGES. Absolute
prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances; these prohibitions
appear in §
50.085 of this code.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS or POTW. A treatment works, as defined by
Section 212 of the Act (33 USC 1292) which is owned by the city. This
definition includes any devices or systems used in the collection, storage,
treatment, recycling, and reclamation of sewage or industrial wastes of a
liquid nature and any conveyances which convey wastewater to a treatment plant.
   REAL PROPERTY. All non-movable, fixed in place items such as structures and
buildings housing equipment or otherwise used in the wastewater treatment plant
process.
   RECEIVING STREAM. The watercourse, stream, or body of water receiving the
waters finally discharged from the wastewater treatment plant.
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appur- tenances which are necessary during the service life of
the treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which those
works were designed and constructed.
   RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY UNIT. A building under one roof designed, arranged, and
used primarily for dwelling purposes by a single family.
   SANITARY SEWAGE. Sewage discharged from the sanitary conveniences of
dwellings (including apartment houses and hotels), office buildings, factories,
or institutions, and free from storm water, surface water, and industrial
wastes.
   SEPTIC TANK WASTE. Any sewage from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers, and septic tanks.
   SERVICE AREA. The area which presently or in the future contributes sewage
to the wastewater treatment plant.
   SERVICE LIFE. The period of time during which a component of a wastewater
treatment works will be capable of performing a function; and the maximum life
components constructed under EPA Project Nos. C180894-01 and C180467-01 are
hereby set as follows:
      (1)   Real property: 50 years commencing from January 1, 1978;
      (2)   Process equipment: 30 years commencing from January 1, 1978; and
      (3)   Auxiliary equipment: 15 years commencing from January 1, 1978.
   SEWAGE. Human excrement and gray water (household showers, dishwashing
operations, and the like).
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, transporting, pumping,
treating, and disposing of sewage and sludge, namely the sewerage system and
wastewater treatment plant.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage or other waste liquids.
      (1)   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer which carries both storm, surface, and
ground water runoff and sewage.
      (2)   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting property have
equal rights and which is controlled by public authority.
      (3)   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm,
surface, and ground waters and unpolluted industrial wastewaters are not
intentionally admitted.
      (4)   STORM SEWER. A sewer which carries storm, surface, and ground water
drainage but excludes sewage.
   SEWERAGE SYSTEM. The network of sewers and appurtenances used for
collecting, transporting, and pumping sewage to the wastewater treatment plant.
   SEWER CHARGES. Comprised of the user charge, as defined in this section, and
a separate amount for debt service. In addition each user shall pay an amount
sufficient to pay principal and interest (debt service) on any revenue bonds,
payable from the revenues of the sewage works, proportional to the equipment
and real property necessary for wastewater treatment for each user. The method
of computing the initial user charge and debt service charge is contained in a
report prepared by McCullough Associates, Public Accountants, Indianapolis,
Indiana, and is incorporated as a part hereof. Prior to May 1 of each year, the
Clerk-Treasurer shall prepare and present to the City Council an accounting of
operation and maintenance expenses, replacement costs, and debt service for the
immediately preceding calendar year, and the Council shall, upon receiving this
accounting, effect any change in the monthly sewer charges necessary to produce
revenue proportionate to costs for each user.
   SEWER ENGINEER or WATER POLLUTION CONTROL ENGINEER. The duly authorized
representative of the city. The individual designated may be the City Engineer,
Superintendent of the wastewater treatment plant, consulting civil or
environmental engineer to the city, or some similar, knowledgeable and
technically qualified person.
    SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER.
      (1)   (a)   A user subject to categorical pretreatment standards; or
         (b)   A user that:
            1.   Discharges an average of 25,000 gpd or more of process
wastewater to the POTW (excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling, and boiler
blowdown wastewater);
            2.   Contributes a process waste-stream which makes up 5% or more
of the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW treatment
plant; or
            3.   Is designated as such by the city on the basis that it has a
reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW’s operation or for
violating any pretreatment standard or requirement.
      (2)   Upon a finding that a user meeting the criteria in division (1)(b)
has no reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW’s operation or for
violating any pretreatment standard or requirement, the city may at any time,
on its own initiative or in response to a petition received from a user, and in
accordance with procedures in 40 CFR 403.8(f)(6), determine that the user
should not be considered a SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER.
   SLUDGE. Any solid, semi-solid, or liquid waste generated from a municipal,
commercial, or industrial wastewater treatment plant, water supply plant, or
air pollution control facility or any other waste having similar
characteristics and effects as defined in standards issued under Sections 402
and 405 of the Federal Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1342 and in the applicable
requirements under Sections 3001, 3004, and 4004 of the Solid Waste Disposal
Act, PL 94-580, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.
   SLUG LOAD or SLUG. Any discharge of a non-routine, episodic nature, or at a
flow rate or concentration which could cause a violation of the prohibited
discharge standards in §
50.085 of this code.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION CODE or SIC. A classification pursuant to
the Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the U.S. Office of
Management and Budget.
   STANDARD METHODS. The laboratory procedures set forth in the latest edition,
at the time of analysis, of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater, prepared and published jointly by the American Public Health
Association, the American Water Works Association, and the Water Pollution
Control Federation.
   STORM WATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation, and resulting from that precipitation, including snowmelt.
   STRENGTH-OF-WASTES SURCHARGE. The extra user charges for sewerage service
assessed users whose sewage is of such a nature that it imposes upon the sewage
works a burden greater than that covered by the basic user charge.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The person designated by the city to supervise the operation
of the POTW, and who is charged with certain duties and responsibilities by
this chapter, or a duly authorized representative.
   SURCHARGE. A charge for sewerage services in addition to the basic user and
debt service charges.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total suspended matter that floats on the surface of,
or is suspended in, water, wastewater, or other liquid, and which is removable
by laboratory filtering.
   TOXIC AMOUNT. Concentrations of any pollutant or combination of pollutants
which upon exposure to any organism will cause adverse effects such as cancer,
genetic mutations, and physiological manifestations, as defined in standards
issued pursuant to Section 307(a) of PL 95-217, being 33 U.S.C. § 1342.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. Those substances referred to in Section 307(a) of the Act,
being 33 U.S.C. § 1342, as well as any other known potential substances capable
of producing toxic effects.
   UPSET. An exceptional incident in which a discharger unintentionally and
temporarily is in a state of noncompliance with the applicable standard due to
factors beyond reasonable control of the discharger, and excluding
noncompliance to the extent caused by operational error, improperly designed
treatment facilities, lack of preventative maintenance, or careless and
improper operation of the facilities.
   USER. Any person that discharges, or causes or permits the discharge of
wastewater into the sewerage system.
   USER CHARGES. A system of charges levied on users of a treatment works for
the cost of operation and maintenance (including replacement) of those works.
   USER CLASSES. Each recipient of municipal wastewater treatment services
shall be either in the industrial class or the non-industrial class (including
domestic, commercial, institutional, and govern- mental).
      (1)   INDUSTRIAL CLASS. Includes any user as determined by the Board of
Public Works and Safety, identified in the Standard Industrial Classification
Manual of 1972 Office of Management and Budget, as amended and supplemented,
under the following divisions: Division A: Agricultural, Forestry, and Fishing;
Division B: Mining; Division D: Manufacturing; Division E: Transportation,
Communications, Electric, Gas, and Sanitary Services; and Division I: Services.
      (2)   NON-INDUSTRIAL CLASS. Includes all users whose wastes are
segregated domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary conveniences, where regular
domestic wastes are those wastes generated by normal domestic activity as
determined by the Board of Public Works and Safety.
   WASTEWATER. Liquid and water-carried industrial wastes and sewage from
residential dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial and manufacturing
facilities, and institutions, whether treated or untreated, which are
contributed to the POTW.
   WASTEWATER CONSTITUENTS AND CHARACTERISTICS. The individual chemical,
physical, bacteriological, and radiological parameters,  including volume flow
rate, and other parameters that serve to define, classify, or measure the
contents, quality, and strength of wastewater.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or TREATMENT PLANT. That portion of the POTW
which is designed to provide treatment of municipal sewage and industrial
waste.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs either continuously
or intermittently.
(1987 Code, § 9-6) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000; Am. Ord. 22, 2012, passed 10-22-
2012; Am. Ord. 13, 2024, passed 5-28-2024)
§ 50.006 ABBREVIATIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following abbreviations shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOD. Biochemical oxygen demand.
   CFR. Code of Federal Regulations.
   COD. Chemical oxygen demand.
   EPA or U.S. EPA. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.
   gpd. Gallons per day.
   IDEM. State Department of Environmental Management.
   IU. Industrial user.
   mg. Milligrams.
   mg/l. Milligrams per liter.
   NPDES. National Pollution Discharge Elimination System.
   O&M. Operation and maintenance.
   POTW. Publicly owned treatment works.
   RCRA. Resource Conservation and Recovery Act.
   SIC. Standard industrial classification.
   TSS. Total suspended solids.
   WWTP. Wastewater treatment plant.
(1987 Code, § 9-6) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
§ 50.007 AVAILABILITY OF MANUALS.
   Manuals outlining the sewer system policies of the city and the municipal
sewage utility are available at the Clerk-Treasurer’s office or at the
municipal sewage utility office.
(1987 Code, § 9-53) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
§ 50.008 BYLAWS, RULES, AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Board of Public Works and Safety of the city shall, in accordance
with the statutes of the state, make and enforce whatever bylaws, rules, and
regulations it may deem necessary for the safe, economical, and efficient
management of the city’s sewage works, for the regulation, collection, and
refunding of the sewer charges for sewerage service, and, in general, for the
implementation of the provisions of this chapter.
(1987 Code, § 9-94)
   (B)   The Board of Public Works and Safety of the city shall, in accordance
with the statutes of the state, make and enforce whatever bylaws, rules, and
regulations it may deem necessary for the safe, economical, and efficient
management of the city’s sewage works, for the construction and use of building
sewers and connections to the sewerage system, and, in general, for the
implementation of the provisions of this chapter.
(1987 Code, § 9-102)
(Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
§ 50.009 APPLICATION.
   The terms of this chapter shall apply to the entire service area from which
sewage is received and treated at the wastewater treatment plant.
(1987 Code, § 9-109) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
§ 50.010 RIGHT OF AMENDMENT.
   The city reserves the right to amend this chapter, including the user
charges and surcharges herein established, in part or in whole, as provided and
permitted by the statutes of the state, whenever it may deem it necessary.
(1987 Code, § 9-110) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
§ 50.011 WATER WELLS AND GROUNDWATER USE.
   (A)   Definition. The term WATER WELL means any system used to extract
groundwater for potable use such as human consumption, bathing, showering,
cooking, or other similar use. The term does not include groundwater wells used
as part of an environmental investigation or remediation project.
   (B)   Application. The area covered by this section is depicted on the map
attached as Exhibit A to Ordinance 14, 2020, passed June 22, 2020.
   (C)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   The potable use of groundwater within the area is prohibited.
      (2)   No person or entity (including without limitation any corporation,
partnership, association, or business) shall use, drill, or otherwise install
any water well within the area.
   (D)   Penalty.
      (1)   Violations of division (C) above shall be punishable by a fine not
to exceed $100 per day. Each day that such a person or entity continues to use,
drill, or otherwise install any water well within the area shall be a separate
violation.
      (2)   The city shall be authorized to enforce this section and collect
any fines generated as a result of violations of this section.
   (F)   This section shall not in any way restrict or limit the ability of
parties to perform remediation or to monitor contamination.
(Ord. 14, 2020, passed 6-22-2020)
CONSTRUCTION AND CONNECTIONS
§ 50.020 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No owner or occupant of any real property shall tap or drain either
directly or indirectly into any public sewer until a sewer tap permit has been
obtained and until the person has satisfied his or her obligation to pay all
assessments, reimbursements, or pro rata shares of sewer extension costs laid
against that property for public sewers required to serve it. A tap permit
given in error or sewerage services billed to a property in error shall not
operate to nullify any such obligation that has been duly recorded.
   (B)   No owner or occupant of any real property shall attempt to repair,
through professional or personal effort, any public sewer or sewer connection
unless plans for the repair are approved by the City Engineer, Director of
Public Works, or the management of the municipal sewage utility.
   (C)   An owner or occupant of any real property who either taps or drains
either directly or indirectly into any public sewer, or attempts to repair any
public sewer or sewer connection, without obtaining the necessary approvals,
permits, and supervision required under this chapter, or of management of the
municipal sewage utility, shall be fined. That owner or occupant shall also be
required to reimburse the city and the municipal sewage utility for any costs
incurred for the inspection, and correction or repair of the unauthorized sewer
tap-in or repair, including repair of any streets and rights-of-way involved.
The penalty shall be determined by the Board of Public Works and Safety, upon
service of notice of the violation to the owner or occupant, presentation of
the violation to the Board at a regularly scheduled meeting of same by the
Building Commissioner, City Engineer, Director of Public Works, or facilities
manager of the municipal sewage utility, and a proper finding of fault by the
Board.
   (D)   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall have the authority to
require an owner of real property to disconnect from a building any sewer which
drains into a sanitary sewer any downspouts, yard drains, or other drains which
carry the runoff of natural precipitation. Property owners shall have 30 days
after notice to comply with these requirements. The Board of Public Works and
Safety shall not authorize any tap permit which will cause excess flow, BOD, or
suspended solid loading of the wastewater treatment plant, force mains, lift
stations, or sewers.
(1987 Code, § 9-103)
   (E)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the Clerk-Treasurer.
(1987 Code, § 9-129)
(Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.021 EXTENSIONS AND CONNECTIONS OUTSIDE CORPORATE LIMITS.
   (A)   Extensions of sewers outside corporate limits. The installation,
construction, or extension of sewers by the city outside the corporate limits
of the city and the connection or extension of sewers into the city’s sewerage
system from, by, or for properties located outside the limits shall be
prohibited, except upon prior approval by the City Council by duly enacted
ordinance.
(1987 Code, § 9-104)
   (B)   Connections to sewerage system by certain out-of-city properties.
Notwithstanding the provisions of division (A) above, the Board of Public Works
and Safety of the city shall have the authority to permit a property located
outside the corporate limits of the city to connect to an existing sewer which
is part of the city’s sewerage system, provided the property abuts, adjoins,
and is immediately contiguous to the street, alley, or easement in which the
sewer is located and provided the property owner or occupant has complied with
the conditions set out in §§
50.020(A) -
50.020(D).
(1987 Code, § 9-105)
(Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.022 VIOLATIONS; NOTICE TO ABATE; LIABILITY.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating or failing to comply with any of the
provisions of this subchapter shall be served by the city with a written notice
stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for
its satisfactory correction. The offender shall, within the period of time
stated in the notice, permanently cease all violations.
   (B)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the stated time
limit shall be guilty of a code violation and upon conviction thereof, shall be
subject to a fine. Each day in which any violation shall continue shall be
deemed a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of the sections set out
above and convicted thereof shall become liable to the city for any expense,
loss, or damage occasioned the city by reason of that violation.
(1987 Code, § 9-106) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.023 PROPERLY DESIGNED SEWERS.
   The city shall prohibit any new connections from inflow sources into the
sanitary sewer portions of the sewerage system and shall ensure that new sewers
and connections to the sanitary sewers are properly designed and connected.
(1987 Code, § 9-107) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.024 OVERLOADING PROHIBITED.
   The city shall not approve any new connection into the sanitary sewers which
will cause overloading.
(1987 Code, § 9-108) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.025 CONNECTION SURCHARGE.
   In the event that a sewer connection is made from any lot, parcel of real
estate, or building located within the limits of the city, directly to one of
the interceptors or to one of the interceptor extensions, or to any other
municipal sewer, a connection surcharge in the amount as given in
Appendix B, Table G, of this chapter shall be levied against that lot, parcel
of real estate, or building; provided that if the connection shall be made
during the time that the interceptor is under construction and the contractor
has not backfilled the sewer excavation, then and in that case, the connection
surcharge shall be in the amount as given in
Appendix B, Table G, of this chapter. The connection surcharge set out herein
shall be over and above any and all costs and charges for making the physical
connection from the lot to the sewer. In the event the surcharge is not paid as
required, the surcharge shall be collectible in the manner provided by statute.
(1987 Code, § 9-130) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
§ 50.026 CONNECTION SURCHARGE OUTSIDE CORPORATE LIMITS.
   In the event that a sewer connection is made from any lot, parcel of real
estate, or building located outside the limits of the city, directly to one of
the interceptors or to one of the interceptor extensions, or to any other
municipal sewer, a connection surcharge in the amount as given in
Appendix B, Table G, of this chapter shall be levied against that lot, parcel
of real estate, or building. The connection surcharge set out herein shall be
over and above any and all costs and charges for making the physical connection
from the lot to the sewer. In the event the surcharge is not paid as required,
the surcharge shall be collectible in the manner provided by statute, provided
that persons residing outside the city limits may be authorized and permitted
to tap-in for the same fees as set out in §
50.025, provided that all these persons shall be the owners of the property
served and shall first consent in writing to waive their right of remonstrance
against annexation to the city and consent to the extension of the city
boundaries, so as to include that property in and as a part of the city, all of
which agreements and consents shall be made and may be accepted on and after
approval thereof, by the Board of Public Works and Safety of the city.
(1987 Code, § 9-131) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
Cross-reference:
   Form of Connection Agreement, see App. A
§ 50.027 CONNECTION SURCHARGE FOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   In the event any person or persons develop a tract of real estate, including
but not limited to that usually described as a subdivision, which tract is
within the jurisdictional zoning area of the city, and includes therein, at the
developer’s costs, a system of sewers to service that tract, the person or
persons, as mentioned, shall be required to pay only one connection surcharge
for connection of the system to the municipal sewer system, and during the
period of time that this sewer system is maintained by that person or persons,
as mentioned, at his, her, or their cost, additional sewer taps from the
individual lots may be connected on the payment of an inspection fee as named
in
Appendix B, Table G, of this chapter, it being further provided that when the
duty of the private person or persons, as mentioned, to maintain the sewer
system is terminated in accordance with other ordinances of the city, or as
authorized by Section One, Zoning, the Municipal Code, then and in that event,
after the termination of the duty of maintenance, as mentioned, this section
shall no longer apply, but instead, the requirements of §§
50.025,
50.026, and
Appendix A of this chapter shall be enforced in regard to all subsequent
connections.
(1987 Code, § 9-133) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
§ 50.028 EXPENSES; RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER.
   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of the
building sewer, house sewer, and/or sanitary lateral shall be borne by the
property owner. The property owner shall bear sole responsibility for
maintaining the building sewer, house sewer, and/or sanitary lateral and
ensuring appropriate operation of said pipe(s). The property owner shall bear
all costs and expenses incident to maintenance of the building sewer, house
sewer, and/or sanitary lateral. Installation, connection, and maintenance of
the building sewer, house sewer, and/or sanitary lateral includes the sewer
tap, or the point to which the lateral connects to the public sewer. The owner
shall indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may directly or
indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
(1987 Code, § 9-134) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000; Am. Ord. 13, passed 5-28-2024)
§ 50.029 INDEPENDENT BUILDING SEWERS.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway, the
building sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and
the whole considered as one building sewer.
(1987 Code, § 9-135) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
§ 50.030 OLD BUILDING SEWERS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and tested by the Superintendent, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
(1987 Code, § 9-136) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
§ 50.031 MATERIALS AND METHODS OF CONSTRUCTION.
   The size, slope, alignment, and materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling the trench shall all conform to the requirements of
the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
city. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
(1987 Code, § 9-137) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
§ 50.032 BUILDING SEWER ELEVATION.
   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an
elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any building
drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage
carried by that building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
(1987 Code, § 9-138) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
§ 50.033 RUNOFF DRAINAGE CONNECTIONS AND THE LIKE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior foundation
drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or ground water to a
building sewer or building drain which, in turn, is connected directly or
indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
(1987 Code, § 9-139) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.034 COMBINED SANITARY AND STORM SEWERS PROHIBITED.
   The construction of new combined sanitary/storm sewers is prohibited.
(1987 Code, § 9-154(a)) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.035 NEW COMBINED SEWER TRIBUTARIES RESTRICTED.
   It is required that all new construction tributary to the combined sanitary/
storm sewer be designed to minimize or delay inflow to the combined sewer.
(1987 Code, § 9-154(b)) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
§ 50.036 SEPARATE INFLOW/CLEAR WATER AND SANITARY CONNECTION.
   (A)   Separate inflow/clear water and sanitary connections to a combined
sewer are required, to facilitate disconnection of the former if a separate
storm sewer becomes available.
   (B)   The introduction of inflow sources to any sanitary sewer is
prohibited.
(1987 Code, § 9-154(c)) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.037 CODES APPLICABLE.
   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall conform to
the requirements of the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules
and regulations of the city, or the procedures set forth in appropriate
specifications of the A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9. All such
connections shall be made gastight and watertight. Any deviation from the
prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the Superintendent
before installation.
(1987 Code, § 9-140) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
§ 50.038 INSPECTIONS.
   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the inspector when
the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer.
The connection shall be made under the supervision of the inspector or his or
her representative.
(1987 Code, § 9-141) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
§ 50.039 EXCAVATIONS; BARRICADES; RESTORATION.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the Superintendent.
(1987 Code, § 9-142) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
DISCHARGE TO PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 50.050 UNSANITARY DEPOSITS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any human or animal
excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
(1987 Code, § 9-113) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.051 DISCHARGES TO NATURAL OUTLETS RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the city, or
in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any sewage or other polluted
waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with
subsequent provisions of this chapter.
(1987 Code, § 9-114) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.052 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL RESTRICTED.
   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(1987 Code, § 9-115) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.053 CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWER REQUIRED.
   The owner of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation, or other purposes, situated within the city and
abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is now located a
public sanitary or combined sewer of the city, is required at his or her
expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect those
facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, within 90 days after date of official notice to do
so, provided that the public sewer is within 100 feet of the property line.
(1987 Code, § 9-116) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
§ 50.054 STORM WATER AND UNPOLLUTED DRAINAGE.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water, or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
(1987 Code, § 9-145)
   (B)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
sewers that are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers, or
to a natural outlet approved by the Superintendent. Industrial cooling water or
unpolluted process waters may be discharged on approval of the Superintendent
to a storm sewer, combined sewer, or natural outlet.
(1987 Code, § 9-145)
(Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
Penalty, see § 10.99
PRIVATE SEWAGE SYSTEMS
§ 50.065 UNAVAILABLE PUBLIC SEWER; PRIVATE SYSTEM REQUIRED.
   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
50.053 of this code, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage
disposal system complying with the provisions of this subchapter.
(1987 Code, § 9-119) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
§ 50.066 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the
Superintendent.
   (B)   The application for the permit shall be made on a form furnished by
the city, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications,
and other information deemed necessary by the Superintendent.
   (C)   A permit and inspection fee, as named in
Appendix B, table G, of this chapter, shall be paid to the city at the time the
application is filed.
(1987 Code, § 9-120) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
§ 50.067 INSPECTION.
   (A)   A permit for private sewage disposal system shall not become effective
until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the Superintendent.
   (B)   He or she shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any
underground portions are covered.
   (C)   The inspection shall be made within 48 hours of the receipt of notice
by the Superintendent.
(1987 Code, § 9-121) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
§ 50.068 STATE HEALTH REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private sewage
disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the state Board of
Health.
   (B)   No permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system
employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is
less than 6,000 square feet.
   (C)   No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any
natural outlet.
(1987 Code, § 9-122) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.069 SANITARY OPERATION REQUIRED.
   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal facilities
in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the city.
(1987 Code, § 9-124) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
§ 50.070 ADDITIONAL HEALTH REQUIREMENTS.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Health Officer.
(1987 Code, § 9-125) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
§ 50.071 CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWER.
   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by a
private sewage disposal system as provided in §
50.068 above, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in
compliance with this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools, and similar
private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable
material.
(1987 Code, § 9-123) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
§ 50.072 TIME LIMIT TO CONNECT.
   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be connected
to that sewer within 60 days and the private sewage disposal system shall be
cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bank-run gravel or dirt.
(1987 Code, § 9-126) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEM; REGULATIONS AND STANDARDS
§ 50.085 GENERAL DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   General prohibitions. No user shall introduce or cause to be
introduced into the POTW any pollutant or wastewater which causes pass through
or interference. These general prohibitions apply to all users of the POTW
whether or not they are subject to categorical pretreatment standards or any
other national, state, or local pretreatment standards or requirements.
   (B)   Specific prohibitions. No user shall introduce or cause to be
introduced into the POTW the following pollutants, substances, or wastewater:
      (1)   Any liquids, solids, or gases which by reason of their nature or
quantity are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction to cause
fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the operation of the
POTW, including, but not limited to, wastestreams with a closed-cup flashpoint
of less than 140°F (60°C) using the test methods specified in 40 CFR 261.21;
      (2)   Any wastewater having a pH less than 5.0 or higher than 10 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment, or personnel of the system;
      (3)   Solid or viscous substances which will or may cause obstruction to
the flow in a sewer or other interference with the operation of the wastewater
system; but in no case solids greater than two and one- half inches or six
centimeters in any dimension;
      (4)   Any pollutant, including oxygen demanding pollutants (BOD and the
like) released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration
which, either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, will cause
interference with the POTW;
      (5)   Any wastewater having a temperature greater than 120°F (35°C), or
which will inhibit biological activity in the POTW treatment plant resulting in
interference; but, in no case, wastewater with a temperature at the
introduction into the POTW which exceeds 40°C (104°F);
      (6)   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either alone or by interaction, to injure or interfere with any wastewater
treatment process, or constitute a hazard to humans or animals;
      (7)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, or solids, which either
alone or by interaction are capable of creating a public nuisance or hazard to
life, or are sufficient to prevent entry into the sewers for their maintenance
and repair;
      (8)   Any substance with objectionable color not removed in the treatment
process, such as dye wastes and vegetable tanning solutions;
      (9)   Any slug load, including any oxygen demanding pollutants (BOD and
the like), released in a single extraordinary discharge episode of such volume
or strength as to cause interference to the POTW;
      (10)   Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil, or products of
mineral oil origin, in amounts that will cause interference or pass through;
      (11)   Trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points
designated by the Superintendent in accordance with §§
50.093 and
50.094 of this code;
      (12)   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes of a
half-life or concentration so as to exceed limits established by the Authority
in compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (13)   Any waters or wastes containing suspended solids of a character
and quantity so that unusual provision, attention, and expense would be
required to handle the materials at the wastewater treatment plant, its pumping
stations, or other facilities;
      (14)   Storm water, surface water, ground water, artesian well water,
roof runoff, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, deionized
water, noncontact cooling water, and unpolluted wastewater, unless specifically
authorized by the Superintendent;
      (15)   Sludges, screenings, or other residues from the pretreatment of
industrial wastes;
      (16)   Medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by the
Superintendent in a wastewater discharge permit; or
      (17)   Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources,
the treatment plant’s effluent to fail a toxicity test.
   (C)   Storage restrictions. Pollutants, substances, or wastewater prohibited
by this section shall not be processed or stored in such a manner that they
could be discharged to the POTW.
(1987 Code, § 9-8) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.086 NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   The categorical pretreatment standards found at 40 CFR Chapter I,
Subchapter N, Parts 405-471, are hereby incorporated.
   (B)   Where a categorical pretreatment standard is expressed only in terms
of either the mass or the concentration of a pollutant in wastewater, the
Superintendent may impose equivalent concentration or mass limits in accordance
with 40 CFR 403.6(c).
   (C)   When wastewater subject to a categorical pretreatment standard is
mixed with wastewater not regulated by the same standard, the Superintendent
shall impose an alternate limit using the combined wastestream formula in 40
CFR 403.6(e).
   (D)   A user may obtain a variance from a categorical pretreatment standard
if the user can prove, pursuant to the procedural and substantive provisions in
40 CFR 403.13, that factors relating to its discharge are fundamentally
different from the factors considered by the EPA when developing the
categorical pretreatment standard.
   (E)   A user may obtain a net gross adjustment to a categorical standard in
accordance with 40 CFR 403.15.
(1987 Code, § 9-9) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
§ 50.087 STATE REQUIREMENTS.
   State requirements and limitations on discharges to the POTW shall be met by
all dischargers which are subject to those standards in any instance in which
they are more stringent than federal requirements and limitations or those in
this chapter or any other applicable ordinance.
(1987 Code, § 9-10) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
§ 50.088 RIGHT OF REVISION.
   The Authority reserves the right to amend this subchapter to provide for
more stringent limitations or requirements on discharges to the POTW where
deemed necessary to comply with objectives set forth in the introduction in
this chapter.
(1987 Code, § 9-11) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
§ 50.089 DILUTION.
   No user shall ever increase the use of process water, or in any way attempt
to dilute a discharge, as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with a discharge limitation unless expressly
authorized by an applicable pretreatment standard or requirement. The
Superintendent may impose mass limitations on users who are using dilution to
meet applicable pretreatment standards or requirements, or in other cases when
the imposition of mass limitations is appropriate.
(1987 Code, § 9-12) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.090 SUPPLEMENTARY DISCHARGE LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   The following local limitations are established to prevent pass
through and interference, and to protect receiving water quality and sludge
quality.
      (1)   Arsenic: 1.00 mg/L;
      (2)   Cadmium: 0.69 mg/L;
      (3)   Chromium: 2.48 mg/L;
      (4)   Copper: 1.25 mg/L;
      (5)   Cyanide: 1.00 mg/L;
      (6)   Lead: 0.62 mg/L;
      (7)   Mercury: 0.00055 mg/L;
      (8)   Molybdenum: 0.11 mg/L;
      (9)   Nickel: 0.74 mg/L;
      (10)   Oil and grease: 100 mg/L;
      (11)   Phenols: 0.50 mg/L;
      (12)   Selenium: 2.27 mg/L;
      (13)   Silver: 0.95 mg/L;
      (14)   Zinc: 0.51 mg/L.
   (B)   These MAILS shall be allocated through significant industrial user
permits, and the total loading to all permitted industrial users shall not
exceed the limits shown. All industrial users shall monitor and report daily
flows as required by the industrial user permit.
(1987 Code, § 9-13) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000; Am. Ord. 22, 2012, passed 10-22-
2012; Am. Ord. 2, 2015, passed 2-9-2015; Am. Ord. 14, 2022, passed 7-25-2022)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.091 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGES.
   (A)   At least once every two years, the Superintendent shall evaluate
whether each significant industrial user needs an accidental discharge or slug
control plan. The Superintendent may require any user to develop, submit for
approval, and implement such a plan. Alternatively, the Superintendent may
develop a plan for any user.
   (B)   An accidental discharge or slug control plan shall address, at a
minimum, the following:
      (1)   Description of discharge practices, including nonroutine batch
discharges;
      (2)   Description of stored chemicals;
      (3)   Procedures for immediately notifying the Superintendent of any
accidental or slug discharge, as required by §
50.147(F) of this code; and
      (4)   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
discharge. These procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants, including solvents, and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response.
(1987 Code, § 9-14) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
§ 50.092 PRETREATMENT OF WASTEWATER.
   Users shall provide wastewater treatment as necessary to comply with this
chapter and shall achieve compliance with all categorical pretreatment
standards, local limits, and the prohibitions set out in §
50.085 of this code within the time limitations specified by the EPA, the
state, or the Superintendent, whichever is more stringent. Any facilities
necessary for compliance shall be provided, operated, and maintained at the
user’s expense.
(1987 Code, § 9-15) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
§ 50.093 APPROVAL OF PRETREATMENT FACILITIES.
   (A)   Plans, specifications, and other pertinent information relating to
proposed preliminary treatment or processing facilities shall be submitted to
the city for examination and approval, and no construction of these facilities
shall begin until the city, through its Board of Public Works and Safety, has
given its written approval. This approval shall not exempt the person from the
obligation to make further reasonable adaptations of the facilities when
adaptations prove necessary to secure the results desired. Plans,
specifications, and other pertinent information shall also be submitted to the
Stream Pollution Control Board for approval in accordance with Stream Pollution
Control Board Res. 15.
   (B)   The review of these plans and operating procedures shall in no way
relieve the user from the responsibility of modifying the facilities as
necessary to produce a discharge acceptable to the city under the provisions of
this chapter.
(1987 Code, § 9-16) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
§ 50.094 ADDITIONAL PRETREATMENT MEASURES.
   (A)   Whenever deemed necessary, the Superintendent may require users to
restrict their discharge during peak flow periods, designate that certain
wastewater be discharged only into specific sewers, relocate and/or consolidate
points of discharge, separate sewage wastestreams from industrial wastestreams,
and other conditions as may be necessary to protect the POTW and determine the
user’s compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The Superintendent may require any person discharging into the POTW to
install and maintain, on his or her property and at his or her expense, a
suitable storage and flow-control facility to ensure equalization of flow. A
wastewater discharge permit may be issued solely for flow equalization.
   (C)   (1)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided by the user
when, in the opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper
handling of wastewater containing excessive amounts of grease and oil, or sand;
except that interceptors shall not be required for residential users.
      (2)   All interception units shall be of type and capacity approved by
the Superintendent and shall be so located to be easily accessible for cleaning
and inspection.
      (3)   These interceptors shall be inspected, cleaned, and repaired
regularly, as needed, by the user at his or her expense.
   (D)   Users with the potential to discharge flammable substances may be
required to install and maintain an approved combustible gas detection meter.
(1987 Code, § 9-16) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
§ 50.095 HAULED WASTEWATER.
   (A)   Septic tank waste may be introduced into the POTW only at locations
designated by the Superintendent, and at times as are established by the
Superintendent. This type of waste shall not violate §§
50.093 and
50.094 of this code or any other requirements established by the city. The
Superintendent may require septic tank waste haulers to obtain wastewater
discharge permits.
   (B)   The Superintendent shall require haulers of industrial waste to obtain
wastewater discharge permits. The Superintendent may require generators of
hauled industrial waste to obtain wastewater discharge permits. The
Superintendent also may prohibit the disposal of hauled industrial waste. The
discharge of hauled industrial waste is subject to all other requirements of
this chapter.
   (C)   Industrial waste haulers may discharge loads only at locations
designated by the Superintendent. No load may be discharged without prior
consent of the Superintendent. The Superintendent may collect samples of each
hauled load to ensure compliance with applicable standards. The Superintendent
may require the industrial waste hauler to provide a waste analysis of any load
prior to discharge.
   (D)   Industrial waste haulers must provide a waste-tracking form for every
load. This form shall include, at a minimum, the name and address of the
industrial waste hauler, permit number, truck identification, names and
addresses of sources of waste, and volume and characteristics of waste. The
form shall identify the type of industry, known or suspected waste
constituents, and whether any wastes are RCRA hazardous wastes.
(1987 Code, § 9-16.1) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.096 LIFT STATIONS; SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   No owner or occupant of any real property shall install a lift station
on his or her property or public property without adhering to the provisions of
the Technical Specifications for Lift Stations found in the Policy Manual of
the city and the municipal sewage utility, and the Recommended Standards for
Sewage Works (Ten State Standards).
   (B)   All plans for lift stations must be approved by the management of the
municipal sewage utility before commencing construction on the lift station.
   (C)   (1)   An owner or occupant of any real property who constructs or
operates a lift station without obtaining the necessary approvals, permits, and
supervision required under this chapter, or of management of the municipal
sewage utility, shall be fined.
      (2)   That owner or occupant shall also be required to reimburse the city
and the municipal sewage utility for all costs incurred for the inspection, and
correction or repair of the unauthorized lift station, including repair of any
streets and rights-of- way involved.
      (3)   The penalty shall be determined by the Board of Public Works and
Safety upon service of notice of the violation to the Board at a regularly
scheduled meeting of same by the City Engineer, Director of Public Works, or
facilities manager of the municipal sewage utility, and a proper finding of
fault by the Board.
(1987 Code, § 9-54) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
Penalty, see § 10.99
PROHIBITED INDUSTRIAL DISCHARGES
§ 50.110 PROHIBITED SUBSTANCES.
   Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall discharge or cause as
defined in §
50.085 of this code to be discharged to a public sewer any substances, wastes,
or waters, as indicated in §
50.085.
(1987 Code, § 9-149) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.111 OBSTRUCTION OR DAMAGE; RESPONSIBILITY.
   If a public sewer becomes obstructed or damaged because any of the
aforementioned substances were improperly discharged, the person or persons
responsible for that discharge shall be billed and shall pay for the expenses
incurred by the city in cleaning out, repairing, or rebuilding the sewer.
(1987 Code, § 9-150) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
§ 50.112 SPECIAL AGREEMENTS.
   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as prohibiting any
special agreement or arrangement between the city and any person whereby an
industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by the city
for treatment either with or without pretreatment, provided there is no
impairment to the functioning of the sewage works by reason of the admission of
those wastes and no extra costs are incurred by the city without recompense by
the person.
(1987 Code, § 9-151) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
§ 50.113 INDUSTRIAL WASTES; ADDITIONAL EXCLUSIONS.
   All or certain industrial wastes may be excluded when conditions are such
that NPDES permit restrictions cannot be met.
(1987 Code, § 9-152) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
§ 50.114 SURCHARGE FOR EXCESS POLLUTANTS.
   Surcharges shall be imposed by the city for any pollutant discharged in
excess of the limits set forth herein.
(1987 Code, § 9-153) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
§ 50.115 NPDES REQUIREMENTS ADOPTED.
   All of the terms and conditions of the National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System (NPDES) Permit No. IN 0024473 are hereby incorporated herein
by reference, with copies being available in the office of the City Clerk-
Treasurer.
(1987 Code, § 9-154) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
ADMISSIBLE INDUSTRIAL WASTES
§ 50.125 WASTES REQUIRING PRIOR APPROVAL.
   Review and acceptance by the Superintendent shall be obtained prior to the
discharge into the public sewers by any person of sewage whose wastes have:
   (A)   A BOD greater than 200 mg/l;
   (B)   A suspended solids content greater than 250 mg/l; or
   (C)   Other contaminants or characteristics which, from their nature and
quantity, might be harmful to the structures, processes, or operations of the
sewage works or to health, whether by themselves or through interacting with
other wastes in the public sewers.
(1987 Code, § 9-156) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
§ 50.126 PRETREATMENT FACILITIES.
   When, after making the above review, the Superintendent concludes that,
before the person discharges his or her wastes into the public sewers, he or
she must modify or eliminate those constituents which would be harmful to the
structures, processes, or operations of the sewage works or injurious to
health, then the person shall either modify the wastes at the point of origin
or shall provide and operate at his or her own expense the preliminary
treatment or processing facilities as may be determined to be necessary to
render those wastes acceptable for admission to the public sewers and follow
the procedures outlined in §§
50.092 -
50.095,
50.145,
50.146,
50.151, and
50.195 of this code.
(1987 Code, § 9-157) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
§ 50.127 APPROVAL OF PRETREATMENT FACILITIES.
   Plans, specifications, and other pertinent information relating to proposed
preliminary treatment or processing facilities shall be submitted to the city
for examination and approval, and no construction of these facilities shall
begin until the city, through its Board of Public Works and Safety, has given
its written approval. This approval shall not exempt the person from the
obligation to make further reasonable adaptations of the facilities when
adaptations prove necessary to secure the results desired. Plans,
specifications, and other pertinent information shall also be submitted to the
IDEM for approval in accordance with IDEM regulations.
(1987 Code, § 9-158) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.128 OPERATION OF PRETREATMENT FACILITIES.
   When preliminary treatment facilities are provided, they shall be maintained
continuously in satisfactory and effective operating condition by the person at
his or her own expense and shall be subject to periodic inspection by the city.
The person shall maintain suitable operating records and shall submit to the
Superintendent those monthly summary reports of the character of the influent
and effluent as the latter may prescribe.
(1987 Code, § 9-159) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
§ 50.129 GREASE AND SAND TRAPS.
   Whenever the Board of Public Works and Safety determines that interceptors
or traps are needed to protect the sewerage system or the operations of the
wastewater treatment plant from grease, oil, sand, or similar substances from
occurring in a customer’s sewage, then those traps shall be installed by the
customer on his or her own lines at his or her own expense and shall be so
maintained by the customer that none of these substances can be carried over
into the public sewers. All traps shall be subject to the city’s approval as to
construction, location, and installation, and shall adhere to the provisions of
the technical specifications of grease traps found in the policy manual of the
city and the municipal sewage utility.
(1987 Code, § 9-160) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000; Am. Ord. 22, 2012, passed 10-22-
2012)
§ 50.130 DATA SUBMISSION AND PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
    The procedures authorized in §§
50.146,
50.147, and
50.151 of this code shall be followed.
(1987 Code, § 9-163) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
§ 50.131 CONTROL MANHOLES.
   Any person discharging industrial wastes into a public sewer, either
directly or indirectly, may be required by the Board of Public Works and
Safety, upon the recommendation of the Superintendent, to construct and
maintain at his or her own expense one or more control manholes at specified
location or locations to facilitate the observation, measurement, and sampling
of his or her wastes. These manholes shall be constructed in accordance with
the standards and specifications of the city. The Board may also require the
person to install and maintain in any such manhole at the person’s expense an
approved volume measuring device. Plans for the installation of control
manholes and related equipment must be approved by the Board of Public Works
and Safety, upon the recommendation of the Superintendent or the Sewer
Engineer, before construction is begun.
(1987 Code, § 9-164) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
§ 50.132 WASTE SAMPLING; RIGHT OF ACCESS.
   (A)   Right of entry; inspection and sampling. The Superintendent shall have
the right to enter the premises of any user to determine whether the user is
complying with all requirements of this chapter and any wastewater discharge
permit or order issued hereunder. Users shall allow the Superintendent ready
access to all parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling,
records examination and copying, and the performance of any additional duties.
      (1)   Where a user has security measures in force which require proper
identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the user shall
make necessary arrangements with its security guards so that, upon presentation
of suitable identification, the Superintendent will be permitted to enter
without delay for the purposes of performing specific responsibilities.
      (2)   The Superintendent shall have the right to set up on the user’s
property, or require installation of, devices as are necessary to conduct
sampling and metering of the user’s operations.
      (3)   The Superintendent may require the user to install monitoring
equipment as necessary. The facility’s sampling and monitoring equipment shall
be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating condition by the user
at its own expense. All devices used to measure wastewater flow and quality
shall be calibrated once a year to ensure their accuracy.
      (4)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to
the facility to be inspected or sampled shall be promptly removed by the user
at the written or verbal request of the Superintendent and shall not be
replaced. The costs of clearing this access shall be borne by the user.
      (5)   Unreasonable delays in allowing the Superintendent access to the
user’s premises shall be a violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Search warrants. If the Superintendent has been refused access to a
building, structure, or property, or any part thereof, and is able to
demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this
chapter, or that there is a need to inspect or sample as part of a routine
inspection and sampling program of the city designed to verify compliance with
this chapter or any permit or order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall
public health, safety, and welfare of the community, then the Superintendent
may seek issuance of a search warrant from the Superior or Circuit Court.
(1987 Code, § 9-165) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.133 LABORATORY PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Laboratory procedures used in the examination of industrial wastes
shall be those set forth in Standard Methods. However, alternative methods for
certain analyses of industrial wastes may be used subject to mutual agreement
between the Superintendent and the user provided they meet federal requirements
as set forth in 40 CFR 136. The city may make, without charge to the user, the
initial analysis of the user’s wastes as well as other initial tests the
Superintendent may deem advisable. Regular periodic check analyses and analyses
made by the city at the request of the user shall be charged to the user
according to the standard work order billing practice.
   (B)   All such analyses shall be binding in determining strength-of-wastes
surcharges and other matters dependent upon the character and concentration of
wastes.
(1987 Code, § 9-166) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
§ 50.134 REPRESENTATIVE ANALYSES.
   (A)   Until an adequate analysis of a representative sample of user’s wastes
has been obtained, the city shall, for the purpose of this chapter, make a
determination of the character and concentration of the user’s wastes by using
data based on analyses of similar processes or data for that type of business
that are available from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency or from
industry-recognized authoritative sources.
   (B)   This method, if selected by the city, shall continue at the city’s
pleasure or until an adequate analysis has been made.
(1987 Code, § 9-167) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
§ 50.135 EPA REVIEW.
   All data collected pertaining to industrial wastes, including records kept
by each industrial user, shall be subject to audit and review by the
Environmental Protection Agency.
(1987 Code, § 9-168) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEMS; ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 50.145 WASTEWATER DISCHARGERS; COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge sewage, industrial waste, or other waste
to any sewer within the jurisdiction of the municipal sanitation utility, or to
the city wastewater treatment plant, without having first complied with the
terms of this chapter.
(1987 Code, § 9-24) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.146 INDUSTRIAL USERS; DATA DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General disclosure. All industrial dischargers proposing to connect to
or to discharge sewage, industrial wastes, and other wastes to the POTW shall
comply with all terms of this chapter.
   (B)   Disclosure forms. Industrial dischargers shall complete and file with
the Authority, a disclosure declaration in the form prescribed by the
Authority, and accompanied by the appropriate fee. Proposed new dischargers
shall file their disclosure forms at least 90 days prior to connecting to the
POTW.
      (1)   The disclosure to be made by the discharger shall be made on
written forms provided by the Authority and shall cover:
         (a)   Disclosure of name, address, and location of the discharger;
         (b)   Disclosure of Standard Industrial Classification (SIC);
         (c)   Disclosure of wastewater con- stituents and characteristics,
including but not limited to those mentioned in this chapter, as determined by
bona fide chemical and biological analyses. Sampling and analysis shall be
performed in accordance with procedures established by the U.S. EPA and
contained in 40 CFR 136, as amended;
         (d)   Disclosure of time and duration of discharges;
         (e)   Disclosure of average daily and instantaneous peak wastewater
flow rates, in gallons per day, including daily, monthly, and seasonal
variations, if any. All flows shall be measured unless other verifiable
techniques are approved by the Authority due to cost or nonfeasability;
         (f)   Disclosure of site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing
plans, and details to show all sewers, sewer connections, inspection manholes,
sampling chambers, and appurtenances by size, location, and elevation;
         (g)   Description of activities, facilities, and plant processes on
the premises, including all materials which are or may be discharged to the
sewers or works of the Authority;
         (h)   Disclosure of the nature and concentration of any pollutants or
materials prohibited by this chapter in the discharge, together with a
statement regarding whether or not compliance is being achieved with this
chapter on a consistent basis, and, if not, whether additional operation and
maintenance activities and/or additional pretreatment are required for the
discharger to comply with this chapter;
         (i)   Where additional pretreatment and/or operation and maintenance
activities will be required to comply with this chapter, the discharger shall
provide a declaration of the shortest schedule by which the discharger will
provide that additional pretreatment and/or implementation of additional
operation and maintenance activities;
            1.   The schedule shall contain milestone dates for the
commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction and
operation of additional pretreatment required for the discharger to comply with
the requirements of this chapter including, but not limited to, dates relating
to hiring an engineer, hiring other appropriate personnel, completing
preliminary plans, completing final plans, executing contract for major
components, commencing construction, completing construction, and all other
acts necessary to achieve compliance with this chapter.
            2.   Under no circumstances shall the Authority permit a time
increment for any single step directed toward compliance which exceeds nine
months.
            3.   Not later than 14 days following each milestone date in the
schedule and the final date for compliance, the discharger shall submit a
progress report to the Authority, including no less than a statement as to
whether or not it complied with the increment of progress represented by that
milestone date and, if not, the date on which it expects to comply with this
increment of progress, the reason for delay, and the steps being taken by the
discharger to return the construction to the approved schedule. In no event
shall more than nine months elapse between these progress reports to the
Authority.
         (j)   Disclosure of each product produced by type, amount, process or
processes, and rate of production;
         (k)   Disclosure of the type and amount of raw materials utilized
(average and maximum per day);
         (l)   All disclosure forms shall be signed by a principal executive
officer of the discharger; and
         (m)   All sewers shall have an inspection and sampling manhole or
structure with an opening of no less than 24 inches in diameter and an internal
diameter of no less than 36 inches containing flow measuring, recording, and
sampling equipment as required by the Authority to assure compliance with this
chapter.
      (2)   The Authority will evaluate the complete disclosure form and data
furnished by the discharger and may require additional information. Within 30
days after full evaluation and acceptance of the data furnished, the Authority
shall notify the discharger of the Authority’s acceptance thereof.
   (C)   Standards modification. The Authority reserves the right to amend this
chapter and the conditions hereof in order to assure compliance by the
Authority with applicable laws and regulations. Within nine months of the
promulgation of a national categorical pretreatment standard, this chapter
shall be amended to require compliance by dischargers with the standards within
the time frame prescribed by those standards. All national categorical
pretreatment standards adopted after the promulgation of this chapter shall be
adopted by the Authority as part of this chapter. Where a discharger, subject
to a national categorical pretreatment standard, has not previously submitted a
disclosure form as required by division (B) of this section, the discharger
shall file a disclosure form with the Authority within 180 days after the
promulgation of the applicable national categorical pretreatment standard by
the U.S. EPA. In addition, any discharger operating on the basis of a previous
filing of a disclosure statement, shall submit to the Authority within 180 days
after the promulgation of an applicable national categorical pretreatment
standard, the additional information required by divisions (B)(1)(h) and (B)(1)
(i) above. The discharger shall be informed of any proposed changes in the
chapter at least 30 days prior to the effective date of change. Any changes or
new conditions in the chapter shall include a reasonable time schedule for
compliance.
(1987 Code, § 9-25) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
§ 50.147 INDUSTRIAL USERS; REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Baseline monitoring reports.
      (1)   Within either 180 days after the effective date of a categorical
pretreatment standard, or the final administrative decision on a category
determination under 40 CFR 403.6(a)(4), whichever is later, existing
categorical users currently discharging to or scheduled to discharge to the
POTW shall submit to the Superintendent a report which contains the information
listed in division (B) below. At least 90 days prior to commencement of their
discharge, new sources, and sources that become categorical users subsequent to
the promulgation of an applicable categorical standard, shall submit to the
Superintendent a report which contains the information listed in division (A)
(2) below. A new source shall report the method of pretreatment it intends to
use to meet applicable categorical standards. A new source also shall give
estimates of its anticipated flow and quantity of pollutants to be discharged.
      (2)   Users described above shall submit the information set forth below:
         (a)   Identifying information. The name and address of the facility,
including the name of the operator and owner;
         (b)   Environmental permits. A list of any environmental control
permits held by or for the facility;
         (c)   Description of operations. A brief description of the nature,
average rate of production, and standard industrial classifications of the
operation(s) carried out by the user. This description should include a
schematic process diagram which indicates points of discharge to the POTW from
the regulated processes;
         (d)   Flow measurement. Information showing the measured average daily
and maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated process
streams and other streams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined
wastestream formula set out in 40 CFR 403.6(e);
         (e)   Measurement of pollutants.
            1.   The categorical pretreatment standards applicable to each
regulated process;
            2.   The results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature
and concentration, and/or mass, where required by the standard or by the
Superintendent, of regulated pollutants in the discharge from each regulated
process. Instantaneous, daily maximum, and long-term average concen- trations,
or mass, where required, shall be reported. The sample shall be representative
of daily operations and shall be analyzed in accordance with procedures set out
in division (J) of this section; and
            3.   Sampling must be performed in accordance with procedures set
out in division (K) of this section.
         (f)   Certification. A statement, reviewed by the user’s authorized
representative and certified by a qualified professional, indicating whether
pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis, and, if not,
whether additional operation and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional
pretreatment is required to meet the pretreatment standards and requirements;
         (g)   Compliance schedule. If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will
be required to meet the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which
the user will provide that additional pretreatment and/or O&M. The completion
date in this schedule shall not be later than the compliance date established
for the applicable pretreatment standard. A compliance schedule pursuant to
this division must meet the requirements set out in division (B) of this
section; and
         (h)   Signature and certification. All baseline monitoring reports
must be signed and certified in accordance with division (A)(2)(f) of this
section.
   (B)   Compliance schedule progress reports. The following conditions shall
apply to the compliance schedule required by division (A)(2)(g) of this
section:
      (1)   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates
for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction
and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the
applicable pretreatment standards (which events include, but are not limited
to, hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans, executing
contracts for major components, commencing and completing construction, and
beginning and conducting routine operation);
      (2)   No increment referred to above shall exceed nine months;
      (3)   The user shall submit a progress report to the Superintendent no
later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and the final date of
compliance, including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress, the reason for any delay, and, if appropriate, the steps
being taken by the user to return to the established schedule; and
      (4)   In no event shall more than nine months elapse between these
progress reports to the Superintendent.
   (C)   Reports on compliance with categorical pretreatment standard deadline.
Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
categorical pretreatment standards, or in the case of a new source following
commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any user subject
to those pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to the
Superintendent a report containing the information described in divisions (A)
(2)(a) - (A)(2)(e) of this section. For users subject to equivalent mass or
concentration limits established in accordance with the procedures in 40 CFR
403.6(c), this report shall contain a reasonable measure of the user’s long-
term production rate. For all other users subject to categorical pretreatment
standards expressed in terms of allowable pollutant discharge per unit of
production (or other measure of operation), this report shall include the
user’s actual production during the appropriate sampling period. All compliance
reports must be signed and certified in accordance with division (A)(2)(f) of
this section.
   (D)   Periodic compliance reports.
      (1)   All significant industrial users shall, at a frequency determined
by the Superintendent but in no case less than twice per year (in June and
December), submit a report indicating the nature and concentration of
pollutants in the discharge which are limited by pretreatment standards and the
measured or estimated average and maximum daily flows for the reporting period.
In cases where the pretreatment standard requires compliance with BMP or
pollution prevention alternative, the user must submit documentation required
by the Superintendent or the pretreatment alternative necessary to determine
the compliance status of the user. All periodic compliance reports must be
signed and certified in accordance with division (A)(2)(f) of this section.
      (2)   All wastewater samples must be representative of the user’s
discharge. Wastewater monitoring and flow measurement facilities shall be
properly operated, kept clean, and maintained in good working order at all
times. The failure of a user to keep its monitoring facility in good working
order shall not be grounds for the user to claim that sample results are
unrepresentative of its discharge.
      (3)   If a user subject to the reporting requirement in this section
monitors any pollutant more frequently than required by the Superintendent,
using the procedures prescribed in division (K) of this section, the results of
this monitoring shall be included in the report.
   (E)   Reports of changed conditions. Each user must notify the
Superintendent of any planned significant changes to the user’s operations or
system which might alter the nature, quality, or volume of its wastewater at
least 60 days before the change.
      (1)   The Superintendent may require the user to submit information as
may be deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition, including the
submission of a wastewater discharge permit application under §
50.151 of this code.
      (2)   The Superintendent may issue a wastewater discharge permit under §
50.151 of this code or modify an existing wastewater discharge permit under §
50.151 in response to changed conditions or anticipated changed conditions.
      (3)   For purposes of this requirement, significant changes include, but
are not limited to, flow increases of 20% or greater, and the discharge of any
previously unreported pollutants.
   (F)   Reports of potential problems.
      (1)   In the case of any discharge, including, but not limited to,
accidental discharges, discharges of a nonroutine, episodic nature, a
noncustomary batch discharge, or a slug load, that may cause potential problems
for the POTW, the user shall immediately telephone and notify the
Superintendent of the incident. This notification shall include the location of
the discharge, type of waste, concentration and volume, if known, and
corrective actions taken by the user.
      (2)   Within five days following the discharge, the user shall, unless
waived by the Superintendent, submit a detailed written report describing the
cause(s) of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user to prevent
similar future occurrences. This notification shall not relieve the user of any
expense, loss, damage, or other liability which may be incurred as a result of
damage to the POTW, natural resources, or any other damage to person or
property; nor shall this notification relieve the user of any fines, penalties,
or other liability which may be imposed pursuant to this chapter.
      (3)   A notice shall be permanently posted on the user’s bulletin board
or other prominent place advising employees whom to call in the event of a
discharge described in division (F)(1) above. Employers shall ensure that all
employees, who may cause such a discharge to occur, are advised of the
emergency notification procedure.
      (4)   Significant industrial users are required to notify the
Superintendent immediately of any changes at its facility affecting the
potential for a slug discharge.
   (G)   Reports from unpermitted users. All users not required to obtain a
wastewater discharge permit shall provide appropriate reports to the
Superintendent as the Superintendent may require.
   (H)   Notice of violation; repeat sampling and reporting. If sampling
performed by a user indicates a violation, the user must notify the
Superintendent within 24 hours of becoming aware of the violation. The user
shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the results of the
repeat analysis to the Superintendent within 30 days after becoming aware of
the violation. The user is not required to resample if the Superintendent
monitors at the user’s facility at least once a month, or if the Superintendent
samples between the user’s initial sampling and when the user receives the
results of this sampling or if the Superintendent has performed the sampling
and analysis in lieu of the industrial user.
   (I)   Discharge of hazardous waste prohibited. The discharge of hazardous
wastes to the city sewer treatment and collections system is prohibited.
   (J)   Analytical requirements. All pollutant analyses, including sampling
techniques, to be submitted as part of a wastewater discharge permit
application or report shall be performed in accordance with the techniques
prescribed in 40 CFR 136, unless otherwise specified in an applicable
categorical pretreatment standard. If 40 CFR 136 does not contain sampling or
analytical techniques for the pollutant in question, sampling and analyses must
be performed in accordance with procedures approved by the EPA.
   (K)   Sample collection.
      (1)   Except as indicated in division (K)(2) and (K)(3) below, the user
must collect wastewater samples using 24-hour flow proportional composite
collection techniques. In the event flow proportional sampling is infeasible,
the Superintendent may authorize the use of time proportional sampling or grab
sampling where the user demonstrates that this will provide a representative
sample of the effluent being discharged. Using protocols (including appropriate
preservation) specified in 40 C.F.R. Part 136 and appropriate E.P.A. guidance,
multiple grab samples collected during a 24-hour period may be composited prior
to the analysis as follows: for cyanide, total phenols, and sulfides the
samples may be composited in the laboratory or in the field; for volatile
organics and oil the samples may be composited in the laboratory. Composite
samples for other parameters unaffected by the compositing procedures as
documented in approved E.P.A. methodologies may be authorized by the
Superintendent, as appropriate. In addition, grab samples may be required to
show compliance with instantaneous discharge limits.
      (2)   Samples for oil and grease, temperature, pH, cyanide, phenols,
sulfides, and volatile organic compounds must be obtained using grab collection
techniques.
      (3)   For sampling required in support of baseline monitoring and 90-day
compliance reports required in divisions (A) and (C) (40 C.F.R. 403.12(b) and
(d)), a minimum of four grab samples must be used for pH, cyanide, total
phenols, oil and grease, sulfide, and volatile organic compounds for facilities
for which historical sampling data do not exist; for facilities for which
historical sampling data are available, the Superintendent may authorize a
lower minimum. For reports required by division (D) (40 C.F.R. 403.12(e) and
(h)), the industrial user is required to collect the number of grab samples
necessary to assess and assure compliance with applicable pretreatment
standards and requirements.
   (L)   Timing. Written reports will be deemed to have been submitted on the
date postmarked. For reports which are not mailed, postage prepaid, into a mail
facility serviced by the U.S. Postal Service, the date of receipt of the report
shall govern.
   (M)   Record keeping. Users subject to the reporting requirements of this
section shall retain, and make available for inspection and copying, all
records of information obtained pursuant to any monitoring activities required
by this subchapter and any additional records of information obtained pursuant
to monitoring activities undertaken by the user independent of these
requirements and documentation associated with BMP's. Records shall include the
date, exact place, method, and time of sampling, and the name of the person(s)
taking the samples; the dates analyses were performed; who performed the
analyses; the analytical techniques or methods used; and the results of the
analyses. These records shall remain available for a period of at least three
years. This period shall be automatically extended for the duration of any
litigation concerning the user or the city, or where the user has been
specifically notified of a longer retention period by the Superintendent.
   (N)   Compliance date report. Within 90 days following the date for final
compliance by the discharger with applicable pretreatment standards set forth
in this chapter or 90 days following commencement of the introduction of
wastewater into the POTW by a new discharger, any discharger subject to this
chapter shall submit to the Authority a report indicating the nature and
concentration of all prohibited or regulated substances contained in its
discharge, and the average and maximum daily flow in gallons. The report shall
state whether the applicable pretreatment standards or requirements are being
met on a consistent basis, and, if not, what additional O&M and/or pretreatment
is necessary to bring the discharger into compliance with the applicable
pretreatment standards or requirements. This statement shall be signed by an
authorized representative of the discharger and certified by a qualified
engineer.
(1987 Code, § 9-26) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000; Am. Ord. 22, 2012, passed 10-22-
2012)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.148 MONITORING FACILITIES.
   (A)   Each discharger shall provide and operate at the discharger’s own
expense, a monitoring facility to allow inspection, sampling, and flow
measurement of each sewer discharge to the Authority. Each monitoring facility
shall be situated on the discharger’s premises, except where such a location
would be impractical or cause undue hardship on the discharger, the Authority
may concur with the facility being constructed in the public street or sidewalk
area providing that the facility is located so that it will not be obstructed
by landscaping or parked vehicles. There shall be ample room in or near the
sampling facility to allow accurate sampling and preparation of samples for
analysis. The facility, sampling and measuring equipment shall be maintained at
all times in a safe and proper operating condition at the expense of the
discharger. All monitoring facilities shall be constructed and maintained in
accordance with all applicable local construction standards and specifications.
Construction shall be completed within 120 days of receipt of permit by the
discharger.
   (B)   All sewers shall have an inspection and sampling manhole or structure
with an opening of no less than 24 inches in diameter and an internal diameter
of no less than 36 inches containing flow measuring, recording, and sampling
equipment as required by the Authority to assure compliance with this chapter.
(1987 Code, § 9-27) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
§ 50.149 INSPECTION AND SAMPLING; RIGHT OF ACCESS.
   The Authority may inspect the monitoring facilities of any discharger to
determine compliance with the requirements of this chapter. The discharger
shall allow the Authority or its representatives, upon presentation of
credentials of identification, to enter upon the premises of the discharger at
all reasonable hours, for the purpose of inspection, sampling, or records
examination. The Authority shall have the right to set up on the discharger’s
property devices as are necessary to conduct sampling, inspection, compliance
monitoring, and metering operations.
(1987 Code, § 9-28) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
§ 50.150 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, surveys,
wastewater discharge permit applications, wastewater discharge permits, and
monitoring programs, and from the Superintendent’s inspection and sampling
activities, shall be available to the public without restriction, unless the
user specifically requests, and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of
the Superintendent, that the release of that information would divulge
information, processes, or methods of production entitled to protection as
trade secrets under applicable state law. Any such request must be asserted at
the time of submission of the information or data.
   (B)   When requested and demonstrated by the user furnishing a report that
this information should be held confidential, the portions of a report which
might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made available
for inspection by the public, but shall be made available immediately upon
request to governmental agencies for uses related to the NPDES program or
pretreatment program, and in enforcement proceedings involving the person
furnishing the report. Wastewater constituents and characteristics and other
effluent data as defined by 40 CFR 2.302 will not be recognized as confidential
information and will be available to the public without restriction.
   (C)   Trade secrets or secret process shall not be made available upon
written request to governmental agencies for uses related to this chapter, the
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) Permit, State Disposal
System permit, and/or the Pretreatment Programs, provided, however, that such
portions of a report shall be available for use by the state or any state
agency in judicial review or enforcement proceedings involving the discharger
furnishing the report. Wastewater constituents and characteristics will not be
recognized as confidential information. Information accepted by the Authority
as confidential, shall not be transmitted to any governmental agency or to the
general public by the Authority until and unless a ten-day notification is
given to the discharger.
(1987 Code, § 9-29) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
§ 50.151 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT.
   (A)   Wastewater discharge permit duration. A wastewater discharge permit
shall be issued for a specified time period, not to exceed five years from the
effective date of the permit. A wastewater discharge permit may be issued for a
period less than five years, at the discretion of the Superintendent. Each
wastewater discharge permit will indicate a specific date upon which it will
expire.
   (B)   Wastewater discharge permit contents. A wastewater discharge permit
shall include conditions as are deemed reasonably necessary by the
Superintendent to prevent pass through or interference, protect the quality of
the water body receiving the treatment plant’s effluent, protect worker health
and safety, facilitate sludge management and disposal, and protect against
damage to the POTW.
      (1)   Wastewater discharge permits must contain:
         (a)   A statement that indicates wastewater discharge permit duration,
which in no event shall exceed five years;
         (b)   A statement that the wastewater discharge permit is
nontransferable without prior notification to the city in accordance with
division (E) of this section, and provisions for furnishing the new owner or
operator with a copy of the existing wastewater discharge permit;
         (c)   Effluent limits including BMP's based on applicable pretreatment
standards;
         (d)   Self-monitoring, sampling, repor- ting, notification, and
record-keeping requirements. These requirements shall include an identification
of pollutants to be monitored, sampling location, sampling frequency, and
sample type based on federal, state, and local law; and
         (e)   A statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for
violation of pretreatment standards and requirements, and any applicable
compliance schedule. The schedule may not extend the time for compliance beyond
that required by applicable federal, state, or local law.
         (f)   Requirements to control slug discharge, if determined by the
Superintendent to be necessary.
      (2)   Wastewater discharge permits may contain, but need not be limited
to, the following conditions:
         (a)   Limits on the average and/or maximum rate of discharge, time of
discharge, and/or requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
         (b)   Requirements for the installation of pretreatment technology,
pollution control, or construction of appropriate containment devices, designed
to reduce, eliminate, or prevent the introduction of pollutants into the
treatment works;
         (c)   Requirements for the development and implementation of spill
control plans or other special conditions including management practices
necessary to adequately prevent accidental, unanticipated, or nonroutine
discharges;
         (d)   Development and implementation of waste minimization plans to
reduce the amount of pollutants discharged to the POTW;
         (e)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
management of the wastewater discharged to the POTW;
         (f)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities and equipment;
         (g)   A statement that compliance with the wastewater discharge permit
does not relieve the permittee of responsibility for compliance with all
applicable federal and state pretreatment standards, including those which
become effective during the term of the wastewater discharge permit; and
         (h)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the Superintendent to
ensure compliance with this chapter, and state and federal laws, rules, and
regulations.
   (C)   Wastewater discharge permit appeals. The Superintendent shall provide
public notice of the issuance of a wastewater discharge permit. Any person,
including the user, may petition the Superintendent to reconsider the terms of
a wastewater discharge permit within 30 days of notice of its issuance.
      (1)   Failure to submit a timely petition for review shall be deemed to
be a waiver of the administrative appeal.
      (2)   In its petition, the appealing party must indicate the wastewater
discharge permit provisions objected to, the reasons for this objection, and
the alternative condition, if any, it seeks to place in the wastewater
discharge permit.
      (3)   The effectiveness of the wastewater discharge permit shall not be
stayed pending the appeal.
      (4)   If the Superintendent fails to act within 90 days, a request for
reconsideration shall be deemed to be denied. Decisions not to reconsider a
wastewater discharge permit, not to issue a wastewater discharge permit, or not
to modify a wastewater discharge permit shall be considered final
administrative actions for purposes of judicial review.
      (5)   Aggrieved parties seeking judicial review of the final
administrative wastewater discharge permit decision must do so by filing a
complaint with the Superior or Circuit Court within 30 days after final
administrative action, pursuant to I.C. 4-21.5-5-5.
   (D)   Wastewater discharge permit modification. The Superintendent may
modify a wastewater discharge permit for good cause, including, but not limited
to, the following reasons:
      (1)   To incorporate any new or revised federal, state, or local
pretreatment standards or requirements;
      (2)   To address significant alterations or additions to the user’s
operation, processes, or wastewater volume or character since the time of
wastewater discharge permit issuance;
      (3)   A change in the POTW that requires either a temporary or permanent
reduction or elimination of the authorized discharge;
      (4)   Information indicating that the permitted discharge poses a threat
to the city’s POTW, city personnel, or the receiving waters;
      (5)   Violation of any terms or conditions of the wastewater discharge
permit;
      (6)   Misrepresentations or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts
in the wastewater discharge permit application or in any required reporting;
      (7)   Revision of or a grant of variance from categorical pretreatment
standards pursuant to 40 CFR 403.13;
      (8)   To correct typographical or other errors in the wastewater
discharge permit; or
      (9)   To reflect a transfer of the facility ownership or operation to a
new owner or operator.
   (E)   Wastewater discharge permit transfer. Wastewater discharge permits may
be transferred to a new owner or operator only if the permittee gives at least
90 days’ advance notice to the Superintendent and the Superintendent approves
the wastewater discharge permit transfer.
      (1)   The notice to the Superintendent must include a written
certification by the new owner or operator which:
         (a)   States that the new owner and/or operator has no immediate
intent to change the facility’s operations and processes;
         (b)   Identifies the specific date on which the transfer is to occur;
and
         (c)   Acknowledges full responsibility for complying with the existing
wastewater discharge permit.
      (2)   Failure to provide advance notice of a transfer renders the
wastewater discharge permit void as of the date of facility transfer.
   (F)   Wastewater discharge permit revocation.
      (1)   The Superintendent may revoke a wastewater discharge permit for
good cause, including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
         (a)   Failure to notify the Superintendent of significant changes to
the wastewater prior to the changed discharge;
         (b)   Failure to provide prior notification to the Superintendent of
changed conditions pursuant to §
50.147(E) of this code;
         (c)   Misrepresentation or failure to fully disclose all relevant
facts in the wastewater discharge permit application;
         (d)   Falsifying self-monitoring reports;
         (e)   Tampering with monitoring equipment;
         (f)   Refusing to allow the Super- intendent timely access to the
facility premises and records;
         (g)   Failure to meet effluent limitations;
         (h)   Failure to pay fines;
         (i)   Failure to pay sewer charges;
         (j)   Failure to meet compliance schedules;
         (k)   Failure to complete a wastewater survey or the wastewater
discharge permit application;
         (l)   Failure to provide advance notice of the transfer of business
ownership of a permitted facility; or
         (m)   Violation of any pretreatment standard or requirement, or any
terms of the wastewater discharge permit or this chapter.
      (2)   Wastewater discharge permits shall be voidable upon cessation of
operations or transfer of business ownership. All wastewater discharge permits
issued to a particular user are void upon the issuance of a new wastewater
discharge permit to that user.
   (G)   Wastewater discharge permit reissuance. A user with an expiring
wastewater discharge permit shall apply for wastewater discharge permit
reissuance by submitting a complete permit application, in accordance with this
section, a minimum of 180 days prior to the expiration of the user’s existing
wastewater discharge permit.
   (H)   Regulation of waste received from other jurisdictions.
      (1)   If another municipality, or user located within another
municipality, contributes wastewater to the POTW, the Superintendent shall
enter into an intermunicipal agreement with the contributing municipality.
      (2)   Prior to entering into an agreement required by division (H)(1)
above, the Superintendent shall request the following information from the
contributing municipality:
         (a)   A description of the quality and volume of wastewater discharged
to the POTW by the contributing municipality;
         (b)   An inventory of all users located within the contributing
municipality that are discharging to the POTW; and
         (c)   Other information as the Superintendent may deem necessary.
      (3)   An intermunicipal agreement, as required by division (H)(1) above,
shall contain the following conditions:
         (a)   A requirement for the contributing municipality to adopt a sewer
use ordinance which is at least as stringent as this chapter and local limits
which are at least stringent as those set out in §
50.090 of this code. The requirement shall specify that the ordinance and
limits must be revised as necessary to reflect changes made to the city’s
ordinance or local limits;
         (b)   A requirement for the contributing municipality to submit a
revised user inventory on at least an annual basis;
          (c)   A provision specifying which pretreatment implementation
activities, including wastewater discharge permit issuance, inspection and
sampling, and enforcement, will be conducted by the contributing municipality;
which of these activities will be conducted by the Superintendent; and which of
these activities will be conducted jointly by the contributing municipality and
the Superintendent;
         (d)   A requirement for the contributing municipality to provide the
Superintendent with access to all information that the contributing
municipality obtains as part of its pretreatment activities;
         (e)   Limits on the nature, quality, and volume of the contributing
municipality’s wastewater at the point where it discharges to the POTW;
         (f)   Requirements for monitoring the contributing municipality’s
discharge;
         (g)   A provision ensuring the Superintendent access to the facilities
of users located within the contributing municipality’s jurisdictional
boundaries for the purpose of inspection, sampling, and any other duties deemed
necessary by the Superintendent; and
         (h)   A provision specifying remedies available for breach of the
terms of the intermunicipal agreement.
(1987 Code, § 9-30) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000; Am. Ord. 22, 2012, passed 10-22-
2012)
§ 50.152 RECORDS; THREE-YEAR RETENTION REQUIREMENT.
   All dischargers subject to this chapter shall retain and preserve for no
less than three years, any records, books, documents, memoranda, reports, cor-
respondence, and any and all summaries thereof, relating to monitoring,
sampling, and chemical analysis made by or in behalf of a discharger in
connection with its discharge. All records which pertain to matters which are
the subject of administrative adjustment or any other enforcement or litigation
activities brought by the Authority pursuant hereto shall be retained and
preserved by the discharger until all enforcement activities have concluded and
all periods of limitation with respect to any and all appeals have expired.
(1987 Code, § 9-47) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
§ 50.153 CREDITS AND ADJUSTMENTS.
   (A)   Removal credits. Where applicable, the Authority may elect to initiate
a program of removal credits as part of this chapter to reflect the POTW’s
ability to remove pollutants in accordance with 40 CFR 403.7.
(1987 Code, § 9-50)
   (B)   Net and gross calculations. The Authority may elect to adjust
categorical pretreatment standards to reflect the presence of pollutants in the
discharger’s intake water, in accordance with 40 CFR 403.15.
(1987 Code, § 9-51)
(Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
§ 50.154 EMERGENCY SUSPENSION.
   (A)   The Superintendent may immediately suspend a user’s discharge, after
informal notice to the user, whenever the suspension is necessary to stop an
actual or threatened discharge which reasonably appears to present or cause an
imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons. The
Superintendent may also immediately suspend a user’s discharge, after notice
and opportunity to respond, that threatens to interfere with the operation of
the POTW, or which presents, or may present, an endangerment to the
environment.
   (B)   Any user notified of a suspension of its discharge shall immediately
stop or eliminate its contribution. In the event of a user’s failure to
immediately comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the Superintendent
may take steps as deemed necessary, including immediate severance of the sewer
connection, to prevent or minimize damage to the POTW, its receiving stream, or
endangerment to any individuals. The Superintendent may allow the user to
recommence its discharge when the user has demonstrated to the satisfaction of
the Superintendent that the period of endangerment has passed, unless the
termination proceedings in §
50.155 of this code are initiated against the user.
   (C)   A user that is responsible, in whole or in part, for any discharge
presenting imminent endangerment shall submit a detailed written statement,
describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures taken to
prevent any future occurrence, to the Superintendent prior to the date of any
show cause or termination hearing under §§
50.155 or
50.158 of this code.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as requiring a hearing
prior to any emergency suspension under this section.
(1987 Code, § 9-32) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
§ 50.155 REVOCATION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   In addition to the provisions in §
50.151(F) of this code, any user who violates the following conditions is
subject to discharge termination:
      (1)   Violation of wastewater discharge permit conditions;
      (2)   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of its discharge;
      (3)   Failure to report significant changes in operations or wastewater
volume, constituents, and characteristics prior to discharge;
      (4)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises for the purpose
of inspection, monitoring, or sampling; or
      (5)   Violation of the pretreatment standards in §§
50.085 et seq. of this code.
   (B)   The user will be notified of the proposed termination of its discharge
and be offered an opportunity to show cause under §
50.158 of this code why the proposed action should not be taken.
   (C)   Exercise of this option by the Superintendent shall not be a bar to,
or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
(1987 Code, § 9-33) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
§ 50.156 NOTICE OF VIOLATION; ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUSTMENTS.
   (A)   Notice of violation. When the Superintendent finds that a user has
violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, a wastewater
discharge permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard
or requirement, the Superintendent may serve upon that user a written notice of
violation. Within 30 days of the receipt of this notice, an explanation of the
violation and a plan for the satisfactory correction and prevention thereof, to
include specific required actions, shall be submitted by the user to the
Superintendent. Submission of this plan in no way relieves the user of
liability for any violations occurring before or after receipt of the notice of
violation. Nothing in this section shall limit the authority of the
Superintendent to take any action, including emergency actions or any other
enforcement action, without first issuing a notice of violation.
   (B)   Compliance order. When the Superintendent finds that a user has
violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, a wastewater
discharge permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard
or requirement, the Superintendent may issue an order to the user responsible
for the discharge directing that the user come into compliance within a
specified time. If the user does not come into compliance within the time
provided, sewer service may be discontinued unless adequate treatment
facilities, devices, or other related appurtenances are installed and properly
operated. Compliance orders also may contain other requirements to address the
noncompliance, including additional self-monitoring and management practices
designed to minimize the amount of pollutants discharged to the sewer. A
compliance order may not extend the deadline for compliance established for a
pretreatment standard or requirement, nor does a compliance order relieve the
user of liability for any violation, including any continuing violation.
Issuance of a compliance order shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite
for, taking any other action against the user.
   (C)   Cease and desist orders.
      (1)   When the Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or
continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge
permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, or that the user’s past violations are likely to recur, the
Superintendent may issue an order to the user directing it to cease and desist
all violations and directing the user to:
         (a)   Immediately comply with all requirements; and
         (b)   Take appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be needed
to properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including halting
operations and terminating the discharge.
      (2)   Issuance of a cease and desist order shall not be a bar against, or
a prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
   (D)   Administrative fines.
      (1)   When the Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or
continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge
permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the Superintendent may fine that user. These fines shall be
assessed on a per violation, per day basis. In the case of monthly or other
long-term average discharge limits, fines shall be assessed for each day during
the period of violation.
      (2) Unpaid charges, fines, and penalties shall, after 90 calendar days,
be assessed an additional penalty of 10% of the unpaid balance, and interest
shall accrue thereafter at a rate of 1% per month. A lien against the user’s
property will be sought for unpaid charges, fines, and penalties.
      (3)   Users desiring to dispute these fines must file a written request
for the Superintendent to reconsider the fine along with full payment of the
fine amount within 30 days of being notified of the fine. Where a request has
merit, the Superintendent may convene a hearing on the matter. In the event the
user’s appeal is successful, the payment, together with any interest accruing
thereto, shall be returned to the user. The Superintendent may add the costs of
preparing administrative enforcement actions, such as notices and orders, to
the fine.
      (4)   Issuance of an administrative fine shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
(1987 Code, § 9-34) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.157 CONSENT ORDERS.
   The Superintendent may enter into consent orders, assurances of voluntary
compliance, or other similar documents establishing an agreement with any user
responsible for noncompliance. The documents will include specific action to be
taken by the user to correct the noncompliance within a time period specified
by the document. These documents shall have the same force and effect as the
administrative orders issued pursuant to §§
50.156(B) and
50.156(C) of this code and shall be judicially enforceable.
(1987 Code, § 9-34.1) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
§ 50.158 SHOW CAUSE HEARING.
   The Superintendent may order a user which has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit or order
issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, to appear
before the Superintendent and show cause why the proposed enforcement action
should not be taken. Notice shall be served on the user specifying the time and
place for the meeting, the proposed enforcement action, the reasons for the
action, and a request that the user show cause why the proposed enforcement
action should not be taken. The notice of the meeting shall be served
personally or by registered or certified mail (return receipt requested) at
least 30 days prior to the hearing. The notice may be served on any authorized
representative of the user. A show cause hearing shall not be a bar against, or
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
(1987 Code, § 9-35) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
§ 50.159 JUDICIAL PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   Judicial action authorized. Following the entry of any order by the
Authority with respect to the conduct of a discharger contrary to the
provisions of §
50.155 of this code, the City Attorney, following the authorization of the
action by the Authority, may commence an action for appropriate legal and/or
equitable relief in the appropriate local court.
   (B)   Injunctive relief. When the Superintendent finds that a user has
violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, a wastewater
discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard
or requirement, the Superintendent may petition the appropriate court through
the City Attorney for the issuance of a temporary or permanent injunction, as
appropriate, which restrains or compels the specific performance of the
wastewater discharge permit, order, or other requirement imposed by this
chapter on activities of the user. The Superintendent may also seek other
action as is appropriate for legal or equitable relief, including a requirement
for the user to conduct environmental remediation. A petition for injunctive
relief shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other
action against a user.
(1987 Code, § 9-36) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
§ 50.160 ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS; ANNUAL PUBLICATION.
   (A)   The Superintendent shall publish annually, in the largest daily
newspaper published in the municipality where the POTW is located, a list of
the users which, during the previous 12 months, were in significant
noncompliance with applicable pre- treatment standards and requirements.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE. Includes:
         (a)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here
as those in which 66% or more of wastewater measurements taken for the same
pollutant parameter during a six-month period exceed a numeric pretreatment
standard or requirements, including instantaneous limits, by any amount;
         (b)   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as
those in which 33% or more of wastewater measurements taken for each pollutant
parameter during a six-month period equals or exceeds the product of the
numeric pretreatment standard or requirement, including instantaneous limits,
multiplied by the applicable criteria (1.4 for BOD, TSS, fats, oils, and
grease, and 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH);
         (c)   Any other violation of a pretreatment standard or requirement
that the Superintendent believes has caused, alone or in combination with other
discharges, interference or pass through, including endangering the health of
POTW personnel or the general public;
         (d)   Any discharge of pollutants that has caused imminent
endangerment to the public or to the environment, or has resulted in the
Superintendent’s exercise of emergency authority to halt or prevent such a
discharge;
         (e)   Failure to meet, within 90 days of the scheduled date, a
compliance schedule milestone contained in a wastewater discharge permit or
enforcement order for starting construction, completing construction, or
attaining final compliance;
         (f)   Failure to provide within 30 days after the due date, any
required reports, including baseline monitoring reports, reports on compliance
with categorical pretreatment standard deadlines, periodic self-monitoring
reports, and reports on compliance with compliance schedules;
         (g)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
         (h)   Any other violation(s) which the Superintendent determines will
adversely affect the operation or implementation of the local pretreatment
program.
(1987 Code, § 9-37) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000; Am. Ord. 22, 2012, passed 10-22-
2012)
§ 50.161 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   Any discharger or any interested party shall have the right to request in
writing an interpretation or ruling by the Authority on any matter covered by
this chapter, and shall be entitled to a prompt written reply. In the event
that an inquiry is by a discharger and deals with matters of performance or
compliance with this chapter for which enforcement activity relating to an
alleged violation is the subject, receipt of a discharger’s request shall stay
all enforcement proceedings pending receipt of the aforementioned written
reply. Appeal of any final judicial order entered pursuant to this chapter may
be taken in accordance with state law.
(1987 Code, § 9-38) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
§ 50.162 OPERATING UPSETS DEFENSE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      UPSET. An exceptional incident in which there is unintentional and
temporary noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards because of
factors beyond the reasonable control of the user. An UPSET does not include
noncompliance to the extent caused by operational error, improperly designed
treatment facilities, inadequate treatment facilities, lack of preventive
maintenance, or careless or improper operation.
   (B)   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action brought
for noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards if the requirements
of division (C), below, are met.
   (C)   A user who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset shall
demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs, or other
relevant evidence, that:
      (1)   An upset occurred and the user can identify the cause(s) of the
upset;
      (2)   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workmanlike manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures; and
      (3)   The user has submitted the following information to the
Superintendent within 24 hours of becoming aware of the upset (if this
information is provided orally, a written submission must be provided within
five days):
         (a)   A description of the indirect discharge and cause of
noncompliance;
         (b)   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times or,
if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue; and
         (c)   Steps being taken or planned to reduce, eliminate, and prevent
recurrence of the noncompliance.
   (D)   In any enforcement proceeding, the user seeking to establish the
occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
   (E)   Users will have the opportunity for a judicial determination on any
claim of upset only in an enforcement action brought for noncompliance with
categorical pretreatment standards.
   (F)   Users shall control production of all discharges to the extent
necessary to maintain compliance with categorical pretreatment standards upon
reduction, loss, or failure of its treatment facility until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost, or fails.
(1987 Code, § 9-39) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
§ 50.163 PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS DEFENSE.
   A user shall have an affirmative defense to an enforcement action brought
against it for noncompliance with the general prohibitions or the specific
prohibitions in §§
50.085 -
50.090 of this code if it can prove that it did not know, or have reason to
know, that its discharge, alone or in conjunction with discharges from other
sources, would cause pass through or interference and that either:
   (A)   A local limit exists for each pollutant discharged and the user was in
compliance with each limit directly prior to, and during, the pass through or
interference; or
   (B)   No local limit exists, but the discharge did not change substantially
in nature or constituents from the user’s prior discharge when the city was
regularly in compliance with its NPDES permit, and in the case of interference,
was in compliance with applicable sludge use or disposal requirements.
(1987 Code, § 9-40) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
§ 50.164 BYPASS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BYPASS. The intentional diversion of wastestreams from any portion of a
user’s treatment facility.
      SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE. Substantial physical damage to property, damage
to the treatment facilities which causes them to become inoperable, or
substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can reasonably be
expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE does not
mean economic loss caused by delays in production.
   (B)   A user may allow any bypass to occur which does not cause pretreatment
standards or requirements to be violated, but only if it also is for essential
maintenance to assure efficient operation. These bypasses are not subject to
the provisions of divisions (C) and (D) of this section.
   (C)   (1)   If a user knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it shall
submit prior notice to the Superintendent, at least ten days before the date of
the bypass, if possible.
      (2)   A user shall submit oral notice to the Superintendent of an
unanticipated bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment standards within 24
hours from the time it becomes aware of the bypass. A written submission shall
also be provided within five days of the time the user becomes aware of the
bypass. The written submission shall contain a description of the bypass and
its cause; the duration of the bypass, including exact dates and times, and, if
the bypass has not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected to
continue; and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate, and prevent
reoccurrence of the bypass. The Superintendent may waive the written report on
a case-by-case basis if the oral report has been received within 24 hours.
   (D)   (1)   Bypass is prohibited, and the Superintendent may take an
enforcement action against a user for a bypass, unless:
         (a)   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury,
or severe property damage;
         (b)   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the
use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes, or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate back-up equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and
         (c)   The user submitted notices as required under division (C) of
this section.
      (2)   The Superintendent may approve an anticipated bypass, after
considering its adverse effects, if the Superintendent determines that it will
meet the three conditions listed in division (D)(1) of this section.
(1987 Code, § 9-41) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.165 FALSIFYING INFORMATION UNLAWFUL.
   Any person who knowingly makes any false statement, representation, or
certification in any application, record, report, plan, or other document filed
or required to be maintained pursuant to this chapter, or who falsifies,
tampers with, or knowingly renders inaccurate any monitoring device or method
required under this chapter, shall, upon conviction, be punished by the
imposition of a civil penalty.
(1987 Code, § 9-44) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.166 VIOLATIONS; RECOVERY OF COSTS; REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   (A)   Civil penalties.
      (1)   A user who has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of
this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any
other pretreatment standard or requirement shall be liable to the city for a
fine, per violation, per day. In the case of a monthly or other long-term
average discharge limit, penalties shall accrue for each day during the period
of the violation.
      (2)   The Superintendent may recover reasonable attorney’s fees, court
costs, and other expenses associated with enforcement activities, including
sampling and monitoring expenses, and the cost of any actual damages incurred
by the city.
      (3)   In determining the amount of civil liability, the court shall take
into account all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to, the
extent of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration of the
violation, any economic benefit gained through the user’s violation, corrective
actions by the user, the compliance history of the user, and any other factor
as justice requires.
      (4)   Filing a suit for civil penalties shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user.
(1987 Code, § 9-42)
   (B)   Remedies not exclusive. The remedies provided for in this section are
not exclusive. The Superintendent may take any, all, or any combination of
these actions against a noncompliant user. Enforcement of pretreatment
violations will generally be in accordance with the city’s enforcement response
plan. However, the Superintendent may take other action against any user when
the circumstances warrant. Further, the Superintendent is empowered to take
more than one enforcement action against any noncompliant user.
(1987 Code, § 9-42.1)
   (C)   Recovery of costs incurred by the Authority. Any discharger violating
any of the provisions of this chapter or who discharges or causes a discharge
producing a deposit or obstruction, or causes damage to or impairs the
Authority’s wastewater disposal system, shall be liable to the Authority for
any expense, loss, or damage caused by that violation or discharge. The
Authority shall bill the discharger for the costs incurred by the Authority for
any cleaning, repair, or replacement work caused by the violation or discharge.
Refusal to pay the assessed costs shall constitute a violation of this chapter
enforceable under provisions of this section and §
50.165 of this code.
(1987 Code, § 9-43)
   (D)   Criminal prosecution.
      (1)   A user who willfully or negligently violates any provision of this
chapter, a wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable by a fine, per violation, per day.
      (2)   A user who willfully or negligently introduces any substance into
the POTW which causes personal injury or property damage shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a Class D felony and be subject to a penalty per day
per violation. This penalty shall be in addition to any other cause of action
for personal injury or property damage available under state law.
      (3)   A user who knowingly makes any false statements, representations,
or certifications in any application, record, report, plan, or other
documentation filed, or required to be maintained, pursuant to this chapter,
wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or who falsifies,
tampers with, or knowingly renders inaccurate any monitoring device or method
required under this chapter shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a Class B
misdemeanor and be punished by a fine per violation, per day.
(1987 Code, § 9-45)
(Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
Penalty, see § 10.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 50.180 PROPERTY DAMAGE.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance,
or equipment which is a part of the municipal sewage works. Any person
violating this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of
disorderly conduct.
(1987 Code, § 9-171) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.181 INSPECTION; RIGHT OF ACCESS; SAFETY RULES.
   (A)   Inspections. The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of
the city bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter all properties for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, and testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The
Superintendent or his or her representatives shall have no authority to inquire
into any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic,
paper, or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the
kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste
treatment.
(1987 Code, § 9-174)
   (B)   Safety rules. While performing the necessary work on private
properties referred to in division (A) above, the Superintendent or duly
authorized employees of the city shall observe all safety rules applicable to
the premises established by the company and the company shall be held harmless
for injury or death to the city employees and the city shall indemnify the
company against loss or damage to its property by city employees and against
liability claims and demands for personal injury or property damage asserted
against the company and growing out of the gauging and sampling operation,
except as these may be caused by negligence or failure of the company to
maintain safe conditions.
(1987 Code, § 9-175)
   (C)   Easements. The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of
the city bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter all private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated
easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage
works lying within the easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on the
easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly
negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(1987 Code, § 9-176)
(Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 50.195 WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEM CHARGES.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this section to provide for the payment
of fees from dischargers to the Authority’s wastewater disposal system, to
compensate the Authority for the administration cost of the pretreatment
program established herein.
(1987 Code, § 9-17)
   (B)   Yearly program fee.
      (1)   A yearly list of program industries will be drawn up for facilities
on a scheduled surveillance inspection and monitoring visits for the entire
fiscal year. The discharger will be given a designated number of visits
corresponding to the total number of scheduled yearly inspections and
monitoring days. A total number of visits will be derived for all dischargers
designed as program industries. Each discharger’s designated yearly visits will
be decided by the total number of visits to all program industries. The figure
derived will be adjusted to correspond to a percentage of the total number of
visits. The derived percentage is the discharger’s designated program use.
      (2)   The yearly projected program cost (cost of the equipped
surveillance vehicle operation, cost of in-plant industrial analysis, cost of
any outside lab industrial analysis, administrative cost, and any other program
cost deemed necessary by the Authority) will be multiplied by the discharger’s
designated program use percentage, and the number derived is the yearly fee
charged to the discharger.
(1987 Code, § 9-18)
   (C)   Charges for unscheduled inspection and monitoring visits.
      (1)   Inspection and monitoring fee: the quotient of the yearly program
cost divided by the number of total yearly scheduled discharger visits;
      (2)   Industrial discharger disclosure form: in the amount given in
Appendix B, Table G, of this chapter; and
      (3)   Flow measurement and/or sampling: the above inspection fee per set-
up and tear-down plus equipment rental plus manhole set-up cost.
(1987 Code, § 9-19)
   (D)   Additional charges. The following additional charges shall be
established yearly by the Authority:
      (1)   Laboratory fees for each parameter tested in both scheduled and
unscheduled analysis; and
      (2)   Rental rates for the use of the flow measuring equipment and the
automatic sampling equipment.
(1987 Code, § 9-20)
   (E)   Revision of charges and fees. Prior to January 1 of each year, the
Authority shall submit to the Board of Public Works and Safety a comparison of
the calculated yearly program costs, the yearly program dischargers and their
designated percentages, the yearly fee charged to the program dischargers, and
all other charges associated with the program. The Board may determine whether
the current charges and fees are adequate or should be changed by the City
Council.
(1987 Code, § 9-21)
(Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
§ 50.196 CHARGES BASED ON WATER USAGE; METERING.
   (A)   Water obtained from the city water company. The sewer charges made for
sewerage service rendered to each lot, parcel of real estate, or building
having any connection with the city’s sewerage system or otherwise discharging
sewage into that system, either directly or indirectly, shall be based upon the
quantity of water presumed to enter the public sewers after being used in or on
the property, as the quantity is measured by the water meter or meters therein
used by the city Water Company, except as herein otherwise provided.
(1987 Code, § 9-63)
   (B)   Water obtained from other sources. Where the property obtains any part
or all of the water used from sources other than the city Water Company, the
owner or the tenant may be required by the city to install and maintain at his
or her own expense a meter or meters acceptable to the city for the purpose of
measuring the quantity of water obtained from these other sources, or the city
may determine the quantity of that water by whatever means and methods it may
find practicable.
(1987 Code, § 9-64)
(Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
§ 50.197 EXEMPT WATER; METERING.
   Where a significant portion of the metered water does not and cannot enter
the sewerage system, either directly or indirectly, and where the quantity of
water entering the premises averages more than 20,000 gallons per month, the
person having charge of the property may request permission from the city to
install at his or her own expense either an approved meter or meters to
determine the quantity of water that cannot enter the sewerage system or an
approved sewage measuring device or devices to determine the volume of sewage
that actually enters the sewerage system; when appropriate, the city reserves
the right to determine by whatever other means and methods it may find
practicable the percentage of the property’s metered water that enters the
sewerage system. In any case, the user charge shall be applied to the quantity
of water that can or actually does enter the public sewers.
(1987 Code, § 9-65) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
§ 50.198 SEWAGE METER.
   (A)   The city may require a user to install and maintain at his or her own
expense an approved device to measure directly the volumes of wastes discharged
to the sewerage system if these volumes cannot otherwise be determined from the
metered-water consumption records.
   (B)   Any nonresidential user whose monthly water consumption is 2,000
gallons or more shall install a meter.
   (C)   The city shall inspect and approve these installations, and no such
service, once installed, shall be removed without the city’s approval.
(1987 Code, § 9-66) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
§ 50.199 SCHEDULE OF SEWAGE RATES.
   The municipal sanitation utility shall collect sewage charges from each
residential, commercial, industrial, or other user connected to the city sewer
system. These fees shall be for the collection of sanitary sewage, commercial
or industrial wastes, water, or other liquids discharged directly or indirectly
into the sewer system operated by the municipal sanitation utility. The rate
tables in
Appendix B of this chapter shall apply.
(1987 Code, § 9-69) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000; Am. Ord. 13, 2001, passed 5-14-
2001)
§ 50.200 MULTIPLE DWELLING UNITS.
   (A)   In the event two or more dwelling units such as trailers, apartments,
or housekeeping rooms discharging sanitary sewage, water, or other liquids into
the city’s sewerage system either directly or indirectly, are users of water
and the quantity of water is measured by a single water meter, then in that
case, billing shall be for a single service in the manner set out elsewhere
herein, except that the minimum bill shall not be less than the number of these
dwelling units times a minimum per month as set forth in
Appendix B, Table E, of this chapter.
   (B)   In the case of trailer parks the number of dwelling units shall be
computed and interpreted as the total number of trailers located and installed
in the park plus any other dwelling units served through the meter. A dwelling
unit shall be interpreted as a room or rooms or any other space or spaces in
which cooking facilities are provided.
(1987 Code, § 9-70) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
§ 50.201 PROPERTIES THAT USE WELL WATER.
   Any property served by a water well and subject to the monthly sanitary
sewer charge for well customers as specified in Appendix B, Table D of this
chapter may install a water meter at the property owner’s expense and the
billing for sanitary sewer charges thereafter will be based on actual usage
figures.
(Ord. 17, 2014, passed 5-12-2014)
§ 50.201.1 INCENTIVE FOR WELL USERS TO INSTALL METERS.
   Any residential unit that is served by a water well, occupied by a single
resident and subject to the monthly sanitary sewer charge for well customers
may at the customer’s expense, install a water meter to be used to measure the
sanitary sewer usage at the residence. Upon filing proof with the Clerk-
Treasurer’s office of the installation of the water meter, the customer’s
sanitary sewer account shall be credited with the sum of $100.56 for units
within the corporate limits and $150.72 for residential units outside the
corporate limits of the City of Seymour.
(Ord. 24, 2014, passed 8-25-2014)
§ 50.202 OPTIONAL SUMMER ADJUSTMENTS FOR SANITARY SEWER USAGE.
   Monthly averaging of water usage for the months of February, March, and
April will be used as a test against the months of May, June, July, August, and
September, to determine if a user’s sanitary sewer bill should be adjusted as a
result of unusually high summertime water usage, some of which may not have
entered the sanitary sewer system.
(1987 Code, § 9-72) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000; Am. Ord. 18, 2001, passed 7-23-
2001; Am. Ord. 20, 2001, passed 8-27-2001; Ord. 17, 2014, passed 5-12-2014)
§ 50.203 WATER FOR FIRE PROTECTION.
   Where a metered water supply is used for fire protection as well as for
other uses, the city may, in its discretion, make adjustments in the minimum
charge and in the use charge as may be equitable.
(1987 Code, § 9-73) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
§ 50.204 SERVICE TO CITY.
   For the service rendered to the city, the city shall be subject to the same
sewer charges herein provided or to sewer charges established in harmony
therewith.
(1987 Code, § 9-74) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
§ 50.205 AMENDMENT.
   The user charges and debt service charges set forth in
Appendix B of this chapter shall be changed as necessary, annually by the City
Council in accordance with this chapter.
(1987 Code, § 9-75) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
§ 50.206 SPECIAL CONSIDERATION.
   The City Council directs the Board of Public Works and Safety to review for
purposes of approval or denial all special consideration bills in an amount
less than $5 delinquency charges imposed pursuant to § 50.207 or statements for
sewer charges when submitted by the recipient.
(1987 Code, § 9-76) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000; Am. Ord. 7, 2008, passed 4-14-2008)
§ 50.207 DELINQUENT PAYMENTS.
   (A)   If fees assessed against real property under I.C. 36-9-23 (as amended
from time to time) or any successor statute, are not paid within 30 days of the
date of billing, they are delinquent. A penalty of 10% of the amount of the
fees attaches to the delinquent fees. The amount of the fee, the penalty, and a
reasonable attorney’s fee may be recovered by the Seymour Municipal Sanitation
Utility in a civil action in the name of the municipality.
   (B)   Sewer user fees and late charges assessed against real property under
this section constitute a lien against the property assessed. The lien is
superior to all other liens except tax liens. Except as provided by state law,
the lien attaches when notice of the lien is filed in the County Recorder’s
office. A fee is not enforceable as a lien against a subsequent owner of
property unless the lien for the fee was recorded with the County Recorder
before the conveyance to the subsequent owner. If the property is conveyed
before the lien can be filed, the city shall notify the person who owned the
property at the time the fee became payable. The notice must inform the person
that payment, including penalty fees for delinquencies, is due within 15 days
after the date of the notice. If payment is not received within 180 days after
the date of the notice, the amount due may be expressed as a bad debt loss. A
lien attaches against real property occupied by someone other than the owner
only if the utility notified the owner within 20 days after the time the
utility fees became 60 days delinquent. However, the utility is required to
give notice to the owner only if the owner has given the general office of the
utility written notice of the address to which his or her notice is to be sent.
The city shall release: (1) liens filed with the County Recorder after the
recorded date of conveyance of the property; and (2) delinquent fees incurred
by the seller; upon receipt of a verified demand in writing from the purchaser.
The demand must state that the delinquent fees were not incurred by the
purchaser as a user, lessee, or previous owner, and that the purchaser has not
been paid by the seller for the delinquent fees.
   (C)   The city may foreclose a lien established by this section in order to
collect fees and penalties. The city shall recover the amount of the fees and
penalties, and a reasonable attorney’s fee. The court shall order the sale to
be made without relief from valuation or appraisement laws, all in accordance
with the applicable provisions of the Indiana Code.
(1987 Code, § 9-77) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000; Am. Ord. 10, 2005, passed 5-23-
2005; Am. Ord. 7, 2008, passed 4-14-2008)
Statutory reference:
   Late payment 10% penalty and attorney fees, see I.C. 36-9-23-31
§ 50.208 SENIOR CITIZEN REDUCTION.
   (A)   Senior citizens age 65 and over responsible for the payment of sewer
user fees shall be allowed a 20% reduction from their bill, if that bill is the
minimum bill allowable under this chapter.
   (B)   The 20% reduction is to be granted only upon proper application and
request by the user of the city’s sewage disposal services.
   (C)   The applicant must complete the appropriate application form and
income verification form demonstrating that his or her income is at most 150%,
or less, of the poverty level as determined by the U.S. Department of Health
and Human Services.
   (D)   This section also applies to well users age 65 and over with minimum
bills and who properly request a reduction provided for herein.
(1987 Code, § 9-77.1) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
§ 50.209 NEW TAP FEE.
   The tap-on fee for all new connections to the sanitary system will be in an
amount per connection as set forth in
Appendix B, Table G, of this chapter. The city will provide that all new
connections will be inspected and approved prior to construction proceeding on
any new building or addition.
(1987 Code, § 9-77.2) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
§ 50.210 STRENGTH-OF-WASTES SURCHARGE.
   (A)   Liability for surcharge. Each industrial or non-industrial user who
discharges wastes into the sewerage system shall be subject to a surcharge, in
addition to the regular sewer charges, based on the biochemical oxygen demand,
phosphorus, ammonia, and suspended solids content of the wastes, if these
wastes have a concentration greater than the following:
      (1)   A biochemical oxygen demand of 200 mg/l;
      (2)   A phosphorus content of 5 mg/l;
      (3)   An ammonia content of 12 mg/l; or
      (4)   A suspended solids content of 250 mg/l.
(1987 Code, § 9-78)
   (B)   Computation of surcharge. The surcharge shall be determined as
follows:
      (1)   The excess pounds of BOD, phosphorus, ammonia, and suspended solids
will each be computed by first multiplying the customer’s billing sewage volume
measured in units of 100 cubic feet for the current billing period by the
factor 0.0062321 and then multiplying this product by the difference between:
         (a)   The concentrations measured in milligrams per liter of the BOD,
phosphorus, ammonia, and suspended solids respectively in the customer’s
sewage; and
         (b)   The allowed concentrations set out in division (A) above.
      (2)   The surcharge for each constituent will then be determined by
multiplying the excess pounds of each constituent by the appropriate rate of
surcharge set out in division (C) below.
(1987 Code, § 9-79)
   (C)   Rates of surcharge. The rate of surcharge for each of the
aforementioned constituents shall be as set forth in
Appendix B, Table F, of this chapter.
(1987 Code, § 9-80)
   (D)   Revision of rates of surcharge. Prior to May 1 of each year, the
Clerk-Treasurer shall submit to the Board of Public Works and Safety a
comparison of the calculated unit costs for removing BOD, phosphorus, ammonia,
and suspended solids from the wastewater treatment plant influent during the
previous calendar year with the unit charges currently in effect in order that
the Board may determine whether the current rates of surcharge are adequate or
should be changed by the City Council.
(1987 Code, § 9-81)
(Ord. passed 6-26-2000; Am. Ord. 13, 2001, passed 5-14-2001)
§ 50.211 BILLING.
   (A)   Billing period. Sewer charges for sewerage service shall be prepared
and billed by the city and shall be due and payable as determined by the Board
of Public Works and Safety.
(1987 Code, § 9-84)
   (B)   First billings. The sewer charges and surcharges fixed in this
subchapter shall be extended to and cover any additional premises hereafter
served without the need for any hearing or notice. If the first billing to a
new customer covers a period other than a full billing month, then the sewer
charges for that billing shall be made in keeping with standard practice.
Subsequent sewerage service billings shall be for periods coinciding with the
billing periods established by the Board of Public Works and Safety. If the
sewer charges or surcharges are changed, the first billing after the change may
also be for a period other than a full billing month.
(1987 Code, § 9-86)
(Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
§ 50.212 RESPONSIBILITY FOR PAYMENT.
   (A)   The sanitary sewer charges, stormwater utility charges and monthly
landfill fees for residential rental properties containing less than ten units
shall be billed to the person being billed for water service and mailed to the
address of the property owner.
   (B)   Landlords who own more than ten rental units, in one complex or on one
parcel, will have the option of having the monthly sanitation and stormwater
fees and the monthly landfill fee being mailed directly to them or to the
individual renters. In instances where the stormwater fees are calculated for
an entire complex, or parcel of land, said stormwater bills will still be sent
to the landlords as the property owners. If the bills are mailed to the renters
this does not alleviate the property owner of the ultimate responsibility of
payment of the bill.
   (C)   The sanitary and stormwater utility fees and monthly landfill fees for
commercial and industrial properties shall be billed to the occupier of the
property.
   (D)   If the water service is not being billed to the premises, due to
disconnection of water service or if the property is not served by the water
utility, then the sewer charges shall be billed to the owner of the subject
real estate in accordance with
Appendix B.
(1987 Code, § 9-85) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000; Ord. 17, 2014, passed 5-12-2014;
Ord. 39, 2014, passed 12-22-2014)
§ 50.213 DELINQUENCY; COLLECTION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   How delinquencies arise. Charges for sewerage service levied pursuant
to this chapter shall be due and payable on or before day 15 of the month
following the month wherein the bill is rendered. Any service charge not paid
by the due date shall be considered delinquent. The delinquent charge together
with any applied penalty shall be collectible as hereinafter set forth.
(1987 Code, § 9-89)
   (B)   Collection through the tax duplicate. As provided by the statutes of
the state, delinquent sewerage service charges may be made a lien against the
property served through certification to the County Auditor and to the County
Recorder. In that case, the delinquent service charges, together with the
mandatory penalty of 10%, shall be placed on the tax duplicate and be collected
in the same manner as regular taxes and assessments are collected.
(1987 Code, § 9-90)
   (C)   Collection through court actions. In addition to the foregoing
remedies, the city shall have the right to bring a civil action to recover any
delinquent charges together with a penalty of 10% and a reasonable attorney’s
fee. It shall also have the right, as provided by the statutes of the state, to
foreclose any lien established under the provisions of division (B) above with
recovery of the charge, a penalty of 10% and a reasonable attorney’s fee.
(1987 Code, § 9-91)
(Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
§ 50.214 OPERATIONAL MAINTENANCE FUND.
   There is created and established a fund to be designated (with additional
designations as deemed useful by the officer or official establishing the
account) as the Sewage Utility Operation and Maintenance Fund (the “Operation
and Maintenance Fund”) and it shall be credited on the last day of each
calendar month with a sufficient amount of revenues of the utility so that the
balance in the Operation and Maintenance Fund shall be sufficient to pay the
expenses of operation, repair, and maintenance for the then next succeeding two
calendar months. Monies credited to the Operation and Maintenance Fund shall be
used for the payment of the reasonable and proper operation, repair, and
maintenance expenses of the utility on a day-to-day basis, but none of the
monies in the Operation and Maintenance Fund shall be used for depreciation,
replacement, improvements, extensions, or additions. Any balance in the
Operation and Maintenance Fund in excess of the expected expense of operation,
repair, and maintenance for the next succeeding month may be transferred to the
Sinking Fund if necessary to prevent a default in the payment of principal of
or interest on the outstanding obligations of the utility.
(1987 Code, § 9-96) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
§ 50.215 SINKING FUND.
   (A)   Establishment. There is created and established a sinking fund for the
payment of the principal of and interest on revenue bonds which by their terms
are payable from the net revenues of the utility, and the payment of any fiscal
agency charges in connection with the payment of obligations and interest,
which fund shall be designated (with additional designations as deemed useful
by the officer or official establishing the account) as the Sewage Utility
Sinking Fund (the “Sinking Fund”). There shall be set aside and deposited in
the Sinking Fund, as available, and as hereinafter provided, a sufficient
amount of the net revenues of the utility to meet the requirements of the Bond
and Interest Account and the Debt Service Reserve Account hereby created in the
Sinking Fund. These payments shall continue until the balance in the Bond and
Interest Account, plus the balance in the Debt Service Reserve Account
hereinafter described, equals the amount needed to redeem all the then
outstanding obligations of the issuer.
   (B)   Bond and Interest Account.  
      (1)   There shall be credited, on the last day of each calendar month, to
the Bond and Interest Account an amount of net revenues equal to the sum of:
         (a)   One-sixth of the interest on all then outstanding obligations
payable from net revenues on the then next succeeding interest payment date
(except with respect to the first interest payment date, the fraction credited
on a monthly basis shall be sufficient to assure that funds will be available
to make the interest payment); and
         (b)   At least one-twelfth of the principal (provided, if the bonds
are issued with scheduled principal payments due on January 1 and July 1 of
each year, then in lieu of one-twelfth of the principal payment, the transfer
shall be at least one-sixth of the principal payment) on all then outstanding
obligations payable from net revenues of the utility payable from net revenues
on the then next succeeding principal payment date (except with respect to the
first principal payment date, the fraction credited on a monthly basis shall be
sufficient to assure that funds will be available to make the principal
payment), until the amount of interest and principal payable on the then next
succeeding respective interest and principal payment dates shall have been so
credited.
      (2)   There shall similarly be credited to the account the amount
necessary to pay the bank fiscal agency charges for paying principal and
interest on the obligations payable from net revenues of the utility as the
same become payable.
      (3)   The issuer shall, from the sums deposited in the Sinking Fund and
credited to the Bond and Interest Account, remit promptly to the registered
owner and to the bank fiscal agency sufficient monies to pay the principal and
interest on the due dates thereof together with the amount of bank fiscal
agency charges.
   (C)   Debt Service Reserve Account.  
      (1)   Following the issuance of the bonds, there shall be credited to and
become a part of the Debt Service Reserve Account not less than the required
monthly deposit or some higher amount as fixed by the issuer from the net
revenues of the utility on the last day of each calendar month until the
balance therein equals, but does not exceed, the lesser of:
         (a)   The maximum annual debt service on the obligations payable from
net revenues of the utility;
         (b)   125% of average annual debt service on the obligations payable
from net revenues of the utility; or
         (c)   10% of the proceeds of the obligations payable from net revenues
of the utility (“reserve requirement”).
      (2)   The amount of the monthly deposits shall be equal in amount and
sufficient in the aggregate to accumulate the reserve requirement within five
years from the date of delivery of the obligations payable from net revenues of
the utility. The balance within the Debt Service Reserve Account shall never
exceed the reserve requirement.
      (3)   The Debt Service Reserve Account shall constitute the margin for
safety and protection against default in the payment of principal of and
interest on outstanding obligations payable from net revenues of the utility,
and the monies in the Debt Service Reserve Account shall be used to pay current
principal and interest on outstanding obligations payable from net revenues of
the utility to the extent that monies in the Bond and Interest Account are
insufficient for that purpose. Any deficiency in the balance maintained in the
Debt Service Reserve Account shall be promptly made up from the next available
net revenues remaining after credits into the Bond and Interest Account. In the
event the money in the Debt Service Reserve Account are transferred to the Bond
and Interest Account to pay principal and interest on outstanding obligations
payable from net revenues of the utility, then this depletion of the balance in
the Debt Service Reserve Account shall be made up from the next available net
revenues after the credits into the Bond and Interest Account.
      (4)   Any monies in the Debt Service Reserve Account in excess of the
reserve requirement shall be transferred to the Improvement Fund unless used
for the prepayment of installments of principal on the then outstanding
obligations payable from net revenues of the utility which are then callable or
prepayable, or for the purchase of outstanding obligations payable from net
revenues of the utility including accrued interest.
      (5)   For purposes of assuring compliance with the foregoing provisions,
the Debt Service Reserve Account investments shall be valued at fair market
value and marked to market at least once per year. No such investment shall
have a final maturity extending beyond five years except as approved by the
insurer.
(1987 Code, § 9-97) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
§ 50.216 IMPROVEMENT FUND.
   In the event all required monthly payments into the Operation and
Maintenance Fund and the Sinking Fund, including the Bond and Interest Account
and the Debt Service Reserve Account, have been met to date, and the reserve
requirement has been accumulated in the Debt Service Reserve Account (or within
five years from the date of delivery of the bonds, the required payments to
date have been made to the Debt Service Reserve Account), then any excess net
revenues may be transferred into the fund hereby created and established to be
designated (with additional designations as deemed useful by the officer or
official establishing the account) as the Sewage Utility Improvement Fund (the
“Improvement Fund”), and the Improvement Fund shall be used for depreciation,
improvements, replacements, additions, and extensions of the utility. Monies in
the Improvement Fund shall be transferred to the Sinking Fund if necessary to
prevent a default in the payment of principal and interest on the then
outstanding bonds or, if necessary, to eliminate any deficiencies in credits to
or minimum balance in the reserve account of the Sinking Fund, or may be
transferred to the Operation and Maintenance Fund to meet unforeseen
contingencies in the operation and maintenance of the utility.
(1987 Code, § 9-98) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
§ 50.217 SMSU-STORMWATER UTILITY FUND.
   (A)   There is now established a fund to be known as the SMSU-Stormwater
Utility Fund.
   (B)   This Fund shall be used to receive all monies paid into the Stormwater
Utility from user fees and from any other source and to pay for the expenses of
operation, repair and maintenance of the city’s Stormwater Utility.
(Ord. 34, 2014, passed 11-10-2014)
ILLICIT STORM WATER DISCHARGE AND CONNECTION
§ 50.225 PURPOSE; INTENT.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide for the health, safety, and
general welfare of the citizens of the city through the regulation of non-
stormwater discharges to the municipal separate storm sewer system (MS4) to the
maximum extent practicable as required by federal and state law. This
subchapter establishes methods for controlling the introduction of pollutants
from illicit discharges and connections into the MS4 and the waters of the
state per the Clean Water Act and the Indiana Department of Environmental
Management’s (IDEM) National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES)
Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System General Permit (MS4GP). The objectives of
this subchapter are:
   (A)   To regulate the contribution of pollutants into the city’s MS4 by any
user;
   (B)   To prohibit illicit connections and discharges to the MS4; and
   (C)   To establish legal authority to conduct all inspection, surveillance,
and monitoring procedures necessary to ensure compliance with this subchapter.
(Ord. 34, 2004, passed 11-22-2004; Am. Ord. 20, 2023, passed 9-25-2023)
§ 50.226 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Words and phrases in this subchapter shall be construed according to
their common and accepted meanings, except that words and phrases defined in
division (B) below, shall be construed according to the respective definitions
given in that section. Technical words and technical phrases that are not
defined in this subchapter, but which have acquired particular meanings in law
or in technical usage shall be construed according to such meanings.
   (B)   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE. A discharge prohibited by this subchapter which
occurs by chance and without planning or consideration prior to occurrence.
      BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs). Schedules of activities, prohibitions
of practices, general good housekeeping practices, pollution prevention and
educational practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices
to prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants directly or indirectly to
stormwater, receiving waters, or stormwater conveyance systems. BMPs also
include treatment practices, operating procedures, and practices to control
site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or water disposal, or drainage from raw
materials storage.
      BOARD. The City of Seymour, Board of Works and Public Safety.
      CITY OF SEYMOUR or CITY. Employees or designees of the Mayor of the city
or the Board of Works and Public Safety designated to enforce and administer
this subchapter. This shall also include IDEM, Jackson County representatives,
the USEPA, and any of their agents and or successors in interest.
      CLEAN WATER ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. §
1251 et seq.), and any subsequent amendments thereto.
      CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. Activities subject to the NPDES Construction
Stormwater General Permit (CSGP). CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES include construction
projects resulting in land disturbance of one acre or more, and construction
activities encompassing less than once acres but part of a larger common
development equaling greater than one acre. Such activities include, but are
not limited to, clearing and grubbing, grading, excavating, and demolition.
      CONVEYANCE. Any structural process for transferring stormwater between at
least two points. The term includes piping, ditches, swales, curbs, gutters,
catch basins, channels, storm drains, and roadways.
      DRY WEATHER SCREENING. Field observations and field screening monitoring
done to determine if there are sources of illicit discharges into the MS4. DRY
WEATHER is defined as a period where there has not been precipitation for three
days.
      FLOATABLE. Any solid waste that, due to its physical characteristics,
will float on the surface of water. For the purposes of this rule, the term
does not include naturally occurring floatables, such as leaves or tree limbs.
      GROUND WATER. Accumulations of underground water, natural or artificial,
public and private, or parts thereof, which are wholly or partially within,
flow through, or border upon this state. The term does not include manmade
underground storage or conveyance structures.
      HAZARDOUS MATERIALS, SUBSTANCES OR WASTES. Any material, including any
substance, waste, or combination thereof, which because of its quantity,
concentration, or physical, chemical, or infectious characteristics may cause,
or significantly contribute to, a substantial present or potential hazard to
human health, safety, property, or the environment when improperly treated,
stored, transported, disposed of, or otherwise managed.
      IDEM. The Indiana Department of Environmental Management.
      ILLEGAL DISCHARGE. Any direct or indirect non-stormwater discharge to the
MS4, except as exempted in §
50.231.
      ILLICIT CONNECTIONS. Either of the following:
         (a)   Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface,
which allows an illegal discharge to enter the MS4 including but not limited to
any conveyances which allow any non-stormwater discharge including sewage,
process wastewater, and wash water to enter the MS4 and any connections to the
MS4 from indoor drains and sinks, regardless of whether the drain or connection
had been previously allowed, permitted, or approved by the city; or
         (b)   Any drain or conveyance connected from a commercial or
industrial land use to the MS4 which has not been documented in plans, maps, or
equivalent records and approved by the city.
      ILLICIT DISCHARGE. Any discharge to a MS4 that is not composed entirely
of stormwater, except naturally introduced floatables, such as leaves or tree
limbs. Sources of illicit discharges include but is not limited to sanitary
wastewater, septic tank effluent, commercial car wash wastewater, oil spills or
disposal, radiator flushing disposal, laundry wastewater, roadway accident
spillage, pollutant run-off, and household hazardous wastes.
      INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY. Activities subject to NPDES industrial permits as
defined in 40 CFR 122.26(b)(14).
      MAXIMUM EXTENT PRACTICABLE. A performance standard or requirement within
a permit to reduce the discharge of pollutants from a MS4 to protect water
quality, and to satisfy the appropriate water quality requirements of the Clean
Water Act, which is achieved through planning and implementation of specific
measures that are identified in the Stormwater Quality Management Plan.
      MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM or MS4. A conveyance or system of
conveyances, including roads with drainage systems, municipal streets, catch
basins, curbs, gutters, ditches, manmade channels, or storm drains, which is:
         (a)   Owned or operated by a federal, state, city, town, county,
district, association, or other public body (created by or pursuant to state
law) having jurisdiction over stormwater, including special districts under
state law such as a sewer district, flood control district, or drainage
district, or similar entity, or a designated and approved management agency
under Section 208 of the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. § 1288) that discharges
into waters of the state; or privately owned stormwater utility, hospital,
university, or college having jurisdiction over stormwater that discharges into
waters of the state;
         (b)   Designed or used for collecting or conveying stormwater;
         (c)   Not a combined sewer; and
         (d)   Not part of a publicly owned treatment works (POTW) as defined
at 40 CFR 122.2.
      NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES). A permit issued
by the USEPA or IDEM that authorizes the discharge of pollutants to waters of
the United States, whether the permit is applicable on an individual, group, or
general area-wide basis.
      NON-STORMWATER DISCHARGE. Any discharge to the MS4 that is not composed
entirely of stormwater.
      OUTFALL. A point source discharge via a conveyance of stormwater run-off
into a receiving stream or other body of water.
      PERSON. Any individual, association, organization, partnership, firm,
corporation, or other entity recognized by law and acting as either the owner
or as the owner’s agent.
      POINT SOURCE. A discernible, confined, and discrete conveyance, including
a pipe, ditch, channel, tunnel, conduit, well, or discrete fissure.
      POLLUTANT. Anything which causes or contributes to pollution. POLLUTANTS
may include, but are not limited to: paints, varnishes, and solvents; oil and
other automotive fluids; non-hazardous liquid and solid wastes and yard wastes;
refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter, or other discarded or abandoned objects,
ordinances, and accumulations, so that same may cause or contribute to
pollution; floatables; pesticides, herbicides, and fertilizers; hazardous
substances and wastes; sewage, fecal coliform and pathogens; dissolved and
particulate metals; animal wastes; wastes and residues that result from
constructing a building or structure; and noxious or offensive matter of any
kind.
      PREMISES. Any building, lot, parcel of land, or portion of land whether
improved or unimproved including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
      RECEIVING WATERS. A waterbody that receives a discharge from an outfall.
The term does not include private drains, retention and detention basins, or
constructed wetlands used as treatment.
      STORMWATER. Any surface flow, runoff, and drainage consisting entirely of
water from any form of natural precipitation and resulting from such
precipitation.
      USEPA. The United States Environmental Protection Agency.
      WASTEWATER. Any water or other liquid, other than uncontaminated
stormwater, discharged from a facility.
      WATER QUALITY. A term used to describe the chemical, physical, and
biological characteristics of water, usually in respect to its suitability for
a particular purpose.
      WATERCOURSE. Any river, stream, creek, brook, branch, natural or manmade
drainageway in or into which stormwater runoff or floodwaters flow either
continuously or intermittently.
      WATERS OF THE UNITED STATES or STATE. A term used in federal regulations
that defines all water bodies regulated as waters of the United States as
defined in 33 § U.S.C. 1251 (40 CFR 120).
(Ord. 34, 2004, passed 11-22-2004; Am. Ord. 20, 2023, passed 9-25-2023)
§ 50.227 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter shall apply to all discharges, including illicit and illegal
discharges, entering the MS4 that was generated on any developed and
undeveloped lands unless explicitly exempted by the city.
(Ord. 34, 2004, passed 11-22-2004; Am. Ord. 20, 2023, passed 9-25-2023)
§ 50.228 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION.
   The city shall administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this
subchapter. Any powers granted or duties imposed upon the city may be delegated
in writing by the Mayor to persons or entities acting in the beneficial
interest of or in the employ of the city.
(Ord. 34, 2004, passed 11-22-2004; Am. Ord. 20, 2023, passed 9-25-2023)
§ 50.229 ULTIMATE RESPONSIBILITY.
   The standards set forth herein and promulgated pursuant to this subchapter
are minimum standards; therefore, this subchapter does not intend nor imply
that compliance by any person will ensure that there will be no contamination,
pollution, nor unauthorized discharge of pollutants.
(Ord. 34, 2004, passed 11-22-2004; Am. Ord. 20, 2023, passed 9-25-2023)
§ 50.230 DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Prohibition of illegal discharges.
      (1)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged into the MS4,
waterbodies, or watercourses, directly or indirectly, any materials, including
but not limited to, pollutants or waters containing any pollutants that cause
or contribute to a violation of applicable water quality standards, other than
stormwater.
      (2)   The commencement, conduct, or continuance of any illegal discharge
to the MS4 is prohibited except as described as follows:
         (a)   The following discharges are exempt from discharge prohibitions
established by this subchapter: water line and hydrant flushing for
maintenance; irrigation water; uncontaminated pumped ground water;
uncontaminated foundation, footing, and crawl space drains; fire suppression
activities; uncontaminated excess storm sewer cleaning water not collected by a
vacuum truck; residential car washing; non-commercial washing of vehicles by
community organizations; external building wash down without detergents;
uncontaminated condensate from air conditioning units, coolers, and other
compressors, and from outside storage of refrigerated gases or liquids;
springs; dechlorinated/dibrominated residential swimming pool discharges;
pavement wash waters provided spills or leaks of toxic or hazardous materials
have not occurred (unless all spilled material has been removed) and where
detergents are not used; and uncontaminated ground water infiltration (as
defined in 40 CFR 35.2005(20)).
         (b)   Discharges specified in writing by the city as being necessary
to protect public health and safety.
         (c)   Dye testing is an allowable discharge but requires a verbal
notification to the city prior to the time of the test.
         (d)   The prohibition shall not apply to any non-stormwater discharge
permitted under an NPDES permit, waiver, or waste discharge order issued to the
discharger and administered under the authority of the USEPA or IDEM, provided
that the discharger is in full compliance with all requirements of the permit,
waiver, or order and other applicable laws and regulations, and provided that
written approval has been granted for any discharge to the storm drain system.
   (B)   Prohibition of illicit connections.
      (1)   The construction, use, maintenance, or continued existence of
illicit connections to the MS4 is prohibited.
      (2)   This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
connection.
      (3)   A person shall be in violation of this subchapter if the person
connects a line conveying sewage to the MS4 or allows such a connection to
continue.
(Ord. 34, 2004, passed 11-22-2004; Am. Ord. 20, 2023, passed 9-25-2023)
§ 50.231 SUSPENSION OF MS4 SYSTEM ACCESS.
   (A)   Suspension due to illicit discharges in emergency situations.
      (1)   The city may, without prior notice, suspend MS4 discharge access to
a person when such suspension is necessary to stop an actual or threatened
discharge, which presents or may present imminent and substantial danger to the
environment, or to the health or welfare of persons, or to the MS4 or waters of
the United States.
      (2)   If the violator fails to comply with a suspension order issued in
an emergency, the city may take such steps as deemed necessary to prevent or
minimize damage to the MS4 or waters of the United States, or to minimize
danger to persons.
   (B)   Suspension due to the detection of illicit discharge.
      (1)   Any person discharging to the MS4 in violation of this subchapter
may have their MS4 access terminated if such termination would abate or reduce
an illicit discharge. The city will notify a violator of the proposed
termination of its MS4 access. The violator may petition the city for a
reconsideration and hearing.
      (2)   A person commits an offense if the person reinstates MS4 access to
premises terminated pursuant to this section, without the prior approval of the
city.
(Ord. 34, 2004, passed 11-22-2004; Am. Ord. 20, 2023, passed 9-25-2023)
§ 50.232 INDUSTRIAL OR CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY DISCHARGES.
   Any person subject to an industrial or construction activity NPDES
stormwater discharge permit shall comply with all provisions of such permit.
Proof of compliance with said permit may be required in a form acceptable to
the city prior to allowing discharges to the MS4.
(Ord. 34, 2004, passed 11-22-2004; Am. Ord. 20, 2023, passed 9-25-2023)
§ 50.233 DISCHARGE INSPECTIONS AND MONITORING.
   (A)   Inspection and monitoring. The city has the authority to periodically
inspect any portion of the MS4, whether publicly or privately owned, to detect
and eliminate illicit connections and discharges into the MS4. The inspection
may include dry weather screening of discharges from outfalls connected to the
MS4 to determine if prohibited flows are being conveyed into the MS4. It could
also include spot testing of waters contained in the MS4 itself to detect the
introduction of pollutants into the MS4 by means other than a defined outfall,
such as dumping or contaminated sheet runoff.
   (B)   Access to facilities.
      (1)   The city shall be permitted to enter and inspect the premises
subject to regulation under this subchapter as often as may be necessary to
determine compliance with this subchapter. If a person has security measures in
force which require proper identification and clearance before entry into its
premises, the person shall make the necessary arrangements to allow access to
representatives of the city.
      (2)   Persons shall allow the city ready access to all parts of the
premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, examination and copying of
records that must be kept under the conditions of an NPDES permit to discharge
stormwater, and the performance of any additional duties as defined by state
and federal law.
      (3)   The city shall have the right to set up on the premises such
devices as are necessary in the opinion of the city to conduct monitoring and/
or sampling of the premises’ stormwater discharge.
      (4)   The city may require the discharger to install monitoring
equipment, as necessary. The premises’ sampling and monitoring equipment shall
always be maintained in a safe and proper operating condition by the discharger
at its own expense. All devices used to measure stormwater flow and quality
shall be calibrated to ensure their accuracy.
      (5)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to
the premises to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
person at the written or oral request of the city and shall not be replaced.
The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the person.
      (6)   Unreasonable delays in allowing the city access to the premises is
a violation of a stormwater discharge permit and of this subchapter. A person
who is the operator of a facility with a NPDES permit to discharge stormwater
associated with industrial activity commits an offense if the person denies the
city reasonable access to the permitted facility for the purpose of conducting
any activity authorized or required by this subchapter.
      (7)   If the city has been refused access to any part of the premises
from which stormwater is discharged, and he or she is able to demonstrate
probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this subchapter, or
that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine inspection
and sampling program designed to verify compliance with this subchapter or any
order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public health, safety, and
welfare of the community, then the authorized enforcement agency may seek
issuance of a search warrant from any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 34, 2004, passed 11-22-2004; Am. Ord. 20, 2023, passed 9-25-2023)
§ 50.234 REQUIREMENT TO PREVENT, CONTROL, AND REDUCE STORM WATER POLLUTANTS BY
THE USE OF BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES.
   The city is authorized to require dischargers to implement pollution
prevention measures, utilizing Best Management Practices (BMPs) necessary to
prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants into the MS4, or waters of the
United States. The owner or operator of a commercial or industrial
establishment shall provide, at their own expense, reasonable protection from
accidental discharge of prohibited materials or other wastes into the MS4 or
watercourses by using structural and non-structural BMPs. Further, any person
responsible for a property or premise, which is, or may be, the source of an
illicit discharge, may be required to implement, at the person’s expense,
additional structural and non-structural BMPs to prevent the further discharge
of pollutants to the MS4. Compliance with all terms and conditions of a valid
NPDES permit authorizing the discharge of stormwater associated with industrial
activity, to the extent practicable, shall be deemed compliance with the
provisions of this section.
(Ord. 34, 2004, passed 11-22-2004; Am. Ord. 20, 2023, passed 9-25-2023)
§ 50.235 STORAGE OF HAZARDOUS AND TOXIC MATERIAL.
   Storage or stockpiling of hazardous or toxic material within any
watercourse, or in its associated floodway or floodplain, is prohibited.
Storage or stockpiling of hazardous or toxic material, including sewage
treatment plant stockpiles, on a property must include adequate protection and/
or containment to prevent any such materials from entering any temporary or
permanent stormwater conveyance or watercourse.
(Ord. 20, 2023, passed 9-25-2023)
§ 50.236 WATERCOURSE PROTECTION.
   Every person owning property through which a watercourse passes, or such
person’s lessee, shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse within
the property free of trash, debris, excessive vegetation, and other obstacles
that would pollute, contaminate, or significantly retard the flow of water
through the watercourse. In addition, the owner or lessee shall maintain
existing privately owned structures within or adjacent to a watercourse, so
that such structures will not become a hazard to the use, function, or physical
integrity of the watercourse.
(Ord. 34, 2004, passed 11-22-2004; Am. Ord. 20, 2023, passed 9-25-2023)
§ 50.237 NOTIFICATION OF SPILLS.
   (A)   Any person who operates, controls, or maintains a facility, premises,
or property from which a spill occurs is responsible for notifying emergency
response agencies and taking all necessary steps to ensure the discovery,
containment, and cleanup of such release. This section is in addition to the
procedures and requirements identified in the Indiana Spill Rule, 327 IAC 2-
6.1.
   (B)   Any discharger who accidentally discharges into the MS4 or a waterbody
any substance other than stormwater or an exempted discharge shall immediately
inform the city concerning the discharge.
   (C)   A written report concerning the discharge shall be filed with the
city, by the dischargers, within five days. The written report shall specify:
      (1)   The composition of the discharge and the cause thereof;
      (2)   The date, time, and estimated volume of the discharge;
      (3)   All measures taken to clean up the accidental discharge, and all
measures proposed to be taken to prevent any recurrence; and
      (4)   The name and telephone number of the person making the report, and
the name and telephone number of a person who may be contacted for additional
information on the matter.
   (D)   A properly reported accidental discharge shall be an affirmative
defense to a civil infraction proceeding brought under this subchapter against
a discharger for such discharge. It shall not, however, be a defense to a legal
action brought to obtain an injunction, to obtain recovery of costs, or to
obtain other relief because of or arising out of the discharge. A discharge
shall be considered properly reported only if the discharger complies with all
the requirements of this section and the Indiana Spill Rule (327 IAC 2-6.1).
This requirement does not relieve discharger from notifying other entities as
required by state or federal regulations.
(Ord. 34, 2004, passed 11-22-2004; Am. Ord. 20, 2023, passed 9-25-2023)
§ 50.238 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate or fail to comply with
any provision of this subchapter. Any person who has violated or continues to
violate any provision of this subchapter may be subject to the enforcement
actions outlined in this section or may be restrained by injunction or
otherwise abated in a manner provided by law.
   (B)   Notice of violation.
      (1)   Whenever the city finds that a person has violated a prohibition or
failed to meet a requirement of this subchapter, the city may order compliance
by written notice of violation to the responsible person.
      (2)   Such notice may require without limitation:
         (a)   The performance of monitoring, analyses, and reporting;
         (b)   The elimination of illicit connections or discharges;
         (c)   That violating discharges, practices, or operations shall cease
and desist;
         (d)   The abatement or remediation of stormwater pollution or
contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property;
         (e)   Payment of a fine to cover administrative and remediation costs;
and
         (f)   The implementation of source control or treatment BMPs.
      (3)   Such notice of violation shall contain:
         (a)   The names and addresses of the owner and violator;
         (b)   The address when available, or a description of the building,
structure of land upon which the violation has occurred;
         (c)   A statement specifying the nature of the violation;
         (d)   A description of the remedial measures necessary to bring the
illegal activity into compliance with this subchapter and a time schedule for
the completion of such remedial action, which may include designating the
violation requires immediate action of less than 24 hours;
         (e)   A statement that should the violator fail to remediate or
restore within the established deadline, the work will be done by a designated
governmental agency or a contractor and the expense thereof shall be charged to
the violator;
         (f)   A description of the remedial measures, if any, that were
necessary to bring the illegal activity into compliance with this subchapter
that were already taken by the city, the cost thereof, and a statement that the
violator shall be responsible for the remedial action already taken; and
         (g)   A statement of the penalty or penalties that shall or may be
assessed against the person to whom the notice of violation is sent.
   (C)   If an emergency exists and immediate action is required, the city may
abate or remedy the violation and the notice may be given after the abatement
or remediation has occurred. In the event of such emergency, the city may enter
onto the subject property and may take all measures necessary to abate the
violation. It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse access to the city or
designated contractor to enter upon the property for the purposes set forth
above.
(Ord. 34, 2004, passed 11-22-2004; Am. Ord. 20, 2023, passed 9-25-2023)
§ 50.239 APPEAL OF NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Any person receiving a notice of violation may appeal the determination of
the city. The notice of appeal must be received within 30 days from the date of
the notice of violation. Hearing on the appeal before the appropriate authority
or his or her designee shall take place within 30 days from the date of receipt
of the notice of appeal. The decision of the municipal authority or their
designee shall be final.
(Ord. 34, 2004, passed 11-22-2004; Am. Ord. 20, 2023, passed 9-25-2023)
§ 50.240 ENFORCEMENT MEASURES AFTER APPEAL.
   If the violation has not been corrected pursuant to the requirements set
forth in the notice of violation, or, in the event of an appeal, within 60 days
of the decision of the municipal authority upholding the decision of the Board,
then representatives of the city shall enter upon the subject private property
and are authorized to take any and all measures necessary to abate the
violation and/or restore the property. It shall be unlawful for any person,
owner, or agent in possession of any premises to refuse to allow the city or
designated contractor to enter upon the premises for the purposes set forth
above.
(Ord. 34, 2004, passed 11-22-2004; Am. Ord. 20, 2023, passed 9-25-2023)
§ 50.241 COST OF ABATEMENT OF THE VIOLATION.
   Within ten days after abatement of the violation, the owner of the property
will be notified of the cost of abatement including administrative costs. If
the amount due is not paid within a timely manner as determined by the decision
of the city or by the expiration of the time in which to file an appeal, the
charges shall become a special assessment against the property and shall
constitute a lien on the property for the amount of the assessment.
(Ord. 34, 2004, passed 11-22-2004; Am. Ord. 20, 2023, passed 9-25-2023)
§ 50.242 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision or fail to
comply with any of the requirements of this subchapter. If a person has
violated or continues to violate the provisions of this subchapter, the city
may petition for a preliminary or permanent injunction restraining the person
from activities which would create further violations or compelling the person
to perform abatement or remediation of the violation.
(Ord. 34, 2004, passed 11-22-2004; Am. Ord. 20, 2023, passed 9-25-2023)
§ 50.243 COMPENSATORY ACTION.
   In lieu of enforcement proceedings, penalties, and remedies authorized by
this section, the city may impose upon a violator alternative compensatory
action, such as storm drain stenciling, attendance at compliance workshops,
creek cleanup, and the like.
(Ord. 34, 2004, passed 11-22-2004; Am. Ord. 20, 2023, passed 9-25-2023)
§ 50.244 VIOLATIONS DEEMED A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties provided, any
condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of
this subchapter is a threat to public health, safety, and welfare, and is
declared and deemed a nuisance, and may be summarily abated or restored at the
violator’s expense, and/or a civil action to abate, enjoin, or otherwise compel
the cessation of such nuisance may be taken.
(Ord. 34, 2004, passed 11-22-2004; Am. Ord. 20, 2023, passed 9-25-2023)
§ 50.245 CIVIL PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any person who has violated or continues to violate this subchapter
shall be liable to civil penalties to the fullest extent of the law, and shall
be subject to a fine of up to $2,500 per violation per day.
   (B)   The city may recover all attorney’s fees, court costs and other
expenses associated with enforcement of this subchapter, including sampling and
monitoring expenses.
(Ord. 34, 2004, passed 11-22-2004; Am. Ord. 20, 2023, passed 9-25-2023)
§ 50.246 REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies listed in this subchapter are not exclusive of any other
remedies available under any applicable federal, state or local law and it is
within the discretion of the city to seek cumulative remedies.
(Ord. 34, 2004, passed 11-22-2004; Am. Ord. 20, 2023, passed 9-25-2023)
APPENDIX A: FORM OF CONNECTION AGREEMENT
   The agreement referred to in §
50.026 of this code shall be substantially as follows:
Dated _____________________________
This agreement entered into by and between the City of Seymour, Indiana, which
shall include the Seymour Municipal Sanitation Utility, and who represent that
they are the owners of the real estate situated at what is known as Lot #
___________ in Block # __________ in ____________________ Addition to
_____________ in Township of _______________, Jackson County, Indiana:
Witnesseth: That for and in consideration of the issuance of a permit to tap
into and connect with the Sewer and Sewer Treatment Plant, of the Seymour
Municipal Sanitation Utility at the same rates and charges, which are now fixed
and may hereafter be fixed by Ordinance No. 8-1977, and all ordinances and
amendments which may hereafter be fixed, for residents of the City of Seymour,
Indiana, the undersigned owners hereby agree, for themselves, their assigns,
heirs, and legal representatives, to waive all right to remonstrate against
future annexation to the City of Seymour, Indiana, and hereby consent to the
extension of the boundary lines of the City of Seymour, Indiana, so as to
include the property hereinabove described.
   In witness whereof, we have hereunto set our hands and affixed our seals
this, the __________ day of ________________, 20_____
Accepted and approved for the City of Seymour, Indiana by:
________________________________________
Attest: __________________________________
   Clerk-Treasurer/City of Seymour, Indiana
   Board of Public Works and Safety      (City Seal)
(1987 Code, § 9-132) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000)
APPENDIX B: SCHEDULE OF SEWAGE RATES
   Table A1 Monthly base charge–users within corporate limits.
Meter Size Phase I, Effective June Phase II, Effective Phase III, Effective
           1, 2024                 June 1, 2025        June 1, 2026
Meter Size        Phase I, Effective Phase II, Effective Phase III, Effective
                  June 1, 2024       June 1, 2025        June 1, 2026
Five-eighths inch $6.72              $6.76               $6.79
One inch          $17.23             $17.31              $17.40
One and one-half  $38.74             $38.94              $39.13
inches
Two inches        $68.87             $69.22              $69.56
Three inches      $154.97            $155.74             $156.51
Four inches       $275.50            $276.87             $278.24
Six inches        $619.88            $622.96             $626.05
 
   Table A2 Monthly base charge–users outside corporate limits.
Meter Size Phase I, Effective June Phase II, Effective Phase III, Effective
           1, 2024                 June 1, 2025        June 1, 2026
Meter Size        Phase I, Effective Phase II, Effective Phase III, Effective
                  June 1, 2024       June 1, 2025        June 1, 2026
Five-eighths inch $10.09             $10.14              $10.19
One inch          $25.83             $25.96              $26.09
One and one-half  $58.13             $58.42              $58.71
inches
Two inches        $103.31            $103.83             $104.34
Three inches      $232.47            $233.62             $234.78
Four inches       $413.26            $415.31             $417.37
Six inches        $929.82            $934.45             $939.08
 
      (1)   The monthly sanitary sewer minimum charge for any property that has
more than one unit will be based upon the total number of units times the rate
listed in Tables Al and A2 above, consistent with the property type.
      (2)   The monthly sanitary sewer charge will be pro-rated on the first
and last bills of an occupier and based on the number of days being billed.
(1987 Code, § 9-69) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000; Am. Ord. 13, 2001, passed 5-14-
2001; Am. Ord. 22, 2001, passed 8-27-2001; Am. Ord. 17, 2014, passed 5-12-2014;
Am. Ord. 12, 2021, passed 4-12-2021; Am. Ord. 14, 2024, passed 6-24-2024)
   Table B   Trash pick-up and recycling charge.  
      (1)   The monthly trash and recycling pick-up charge shall be as follows.
 
Location of User Monthly Trash Pick-Up Charge
                Phase I, Effective Phase II, Effective Phase III, Effective
                 June 1, 2024       June 1, 2025        June 1, 2026
Within the       $8.33              $9.66               $11.00
corporate limits
 
      (2)   The minimum monthly trash and recycling charge for any apartment
building or other multi-family residential structure shall be based upon the
total number of residential units in that structure.
      (3)   The monthly trash and recycling charge will be charged whether the
property is being occupied or vacant.
      (4)   The minimum trash and recycling charge will be pro-rated on the
first and last bills of an occupier and based on the number of days being
billed.
(1987 Code, § 9-69) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000; Am. Ord. 13, 2001, passed 5-14-
2001; Am. Ord. 5, 2002, passed 3-11-2002; Am. Ord. 17, 2014, passed 5-12-2014;
Am. Ord. 13, 2021, passed 4-12-2021; Am. Ord. 14, 2024, passed 6-24-2024)
   Table C Sanitary sewer rates for metered users.
 
                   Phase I, Effective Phase II, Effective Phase III, Effective
                   June 1, 2024       June 1, 2025        June 1, 2026
Rate per 100 cubic
feet within        $5.49              $5.51               $5.54
corporate limits
Rate per 100 cubic
feet outside       $8.23              $8.27               $8.31
corporate limits
 
(1987 Code, § 9-69) (Ord. passed 6-26-2000; Am. Ord. 13, 2001, passed 5-14-
2001; Am. Ord. 17, 2014, passed 5-12-2014; Am. Ord. 14, 2019, passed 8-12-2019;
Am. Ord. 12, 2021, passed 4-12-2021; Am. Ord. 14, 2024, passed 6-24-2024)
   Table D Monthly sanitary sewer rates for unmetered users.
 
                  Phase I, Effective Phase II, Effective Phase III, Effective
                  June 1, 2024       June 1, 2025        June 1, 2026
Commercial or     $69.08             $69.43              $69.78
industrial
Within corporate
limits            $50.59             $50.84              $51.10
(residential)
Outside corporate
limits            $75.89             $76.27              $76.64
(residential)
 
(Am. Ord. 17, 2014, passed 5-12-2014; Am. Ord. 18, 2021, passed 5-24-2021; Am.
Ord. 14, 2024, passed 6-24-2024)
   Table D1 Wholesale rates and charges.
 
                Phase I, Effective Phase II, Effective Phase III, Effective
                November 1, 2024   November 1, 2025    November 1, 2026
JCRSD, per IURC $5.1148            $6.3979             $6.4939
order
 
(Ord. 14, 2024, passed 6-24-2024)
   (E)   Strength-of-wastes surcharge rates. The rate of surcharges for
specific constituents in quantities beyond the limits as given in §
50.210 shall be as follows.
 
Constituent                Surcharge Rate (Per Pound)
                           Within Corporate Limits Outside Corporate Limits
Ammonia                    $0.24                   $0.36
Biochemical oxygen demand  $0.24                   $0.36
(BOD)
Phosphorus                 $0.24                   $0.36
Suspended solids           $0.24                   $0.36
 
(1987 Code, § 9-80)
(Ord. passed 6-26-2000; Am. Ord. 13, 2001, passed 5-14-2001; Am. Ord. 17, 2014,
passed 5-12-2014)
   (F)   Construction, connection, inspection, and monitoring fees.
Activity Details Fee 2003 Code 1987 Code Ord. No. Date Passed
Activity     Details      Fee          2003 Code 1987 Code Ord. No. Date Passed
Connection
to
interceptor              $100         50.025    9-130     -        6-26-2000
or                        surcharge
extension,
in the city
Connection
to           During
interceptor  interceptor  $75          50.025    9-130     -        6-26-2000
or           construction surcharge
extension,
in the city
Connection
to municipal              $250
sewer,                   surcharge    50.026    9-131     -        6-26-2000
outside city
limits
Connection   Waiver of
to municipal right to     Surcharge as
sewer,       protest      for in-city  50.026    9-131     -        6-26-2000
outside city annexation   connection
limits
Individual
additional   Subdivision
lot          system       $5
connection   connected to inspection   50.027    9-133     -        6-26-2000
to           municipal    fee
subdivision  sewer
sewer
Private      Permit and
sewage       inspection   $5           50.066    9-120     -        6-26-2000
disposal     fee
system
Tap-on fee   Each new     $100         50.209    9-77.2    -        6-26-2000
             connection
Wastewater
treatment    Industrial
system;      discharger   $50          50.195    9-19      -        6-26-2000
inspection   disclosure
and          form
monitoring
 
(Am. Ord. 17, 2014, passed 5-12-2014)
CHAPTER 51: GARBAGE AND REFUSE
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Definitions
Garbage Containers; Requirements
   
51.15   Outside deposit of garbage and rubbish restricted
   
51.16   Container requirements
   
51.17   Tree limbs and bulky items
   
51.18   Container location
   
51.19   Containers for multi-family dwellings
   
51.20   Time of collection
   
51.21   Private trash haulers
   
51.22   Districts
   
51.23   Fees
Cross-reference:
   Trash pick-up fee, see Ch. 50, App. B, Table B
   Water and Sewers, see
Ch. 50
Statutory reference:
   Authority to remove rubbish and refuse from the city, see I.C. 36-9-6-19
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Includes offal, any waste animal or vegetable matter from a
kitchen, market, or store; food scraps discarded as waste material.
   REFUSE, RUBBISH, and TRASH.  The terms are interchangeable as used herein,
and include but are not limited to the following: all waste material, other
than garbage; leaves, grass, or other vegetation cuttings or trimmings; tree
trimmings; broken, torn, or worthless pieces of personal property; anything,
not of appreciable value, deposited or discarded for disposal. These terms do
not include hazardous materials such as flammable liquids, human or animal
waste, syringes, ammunition, paints, used motor oil, and the like.
(1987 Code, § 6-38) (Ord. 1535, passed 5-27-1968; Am. Ord. 10, 2009, passed 9-
28-2009)
GARBAGE CONTAINERS; REQUIREMENTS
§ 51.15 OUTSIDE DEPOSIT OF GARBAGE AND RUBBISH RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful to deposit any garbage, refuse, rubbish, or trash,
outside, upon the open ground, or to store the same outside at any other place
except in separate containers, as hereinafter required, which containers shall
be only located, when outside, as hereinafter provided. Compost bins, standard
issue recycling bins and containers issued by private trash haulers shall be
permitted provided that they are properly maintained and not a nuisance.
(1987 Code, § 6-39) (Ord. 1535, passed 5-27-1968; Am. Ord. 10, 2009, passed 9-
28-2009) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.16 CONTAINER REQUIREMENTS.
   All residential trash (except recyclable materials and yard waste) collected
by the Department of Public Works shall be first placed in plastic bags and
then placed in the 96-gallon gray toter provided to residents by the city.
(1987 Code, § 6-42) (Ord. 60, 1996, passed 12-9-1996; Am. Ord. 10, 2009, passed
9-28-2009) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.17 TREE LIMBS AND BULKY ITEMS.
   (A)   In the event tree limbs are deposited outside to be removed by the
city Department of Public Works personnel, those limbs shall be first cut into
lengths of not more than four feet, and if the limbs exceed three inches in
diameter, then they shall be cut to a corresponding shorter length.
   (B)   In the event large and bulky items, of a type and size that cannot be
deposited in the usual container, are placed outside to be picked up by the
city Department of Public Works personnel, it will be the responsibility of the
person so placing these items outside to call the Department of Public Works so
that special arrangements can be made to pick up those items.
(1987 Code, § 6-42) (Ord. 4, 1976, passed 3-8-1976; Am. Ord. 10, 2009, passed
9-28-2009)
§ 51.18 CONTAINER LOCATION.
   (A)   Requirements as to location of trash containers. All 96-gallon trash
toters shall be located in a garage or other out-building on the premises or at
the side of the residence or in the backyard of the residence.
   (B)   Containers in right-of-way restricted. No 96-gallon trash toters shall
be placed, kept, stored, or located within the right-of-way of a street or
alley; provided, however, that the Director of the Department of Public Works
may authorized the location of these containers within the public right-of-way
at specified places and times when that location is necessary for the
expeditious collection and disposition of trash by the city.
(1987 Code, § 6-51) (Ord. 29, 1984, passed 1-28-1985; Am. Ord. 10, 2009, passed
9-28-2009) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.19 CONTAINERS FOR MULTI-FAMILY DWELLINGS.
   In the instance of multi-family dwellings, it shall be the duty of the owner
of the structures to provide adequate and appropriate containers for garbage,
refuse, rubbish, and trash.
(Ord. 10, 2009, passed 9-28-2009)
§ 51.20 TIME OF COLLECTION.
   Collection of garbage shall be made at least once a week and as many
additional times per week as the Board of Public Works and Safety may order.
(Ord. 10, 2009, passed 9-28-2009)
§ 51.21 PRIVATE TRASH HAULERS.
   Residential trash may be collected and disposed of by private haulers. All
vehicles used to transport rubbish and trash shall be provided with equipment
to prevent rubbish and trash from blowing out of, falling from, or otherwise
escaping from the vehicle.
(Ord. 10, 2009, passed 9-28-2009)
§ 51.22 DISTRICTS.
   The Board of Public Works and Safety may, by resolution, establish districts
in the city for the purpose of collecting garbage and rubbish and of
establishing fees therefor.
(Ord. 10, 2009, passed 9-28-2009)
§ 51.23 FEES.
   Fees for trash collection shall be amended periodically by the City Council.
(Ord. 10, 2009, passed 9-28-2009)
CHAPTER 52: RESERVED
CHAPTER 53: STORMWATER UTILITY
Section
   
53.01   Stormwater utility established
   
53.02   [Reserved]
   
53.03   Definitions
   
53.04   Stormwater user fee determination
   
53.05   Billing and collection
   
53.06   Appeal procedure
§ 53.01 STORMWATER UTILITY ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   There is hereby established a stormwater utility for the City of
Seymour, Indiana.
   (B)   The Board of Public Works and Safety is hereby authorized to establish
policies and procedures for the operation of the Seymour Stormwater Utility and
to establish the Equivalent Residential Unit (ERU) and multiplier for
stormwater users.
   (C)   The city intends to operate its stormwater utility under provisions of
I.C. 36-9-23. The stormwater utility will be responsible for the management of
the Seymour Stormwater System and will fund stormwater management activities by
charging user fees to the owner/tenant of each property containing impervious
surface area within the corporate limits of the city.
   (D)   All residential properties will be charged a uniform user fee. User
fees for non-residential will be based upon the amount of impervious surface
area contained within the property. The amount of impervious surface area for
each property has been determined based upon measurements using aerial
photography, submitted construction plans and by field measurements. Public
right-of-way is exempt from the user fee.
   (E)   User fees do not relieve any property owner from compliance with the
City of Seymour and/or Jackson County ordinances and/or other applicable state
and/or federal laws/regulations.
(Ord. 1, 2014, passed 2-10-2014)
§ 53.02 [RESERVED.]
§ 53.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply,
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS.  An act or means of providing goods or services for compensation.
   COMBINED RESIDENTIAL/BUSINESS PROPERTY.  A residential property in which
business is conducted on the property.
   COMPACTED GRAVEL.  A gravel, crushed stone, or rock surface that impedes or
prevents the infiltration of stormwater into the soil. Such surfaces are
subject to vehicular or equipment traffic, or are used as a roadway, driveway,
alley or parking surface.
   CREDIT.  A reduction in the stormwater user fee for a utility rate payer,
based on attainment of criteria specified in this chapter.
   EQUIVALENT RESIDENTIAL UNIT (ERU).  The average amount of impervious surface
area for a single-family residential property located within the corporate
limits of the city. The ERU for the city is 2,840 square feet, and shall be
used in calculating user fees for non-residential properties.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE AREA.  The horizontal surface area of property covered
with materials that include, but are not limited to, concrete, asphalt,
rooftop, blacktop and compacted gravel, such that the infiltration of
stormwater is prevented or impeded. The total amount of impervious surface area
located on a property without regard to topographic features of the property is
included. Driveways, roadways., parking lots and other areas used for vehicular
traffic are considered IMPERVIOUS SURFACE AREAS . Undisturbed land, tilled
agricultural land, ponds, lawns and fields are not considered impervious
surface areas.
   INFILTRATION.  The process of allowing runoff to penetrate the ground
surface and flow through the upper soil surface.
   MULTI-FAMILY PROPERTY.  A lot or parcel on which a building is situated
containing two to four residential units shall be billed as a single ERU and
bills shall be sent to the owner of the property. A multi-family property
containing five or more units shall be classified and billed as non-residential
property.
   MULTI-UNIT PROPERTY.  A non-residential property that contains more than one
unit within the same parcel. MULTI-UNIT PROPERTIES  include, but are not
limited to, commercial plazas, strip malls, apartment buildings, medical
complexes and commercial office buildings.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY.  All properties not categorized as residential
properties or combined residential/business properties. NON-RESIDENTIAL
PROPERTIES  include, but are not limited to the following:
      (1)   Agricultural property;
      (2)   Businesses and commercial property;
      (3)   Churches and other places of religious affiliation;
      (4)   Community centers;
      (5)   Federal, state and local government property;
      (6)   Home-based business properties which require an improvement
location permit in accordance with §
157.096 of the Seymour Zoning Code.
      (7)   Hospitals and medical centers;
      (8)   Industrial property;
      (9)   Multi-family properties which contain five or more units;
      (10)   Mobile home parks;
      (11)   Retirement centers;
      (12)   Schools and colleges;
      (13)   Common areas of residential developments, including but not
limited to, private streets, parking lots, recreational areas, office areas,
maintenance areas and all other areas not occupied by residential units.
   PRIVATE STORMWATER FACILITIES.  Facilities designed to transport, move or
regulate stormwater that are not subject to the control and/or not under the
ownership of the local, state or federal government.
   PUBLIC STORMWATER FACILITIES.  Facilities designed to transport, move or
regulate stormwater that are subject to the control and/or under the ownership
of the local, state or federal government. This shall include facilities in the
right-of-way.
   RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY.  A lot or parcel on which a building or mobile home is
situated in which a single-family resides including home-based business
properties allowed without a permit as defined in §
157.096 Of the Seymour Zoning Code. A MULTI-FAMILY PROPERTY  consisting of four
or fewer residential units in a single building shall also qualify as a single
RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY .
   SEYMOUR STORMWATER SYSTEM.  All facilities and conveyances subject to the
control of and/or under the ownership of the city used for collecting and
conveying stormwater to, through and from drainage areas to the point of final
outlet, including, but not limited to, inlets, conduits and appurtenant
features, pipes, pumping stations, manholes, structures, channels, outlets,
creeks, catch basins, ditches, legal county drains, streams, culverts,
retention or detention basins and other structural components and equipment
that transport, move or regulate stormwater. The system includes public
streets, roads, alleyways and highways.
   STORMWATER USER.  The owner/renter of a lot or parcel of residential
property or non-residential property within the city's corporate limits.
(Ord. 1, 2014, passed 2-10-2014)
§ 53.04 STORMWATER USER FEE DETERMINATION.
   (A)   The monthly stormwater utility user fee is uniform for all residential
properties assigned one ERU. This user fee may be changed from time to time by
the City Council by ordinance. The user fee for one ERU is set forth as
follows:
 
             Per ERU
Phase I      $4.67
June 1, 2024
Phase II     $5.33
June 1, 2025
Phase III    $6.00
June 1, 2026
 
   (B)   The monthly stormwater utility user fee for a non-residential property
or a multi-family property with five or more units (defined as non-residential)
are determined using an ERU multiplier, which is calculated by dividing the
total impervious surface area within the property by the base ERU of 2,840
square feet. This method allows for the non-residential property user fees to
be based upon the amount of impervious surface area within the property as
compared to the amount of impervious surface area of the average residential
property. For example, a non-residential property with 30,000 square feet of
impervious surface area receives an ERU multiplier of 10.6 (30,000/2,840). The
ERU multiplier shall be rounded to one decimal place and the minimum ERU shall
be one. The ERU multiplier is then multiplied by the current fee for one ERU to
determine the actual user fee in dollars.
   (C)   Impervious surface areas shall be measured in the field or based on
aerial footprint of impervious surfaces. Angled rooftops shall be measured as
if they were flat. All impervious surfaces within the parcel boundaries of a
property shall be measured, with the exception of those surfaces located within
a road right-of-way. For multi-unit properties, all units within a single
parcel and all impervious surfaces (such as parking lots and walkways) shall be
measured and billed to the property owner. For multi-level or multistory
structures (containing more than one level), the footprint of the building and
other impervious surfaces shall be measured and billed to the property owner.
   (D)   A reduction in the stormwater user fee, or credit, based on specific
qualifying conditions may be available to utility rate payers. Utility rate
payers must successfully complete any application process required by the Board
of Works to demonstrate compliance with this section.
   (E)   Credit requirements and procedures shall be established by the Board
of Works.
   (F)   Upon written notice, the stormwater utility may revoke a credit for
good reason, including failure to meet credit conditions.
(Ord. 1, 2014, passed 2-10-2014; Am. Ord. 16, 2024, passed 5-28-2024)
§ 53.05 BILLING AND COLLECTION.
   (A)   Charges for stormwater service shall be billed by and through the city
utilities office on the monthly utility bill.
   (B)   The billing and collection procedures for charges for stormwater
service shall be the same as specified in §
50.211 through §
50.213.
(Ord. 1, 2014, passed 2-10-2014)
§ 53.06 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   Appeals procedures concerning ERU determinations, stormwater credits and
billing issues shall be established by the Board of Works in a Stormwater
Policy and Procedures Manual.
(Ord. 1, 2014, passed 2-10-2014)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
Chapter
   
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
   
72.   FREEMAN FIELD REGULATIONS
   
73.   PARKING REGULATIONS
   
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
   
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   State law adopted
   
70.02   Title
   
70.03   Interpretation
   
70.04   Interpretations and definitions
   
70.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Obstruction of Public Ways, see §§
94.20 et. seq.
   Potentially Damaging Street Usage, see §§
94.01 et seq.
§ 70.01 STATE LAW ADOPTED.
   The Uniform Act Regulating Traffic on Highways, being I.C. 9-21-1-1 et seq.,
as heretofore adopted by the General Assembly of the state, and as now or
hereafter amended, is declared to be the basic traffic code in and for the
city, and all drivers, operators, or owners of any motor vehicles, and all
pedestrians, where applicable, shall obey the provisions thereof, the same as
if each and every provision of the Uniform Act, being 9-21-1-1 et seq., as
aforementioned, was incorporated, in detail, in this code, it being intended
that the following provisions of this title shall only implement the Uniform
Act, being I.C. 9-21-1-1 et seq., and where this code conflicts with the
Uniform Act, being I.C. 9-21-1-1 et seq., as aforementioned, the Uniform Act,
being I.C. 9-21-1-1 et seq. shall control.
(1987 Code, § 8-1) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
§ 70.02 TITLE.
   This title shall be known, and may be designated and cited as, the city
“traffic code.” The codification has been made in one ordinance under
appropriate titles, chapters, subchapters, and sections by authority of the
laws of the state.
(1987 Code, § 8-3) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
§ 70.03 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this title as those governing the interpretation of the Acts
of the General Assembly of the state.
(1987 Code, § 8-4) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
§ 70.04 INTERPRETATIONS AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this title, the following interpretations shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders.
      (2)   Words in the singular shall include the plural, and words in the
plural shall include the singular.
   (B)   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PERSON. The term and its derivatives shall include a natural person,
partnership, or a corporate body, or any body of persons, corporate or
incorporate.
      STATE or THIS STATE. The State of Indiana.
(1987 Code, § 8-6) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Violations of any provision of this title may be enforced by an action
brought in accordance with I.C. 34-28-5 and judgment sought against any
violator for a fine.
(1987 Code, §§ 8-215, 8-231) (Ord. 24, 1984, passed 10-8-1984; Ord. 26, 1984,
passed 10-8-1984)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
General Provisions
   
71.001   Application to government vehicles
   
71.002   Application to push carts and animal-driven vehicles
   
71.003   Obedience to Police and Fire Department officials
Emergency Vehicles
   
71.015   Exemptions from traffic and parking rules; application
   
71.016   Yielding to emergency vehicles
   
71.017   Due regard
   
71.018   Following emergency vehicles restricted
   
71.019   Crossing fire hose prohibited
Traffic-Control Devices and Controlled Zones
   
71.030   Obedience to traffic-control devices
   
71.031   Traffic-control device intersections
   
71.032   Play streets; restrictions; exceptions
   
71.033   Quiet zones; restrictions
   
71.034   Lane and crosswalk designation; signs, markers, and the like
   
71.035   Obedience to lane markers required
   
71.036   Board responsibility; street and traffic-control signs
   
71.037   Unauthorized signs prohibited
   
71.038   Removal of unauthorized signs
   
71.039   Tampering with official signs prohibited
   
71.040   Violations; liability
School Zones
   
71.050   Definition
   
71.051   Speed limit
   
71.052   Loitering restricted
   
71.053   Exceptions
   
71.054   Violations
Processions and Parades
   
71.065   Permit required
   
71.066   Waiting period for application
   
71.067   Parade hours established by Board
   
71.068   Funeral processions; notification required
   
71.069   Funeral procession driving
   
71.070   Funeral procession identification
   
71.071   Driving between procession vehicles restricted
Stops and Yields
   
71.085   Designated through streets; stops and yields
   
71.086   Crossing alleys; stops and yields
   
71.087   Stop intersections
   
71.088   Railroad crossings; required stops
   
71.089   Yield intersections
Additional Driving Rules
   
71.100   Speed limits; violations
   
71.101   U-turns prohibited
   
71.102   Driving on sidewalk prohibited
   
71.103   Backing vehicles
   
71.104   Riding on motorcycles
   
71.105   Roller skates, coasters, and the like prohibited on streets
   
71.106   Attaching to vehicles prohibited
   
71.107   Hitching animals restricted
   
71.108   Pedestrian rules
Street Closings
   
71.120   Temporary street closings; policy
   
71.121   Snow emergency; authority and procedures
   
71.122   Board authority over street events
   
71.123   Closing for events; advance notice required
   
71.124   Street Commissioner authority over maintenance
   
71.125   Closing for maintenance; procedure
   
71.126   Violations
   
71.127   Removal of vehicles in violation; towing
Bicycles
   
71.130   Driving on or across sidewalks; yielding to bicycle operator on
sidewalk
   
71.131   Bicycle paths and lanes
   
71.132   Yielding to bicycle operator in bicycle path or lane
   
71.133   Driving, standing or parking on bicycle paths or lanes prohibited
   
71.134   Duty to yield to bicycle operator; minimum passing distance
   
71.135   Fines and penalties
Truck Regulations
   
71.140   Commercial vehicle defined
   
71.141   Driving restrictions on vehicles over 5,000 pounds
   
71.142   Semi-truck traffic restrictions on local roads
Train Regulations
   
71.155   Obstruction of crossings restricted
   
71.156   Dangerous cargo; storage restricted
   
71.157   Boarding trains restricted
   
71.158   Unnecessary whistle sounding restricted
   
71.159   Warning devices required at crossings
Cross-reference:
   Freeman Field Regulations, see
Ch. 72
   Potentially Damaging Street Usage, see §§
94.01 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.001 APPLICATION TO GOVERNMENT VEHICLES.
   (A)   The provisions of this title shall apply to the driver of any vehicle
owned by or used in the service of the U.S. government, this state, county, or
city.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any thus described driver to violate any of
the provisions of this title, except as otherwise permitted in this title or by
state statute.
(1987 Code, § 8-182) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.002 APPLICATION TO PUSH CARTS AND ANIMAL-DRIVEN VEHICLES.
   Every person propelling any push cart or riding an animal upon a roadway,
and every person driving any animal-drawn vehicle shall be subject to the
provisions of this title applicable to the driver of any vehicle except those
provisions of this title which by their very nature can have no application.
(1987 Code, § 8-183) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
§ 71.003 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS.
   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of any police officer or any Fire Department official when that
officer or official is engaged in the performance of his or her official duties
as an officer or official.
(1987 Code, § 8-190) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
Penalty, see § 70.99
EMERGENCY VEHICLES
§ 71.015 EXEMPTIONS FROM TRAFFIC AND PARKING RULES; APPLICATION.
   (A)   The provisions of this title regulating the operation, parking, and
standing of vehicles shall also apply to authorized emergency vehicles.
   (B)   Exceptions are as follows. A driver when operating any authorized
emergency vehicle in an emergency, except when otherwise directed by a police
officer, may:
      (1)   Park or stand notwithstanding any provisions of this title;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
      (3)   Exceed the prima facie speed limits so long as he or she does not
endanger life or property; and
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specified directions so long as he or she does not endanger life or property.
   (C)   Those exemptions hereinbefore granted in reference to the movement of
an authorized emergency vehicle shall apply only when the driver of that
vehicle sounds a siren, bell, or exhaust whistle as may be reasonably necessary
or the vehicle displays a lighted red lamp visible from both the front and rear
as a warning to others.
(1987 Code, § 8-195) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
§ 71.016 YIELDING TO EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle equipped with
at least lighted lamps exhibiting a red light visible under normal atmospheric
conditions from a distance of 300 feet and when the driver is giving audible
signal by siren, exhaust whistle, or bell, the driver of every other vehicle
shall yield the right-of-way and shall immediately drive to a position parallel
to and as close as possible to the right-hand edge of curb or of the roadway,
clear of any intersection, and shall stop and remain in that position until the
authorized emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a
police officer.
(1987 Code, § 8-196) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
§ 71.017 DUE REGARD.
   The above sections shall not operate to relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to always drive with due regard for the safety
of all other persons using the highways.
(1987 Code, § 8-197) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
§ 71.018 FOLLOWING EMERGENCY VEHICLES RESTRICTED.
   The driver of any vehicle shall not follow any fire apparatus traveling in
response to a fire alarm, closer than 500 feet, or drive into or park his or
her vehicle within the block where fire apparatus has stopped in answer to a
fire alarm.
(1987 Code, § 8-198) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.019 CROSSING FIRE HOSE PROHIBITED.
   No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of a Fire Department
when laid down on any street, private driveway, or railroad track without the
consent of the Fire Department officer in command.
(1987 Code, § 8-199)
Penalty, see § 70.99
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES AND CONTROLLED ZONES
§ 71.030 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   Where automatic traffic-control signals or devices are located and
maintained at intersections, to include walk and wait signals, when so
provided, motor vehicles and pedestrian rights, duties, and responsibilities
shall be those as required by the Uniform Act Regulating Traffic on Highways,
being I.C. 9-21-1-1 et seq., as enacted by the state, and as now or hereafter
amended.
(1987 Code, § 8-66) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
§ 71.031 TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICE INTERSECTIONS.
   The intersections as set forth in
Ch. 74, Sch. I, shall be so equipped and maintained with automatic traffic-
control signals.
(1987 Code, § 8-67) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969; Am. Ord. 4, 2001, passed 2-
26-2001)
§ 71.032 PLAY STREETS; RESTRICTIONS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Board designation. The Board of Public Works and Safety of the city,
by proper resolution, duly entered of record, and after notice by publication
thereof, may declare any street, or part of a street, a play street, the
periods of times of which shall be fixed by the Board in its resolution.
(1987 Code, § 8-88)
   (B)   Driving prohibited; exceptions. Whenever official signs are so erected
indicating any street or part of a street is a play street, no person shall
drive a vehicle upon any thus designated street, or portion thereof, except
drivers of vehicles whose residences are within the closed area, and then any
exempt driver shall exercise the greatest care in driving upon any play street,
or portion thereof.
(1987 Code, § 8-89)
(Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.033 QUIET ZONES; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Board designation of quiet zones. The Board of Public Works and Safety
of the city, by proper resolution, duly entered of record, and after notice by
publication thereof, may declare any street, or part of any street, or any
specific area, near or adjacent to a public or parochial school, any hospital,
any nursing or convalescent home, to be a quiet zone.
(1987 Code, § 8-91)
   (B)   Loud noises prohibited in quiet zones. When official signs are so
erected indicating that a street, or part of a street, or a specific area has
been so designated as a quiet zone, any loud or unusual noise by any person
within that zone shall be unlawful.
(1987 Code, § 8-92)
(Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.034 LANE AND CROSSWALK DESIGNATION; SIGNS, MARKERS, AND THE LIKE.
   The Board of Public Works and Safety or, at its direction, designated
employees of the city, is authorized to do the following:
   (A)   Designate and maintain by appropriate devices, marks, or lines upon
the surface of the roadway, crosswalks at intersections where in its opinion
there is a particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway and at other
places as it may deem necessary;
   (B)   Establish safety zones of that kind and character and at those places
as it may deem necessary for the protection of pedestrians;
   (C)   Mark lanes for traffic on street pavements at those places as it may
deem advisable; and
   (D)   Place markers, buttons, or signs within or adjacent to intersections
indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles turning at those
intersections.
(1987 Code, § 8-124) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
§ 71.035 OBEDIENCE TO LANE MARKERS REQUIRED.
   When authorized markers, buttons, or other indications are placed within an
intersection indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles turning thereat,
no driver of a vehicle shall disregard or disobey the directions of these
indications.
(1987 Code, § 8-125) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.036 BOARD RESPONSIBILITY; STREET AND TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNS.
   (A)   Traffic-control signs. The Board of Public Works and Safety of this
city shall have the responsibility for the emplacement, displacement, and
maintenance of all traffic-control signs and insignia of any kind, character,
or description required by this title or by other ordinance of this city or by
any law of this state.
(1987 Code, § 8-126)
   (B)   Street name signs. The Board of Public Works and Safety shall have the
further responsibility for the emplacement, displacement, and maintenance of
all official signs denoting for the benefit of the public the names of all
streets or other public ways.
(1987 Code, § 8-127)
(Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
§ 71.037 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall place, maintain, or display upon or in view of any highway
any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device which purports to be or is an
imitation of or resembles an official traffic-control device or railroad sign
or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic, or which hides
from view or interferes with the effectiveness of any official traffic-control
device or any railroad sign or signal, and no person shall place or maintain
nor shall any public authority permit upon any highway, any traffic sign or
signal bearing thereon any commercial advertising. This shall not be deemed to
prohibit the erection upon private property, adjacent to highways and streets,
of signs giving useful directional information and of a type that cannot be
mistaken for official signs.
(1987 Code, § 8-130) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.038 REMOVAL OF UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS.
   Every above prohibited sign, signal, or marking is declared to be a public
nuisance and the authority having jurisdiction over the street or highway is
empowered to remove the same, or cause it to be removed without notice.
(1987 Code, § 8-131) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.039 TAMPERING WITH OFFICIAL SIGNS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall without lawful authority attempt to, or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down, or remove any official traffic-control device, any
railroad sign or signal, any street sign, or the post on which it may be
located, or any inscription, shield, or insignia thereon or any other part
thereof.
(1987 Code, § 8-132) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.040 VIOLATIONS; LIABILITY.
   Any person who in violation of §
71.039 above causes damage to any official traffic-control device or sign, any
railroad sign or signal, or any street sign shall be responsible in law for the
damages thereto.
(1987 Code, § 8-133) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHOOL ZONES
§ 71.050 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SCHOOL ZONE. The specific city block in which any public or parochial
elementary or junior high school building is located, and the area covered by a
further distance of one block, in each direction, from the block in which the
school building as mentioned above is located; and also the block in which any
high school is located and the area covered by a further distance of one block,
in each direction, from the block in which that high school building is
located.
(1987 Code, § 8-165) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969; Ord. 1610, passed 4-26-
1971)
§ 71.051 SPEED LIMIT.
   When the school zone is so marked by appropriate signs, it shall be unlawful
for any person to drive or operate any motor vehicle within the school zone at
a speed greater than 20 miles per hour, when children are present either on the
sidewalk adjacent to the streets in the school zone or upon or at the
crosswalks preparatory to crossing those streets.
(1987 Code, § 8-166) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.052 LOITERING RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than those excepted in §
71.053 below, to stand around or to move slowly about or to spend time idly or
to idle or linger, either on foot or in a motor vehicle, within a school zone
as hereinbefore defined during a period of time beginning one hour before
school opens and extending to a period of time one hour after school is closed
on school days or upon days when the school is open for any educational
purpose.
(1987 Code, § 8-167) (Ord. 1610, passed 4-26-1971)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.053 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of §
71.052 above shall not apply to any of the following:
   (A)   A student at the educational institution;
   (B)   A parent, guardian, relative, or other person having custody of any
student of that educational institution present in the school zone for the
express purpose of contacting the student of which that person is a parent,
guardian, relative, or other having custody thereof; or
   (C)   Any person having a specific or legitimate reason to be within the
school zone for any lawful purpose not connected to the educational institution
itself or any student thereof.
(1987 Code, § 8-168)
§ 71.054 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person who violates any of these provisions shall be guilty of a code
violation and upon conviction that person shall be fined.
(1987 Code, § 8-169) (Ord. 1610, passed 4-26-1971)
Penalty, see § 70.99
PROCESSIONS AND PARADES
§ 71.065 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No procession or parade, containing ten or more persons, or five or more
vehicles, excepting funeral processions, forces of the U.S. Army, Navy, or Air
Force, the military forces of this state, and the forces of the city Police or
Fire Department, shall occupy, march, or proceed upon or along any street
within this city, except and until that procession or parade shall have
received a permit so to do, issued without charge by the Board of Public Works
and Safety of this city.
(1987 Code, § 8-75) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.066 WAITING PERIOD FOR APPLICATION.
   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall not unreasonably withhold a
parade or procession permit, as hereinbefore required, to any religious,
fraternal, political, or social group or organization, applying therefor in
writing, to the Board at its regular meeting at least ten days in advance of
the time of the requested permit.
(1987 Code, § 8-76) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
§ 71.067 PARADE HOURS ESTABLISHED BY BOARD.
   In order to facilitate the movement of traffic, the Board of Public Works
and Safety, in its permit, as mentioned above, may set the hours that the
parade or procession shall be conducted, and designate specifically the streets
and the route thereof.
(1987 Code, § 8-77) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
§ 71.068 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS; NOTIFICATION REQUIRED.
   Funeral processions shall not be required to secure a permit but shall
notify the city Police Department of the planned route, the time, destination,
and other pertinent facts, at least 24 hours in advance of the procession.
(1987 Code, § 8-78) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
§ 71.069 FUNERAL PROCESSION DRIVING.
   Each driver in a funeral procession shall drive as near to the right-hand
edge of the roadway as practical and with the vehicle lights being turned on,
and shall follow the vehicle ahead as close as is practical and safe.
(1987 Code, § 8-79) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
§ 71.070 FUNERAL PROCESSION IDENTIFICATION.
   A funeral procession of vehicles shall be identified as such by the display
upon the outside of each vehicle of a pennant or other identifying insignia or
by some other method as may be provided by the director in charge thereof,
provided the insignia or pennant clearly identifies the type of the procession.
(1987 Code, § 8-80) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
§ 71.071 DRIVING BETWEEN PROCESSION VEHICLES RESTRICTED.
   No driver of a vehicle shall drive between the vehicles comprising a funeral
or any other authorized procession while they are in motion and when those
vehicles are conspicuously designated as required in this subchapter or are
operating under a properly issued permit. This provision shall not apply at
intersections where traffic is controlled by police officers.
(1987 Code, § 8-81) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
Penalty, see § 70.99
STOPS AND YIELDS
§ 71.085 DESIGNATED THROUGH STREETS; STOPS AND YIELDS.
   The streets set forth in
Ch. 74, Sch. II, are designated as through streets, and when so marked by
appropriate stop signs for intersecting traffic, vehicular traffic approaching
the through street from intersecting streets shall be required to stop and
yield right-of-way to vehicles upon the through street, all as defined and
required by the Uniform Act Regulating Traffic on Highways, being I.C. 9-21-1-
1 et seq., as enacted by the state and as now or hereafter amended; provided
further that at particular designated intersections along the through street
being removed from the designation by this section all as hereinafter provided
as such a through street.
(1987 Code, § 8-145) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
§ 71.086 CROSSING ALLEYS; STOPS AND YIELDS.
   The driver of any vehicle crossing any alley shall first stop his or her
vehicle immediately prior to crossing the alley, and yield right-of-way to all
other vehicles on the intersecting alley.
(1987 Code, § 8-146) (Ord. 32, 1979, passed 11-26-1979)
§ 71.087 STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The intersections set forth in
Ch. 74, Sch. III, Table A, are designated as four-way stop intersections, and
when so marked by appropriate signs, obedience thereto will be required by
drivers of all motor vehicles approaching those intersections from any of the
four separate directions, as established in the Uniform Act Regulating Traffic
on Highways, being I.C. 9-21-1-1 et seq., as enacted by the state and as now or
hereafter amended.
(1987 Code, § 8-147) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
   (B)   The intersections set forth in
Ch. 74, Sch. III, Table B, are designated as three-way stop intersections, and
when so marked by appropriate signs, obedience thereto will be required of all
drivers of motor vehicles approaching these intersections from any of the three
separate directions, as established in the Uniform Act, being I.C. 9-21-1-1 et
seq.
(1987 Code, § 8-148) (Ord. 30, 1976, passed 9-27-1976)
   (C)   The intersections set forth in
Ch. 74, Sch. III, Table C, are designated as two-way stop intersections, and
when so marked by appropriate signs, obedience thereto will be required of all
drivers of motor vehicles approaching these intersections from either of the
two separate directions, as established in the Uniform Act, being I.C. 9-21-1-
1 et seq.
(1987 Code, § 8-149) (Ord. 6, 1982, passed 4-26-1982)
   (D)   The intersections set forth in
Ch. 74, Sch. III, Table D, are designated as one-way stop intersections, and
when so marked by appropriate signs, obedience thereto will be required of all
drivers of motor vehicles approaching these intersections from the marked
direction, as established in the Uniform Act, being I.C. 9-21-1-1 et seq.
(1987 Code, § 8-150) (Ord. 1, 1987, passed 2-9-1987)
§ 71.088 RAILROAD CROSSINGS; REQUIRED STOPS.
   All drivers or operators of any motor vehicles shall stop their motor
vehicles prior to crossing the designated railroad crossings as set forth in
Ch. 74, Sch. III, Table E, and each of them.
(1987 Code, § 8-152)
§ 71.089 YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   The intersections set forth in
Ch. 74, Sch. IV, are designated as yield right-of-way intersections, and when
so marked by appropriate signs, obedience thereto will be required of the
drivers of all motor vehicles approaching the intersections from the designated
directions and streets, as established in the Uniform Act Regulating Traffic on
Highways, being I.C. 9-21-1-1 et seq., as enacted by the state and as now or
hereafter amended, the yield intersections and the designation of the traffic
being required to yield being as set forth in
Ch. 74, Sch. IV.
(1987 Code, § 8-151)
ADDITIONAL DRIVING RULES
§ 71.100 SPEED LIMITS; VIOLATIONS.
   No person shall drive or operate any motor vehicle over and along the
streets in excess of the speeds as set forth in
Ch. 74, Sch. VI.
(1987 Code, §§ 8-213, 8-214) (Ord. 25, 1979, passed 8-27-1979; Ord. 26, 1984,
passed 10-8-1984)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.101 U-TURNS PROHIBITED.
   U-turns by motor vehicles shall be prohibited at all times over, along, or
upon any street or alley within the city.
(1987 Code, § 8-160) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
Penalty, see § 70.99
Cross-reference:
   Turn-restricted intersections, see
Ch. 74, Sch. V
§ 71.102 DRIVING ON SIDEWALK PROHIBITED.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not drive within any sidewalk area except at a
permanent or temporary driveway.
(1987 Code, § 8-184) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.103 BACKING VEHICLES.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless that movement can be
made with reasonable safety and without interfering with other traffic.
(1987 Code, § 8-185) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.104 RIDING ON MOTORCYCLES.
   No person operating a motorcycle shall ride other than upon the permanent
and regular seat attached thereto, or carry any other person, nor shall any
other person ride upon the motorcycle other than upon a firmly attached seat to
the rear or side of the operator.
(1987 Code, § 8-186) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.105 ROLLER SKATES, COASTERS, AND THE LIKE PROHIBITED ON STREETS.
   (A)   No person upon roller skates or riding in or by means of any coaster,
toy vehicle, or similar device shall go upon any roadway except while crossing
a street on a crosswalk, and when so crossing that person shall be granted all
of the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to
pedestrians.
   (B)   This section shall not apply upon any street while set aside as a play
street as authorized by other sections of this title.
(1987 Code, § 8-187) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.106 ATTACHING TO VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   No person riding upon any bicycle, motorcycle, coaster, sled, roller skates,
or any toy vehicle shall attach the same or himself or herself to any moving
vehicle upon any roadway.
(1987 Code, § 8-188) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.107 HITCHING ANIMALS RESTRICTED.
   No person shall, at any time, tie or hitch any animal for any period of time
whatsoever to any street sign or traffic-control sign within the city.
(1987 Code, § 8-189) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.108 PEDESTRIAN RULES.
   (A)   Pedestrians shall be subject to all traffic-control signals.
   (B)   At all other places, pedestrians shall be granted the following rights
and be further subject to the following restrictions.
      (1)   When traffic-control signals are not in place or not in operation,
the driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping
if need be to so yield, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk
when the pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is
traveling, or when the pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite
half of the roadway as to be in danger, but no pedestrian shall suddenly leave
a curb or other place of safety and walk or run into the path of a vehicle
which is so close that it is impossible for the driver to yield.
      (2)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass the stopped vehicle.
      (3)   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half
of crosswalks.
      (4)   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway at any place other than by a
route at right angles to the curb or by the shortest route to the opposite
curb, except in a crosswalk.
      (5)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within
a marked crosswalk, or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection, shall
yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
      (6)   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic-control signals are
in operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a crosswalk.
      (7)   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway other than in a crosswalk in
the congested traffic area of this city.
      (8)   Where sidewalks are not provided, any pedestrian walking along and
upon a highway shall, when practicable, walk only on the left side of the
roadway or its shoulder facing traffic which may approach from the opposite
direction.
      (9)   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a
ride from the driver of any vehicle.
(1987 Code, § 8-158) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
Penalty, see § 70.99
STREET CLOSINGS
§ 71.120 TEMPORARY STREET CLOSINGS; POLICY.
   It is declared to be in the best interests of the public policy of this city
and the citizens thereof, and in furtherance of the public convenience,
necessity, and safety, to provide conditions under which the privilege of
parking motor vehicles over, upon, and along the public streets of this city
may be temporarily suspended, and further, the temporary closing of public
streets, or portions thereof, for prescribed purposes may be authorized.
(1987 Code, § 8-96) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
§ 71.121 SNOW EMERGENCY; AUTHORITY AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Snow emergency declaration by Mayor. By authority of this subchapter
and section, the Mayor of this city be, and is, authorized to declare a snow
emergency as hereinafter defined, and further to provide in that declaration,
that during the snow emergency, the parking of motor vehicles over, upon, and
along designated streets of this city, or portions thereof, may be suspended,
and designating public streets, or portions thereof, to be temporarily closed
to all vehicular traffic.
(1987 Code, § 8-97)
   (B)   Snow emergency defined. For the purpose of this subchapter, the
following definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
      SNOW EMERGENCY. A period of time, either before, during, or after a
snowfall, when in the sound discretion of the Mayor, circumstances warrant the
determination that a snow emergency exists, which may be based upon a forecast
by the U.S. Weather Bureau that there will be a snowfall to such an extent that
vehicular traffic may be expected to be particularly hazardous or congested due
to the elements, and during which period of time the parking of motor vehicles
could hinder, delay, or obstruct the proper flow of traffic or the proper
cleaning, clearing, and removal of snow from the streets in order to make them
more safe for public travel.
(1987 Code, § 8-98)
   (C)   Notice of snow emergency through news media. Where possible, the Mayor
in declaring a snow emergency shall give advance notice thereof through all
public news media, to include both newspaper and radio, but that snow emergency
may be declared by the posting of appropriate signs over and along the streets
affected, or by the posting of guards or barricades at the entrances and exits
of the public streets so affected, without other advance public notice thereof
through the news media.
(1987 Code, § 8-99)
   (D)   Powers of Mayor during snow emergency. In declaring a snow emergency,
the Mayor of this city in his or her declaration through the news media, or by
the posting of notices, signs, guards, or barricades, as mentioned above,
within his or her sole discretion, may completely close certain public streets
or portions thereof to all vehicular traffic, and further, the Mayor, within
his or her sole discretion, may temporarily suspend the parking of motor
vehicles over, along, and upon the public streets, or portions thereof, for the
period of time necessary and during the duration of the snow emergency.
(1987 Code, § 8-100)
   (E)   Closing and opening streets. During the duration of the snow
emergency, and in the same manner as hereinbefore provided, the Mayor, at his
or her sole discretion, may reopen streets previously closed, or close streets
previously open, or change the restrictions as to the parking of motor
vehicles, all as hereinbefore provided.
(1987 Code, § 8-101)
(Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
§ 71.122 BOARD AUTHORITY OVER STREET EVENTS.
   The Board of Public Works and Safety, or its majority, may within their
discretion, close designated streets, or portions thereof, for the purpose of
civic parades or other civic occasions of similar import, upon written request
of local and bona fide religious, fraternal, scholastic, or other civic
organizations, wholly upon those conditions as the Board, within its
discretion, finds to be proper; further, in conjunction therewith, the Board
may temporarily, for those purposes, suspend or restrict the privilege of
parking of motor vehicles over, upon, and along the designated streets, or
portions thereof, all as hereinbefore provided.
(1987 Code, § 8-102) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
§ 71.123 CLOSING FOR EVENTS; ADVANCE NOTICE REQUIRED.
   For the purposes described in §
71.122 above, the Board of Public Works and Safety or its majority may
designate the streets, or portions thereof, to be closed, and may further
restrict or suspend the parking of motor vehicles all as in §
71.122 so stated by advance notice thereof through the public news media or by
the posting of appropriate signs, barricades, or guards along the streets, or
portion thereof so affected, as herein provided and in accord with the
requirements of §§
71.121(C) and
71.121(D) for declaration of a snow emergency by the Mayor.
(1987 Code, § 8-105) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
§ 71.124 STREET COMMISSIONER AUTHORITY OVER MAINTENANCE.
   For the purposes of leaf removal, cleaning, or the repair, maintenance,
construction, or reconstruction of the public streets of this city, or portions
thereof, the Street Commissioner with the approval of the Mayor may close
public streets, or portions thereof, for either or any of these purposes, and
temporarily restrict or suspend the privilege of parking of motor vehicles
over, upon, or along designated public streets, or portions thereof, in order
to expedite the cleaning, repair, maintenance, construction, or reconstruction
of any public street within this city.
(1987 Code, § 8-103) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
§ 71.125 CLOSING FOR MAINTENANCE; PROCEDURE.
   The Street Commissioner, with the approval of the Mayor, for any of the
purposes described in §
71.124 above, may designate the streets, or portions thereof, to be closed, and
may restrict or suspend the parking of motor vehicles over, upon, and along
designated public streets, or portions thereof, by the same methods designated
by §§
71.121(C) and
71.121(D) for declaration of a snow emergency by the Mayor.
(1987 Code, § 8-104) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
§ 71.126 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Violations when street closed. When any street, or portion thereof, is
closed, by and through any of the means herein provided, and for any of the
purposes established herein, it shall be unlawful for the owner of, or person
in charge of, any motor vehicle to cause the same to be driven over, along, or
upon that public street, or portion thereof, or to drive around or through any
guard or barricade established in accord with the provisions of this
subchapter.
(1987 Code, § 8-106)
   (B)   Suspension of parking privileges. When the parking of motor vehicles
is restricted, or temporarily suspended, in accord with the provisions of this
subchapter and section, it shall be unlawful for the owner of, or the person in
charge of, any motor vehicle, to permit, cause, or allow the same to be parked
in any area or parking space prohibited by this subchapter and section.
(1987 Code, § 8-107)
(Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.127 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES IN VIOLATION; TOWING.
   (A)   Removal of vehicles by owner. When the owner of or person in charge of
any motor vehicle is personally advised by any agent or employee of this city
that the motor vehicle is parked in violation of this subchapter and section,
it shall be unlawful for the owner of or person in charge of that motor vehicle
so parked, to fail and refuse to immediately remove the motor vehicle from any
parking space then and there occupied in violation of this subchapter and
section.
(1987 Code, § 8-108)
   (B)   Towing vehicles. In addition to the foregoing, any police officer of
this city, upon discovering any motor vehicle parked in violation of any of the
provisions of this subchapter and section, may cause the motor vehicle to be
removed to a public garage as authorized by §
73.65 of this code.
(1987 Code, § 8-109)
(Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
Penalty, see § 70.99
BICYCLES
§ 71.130 DRIVING ON OR ACROSS SIDEWALKS; YIELDING TO BICYCLE OPERATOR ON
SIDEWALK.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any wagon, motorcycle,
motor vehicle or any animal upon, over or across any curb, sidewalk or
grassplot on any street in the city, except upon a driveway constructed over
the same, or as otherwise permitted by this Code or by a permit therefor from
the city.
   (B)   The driver or operator of any motor vehicle shall yield the right-of-
way to any bicycle operator on a sidewalk.
(Ord. 23, 2013, passed 10-28-2013)
§ 71.131 BICYCLE PATHS AND LANES.
   (A)   Bicycle paths and lanes shall be used exclusively for the operation of
bicycles unless signage specifies joint use with pedestrians.
   (B)   With the exception of a moped being operated exclusively with human
muscular power, no person shall operate any other conveyance in a designated
bicycle path or lane.
   (C)   A person may operate a motor vehicle upon a bicycle lane for the
limited purpose of making a turn, entering or leaving an alley, private road,
or driveway.
(Ord. 23, 2013, passed 10-28-2013)
§ 71.132 YIELDING TO BICYCLE OPERATOR IN BICYCLE PATH OR LANE.
   The driver or operator of any motor vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to
an individual operating a bicycle on a designated bicycle path or lane.
(Ord. 23, 2013, passed 10-28-2013)
§ 71.133 DRIVING, STANDING OR PARKING ON BICYCLE PATHS OR LANES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The driver or operator of any motor vehicle shall not drive, unless
entering or exiting a legal parking space, or stand, or park the motor vehicle
upon any path or lane designated by official signs or markings for the use of
bicycles, or otherwise drive or place the motor vehicle in such a manner as to
impede bicycle traffic on such path or lane.
   (B)   The driver or operator of any motor vehicle shall not stand or park
the motor vehicle upon any lane designated by pavement markings for the shared
use of motor vehicles and bicycles, or place the motor vehicle in such a manner
as to impede bicycle traffic on such lane.
   (C)   A motor vehicle parked or standing in violation of this section may be
subject to immediate removal.
(Ord. 23, 2013, passed 10-28-2013)
§ 71.134 DUTY TO YIELD TO BICYCLE OPERATOR; MINIMUM PASSING DISTANCE.
   (A)   The driver or operator of a motor vehicle shall yield the right-of-way
to an individual operating a bicycle on a designated bicycle path or lane.
   (B)   The driver or operator of a motor vehicle overtaking a bicycle must
pass the bicycle at a safe distance of not less than three feet between the
motor vehicle and the bicycle.
(Ord. 23, 2013, passed 10-28-2013)
§ 71.135 FINES AND PENALTIES.
   In addition to other fines, fees and penalties, civil actions, forfeitures
and the like provided in §
10.99 of this Code, violations of §
71.131 through §
71.135 shall result in the imposition of a minimum fines of $25 for a first
violation and $50 for a second violation and $100 for a third violation. In
addition, violators will be responsible for any and all resulting towing
expenses.
(Ord. 23, 2013, passed 10-28-2013)
TRUCK REGULATIONS
§ 71.140 COMMERCIAL VEHICLE DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Any vehicle other than a passenger car which is operated
for compensation or which is owned or operated by a private carrier for the
transportation of property of which that person is the owner or bailee when
that transportation is for the purpose of sale, lease, rent, or bailment, or in
the furtherance of any commercial enterprise.
(1987 Code, § 8-51) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-27-1969)
§ 71.141 DRIVING RESTRICTIONS ON VEHICLES OVER 5,000 POUNDS.
   Commercial or freight-carrying vehicles, either of which exceed 5,000 pounds
in declared gross weight, shall be restricted at all times to those streets and
parts of streets designated as state highways, except that these vehicles may
be operated on other streets solely for the purpose of either delivery or pick-
up of materials or merchandise, and then only by entering upon streets not
being state highways at the intersection nearest the destination of the vehicle
and proceeding thereon no further than the nearest intersection thereafter;
further, that these vehicles shall thereafter return by the nearest
intersection, to the closest adjacent street designated as a state highway.
(1987 Code, § 8-52) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
Cross-reference:
   Parking and standing regulations; trucks and commercial vehicles, see §§
73.35 et seq.
§ 71.142 SEMI-TRUCK TRAFFIC RESTRICTIONS ON LOCAL ROADS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, SEMI, SEMI-TRUCK or
TRUCK means a semi-trailer truck cab with a trailer.
   (B)   Restrictions. Semi-truck traffic is restricted on the following local
roads:
      (1)   From 209 N. Locust Drive, then south on Locust Drive to Schleter
Road.
   (C)   Exemptions. The semi-truck restrictions prescribed in this section
shall not apply to road repair, construction or maintenance vehicles while
involved in the repair, construction or maintenance of infrastructure.
   (D)   Signs. The Department of Public Works shall post appropriate signs and
markings on the above described public street(s) clearly indicating the
prohibition of semi-trucks. All such signs shall conform to the manual and
specifications for a uniform system of traffic control devices as used by the
Indiana Department of Highways. Additional signs may be installed at other
locations to properly identify local truck routes.
(Ord. 8, 2020, passed 5-11-2020)
TRAIN REGULATIONS
§ 71.155 OBSTRUCTION OF CROSSINGS RESTRICTED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person in charge of any railroad train to
direct the operation thereof, or to so operate the same in a manner so as to
prevent the use of any street, sidewalk, or vehicle crossing within this city
for the purpose of travel thereon for a period of time longer than ten minutes,
except that this provision shall not apply to trains or cars in motion other
than those engaged in switching.
(1987 Code, § 8-176)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person having charge of a train or
locomotive to permit that locomotive, train, or the cars thereof to remain upon
the street, alley, or sidewalk crossing for a longer period of time than ten
minutes.
(1987 Code, § 6-133)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.156 DANGEROUS CARGO; STORAGE RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in charge of any railroad train to cause
any railroad car loaded with explosives of any kind or character to remain on a
siding within this city overnight without prior advance notice thereof to the
city Police Department.
(1987 Code, § 8-177) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.157 BOARDING TRAINS RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to get on or off, jump on or off, or
attempt to get on or off, any locomotive or any railroad car or cars while
those locomotives or cars are within the limits of this city, whether the cars
are in motion or standing still, excepting persons who are passengers getting
on or off those trains, while the trains are stopped for that purpose, and
further excepting railroad employees engaged in the performance of their
required duties.
(1987 Code, § 8-178)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.158 UNNECESSARY WHISTLE SOUNDING RESTRICTED.
   (A)   Whistles shall be sounded pursuant to applicable state law and shall
never be sounded unnecessarily.
   (B)   Conductors and other individuals violating this section shall be fined
and subject to the provisions as specifically referenced in §
10.99.
(1987 Code, § 6-131)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.159 WARNING DEVICES REQUIRED AT CROSSINGS.
   All railroad crossings within the city shall have adequate warning devices
installed and maintained by the railroad companies.
(1987 Code, § 6-132)
CHAPTER 72: FREEMAN FIELD REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   State law adopted
   
72.02   Speed limits
   
72.03   Stop intersections
   
72.04   Yield intersections
   
72.05   Directional arrows; traffic islands
   
72.06   Violations
§ 72.01 STATE LAW ADOPTED.
   The Uniform Act Regulating Traffic on Highways, being I.C. 9-21-1-1 et seq.,
as heretofore adopted by the General Assembly of the state, and as now or
hereafter amended, is declared to be the basic traffic code in and for Freeman
Field, and all drivers, operators, or owners of any motor vehicles and all
pedestrians, where applicable, shall obey the provisions thereof, the same as
if each and every provision of the Uniform Act, being I.C. 9-21-1-1 et seq., as
aforementioned, were incorporated in detail in these regulations, it being
intended that the following provisions of these regulations shall only
implement the Uniform Act, being I.C. 9-21-1-1 et seq.
(1987 Code, § 8-204) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
§ 72.02 SPEED LIMITS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate any motor vehicle
over, on, or upon any highway, street, alley, or other traffic way in Freeman
Field at a speed greater than that which is so posted, and in no case shall any
motor vehicle be operated at a speed greater than 35 miles per hour.
(1987 Code, § 8-205) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.03 STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The following intersections are designated as stop intersections, and
when so marked by appropriate signs, obedience thereto will be required of all
drivers of all motor vehicles approaching these intersections from the
designated streets or avenues, all as established by the Uniform Act Regulating
Traffic on Highways, being I.C. 9-21-1-1 et seq., as now or hereafter amended.
   (B)   The stop intersections and the designation of traffic being required
to so stop are as follows:
      (1)   All highways or streets as they intersect the railroad where stop
signs are so posted and maintained; and
      (2)   Intersections as set forth in
Ch. 74, Sch. III, Table F.
(1987 Code, § 8-206) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
§ 72.04 YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   The intersections set forth in
Ch. 74, Sch. IV, Table B, are designated as yield right-of-way intersections,
and when so marked by appropriate signs, obedience thereto will be required of
the drivers of all motor vehicles approaching the intersections from the
designated streets, all as established in the Uniform Act Regulating Traffic on
Highways, being I.C. 9-21-1-1 et seq., as now or hereafter amended, the yield
right-of-way intersections, and the designation of traffic being required to so
yield, being as set forth in
Ch. 74, Sch. IV, Table B.
(1987 Code, § 8-207) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
§ 72.05 DIRECTIONAL ARROWS; TRAFFIC ISLANDS.
   (A)   Directional arrows. At the intersections designated in
Ch. 74, Sch. V, Table C, traffic shall be required to obey the directional
arrows, directing traffic to proceed either to the right or to the left, all as
the directional arrows are so posted and maintained.
(1987 Code, § 8-208)
   (B)   Traffic islands. Where certain traffic islands are now emplaced, as
set forth in
Ch. 74, Sch. V, Table C, traffic shall be required to obey the directional
arrows and move only to the right of the islands, all as the directional arrows
are so posted and maintained.
(1987 Code, § 8-209)
(Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
§ 72.06 VIOLATIONS.
   Violations of any of the provisions of these regulations shall constitute an
infraction and upon conviction shall be punished as prescribed by Ch. 190, Acts
of 1945, state General Assembly, as amended.
(1987 Code, § 8-210) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
Penalty, see § 70.99
CHAPTER 73: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Parking Restrictions
   
73.01   Street parking regulations
   
73.02   Additional restrictions posted
   
73.03   Parking prohibited in designated areas
   
73.04   Parking restrictions in downtown area
   
73.05   Parking for storage, sale, or maintenance prohibited
City Parking Lots
   
73.15   Regulations; hours
   
73.16   Application
   
73.17   Special use restrictions; aircraft prohibited
   
73.18   Liability disclaimer
   
73.19   Speed limit
   
73.20   Entry and exit; yield right-of-way
   
73.21   Park within designated space
   
73.22   Vehicles to be locked
   
73.23   Parking time limits
   
73.24   Driver responsibility; laws apply
   
73.25   Vehicle in violation; police authority to remove
Non-Passenger and Commercial Vehicles
   
73.35   Restrictions for vehicles other than passenger vehicles
   
73.36   Commercial vehicle defined
   
73.37   Restrictions on vehicles over 5,000 pounds
   
73.38   Parking in congested areas prohibited
   
73.39   Unattended tank trucks prohibited
Handicapped Parking
   
73.50   Designation of handicapped spaces
   
73.51   Application procedure
Administration and Enforcement
   
73.65   Towing; offender responsible for charges
   
73.66   Determining parking violations; procedures
Cross-reference:
   Parking Schedules, see
Ch. 75
   Street Closings, see §§
71.120 et seq.
GENERAL PARKING RESTRICTIONS
§ 73.01 STREET PARKING REGULATIONS.
   The following shall be the general provisions regulating the parking of
motor vehicles within the city, as follows.
   (A)   Parking on paved streets with curbs.
      (1)   On streets open for two-way traffic, and not marked for angle
parking, motor vehicles shall be parked wholly upon the surface of the street
itself, with the right-hand wheels of the vehicle parallel with, and within 12
inches of, the right-hand curb.
      (2)   On streets designated for one-way traffic, vehicles may be parked
on either side of the street, with the front wheels of the vehicle parallel
with, and within 12 inches of, the curb, with parked vehicles being headed only
in the direction of authorized traffic on that one-way street.
   (B)   Parking on paved streets without curbs.
      (1)   On streets open for two-way traffic, and not marked for angle
parking, motor vehicles shall be parked wholly off the paved portion thereof,
and solely upon the earthen berm, provided that, if there is not any earthen
berm adjacent to the paved portion of the street, then and in that event,
vehicles shall not be parked upon any grass plot adjacent to the paved portion
of these streets.
      (2)   On streets designated for one-way traffic, vehicles shall be parked
in accordance with the provisions of division (B)(1) above, except vehicles may
be parked on either side of the street as long as the vehicles are headed, when
parked, in the direction only of authorized traffic on that one-way street.
   (C)   Painted space lines. Where painted lines are used to designate parking
spaces, whether for parallel or angle parking, all vehicles shall be parked
wholly within a single parking space and shall not be parked in more than one
parking space.
   (D)   Alleys. No motor vehicles shall be parked, or permitted to remain
standing, in, over, or upon any alley within the city, excepting only
temporarily while actually engaged in loading or unloading merchandise or
freight, with the standing, stopping, or parking to be limited to the time
necessary only to accomplish those purposes.
   (E)   Time limit. No vehicle shall be parked, or left standing, over, along,
or upon any public street within this city for a period in excess of 24 hours,
excepting that this prohibition shall not apply to the parking of a passenger
motor vehicle, by the owner thereof, in front of his or her own residence, and
further provided that this residence is located outside of the congested area
as hereinafter defined.
   (F)   Lift stations. No vehicle shall be parked or left standing over, in
front of, along, or upon any lift station or facilities associated with a lift
station within the city. The city shall erect signage designating such areas as
“no parking zones.”
(1987 Code, § 8-13) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969; Am. Ord. 27, 2020, passed
10-12- 2020) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.02 ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS POSTED.
   (A)   The Board of Public Works and Safety of the city, by proper
resolution, duly entered of record, and after notice by publication thereof,
may further restrict parking, in the following instances, or any of them:
      (1)   Upon any street when the width of the paved roadway does not exceed
20 feet, or upon one side of a street when the width of the paved roadway does
not exceed 30 feet;
      (2)   Upon the left-hand side of any one-way street; or
      (3)   Upon the side of any street adjacent to any school building when
that parking would, in its opinion, either interfere with traffic or create a
hazardous situation.
   (B)   In any situation that, in the opinion of the Board, is an emergency,
such as, but not limited to, construction or reconstruction of a portion of a
street, the Board may limit or prohibit parking, without notice thereof by
publication, by posting signs indicating that limitation or prohibition.
   (C)   When official signs prohibiting or limiting parking are so erected as
authorized above, no person shall park any vehicle upon any posted street, or
portion thereof, in violation of any official sign.
(1987 Code, § 8-14) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 73.03 PARKING PROHIBITED IN DESIGNATED AREAS.
   (A)   In addition to the prohibited areas for parking, as set out by the
Uniform Act Regulating Traffic on Highways, being I.C. 9-21-1-1 et seq., as
amended, the areas set forth in
Ch. 75, Sch. I, shall be designated as prohibited areas for the parking of
motor vehicles within the city.
(Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
   (B)   Parking shall be prohibited at any other place, where either official
signs or official markings on the painted surface of the street, prohibit
standing or parking.
(Ord. 25, 1984, passed 10-8-1984)
(1987 Code, § 8-16)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 73.04 PARKING RESTRICTIONS IN DOWNTOWN AREA.
   (A)   A vehicle shall not be parked in the public ways of the downtown area,
as designated, of the city for a period in excess of two hours.
   (B)   Residential parking will be permitted in the downtown area on Monday
through Friday from 5:00 p.m. to 9:00 a.m. and all day on Saturdays and
Sundays.
   (C)   The fine for violating this section shall be $10.
(Ord. 15, 1987, passed 4-27-1987; Am. Ord. 10, 1993, passed 4-20-1993; Am. Ord.
22, 2020, passed 10-12-2020)
(1987 Code, § 8-12)
§ 73.05 PARKING FOR STORAGE, SALE, OR MAINTENANCE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall park any motor vehicle, motorcycle, truck trailer,
semi-trailer, tractor, farm tractor, bus, school bus, house car, or special
farm machinery on any street, alley, roadway, or highway for any of the
following purposes:
      (1)   Displaying the vehicle for sale, trade, exchange, or storage; or
      (2)   Washing, greasing, or repairing the vehicle, except for repairs
necessitated by breakdown, accident, or other emergency to the extent necessary
to remove the vehicle from the street, alley, roadway, or highway.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      STORAGE. Parking of new or used motor vehicles on public streets, alleys,
roadways, or highways by used or new motor vehicle dealers or garage owners or
operators.
(1987 Code, § 8-56) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
Penalty, see § 70.99
CITY PARKING LOTS
§ 73.15 REGULATIONS; HOURS.
   (A)   All municipal parking lots of the city shall be open for free parking
24 hours a day, Monday through Sunday.
      (1)   A vehicle left in a city parking lot without being moved for 72
hours shall be considered an abandoned vehicle and addressed by the city in
accordance with
Ch. 93 of this code.
      (2)   Section
130.19 of this code is still in full force and effect and shall be enforced
regarding loitering in city parking lots.
   (B)   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall cause signs to be posted at
or near all entrances to the lot indicating the regulations for city parking
lots.
   (C)   Permanent residents of any C-4 zoning district, as that area is
defined in
Ch. 157 of this code, may park in city parking lots at any time, and may
ingress and egress from those lots at any time without penalty.
   (D)   Any person found in violation of any provision of this section shall
be fined.
   (E)   Criminal prosecution for trespass will be sought against any
individual with multiple violations of this section.
(1987 Code, § 8-28) (Ord. 41, 1998, passed 8-24-1998; Am. Ord. 22, 2020, passed
10-12- 2020) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.16 APPLICATION.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply, and be effective, to any and
all municipal parking lots, as now established and operating, or as hereafter
may be established and operated within the city.
(1987 Code, § 8-30) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
§ 73.17 SPECIAL USE RESTRICTIONS; AIRCRAFT PROHIBITED.
   It shall be the policy of the city that municipal parking lots shall be used
exclusively for the parking of prescribed motor vehicles, as hereinafter
provided, excepting that upon application, the Board of Public Works and Safety
of this city, may, at its discretion and upon conditions it prescribes,
authorize any municipal parking lot, or portion thereof, to be used for a
special civic purpose for a fixed temporary period, provided further, however,
in no event shall aircraft, helicopters, and the like be permitted to land upon
city parking lots.
(1987 Code, § 8-31) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 73.18 LIABILITY DISCLAIMER.
   The city does not assume liability for any accidents occurring in and upon
the municipal parking lots, or for any thefts of vehicles or contents of
vehicles, while parked upon those premises; and further, it shall be the
responsibility of the Board of Public Works and Safety to post prominently
notices thereof on the city lots so that all persons utilizing these lots may
be so informed.
(1987 Code, § 8-32) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
§ 73.19 SPEED LIMIT.
   No person shall operate any motor vehicle while upon any municipal parking
lot, or while entering or leaving the parking lot, at a speed greater than ten
miles per hour.
(1987 Code, § 8-33) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 73.20 ENTRY AND EXIT; YIELD RIGHT-OF- WAY.
   (A)   Yielding to pedestrians. The driver of any motor vehicle, before
entering or leaving a municipal parking lot, shall first stop and yield right-
of-way to any pedestrian upon any crosswalk or sidewalk adjacent thereto.
(1987 Code, § 8-34)
   (B)   Yielding to traffic. The driver of a motor vehicle intending to enter
a parking lot, or intending to leave a parking lot and enter upon any adjacent
street or highway, shall yield right-of-way to any other motor vehicle
approaching over and along any adjacent street or highway, which is so close to
the entrance or exit as to constitute an immediate hazard.
(1987 Code, § 8-35)
(Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
§ 73.21 PARK WITHIN DESIGNATED SPACE.
   No person driving, or in charge of, any motor vehicle, shall permit it to be
parked, or left standing, at any time, within and upon any municipal parking
lot, at any location, except wholly within a marked or designated parking
space.
(1987 Code, § 8-37) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 73.22 VEHICLES TO BE LOCKED.
   No person driving, or in charge of, a motor vehicle shall permit it to
stand, unattended, within a city lot without first stopping the engine, locking
the ignition, and removing the key thereto.
(1987 Code, § 8-38) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
§ 73.23 PARKING TIME LIMITS.
   No person driving or in charge of any motor vehicle shall permit that motor
vehicle to be parked or left standing in a city parking lot for any period in
excess of 72 hours.
(1987 Code, § 8-39) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969; Am. Ord. 22, 2020, passed
10-12- 2020) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.24 DRIVER RESPONSIBILITY; LAWS APPLY.
   No person shall, at any time, while upon a municipal parking lot, or while
entering or leaving the parking lot, drive any motor vehicle with reckless
disregard for the safety, property, or rights of others, including pedestrians
on, upon, or adjacent to the parking lot, or in any other manner in violation
of any other chapter, subchapter, or section of this city code or statute of
the state, defining and regulating the operation of motor vehicles within the
city and the state.
(1987 Code, § 8-40) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 73.25 VEHICLE IN VIOLATION; POLICE AUTHORITY TO REMOVE.
   Whenever any police officer of the city finds any motor vehicle standing
upon a municipal parking lot in violation of any of the provisions of any
chapter, subchapter, or section of this code, that officer is authorized to
require the driver or other person in charge of the motor vehicle to move the
same, or the police officer may cause and require the removal of the illegally
parked motor vehicle, as authorized by §
73.65 of this code.
(1987 Code, § 8-41) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
Penalty, see § 70.99
NON-PASSENGER AND COMMERCIAL VEHICLES
§ 73.35 RESTRICTIONS FOR VEHICLES OTHER THAN PASSENGER VEHICLES.
   No person driving any truck tractor, farm tractor, road truck, other than a
pick-up or panel truck, or any bus, school bus, or any other type of motor
vehicle other than that which is commonly defined as a passenger vehicle (the
definition to be that included in the Uniform Act Regulating Traffic on
Highways, being I.C. 9-21-1-1 et seq.) shall stop, stand, or park, or cause to
stop, stand, or park, any of these vehicles within any municipal parking lot,
excepting as set forth in
Ch. 75, Sch. VI, Table C.
(1987 Code, § 8-36)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 73.36 COMMERCIAL VEHICLE DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. As defined in §
71.140 of this code.
(1987 Code, § 8-51) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-27-1969)
§ 73.37 RESTRICTIONS ON VEHICLES OVER 5,000 POUNDS.
   Commercial and freight-carrying vehicles, either of which exceed 5,000
pounds in declared gross weight, or pulling vehicles, shall not be parked
overnight upon any public street or other public way in this city, provided
that these vehicles may park where flat parking is permitted in the residential
districts for a period of not more than one hour in duration.
(1987 Code, § 8-53) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 73.38 PARKING IN CONGESTED AREAS PROHIBITED.
   All commercial vehicles, as previously defined, all freight-carrying
vehicles, excepting only panel and pick-up trucks, and all truck trailers,
semi-trailers, tractors, buses, school buses, house cars, or special farm
machinery shall not be parked, at any time, within the congested area as
hereinafter defined, except while actually loading or discharging freight or
merchandise.
(1987 Code, § 8-54) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 73.39 UNATTENDED TANK TRUCKS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Tank trucks and other vehicles carrying flammables, shall not be left
unattended, either in being parked or being permitted to remain standing, on
any public street or thoroughfare within this city.
   (B)   Further, while loading or discharging flammables, the driver, or his
or her assistant, shall remain in attendance with the vehicle, and the
attendant thereof shall have with him or her in his or her immediate
possession, fire extinguishers of the proper type to restrict fires by liquids
or solids contained in that vehicle, being loaded or unloaded.
(1987 Code, § 8-55) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
Penalty, see § 70.99
HANDICAPPED PARKING
§ 73.50 DESIGNATION OF HANDICAPPED SPACES.
   (A)   The City Council may designate certain parking spaces within the city
as reserved or restricted for the handicapped, and when spaces are so reserved
or restricted, by a resolution of the Council duly entered of record, and when
official signs are so erected, indicating those restrictions or reservation, no
persons other than the handicapped, shall park any vehicle in that space, or
those spaces, in violation of the official sign designating the reserved or
restricted area.
(1987 Code, § 8-19) (Ord. 8, 1978, passed 3-27-1978)
   (B)   The parking spaces set forth in
Ch. 75, Sch. III, shall be designated as prohibited parking areas for all
vehicles except those specifically marked by appropriate licensing as for
handicapped persons. It shall be unlawful for any person to park, or permit to
remain standing, any motor vehicle at these locations unless that vehicle is
designated as licensed for a handicapped person.
(1987 Code, § 8-20) (Ord. 18, 1989, passed 8-14-1989)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 73.51 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person who requires a handicapped parking space may apply to the
Board of Public Works and Safety on an application issued by the Board.
   (B)   The application shall be delivered to the office of the Mayor of the
city. Each application must be submitted annually and will be deemed invalid
one year from date of approval by the Board.
   (C)   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall, at a regularly scheduled
meeting, review the application for handicapped parking space.
      (1)   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall approve or deny the
request after review of:
         (a)   The application;
         (b)   The need of the applicant; and
         (c)   The parking space requested by the Director of Public Works or
his or her agent.
      (2)   The Board may also impose its own terms and conditions on the
granting of a handicapped parking space. Violation of those terms may result in
the revocation of the grant of a handicapped parking space.
   (D)   In the event that the Board of Public Works and Safety denies the
request of the applicant for a handicapped parking space, the applicant may
appeal the decision to the City Council.
(1987 Code, § 2-20) (Ord. 51, 1992, passed 1-11-1993)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 73.65 TOWING; OFFENDER RESPONSIBLE FOR CHARGES.
   In addition to other penalties as may be herein provided for the violation
of the parking regulations of this city code, whenever any police officer of
the city finds any motor vehicle to be improperly parked, that officer is
authorized to require the driver or operator thereof, if available, to move the
same, and whenever a police officer finds any unattended motor vehicle
improperly parked and in violation of any provision of this code, as
hereinbefore or hereinafter set out, or whenever any parked motor vehicle is
constituting an obstruction to traffic or the use of the public streets by
other members of the public generally, the police officer is authorized to
provide for the removal of that vehicle to a convenient garage or other place
of parking, provided further that any towing charge or storage charge
occasioned thereby shall be the responsibility of, and borne by, the offender
or the owner of that motor vehicle.
(1987 Code, § 8-15) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 73.66 DETERMINING PARKING VIOLATIONS; PROCEDURES.
   The procedures for regulating the parking of vehicles and determining
overtime parking may include the following.
   (A)   The city Police Department is authorized to determine the method or
methods by which the parking attendant is allowed to determine parking
violations.
(Ord. 9, 1993, passed 4-26-1993)
   (B)   In the event a member of, or civil employee of, the city Police
Department determines that a vehicle has been parked overtime, it shall then be
the duty of that member or civil employee, as aforementioned, to ticket that
vehicle, which ticket shall include, but not necessarily be limited to, the
following:
      (1)   A designation of, or location of, the alleged overtime parking;
      (2)   The state license number of the vehicle;
      (3)   The date and hour of the alleged offense; and
      (4)   The specific section of this code the owner or operator is charged
with violating, and the specific form of the ticket to be as prescribed by the
Chief of Police, but to be different than the state Uniform Traffic Ticket.
(Ord. 15, 1987, passed 4-27-1987)
   (C)   In the event that three citations are issued to the registered owner
of a motor vehicle and remain unpaid for a period of 30 days, the Clerk-
Treasurer of the city shall forward a written notice to the registered owner of
the vehicle or vehicles that:
      (1)   If the assessed fines are not paid within 14 days from the date of
the Clerk-Treasurer’s written notice, the citations shall be forwarded to the
City Attorney for prosecution; and
      (2)   In the event that the registered owner fails to pay those citations
within 14 days of notice, the City Attorney may initiate legal proceedings in
the appropriate court for collection of the unpaid fine or fines. The violator
shall also be liable for court costs as prescribed by the County Clerk.
   (D)   (1)   The provisions of
Ch. 75, Sch. II, Table C, regarding two-hour parking, only apply to vehicles
parked or standing on the streets of the city in the specifically designated
areas during the periods of time set forth as follows: on Monday through Friday
of each week, between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m.
(Ord. 32, 1988, passed 12-12-1988)
      (2)   With regard to the provisions of
Ch. 75, Sch. II, Table C, regarding two-hour parking, all parking shall be
designated by markings.
   (E)   The parking attendant is authorized to issue parking citations for any
parking violation, including but not limited to violations of any handicap,
fire hydrant, alleyway, and time limit regulations.
   (F)   In the event that three citations are issued to the registered owner
of a motor vehicle and remain unpaid for a period of 30 days, the Clerk-
Treasurer of the city shall forward a written notice of the unpaid citations to
the Bureau of Motor Vehicles to be attached to the owner’s driver’s license.
    (G)   The Clerk-Treasurer of the city is authorized to void tickets for
persons who have exceeded the two-hour limitation while receiving services from
downtown professional businesses. The ticket must be signed by the professional
service providing the service. Matters of disability will be given serious
consideration.
(Ord. 9, 1993, passed 4-26-1993)
(1987 Code, § 8-25)
Penalty, see § 70.99
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Traffic-control signal intersections
   
II.   Through streets
   
III.   Stop intersections
   
IV.   Yield intersections
   
V.   Turn-restricted intersections
   
VI.   Speed limits
SCHEDULE I. TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL INTERSECTIONS.
   The following intersections shall be equipped and maintained with automatic
traffic-control signals.
 
Street Intersection                    Ord. No. Date Passed
Community Dr. and West Second St.      14, 1976 5-24-1976
East Fourth St. Rd. and Burkardt Blvd. 4, 2001  2-26-2001
Second St. and Chestnut St.            1556     11-24-1969
Second St. and Walnut St.              1556     11-24-1969
 
(1987 Code, § 8-67) (Am. Ord. 5, 2012, passed 3-26-2012)
Cross-reference:
   Traffic-Control Devices and Controlled Zones, see §
71.030 et seq.
SCHEDULE II. THROUGH STREETS.
   The following streets are designated as through streets.
Through Street Location Ord. No. Date Passed
Through      Location                                              Ord.  Date
Street                                                             No.   Passed
Ash St.      From O’Brien St. east to Plum St.                   1556  11-24-
                                                                         1969
Berkshire    From its beginning to its terminus at North O’Brien 20,   8-14-
Rd.          St.                                                   1978  1978
Birch St.    From O’Brien St. east to Plum St.                   1556  11-24-
                                                                         1969
Blish St.    From Sixth St. north to Tenth St.                     1556  11-24-
                                                                         1969
Broadway St. From Fifth St. north to Ninth St.                     1556  11-24-
                                                                         1969
Broadway St. From Tipton St. south to Laurel St.                   1556  11-24-
                                                                         1969
Brown St.    From Chestnut St. east to Broadway St.                1556  11-24-
                                                                         1969
Brown St.    From Hancock St. east to Highlawn Ave.                1556  11-24-
                                                                         1969
Brown St.    From Poplar St. west to Kasting Rd.                   1556  11-24-
                                                                         1969
Brown St.    From Vine St. east to O’Brien St.                   1556  11-24-
                                                                         1969
Bush St.     From Tipton St. south to Brown St.                    1556  11-24-
                                                                         1969
Calvin Blvd. From Second St. north to Fourth St.                   1556  11-24-
                                                                         1969
Carter St.   From Laurel St. south to Fox Ave.                     1556  11-24-
                                                                         1969
Carter St.   From Tipton St. south to Brown St.                    1556  11-24-
                                                                         1969
Chestnut St. From Second St. north to Sixth St.                    1556  11-24-
                                                                         1969
Chestnut St. From Sixth St. north to Ninth St.                     1556  11-24-
                                                                         1969
Chestnut St. From Tipton St. north to Second St.                   1556  11-24-
                                                                         1969
Chestnut St. From Tipton St. south to Brown St.                    25,   12-12-
                                                                   2011  2011
Chestnut St. From Laurel St. south to North Park Dr.               25,   12-12-
                                                                   2011  2011
Circle St.   From O’Brien St. west to Broadway St.               1556  11-24-
                                                                         1969
Community    From Second St. north to Sixth St.                    1556  11-24-
Dr.                                                                      1969
Dutchman’s Commencing at Jackson Park Dr. and extending east to  26,   9-24-
Lane         the eastern terminus of Dutchman’s Lane             1979  1979
East         From Gaiser Dr. to its eastern terminus               1556  11-24-
Harrison Dr.                                                             1969
East St.     From Tipton St. south to Brown St.                    1556  11-24-
                                                                         1969
Eighth St.   From Chestnut St. west to Elm St.                     22,   12-26-
                                                                   1983  1983
Eighth St.   From Elm St. west to Holly Dr.                        22,   12-26-
                                                                   1983  1983
Elm St.      From Second St. north to Sixth St.                    1556  11-24-
                                                                         1969
Elm St.      From Sixth St. north to city limits                   1556  11-24-
                                                                         1969
Emerson Dr.  From Second St. north to Fourth St.                   1556  11-24-
                                                                         1969
Ernest Dr.   From its east intersection with Harrison Dr. south to 36,   12-11-
             its intersection with (East) Harrison Dr.             1978  1978
Evergreen    From South Park Dr. to Garden Ave.                    12,   7-11-
Dr.                                                                1977  1977
Ewing St.    From Second St. north to Fifth St. or U.S. Highway    1556  11-24-
             31A                                                         1969
Fifth St.    From Broadway St. east to O’Brien St.               1556  11-24-
                                                                         1969
Fifth St.    From Chestnut St. east to Ewing St.                   1556  11-24-
                                                                         1969
Fifth St.    From Johnson St. west to Community Dr.                1556  11-24-
                                                                         1969
Fifth St.    From Walnut St. west to Johnson St.                   1556  11-24-
                                                                         1969
Fourteenth   From Ewing St. east to Blish St.                      1556  11-24-
St.                                                                      1969
Fourth St.   From Broadway St. east to O’Brien St.               1556  11-24-
                                                                         1969
Fourth St.   From Chestnut St. east to Ewing St.                   1556  11-24-
                                                                         1969
Fourth St.   From O’Brien St. east to North Fourth St. Rd.       1556  11-24-
                                                                         1969
Fourth St.   From Walnut St. west to Johnson St.                   1556  11-24-
                                                                         1969
Freeman Ave. From O’Brien St. west to Walnut St.                 1556  11-24-
                                                                         1969
Gaiser Dr.   From South Park Dr. south to city limits              1556  11-24-
                                                                         1969
Garden Ave.  From Evergreen Dr. to Fox Ave.                        12,   7-11-
                                                                   1977  1977
Garden Ave.  From North Park Dr. to Evergreen Dr.                  12,   7-11-
                                                                   1977  1977
Hancock St.  From Tipton St. south to Brown St.                    1556  11-24-
                                                                         1969
Harrison Dr. From its intersection with South Park Dr. to its      36,   12-11-
South        western intersection with Ernest Dr.                  1978  1978
             Between West Second St. and Westgate Rd. (it being
             intended that westbound traffic over and along the
Hess St.     special westbound lane of West Second St., leading    1595  --1970
East         into Westgate Rd. shall stop and yield right-of-way
             to vehicles proceeding north over Hess St. East into
             the senior high school area)
Indianapolis From Second St. south to Tipton St.                   1556  11-24-
Ave.                                                                     1969
Jackson Park North from Tipton St. to its north end                1556  11-24-
Dr.                                                                      1969
Jackson Park South from Tipton St. to its south end                1556  11-24-
Dr.                                                                      1969
Jackson St.  From Poplar St. west to Kasting Rd.                   1556  11-24-
                                                                         1969
Lasher Dr.   From Westgate Rd. north to its northern terminus      1556  11-24-
                                                                         1969
Laurel St.   From Chestnut St. east to Vine St.                    1556  11-24-
                                                                         1969
Laurel St.   From Poplar St. west to Kasting Rd.                   1556  11-24-
                                                                         1969
Manor Dr.    From Westgate Rd. north to Newford Rd.                1556  11-24-
                                                                         1969
Maple Ave.   From Elm St. west to Lee Blvd.                        1556  11-24-
                                                                         1969
Marley Lane  From Tipton St. south to Southline Dr.                1556  11-24-
                                                                         1969
Marshall Dr. From Walnut St. east to Gaiser Dr.                    1556  11-24-
                                                                         1969
McDonald St. From Walnut St. east to Chestnut St.                  1556  11-24-
                                                                         1969
McDonald St. From Walnut St. west to Kasting Rd.                   1556  11-24-
                                                                         1969
Meadowlark   From Walnut St. east to Gaiser Dr.                    1556  11-24-
Dr.                                                                      1969
Miller Lane  From Tipton St. south to Southline Dr.                1556  11-24-
                                                                         1969
Newford Rd.  From Vehslage Rd. east to Manor Dr.                   1556  11-24-
                                                                         1969
Ninth St.    From Elm St. east to Ewing St.                        1556  11-24-
                                                                         1969
Ninth St.    From Ewing St. east to Park St.                       1556  11-24-
                                                                         1969
North Ave.   From the west line of Blish St. east to Arvin Ave.    1556  11-24-
                                                                         1969
North Fourth From South Fourth St. Rd. north to the end of North   1556  11-24-
St. Rd.      Fourth St. Rd.                                              1969
North Park   From Walnut St. east to Garden Ave.                   1556  11-24-
Dr.                                                                      1969
Nottingham   From Stadium Dr. to Sir Launcelot Dr.                 35,   1-9-
Dr.                                                                1977  1978
O’Brien St.From Tipton St. north to city limits                  1556  11-24-
                                                                         1969
O’Brien St.From Tipton St. south to city limits                  1556  11-24-
                                                                         1969
Oak St.      From Pennsylvania Railroad east to Vine St.           1556  11-24-
                                                                         1969
Oak St.      From Poplar St. west to Kasting Rd.                   1556  11-24-
                                                                         1969
             From Circle St. to Tipton St. north (it being
             intended that traffic traveling on Tipton St. north
Park St.     shall stop and yield right-of-way to all vehicles     1595  --1970
             traveling on Park St. or turning into Park St. from
             Tipton St.)
Park St.     South from Centennial St. to Brown St.                1609  4-26-
                                                                         1971
Park St.     South from Tipton St. to Centennial St.               1609  4-26-
                                                                         1971
Pershing St. From Seventh St. north to Ninth St.                   1556  11-24-
                                                                         1969
Pine St.     From Ninth St. north to Tenth St.                     1556  11-24-
                                                                         1969
Pine St.     From Sixth St. north to Seventh St.                   1556  11-24-
                                                                         1969
Pine St.     From Tipton St. south to Brown St.                    1556  11-24-
                                                                         1969
Poplar St.   From Tipton St. north to Second St.                   1556  11-24-
                                                                         1969
Poplar St.   From Tipton St. south to Wendemere Dr.                1556  11-24-
                                                                         1969
Reliance     From O’Brien St. east to Bush St.                   1556  11-24-
Ave.                                                                     1969
Robin Hood   From Vehslage Rd. east to Lasher Dr.                  1556  11-24-
Dr.                                                                      1969
Schepman     From Tipton St. north to Snyder Ave.                  1556  11-24-
Ave.                                                                     1969
Schepman     South from Tipton St. to the south side of Hillcrest  1556  11-24-
Ave.         Dr.                                                         1969
Second St.   From Community Dr. west to city limits                70,   12-8-
                                                                   1975  1975
Second St.   From Indianapolis Ave. east to O’Brien St.          1556  11-24-
                                                                         1969
Second St.   From Indianapolis Ave. west to the city limits        1556  11-24-
                                                                         1969
Seventh St.  From Blish St. east to O’Brien St.                  1556  11-24-
                                                                         1969
Seventh St.  From Chestnut St. east to Ewing St.                   1556  11-24-
                                                                         1969
Seventh St.  From Chestnut St. west to Sunset Parkway North Dr.    1556  11-24-
                                                                         1969
Shields Ave. From Ninth St. north to Sixteenth St.                 1556  11-24-
                                                                         1969
Sir                                                                35,   1-9-
Launcelot    From Stadium Dr. to terminus                          1977  1978
Dr.
Sixth St.    From Ewing St. or U.S. Highway 31A east to O’Brien  1556  11-24-
             St.                                                         1969
South Ave.   From Pennsylvania Railroad to O’Brien St.           26,   11-14-
                                                                   1983  1983
South Fourth From South Fourth St. Rd. south to Tipton St.         1556  11-24-
St. Rd.                                                                  1969
South Park   From Walnut St. east to O’Brien St.                 1556  11-24-
Dr.                                                                      1969
Stadium Dr.  From Community Dr. to Lasher Dr.                      20,   8-4-
                                                                   1976  1976
Stadium Dr.  From Lasher Dr. to Vehslage Rd.                       20,   8-4-
                                                                   1976  1976
Sycamore Rd. From Jackson Park Dr. to its south terminus           1556  11-24-
                                                                         1969
Sycamore St. From its intersection with Jackson Park Dr. to its    30,   11-14-
(or Sycamore eastern terminus                                      1977  1977
Rd.)
Tenth St.    From west side of Broadway St. east to city limits    1556  11-24-
                                                                         1969
Third St.    From Broadway St. east to O’Brien St.               1556  11-24-
                                                                         1969
Third St.    From Chestnut St. east to Ewing St.                   1556  11-24-
                                                                         1969
Third St.    From Walnut St. west to Elm St.                       1556  11-24-
                                                                         1969
Vehslage Rd. From its southern terminus to its northern terminus   1556  11-24-
                                                                         1969
Vine St.     From Tipton St. to South Ave.                         26,   11-14-
                                                                   1983  1983
Walnut St.   From Tipton St. north to Sixth St.                    1556  11-24-
                                                                         1969
Wendemere    From Poplar St. west to its west end at city limits   1556  11-24-
Dr.                                                                      1969
Western      From Westgate Rd. north to Newford Rd.                1556  11-24-
Parkway                                                                  1969
                                                                   1556; 11-24-
Westgate Rd. From its eastern terminus west to Vehslage Rd.        70,   1969;
                                                                   1975  12-8-
                                                                         1975
 
(1987 Code, § 8-145)
SCHEDULE III. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The following intersections are designated as four-way stop
intersections.
Street Intersection; Four-Way Stop Traffic Direction Ord. No. Date Passed
Street Intersection; Four-  Traffic Direction Ord. No.     Date Passed
Way Stop
Beech St. and McDonald St.  All               1556         11-24-1969
Brookhaven Dr. and          All               35, 1993     11-8-1993
Berkshire Dr.
Brown St. and Broadway St.  All               13, 1999     5-24-1999
Brown St. and Pine St.      All               19, 1999     7-12-1999
Brown St. and Vine St.      All               13, 1999     5-24-1999
Buckeye St. and Jackson St. All               1595         --1970
Burkart Blvd. and O Brien   All               18, 2012     9-24-2012
St.
Carter Blvd. and Fourth St. All               1556         11-24-1969
Carter Blvd. and Third St.  All               1556         11-24-1969
Centennial St. and O Brien  All               1556         11-24-1969
St.
Chestnut St. and Brown. St. All               25, 2011     12-12-2011
Coventry Dr., Hampton Ct.,  All               42, 1996     8-26-1996
and Dover Ct.
East Sixth St. and North    All               1556         11-24-1969
Broadway St.
Eighth St. and Broadway St. All               15, 1985     7-8-1985
Elm St. and Fifth St.       All               1556         11-24-1969
Ewing St. and Fourth St.    All               26, 2024     9-23-2024
Fifth St. and Johnson St.   All               12, 1977     7-11-1977
Fifth St. and Emerson Dr.   All               1556         11-24-1969
Fifth St. and Pine St.      All               36, 1978     12-11-1978
Fourth St. and Chestnut St. All               14, 1976     5-24-1976
Fourth St. and Emerson Dr.  All               1556         11-24-1969
Freeman Ave. and Gaiser Dr. All               1556         11-24-1969
Gaiser Dr. and Cardinal Dr. All               15, 1981     7-27-1981
Garden Ave., Garden Ct.,    All               12, 1977     7-11-1977
and Evergreen Dr.
Hancock St. and Centennial  All               1556         11-24-1969
St.
Jackson Park Dr. and        All               26, 1979     9-24-1979
Dutchman s Lane
Kessler Blvd. and Fourth    All               1556         11-24-1969
St.
Kessler Blvd. and Third St. All               1556         11-24-1969
Lasher Dr. and Stadium Dr.  All               1556         11-24-1969
Laurel St. and Chestnut St. All               25, 2002     9-23-2002
Laurel St. and Vine St.     All               1556         11-24-1969
Lee Blvd. and Fifth St.     All               1556         11-24-1969
Lee Blvd. and Fourth St.    All               1556         11-24-1969
Lee Blvd. and Third St.     All               1556         11-24-1969
Marley Lane and East Oak    All               19, 1994     10-24-1994
St.
Ninth St. and Broadway St.  All               1625         12-13-1971
Oak St. and Miller Lane     All               29, 1978     10-23-1978
Park St. and Centennial St. All               1609         4-26-1971
Park St. and Eighth St.     All               22, 2015     10-26-2015
Poplar St. and Brown St.    All               1556         11-24-1969
Second St. and O Brien St.  All               1556         11-24-1969
Seventh St. and Blish St.   All               20, 1976     7-9-1976
Shields Ave. and Thirteenth All               1556         11-24-1969
St.
Sixth St. and Park St.      All               1556         11-24-1969
South Poplar St. and        All               1556         11-24-1969
McDonald St.
South Poplar St. and West   All               No. 25, 2024 9-23-2024
Oak St.
Tenth St. and Blish St.     All               29, 1980;    1-12-1981; 6-14-1982
                                              7, 1982
Third St. and Chestnut St.  All               5, 2012      3-26-2012
Third St. and Emerson Dr.   All               1556         11-24-1969
Third St. and O Brien St.   All               10, 1991     3-25-1991
Third St. and Walnut St.    All               59, 1975;    5-27-1975; 5-24-1976
                                              14, 1976
West Eighth St. and Holly   All               4, 2008      2-25-2008
Dr./Governor's Ln.
West Fourth St. and Elm St. All               1556         11-24-1969
West Second St. and Elm St. All               1556         11-24-1969
West Second St. and Pine    All               1556         11-24-1969
St.
West Seventh St. and Elm    All               1556         11-24-1969
St.
 
(1987 Code, § 8-147) (Ord. 27, 2024, passed 9-23-2024)
   (B)   The following intersections are designated as three-way stop
intersections.
Street Intersection; Three-Way Stop Traffic Direction Ord. No. Date Passed
Street Intersection; Three-Way   Traffic Direction        Ord. No. Date Passed
Stop
Bush St. and Centennial St.                              30, 1976 9-27-1976
Carter St. and Bruce St.                                 11, 1984 6-11-1984
(East) Fourth St. and Fourth St.                         36, 1978 12-11-1978
Rd.
Fox Ave., Carter St., and Garden                         12, 1977 7-11-1977
Ave.
Gaiser Dr. and East Harrison Dr. Southbound on Gaiser Dr. 1, 1987  2-9-1987
Garden Ave. and South Park Dr.                           32, 1997 9-8-1997
McDonald St. and Kasting Dr. and                         30, 1987 11-9-1987
Kasting Rd.
Oak St. and Miller Lane                                  30, 1976 9-27-1976
Oak St. and South O’Brien St.                          19, 1980 7-7-1980
Poplar St. and South Park Dr.                            30, 1976 9-27-1976
South Line Dr. and Miller Lane                           30, 1976 9-27-1976
Tenth St. and Park St.                                   7, 1982  6-14-1982
Vehslage Rd. and Stadium Dr.                             2, 1998  2-9-1998
 
(1987 Code, § 8-148)
   (C)   The following intersections are designated as two-way stop
intersections.
Street(s) Stop Intersection Traffic Direction Ord. No. Date Passed
Street(s)        Stop Intersection        Traffic          Ord. No. Date Passed
                                          Direction
Brown St. and                                            16, 1986 8-25-1986
Marley Lane
                                          Southwest bound
Devonshire Drive Windsor Court            on Devonshire    19, 2010 10-25-2010
                                          Drive
Hancock St. and                                          6, 1982  4-26-1982
Brown St.
Meadowlark Dr.   Gaiser Dr.               East-west on     20, 1990 6-11-1990
                                          Meadowlark Dr.
Poplar St.       Bruce St.                North-south on   30, 1991 11-11-1991
                                          Poplar St.
Second St.       O’Brien St. (a through                 10, 1991 3-25-1991
                 street)
Windsor Court    Devonshire Drive         Northeast bound  19, 2010 10-25-2010
                                          on Windsor Court
 
(1987 Code, § 8-149)
   (D)   The following intersections are designated as one-way stop
intersections.
Street Stop Intersection Traffic Direction Ord. No. Date Passed
Street               Stop Intersection Traffic Direction  Ord. No. Date Passed
16th St. Outlet      Burkhart Blvd.    Northbound         18, 2012 9-24-2012
Bateman Dr.          Burkhart Blvd.    Westbound          18, 2012 9-24-2012
Darcys Dr.           Burkhart Blvd.    Eastbound          18, 2012 9-24-2012
(north section)
Darcys Dr.           Burkhart Blvd.    Eastbound          18, 2012 9-24-2012
(south section)
Dunbar Dr.           Burkhart Blvd.    Eastbound          18, 2012 9-24-2012
Gaiser Dr.           East Harrison Dr. Northbound         1, 1987  2-9-1987
                                       Southbound traffic
                                       on Garden Ave
Garden Avenue        North Park Drive  stopping at its    8,2016   7-25-2016
                                       intersection with
                                       North Park Dr
Kasting Dr.          Wendemere Dr.     Westbound          33, 2002 11-25-2002
Killion Ave.         Burkhart Blvd.    Westbound          18, 2012 9-24-2012
North Fourth St. Rd. Bateman Dr.       Northbound         32, 1992 8-24-1992
Poplar St.           Tipton St.        Southbound         30, 1991 11-11-1991
Snyder Ave.          Burkhart Blvd.    Eastbound          18, 2012 9-24-2012
State St.            Burkhart Blvd.    Eastbound          18, 2012 9-24-2012
 
(1987 Code, § 8-150)
   (E)   Reserved.
   (F)   The following intersections are designated as stop intersections at
Freeman Field.
Freeman Field Stop         Direction 1987 Code Section Ord. No. Date Passed
Street        Intersection
Freeman Field   Stop            Direction     1987 Code Ord. No. Date Passed
Street          Intersection                  Section
A Ave. East     Burkart Blvd.   Eastbound              13, 2023 6-12-2023
B Ave. East     Burkart Blvd.   East and West          13, 2023 6-12-2023
B Ave. East     Fourth Ave.                  8-206     1556     11-24-1969
C Ave. North    E Ave. West                  8-206     1556     11-24-1969
D Ave. East     A Ave. East                  8-206     1556     11-24-1969
D Ave. East     C Ave. East                  8-206     1556     11-24-1969
D Ave. West     A Ave. West and              8-206     1556     11-24-1969
                North
E Ave.          First Ave.      East and west 8-206     1556     11-24-1969
F Ave.          First Ave.                   8-206     1556     11-24-1969
F Ave.          Second Ave.     East and west          27, 2014 9-22-2014
F Ave. East     G Ave. East                  8-206     1556     11-24-1969
Fifth Ave.      A Ave. East                  8-206     1556     11-24-1969
Fifth Ave.      B Ave. East                  8-206     1556     11-24-1969
First Ave.      D Ave.                       8-206     1556     11-24-1969
First Ave. East A Ave. and A                 8-206     1556     11-24-1969
                Ave. East
First Ave. East D Ave.                       8-206     1556     11-24-1969
First Ave. West A Ave. and A                 8-206     1556     11-24-1969
                Ave. West
First Ave. West C Ave.                       8-153     28, 1997 8-11-1997
                southbound
First Ave. West C Ave. West                  8-153     28, 1997 8-11-1997
First Ave. West D Ave.                       8-206     1556     11-24-1969
Fourth Ave.     A Ave. East                  8-206     1556     11-24-1969
Fourth Ave.     C Ave. East                  8-206     1556     11-24-1969
G Ave. East     C Ave. East                  8-206     1556     11-24-1969
G Ave.          First Ave.      East and west 8-206     1556     11-24-1969
Second Ave.     Burkart Blvd.   Northbound             13, 2023 6-12-2023
Second Ave.     D Ave.                       8-206     1556     11-24-1969
Second Ave.     F Ave.                       8-206     22, 1983 12-26-1983
Second Ave.     G Ave. East                  8-206     1556     11-24-1969
Sixth Ave.      B Ave. East                  8-206     1556     11-24-1969
Sixth Ave.      C Ave. East                  8-206     1556     11-24-1969
Third Ave.      Burkart Blvd.                         13, 2023 6-12-2023
Third Ave.      G Ave. East                  8-206     1556     11-24-1969
 
Penalty, see § 70.99
Cross-reference:
   Stop intersections at Freeman Field, see §
72.03
   Stops and Yields, see §§
71.085 et seq.
SCHEDULE IV. YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Yield intersections in the city. The following intersections are
designated as yield right-of-way intersections, and the designation of the
traffic being required to yield is as follows.
Street Yielding Intersection Comments Ord. No. Date Passed
Street Yielding   Intersection      Comments              Ord. No. Date Passed
Braewick Rd.      North Dr., Sunset                      1556     11-24-1969
                  Parkway
Braewick Rd.      South Dr., Sunset                      1556     11-24-1969
                  Parkway
Cardinal Dr.      Meadowland Dr.                         1556     11-24-1969
                                    Traffic turning west
Community Dr.     West Second St.   off Community Dr. in  1556     11-24-1969
                                    the right turn lane
                                    shall yield
Devon Ct.         Brookhaven Dr.                         1556     11-24-1969
                                    Eastbound traffic on
                                    North Park Dr. yield
North Park Dr.    Garden Ave.       to all traffic at its 8,2016   7-26-2016
                                    intersection with
                                    Garden Ave.
Orchard Dr.       Marley Lane                            1556     11-24-1969
South Dr., Sunset South Dr. East,                        1556     11-24-1969
Parkway           Sunset Parkway
South Dr., Sunset South Dr. West,                        1556     11-24-1969
Parkway           Sunset Parkway
South Dr. East,   South Dr. West,                        1556     11-24-1969
Sunset Parkway    Sunset Parkway
South Dr. East,   Sunset Parkway    Yield to traffic
Sunset Parkway    addition          entering from Sixth   1556     11-24-1969
                                    St.
Taggart Dr.       Marshall Dr.                           1556     11-24-1969
 
(1987 Code, § 8-151)
   (B)   Yield intersections at Freeman Field. The following intersections are
designated as yield right-of-way intersections, and the designation of the
traffic being required to yield is as follows.
Street Yielding Intersection Ord. No. Date Passed
Street Yielding       Intersection    Ord. No. Date Passed
C Ave.                First Ave. East 1556     11-24-1969
C Ave. East           First Ave. East 1556     11-24-1969
C Ave. East           B Ave. East     1556     11-24-1969
C Ave. West and North D Ave. West     1556     11-24-1969
D Ave.                C Ave.          1556     11-24-1969
E Ave. East           C Ave. East     1556     11-24-1969
F Ave. East           Second Ave.     1556     11-24-1969
Fourth Ave.           F Ave. East     1556     11-24-1969
Second Ave.           F Ave. East     1556     11-24-1969
Third Ave.            F Ave. East     1556     11-24-1969
 
(1987 Code, § 8-207)
Cross-reference:
   Stops and Yields, see §§
71.085 et seq.
   Yield intersections at Freeman Field, see § 72.04
SCHEDULE V. TURN-RESTRICTED INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   No left turn intersections. Left turns by motor vehicles shall be
prohibited at the following intersections.
 
Street No Left Turn Intersection Direction 1987 Code Ord. No. Date Passed
                                                          
 
(Am. Ord. 14, 2017, passed 8-14-2017)
   (B)   No right turn intersections. Right turns by motor vehicles shall be
prohibited at the following intersections.
 
          No Right
Street    Turn         Direction    Comments   1987 Code Ord. No. Date Passed
          Intersection
                       Southbound   Use
Community West Second  on Community dedicated  8-161     1595     --1970
Dr.       St.          Dr.          right turn
                                    lane only
 
   (C)   Directional arrows at Freeman Field. Traffic shall be required to obey
the directional arrows, directing traffic to proceed either to the right or to
the left, all as the directional arrows are so posted and maintained.
 
Intersection            Comments                 1987 Code Ord. No. Date Passed
B Ave. East and Fourth                           8-208     1556     11-24-1969
Ave.
First Ave. and D Ave.                            8-208     1556     11-24-1969
Freeman Field entrances Stay to right of traffic 8-209     1556     11-24-1969
                        islands
 
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHEDULE VI. SPEED LIMITS.
   No person shall drive or operate any motor vehicle over and along the
following streets in excess of the designated speed.
Street Location Speed Limit (mph) Comments 1987 Code Ord. No. Date Passed
                                                      Speed          1987 Ord. Date
Street   Location                                     Limit Comments Code No.  Passed
                                                      (mph)
Burkart  From US 50 south for 2,440 feet              30                32,  10-11-
Blvd.                                                                     2021 2021
Burkart  From 2,440 feet south of US 50 along         45                32,  10-11-
Blvd.    remainder of bypass                                              2021 2021
                                                            When
East Oak Between South O’Brien St. and Miller Lane  20    children 8-   26,  10-8-
St.                                                         are      213  1984 1984
                                                            present
East Oak Between South O’Brien St. and Jackson Park 30            8-   26,  10-8-
St.      Dr.                                                         214  1984 1984
Jackson  Entire street                                30            8-   26,  10-8-
Park Dr.                                                             214  1984 1984
North                                                                8-   15,  7-8-
Broadway Between Sixth St. and Eighth St.             20            213  1985 1985
St.
Sarasota Between McDonald St. and Wendemere Dr.       20            8-   25,  8-27-
Dr.                                                                  213  1979 1979
950 E    300 feet south of Gaynell Dr. and north to   30                15,  7-10-
         US 50                                                            2023 2023
950 E    300 feet south of Gaynell Dr., and south to  45                15,  7-10-
         the point which 950 E becomes 925 E                              2023 2023
 
Penalty, see § 70.99
CHAPTER 75: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   No parking areas
   
II.   Time limited parking
   
III.   Handicapped parking spaces
   
IV.   City employee parking
   
V.   Parking near schools
   
VI.   City parking lots
   
VII.   Angle parking areas
   
VIII.   Loading zones
SCHEDULE I. NO PARKING AREAS.
   (A)   In addition to the prohibited areas for parking, as set out by the
Uniform Act Regulating Traffic on Highways, being I.C. 9-21-1-1 et seq., as
amended, the following shall be designated as prohibited areas for the parking
of motor vehicles within the city.
Street Side No Parking Location Details Ord. No. Date Passed
Street          Side  No Parking Location                                                            Details                                                       Ord.  Date
                                                                                                                                                                   No.   Passed
“A” Ave.    North From “1st” Ave. east to “1st” Ave. west                                Exception: two spaces reserved for the school bus parking in  10,   5-12-
                                                                                                     front of the Seymour Headstart School at 1058 “A” Ave.    2008  2008
Airport Rd.     Both  Entire length                                                                                                                               1556  11-24-
                                                                                                                                                                         1969
Brown St.       Both  From Hancock St. to Highlawn Ave.                                                                                                           1556  11-24-
                                                                                                                                                                         1969
Brown St.       North From the east curb line of Buckeye St. to a point 154 feet east of Buckeye                                                                  25,   12-22-
                      St., being the west curb line of Buckeye St. extended north                                                                                  2003  2003
Brown St.       North Between Poplar St. and Lynn St.                                                                                                             20,   8-25-
                                                                                                                                                                   2008  2008
Brown St.       South From the center of the Conrail Rd. tracks to a point 175 feet west                                                                          22,   12-26-
                                                                                                                                                                   1983  1983
                                                                                                                                                                   6,    3-9-
Bruce St.       South Between Poplar St. and Walnut St., from a point 180 feet west of the west curb                                                              1998; 1998;
                      line of Walnut St. to a point 250 feet west of that curb line                                                                                17,   6-14-
                                                                                                                                                                   1999  1999
Bush St.        Both  From Tipton St. to Reliance Ave.                                                                                                            1556  11-24-
                                                                                                                                                                         1969
“C” Ave. NorEast  From its intersection with “E” Ave. West southwardly for a distance of 460                                                              16,   4-28-
                      feet                                                                                                                                         2014  2014
“C” Ave. WesBoth  Starting at E. Ave. W., then south a distance of 280 feet                                                                                   18,   7-27-
                                                                                                                                                                   2020  2020
Calvin Blvd.    Both  From Second St. to Fourth St.                                                                                                               1556  11-24-
                                                                                                                                                                         1969
Circle St.      Both  From Broadway St. to Tipton St.                                                                                                             1556  11-24-
                                                                                                                                                                         1969
Community Dr.   East  From West Second St. to a point 100 feet north thereof                                                                                      1556  11-24-
                                                                                                                                                                         1969
Community Dr.   West  From West Second St. to a point 170 feet north thereof                                                                                      1556  11-24-
                                                                                                                                                                         1969
East St.        West  From intersection of East St. and South St. north 145 feet                                                                                  6,    5-23-
                                                                                                                                                                   2016  2016
East Fourth St. Both  From O’Brien St. to North Fourth St. Rd.                                                                                                  1556  11-24-
Rd.                                                                                                                                                                      1969
East Ninth St.  South From Blish St. to Broadway St.                                                                                                              15,   6-12-
                                                                                                                                                                   1978  1978
East Ninth St.  South From the east line of Twin Circle Addition to Pine St.                                                                                      15,   6-12-
                                                                                                                                                                   1978  1978
East Oak St.    Both  Between South O’Brien St. and Jackson Park Dr.                                                                                            25,   10-8-
                                                                                                                                                                   1984  1984
East Second St. South From the west curb line of Broadway St. to a point 75 feet west thereof                                                                     32,   1-10-
                                                                                                                                                                   1976  1977
East Second St. South From Indianapolis Ave., northbound lane, to a point 136 feet east thereof                                                                   32,   1-10-
                                                                                                                                                                   1976  1977
East Second St. South From O’Brien St. to its eastern terminus                                                                                                  1556  11-24-
                                                                                                                                                                         1969
East Third St.  North Between Ewing St. and Mill St.                                                                                                              30,   9-27-
                                                                                                                                                                   1976  1976
East Third St.  Both  Inside the cul-de-sac at the eastern terminus of the street                                                                                 22,   7-14-
                                                                                                                                                                   2014  2014
East Tipton St. South North along its entire length                                                                                                               1556  11-24-
                                                                                                                                                                         1969
East Twelfth    South The 200 block                                                                                                                               33,   12-9-
St.                                                                                                                                                                2013  2013
Eighth St.      Both  From Indianapolis Ave. to Pershing St.                                                                                                      1556  11-24-
                                                                                                                                                                         1969
Eighth St.      Both  From Park St. to Blish St.                                                                                                                  1556  11-24-
                                                                                                                                                                         1969
Elm St.         Both  From Sixth St. to Seventh St.                                                                                                               1556  11-24-
                                                                                                                                                                         1969
Elm St.         Both  From the Milwaukee Railroad right-of-way to Tenth St.                                                                                       1556  11-24-
                                                                                                                                                                         1969
Elm St.         West  From Seventh St. to the Milwaukee Railroad right-of-way                                                                                     1556  11-24-
                                                                                                                                                                         1969
Gaiser Dr.      East  From the south curb line of South Park Dr. to a point 250 feet south thereof                                                                15,   6-12-
                                                                                                                                                                   1978  1978
Garden Ave.     East  From North Park Dr. to South Park Dr.                                          On pavement                                                   15,   6-12-
                                                                                                                                                                   1978  1978
Hancock St.     Both  From Tipton St. to Reliance Ave.                                                                                                            1556  11-24-
                                                                                                                                                                         1969
Hustedt St.     Both  From Eighth St. to Ninth St.                                                                                                                1556  11-24-
                                                                                                                                                                         1969
Indianapolis    East  From Tipton St. to St. Louis Ave.                                                                                                           1556  11-24-
Ave.                                                                                                                                                                     1969
Indianapolis                                                                                                                                                             11-24-
Ave.,           East  Between Second St. and B & O Railroad right-of-way                                                                                          1556  1969
northbound lane
Indianapolis                                                                                                                                                             11-24-
Ave.,           West  From Second St. to a point 60 feet north thereof                                                                                            1556  1969
northbound lane
Indianapolis                                                                                                                                                             11-24-
Ave.,           West  From Third St. to Ninth St.                                                                                                                 1556  1969
northbound lane
Indianapolis                                                                                                                                                             11-24-
Ave.,           East  From B & O Railroad right-of-way to its north terminus                                                                                      1556  1969
southbound lane
Indianapolis                                                                                                                                                       32,   10-28-
Ave.,           West  From St. Louis Ave. north to alley                                                                                                          2002  2002
southbound lane
Jackson Park    Both  Between Hillcrest Dr. and East Tipton St.                                                                                                   25,   10-8-
Dr.                                                                                                                                                                1984  1984
Johnson St.     East  Between Fifth St. and Sixth St.                                                                                                             1556  11-24-
                                                                                                                                                                         1969
Kasting Rd.     Both  From its northern terminus to its southern terminus                                                                                         1556  11-24-
                                                                                                                                                                         1969
Katherine Ct.   North From the east line of Marley Lane to a point 340 feet east                                                                                  14,   5-21-
                                                                                                                                                                   1990  1990
Lasher Dr.      West  Between Westgate Rd. and Robin Hood Dr.                                                                                                     15,   6-12-
                                                                                                                                                                   1978  1978
Marley Lane     Both  From Oak St. to Rebecca Ct.                                                                                                                 14,   4-27-
                                                                                                                                                                   1992  1992
McDonald St.    Both  From Poplar St. to Kasting Rd.                                                                                                              1556  11-24-
                                                                                                                                                                         1969
Ninth St.       Both  From Ewing St. to east line of Twin Circle Addition                                                                                         1556  11-24-
                                                                                                                                                                         1969
Ninth St.       North From west curb line of Broadway St. running west 227 feet                                                                                   7,    4-8-
                                                                                                                                                                   2002  2002
North Broadway  East  From the north edge of the entrance to Shields Park from Seventh St.,                                                                       12,   7-11-
St.                   extending along North Broadway St. 48 feet                                                                                                   1977  1977
North Chestnut  East  From Fourth St. to a point 175 feet south of the south curb line thereof                                                                    14,   5-24-
St.                                                                                                                                                                1976  1976
North Chestnut  East  From the first alley north of Second St., north to the intersection with Third                                                              1625  12-13-
St.                   St.                                                                                                                                                1971
North Chestnut  East  From Tipton St., north to the north boundary of the Jackson County Bank                                                                     1625  12-13-
St.                   property                                                                                                                                           1971
North Chestnut  West  From Third St. to a point 53 feet north of the north curb line thereof                                                                      14,   5-24-
St.                                                                                                                                                                1976  1976
North Elm St.   Both  From Seventh St. to the former Milwaukee Rd. railroad tracks                                                                                29,   8-11-
                                                                                                                                                                   1997  1997
North Fourth    Both  From East Fourth St. Rd. to South Fourth St. Rd.                                                                                            1556  11-24-
St. Rd.                                                                                                                                                                  1969
North O’Brien Both  From Fourth St. to northern city limits                                                                                                     1556  11-24-
St.                                                                                                                                                                      1969
North Park Dr.  Both  From Chestnut St. to Garden Ave.                                                                                                            15,   6-12-
                                                                                                                                                                   1978  1978
North Pine St.  East  From Fifth St. north to the first alley north thereof                                                                                       1556  11-24-
                                                                                                                                                                         1969
North Poplar    Both  Between Second St. and Third St.                                                                                                            15,   6-12-
St.                                                                                                                                                                1978  1978
North Poplar    East  From a point 50 feet north of Sixth St. to a point 30 feet south of the alley  Exception: passenger cars and pick-up trucks, one ton         27,   9-26-
St.                   running east and west between Poplar St. and Walnut St.                        capacity or less                                              1988  1988
North Poplar    West  From St. Louis Ave. to Third St.                                                                                                            1556  11-24-
St.                                                                                                                                                                      1969
North Walnut    East  From a point 125 feet north of the north curb line of West Fifth St. to a      Near Redeemer Lutheran Church                                 12,   7-24-
St.                   point 135 feet north of that curb line                                                                                                       1989  1989
North Walnut    East  From St. Louis Ave. to Third St.                                                                                                            1556  11-24-
St.                                                                                                                                                                      1969
North Walnut    East  From the north curb line of West Fifth St. to a point 90 feet north thereof    Near Redeemer Lutheran Church                                 12,   7-24-
St.                                                                                                                                                                1989  1989
North Walnut    East  From Third St. to a point 105 feet north of the north curb line thereof                                                                     14,   5-24-
St.                                                                                                                                                                1976  1976
North Walnut    West  From Tipton St. to Third St.                                                                                                                1556  11-24-
St.                                                                                                                                                                      1969
North Walnut    West  From Third St. to a point 175 feet north of the north curb line thereof                                                                     14,   5-24-
St.                                                                                                                                                                1976  1976
Oak St.         South Between Oesting St. and Chestnut St.                                           From 3:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m.                                   41,   1-14-
                                                                                                                                                                   1990  1991
Rebecca Ct.     Both  From Marley Lane to its east end                                                                                                            20,   6-8-
                                                                                                                                                                   1994  1994
Rebecca Ct.     South                                                                                                                                            1,    2-9-
                                                                                                                                                                   1987  1987
Reliance Ave.   Both  Entire length                                                                                                                               1556  11-24-
                                                                                                                                                                         1969
Seventh St.     North From Broadway St. to Chestnut St.                                                                                                           1556  11-24-
                                                                                                                                                                         1969
Shields Ave.    Both  Entire length                                                                                                                               1556  11-24-
                                                                                                                                                                         1969
Sixteenth St.   Both  From Shields Ave. to Ewing St. (U.S. 31A)                                      On pavement                                                   15,   6-12-
                                                                                                                                                                   1978  1978
South Broadway  West  From the south curb line of Tipton St. to a point 100 feet south of the alley                                                               32,   1-10-
                                                                                                                                                                   1976  1977
South Chestnut  East  From Fox Ave. to North Park Dr.                                                                                                             1556  11-24-
St.                                                                                                                                                                      1969
South Chestnut  West  From Tipton St. to a point 70 feet north thereof                                                                                            1556  11-24-
St.                                                                                                                                                                      1969
South Fourth    Both  From North Fourth St. Rd. to its southern terminus                                                                                          1556  11-24-
St. Rd.                                                                                                                                                                  1969
South O’Brien Both  From Brown St. to its southern terminus                                                                                                     1556  11-24-
St.                                                                                                                                                                      1969
South O’Brien Both  From Tipton St. to a point 100 feet south thereof                                                                                           1556  11-24-
St.                                                                                                                                                                      1969
South O’Brien Both  From the B & O Railroad right-of-way to Tipton St.                                                                                          1556  11-24-
St.                                                                                                                                                                      1969
South Park Dr.  Both  From Garden Ave. to O’Brien St.                                                                                                           1556  11-24-
                                                                                                                                                                         1969
South Park Dr.  North From Garden Ave. to Walnut St.                                                 On pavement                                                   15,   6-12-
                                                                                                                                                                   1978  1978
South Park Dr.  North From Poplar St. to Walnut St.                                                                                                               15,   6-12-
                                                                                                                                                                   1978  1978
South Walnut    East  Between West Tipton St. and the intersection of St. Louis Ave.                                                                              2,    2-8-
St.                                                                                                                                                                1999  1999
South Walnut    West  From its intersection with Bruce St. extending north 142 feet                                                                               13,   6-25-
St.                                                                                                                                                                1979  1979
St. Louis Ave., North From the east boundary of Chestnut St. to the west boundary of Indianapolis                                                                 4,    3-22-
westbound lane        Ave.                                                                                                                                         1988  1988
St. Louis Ave., North From Walnut St. to Poplar St.                                                                                                               1556  11-24-
eastbound lane                                                                                                                                                           1969
                                                                                                                                                                   1556; 11-24-
St. Louis Ave., South From North Chestnut St. to  western terminus of St. Louis Ave.                                                                             6,    1969;
westbound lane                                                                                                                                                     2017  4-10-
                                                                                                                                                                         2017
Tenth St.       Both  Entire length, except the north side between Broadway St. and O’Brien St.                                                                 3,    2-27-
                                                                                                                                                                   1984  1984
Third St.       North From a point 120 feet west of the west curb line of Thorn St., running west                                                                 20,   8-9-
                      275 feet                                                                                                                                     1976  1976
Third St.       South From a point where the east curb line of Thorn St., extended, would intersect                                                               20,   8-9-
                      it, running west 740 feet                                                                                                                    1976  1976
Thorn St.       East  Between Third St. and Fourth St.                                                                                                            20,   8-9-
                                                                                                                                                                   1976  1976
Vehslage Rd.    Both  From Second St. to Westgate Rd.                                                                                                             1556  11-24-
                                                                                                                                                                         1969
Vehslage Rd.    Both  From the north line of Section One, Westgate Addition, to the road’s northern                                                             1556  11-24-
                      terminus                                                                                                                                           1969
Vehslage Rd.    Both  From the north line of Section One, Westgate Addition, to Stadium Dr.                                                                       23,   9-14-
                                                                                                                                                                   2020  2020
Vehslage Rd.    West  From Stadium Dr. to Sixth St.                                                                                                               23,   9-14-
                                                                                                                                                                   2020  2020
Walnut St.      East  Between Third St. and Fourth St., from the southeast corner of the             Two spaces                                                    42,   8-24-
                      intersection with Fourth St. to a point 110 feet south of that intersection                                                                  1998  1998
West Fifth St.  North From a point 100 feet east of the east curb line of North Walnut St. to a      Near Redeemer Lutheran Church                                 12,   7-24-
                      point 120 feet east of that curb line                                                                                                        1989  1989
West Fifth St.  North Starting at Emerson Dr., then east to Elm St.                                                                                               19,   7-27-
                                                                                                                                                                   2020  2020
West Fourth St. North From the alley between Chestnut St. and Walnut St. to Walnut St.               7:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m. every day                              36,   11-12-
                                                                                                                                                                   1990  1990
West Laurel St. Both  From Ross St. to the Penn Central Railroad right-of-way                                                                                     1556  11-24-
                                                                                                                                                                         1969
                                                                                                                                                                   1625; 12-13-
West Second St. North From east boundary of the east parking lot driveway of the American Legion                                                                  14,   1971;
                      parking lot west to Pine St.                                                                                                                 2017  8-14-
                                                                                                                                                                         2017
                                                                                                                                                                   1625; 12-13-
West Second St. North From west property line of the Lorenzo building west to North Walnut St.                                                                    14,   1971;
                                                                                                                                                                   2017  8-14-
                                                                                                                                                                         2017
West Second St. North From the alley west of Calvin Blvd. to the street’s western terminus                                                                      1556  11-24-
                                                                                                                                                                         1969
West Second St. South From Walnut St. east to the west line of the first alley east thereof                                                                       1556  11-24-
                                                                                                                                                                         1969
West Second St. South From Walnut St. west to a point 200 feet west thereof                                                                                       1556  11-24-
                                                                                                                                                                         1969
West Second St. South From Carter Blvd. to its western terminus                                                                                                   1556  11-24-
                                                                                                                                                                         1969
West Third St.  Both  From Walnut St. west to the first alley, 164 feet west of the west curb line                                                                14,   5-24-
                      of Chestnut St.                                                                                                                              1976  1976
West Third St.  North From Walnut St. to a point 140 feet east of the east curb line thereof                                                                      14,   5-24-
                                                                                                                                                                   1976  1976
West Third St.  North From Chestnut St. to a point 138 feet west of the west curb line thereof                                                                    14,   5-24-
                                                                                                                                                                   1976  1976
West Third St.  North From Chestnut St. to a point 50 feet east of the east curb line thereof                                                                     14,   5-24-
                                                                                                                                                                   1976  1976
West Third St.  South From Chestnut St. to Elm St.                                                                                                                15,   6-12-
                                                                                                                                                                   1978  1978
West Third St.  South From Chestnut St. to a point 150 feet east of the east curb line thereof                                                                    14,   5-24-
                                                                                                                                                                   1976  1976
Westgate Rd.    Both  From its eastern terminus to Manor Dr.                                                                                                      1556  11-24-
                                                                                                                                                                         1969
 
   (B)   Parking shall be prohibited at any other place, where either official
signs or official markings on the painted surface of the street, prohibit
standing or parking.
(Ord. 25, 1984, passed 10-8-1984)
(1987 Code, § 8-16)
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHEDULE II. TIME LIMITED PARKING.
   (A)   Ten-minute parking. It shall be unlawful for any person to park or
permit to remain standing, any motor vehicle in the same place, for more than
ten minutes, on any portion of the following areas.
 
Street            Side Ten-Minute        Details           Ord. No. Date Passed
                       Parking Location
                       Two southernmost
                       spaces west of    Monday through
Indianapolis Ave. West railroad tracks,  Friday, from 8:00 14, 1994 8-22-1994
                       north of the      a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
                       intersection with
                       Third St.
                       Three spaces in
West Brown St.        front of 318 West                  6, 2000  2-14-2000
                       Brown St.
 
(1987 Code, § 8-21) (Am. Ord. 14, 2017, passed 8-14-2017)
   (B)   Fifteen-minute parking. It shall be unlawful for any person to park or
permit to remain standing, any motor vehicle in the same place, for more than
15 minutes, on any portion of the following areas.
 
Street             Side  Fifteen-Minute Parking Location   Ord. No. Date Passed
North Chestnut St. West  Five spaces in front of the U.S.  14, 1976 5-24-1976
                         Post Office
North Ewing        West  One space in front of 423 Ewing   17, 2024 5-28-2024
                         St.
                         First two spaces west of North
St. Louis Ave.     West  Chestnut St. on the north side of 6, 2017  4-10-2017
                         St. Louis Ave
                         First two spaces west of North
West Fourth St.    South Chestnut St., adjacent to the     14, 1976 5-24-1976
                         side entrance of the U.S. Post
                         Office
Upon written application by food service establishment
operators in the downtown area (Chestnut St. from Tipton
St. to Third St. and Second St. from Broadway St. to
Walnut St.) the Board of Public Works and Safety may
designate one parking space per food service establishment
as a 15-minute time limited parking space. No more than    12, 2017 7-10-2017
two parking spaces on each block may be designated under
this division and signage shall be installed accordingly.
If the business requesting the time limited parking
designation closes or moves its location then the
designation shall lapse and the space shall revert to a
two-hour parking designation
 
(1987 Code, § 8-24)
   (C)   Two-hour parking. On all days excepting Saturdays and Sundays, it
shall be unlawful for any person to park, or permit to remain standing, any
motor vehicle in the same place, for more than two hours, on any portion of the
following areas. This division applies only to vehicles parked or standing on
the city streets in the specifically designated areas on Monday through Friday,
from the hour of 9:00 a.m. until 5:00 p.m.
Street Side Two-Hour Weekday Parking Location Ord. No. Date Passed
Street       Side      Two-Hour Weekday Parking Location                               Ord.  Date
                                                                                       No.   Passed
Chestnut St. Both      From Bruce St. to West Fourth St.                               8,    4-26-
                                                                                       1993  1993
Community              Fifteen parking spaces beginning at the southern-most parking   12,   9-11-
Drive        West      space and extending north from that point. These parking spaces 2006  2006
                       shall be marked and designated as “Visitor Parking”.
East Third   Both      The first two parking spaces east of North O’Brien Street     35,   12-8-
St.                                                                                    2014  2014
Indianapolis          Between St. Louis Ave. and Second St.                           8,    4-26-
Ave.                                                                                   1993  1993
Second St.   Both      From Broadway St. to Poplar St.                                 8,    4-26-
                                                                                       1993  1993
St. Louis    Both      Eastbound St. Louis Ave. between Walnut St. and Jeffersonville  14,   10-24-
Ave.                   Ave.                                                            2016  2016
St. Louis    Westbound Between Indianapolis Ave. and Chestnut St.                      8,    4-26-
Ave.                                                                                   1993  1993
                       Westbound St. Louis Ave. between Indianapolis Ave. and Walnut   14,   10-24-
St. Louis    North     St., except for the first two spaces west of North Chestnut St. 2016; 2016;
Ave.                   on the north side of St. Louis Ave.                             6,    4-10-
                                                                                       2017  2017
Walnut St.   West      Between Third St. and Fourth St.                                8,    4-26-
                                                                                       1993  1993
West Third   North     West of the alley west of Indianapolis Ave. to Chestnut St.     8,    4-26-
St.                                                                                    1993  1993
 
(1987 Code, § 8-17)
Penalty, see § 70.99
   (D)   Two-hour parking. On all days except Saturdays and Sundays, it shall
be unlawful for any person to park, or permit to remain standing, any motor
vehicle in the same place, for more than two hours, on any portion of the
following areas, between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
 
Street    Side            Two-Hour Parking Location     Ord. No. Date Passed
Brown St. North and south Between Walnut St. and Poplar 20, 2008 8-25-2008
                          St.
 
(Ord. 20, 2008, passed 8-25-2008)
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHEDULE III. HANDICAPPED PARKING SPACES.
   The following parking spaces shall be designated as prohibited parking areas
for all vehicles except those specifically marked by appropriate licensing as
for handicapped persons. It shall be unlawful for any person to park, or permit
to remain standing, any motor vehicle at the following locations unless that
vehicle is designated as licensed for a handicapped person.
Handicapped Parking Spaces
Street Side Location Space Ord. No. Date Passed
Handicapped Parking Spaces
Street          Side          Location      Space        Ord. No.  Date Passed
                              Between Bruce
                              St. and South
Chestnut St.    East          St., directly Northernmost 19, 1997  6-23-1997
                              in front of
                              St. Ambrose
                              School
                              Between Bruce Northernmost
Chestnut St.    East          St. and       parallel     18, 1989  8-14-1989
                              Tipton St.    space
                              Between St.
Chestnut St.    East          Louis Ave.    Northernmost 18, 1989  8-14-1989
                              and Tipton
                              St.
                              Between
Chestnut St.    West          Tipton St.    Northernmost 18, 1989  8-14-1989
                              and St. Louis
                              Ave.
                              Between St.
Chestnut St.    West          Louis Ave.    Northernmost 18, 1989  8-14-1989
                              and Second
                              St.
                              Between Bruce
Chestnut St.    West          St. and       Southernmost 35, 1989  11-13-1989
                              Tipton St.
                West; west of Between St.
Indianapolis    railroad      Louis Ave.    Northernmost 18, 1989  8-14-1989
Ave.            tracks        and Second
                              St.
                                            Immediately
                                            south of the
North Chestnut  West          300 block     Post Office  18, 1989  8-14-1989
St.                                         employee
                                            parking lot
                                            exit
North Chestnut                Between 3rd
St.             West          St. and 4th   Northernmost 15, 2004  6-28-2004
                              St.
                              Between 6th
North Park St.  West          St. and 8th   Southernmost 30, 2004  10-11-2004
                              St.
North O’Brien               Between 3rd
St.             East          St. and 4th   Southernmost 15, 2004  6-28-2004
                              St.
                              Between
                              Poplar St.
Second St.      North         and Pine St., Easternmost  16, 1990  6-11-1990
                              in front of
                              the American
                              Legion
                              Between Bruce
South Chestnut  West          St. and       Northernmost 30, 2004  10-11-2004
                              Tipton St.
                North of      East of North
St. Louis Ave.  railroad      Chestnut St.  Westernmost  18, 1989  8-14-1989
                tracks
                              Between
                              Chestnut St.               18, 1989; 8-14-1989;
Third St.       North         and           Westernmost  14, 2017  8-14-2017
                              Indianapolis
                              Ave.
                              Immediately
Third St.       North         east of the   Westernmost  19, 1997  6-23-1997
                              intersection
                              of Ewing St.
West Second St. North         East of North Westernmost  18, 1989  8-14-1989
                              Chestnut St.
                              Between
West Second St. North         Walnut St.    Easternmost  18, 1989  8-14-1989
                              and Chestnut
                              St.
 
(1987 Code, § 8-20)
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHEDULE IV. CITY EMPLOYEE PARKING.
   City building parking.
   (A)   The use of the parking spaces near city buildings, as designated
below, and marked as reserved, is reserved as so marked.
(Ord. 33, 1995, passed 12-27-1995)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any other person, other than as designated
below, to park, or permit to remain standing, any motor vehicle within the
areas designated below.
(Ord. 3, 1977, passed 5-9-1977)
 
                                       Reserved Use of
City Building      Side(s) of Building Parking Spaces, as Ord. No. Date Passed
                                       Marked
                                       City employees, or
City Hall; 301-309                     visitors on
North Chestnut St. West and south      business at City   33, 1995 12-27-1995
                                       Hall in normal
                                       working hours
 
(1987 Code, § 8-23) (Am. Ord. 35, passed 12-8-2014; Am. Ord. 14, 2017, passed
8-14-2017) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE V. PARKING NEAR SCHOOLS.
   While school is in session, it shall be unlawful for any person to park any
motor vehicle in the following areas.
 
                  School Area
Street       Side Restricted Parking  Comments             Ord. No. Date Passed
                  Location
Chestnut St. West Between Oak St. and                      31, 1984 1-28-1985
                  Laurel St.
                  From Fifth St.
Emerson Dr.  East north for a                              31, 1984 1-28-1985
                  distance of 275
                  feet
                  Between West Oak    Monday through
Oesting St.  West St. and West        Friday, 6:00 a.m. to 15, 1997 5-12-1997
                  Jackson St.         5:00 p.m., for
                                      school bus unloading
 
(1987 Code, § 8-26)
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHEDULE VI. CITY PARKING LOTS.
   (A)   City parking lots designated. The following designated locations in
the city shall be and are the city parking lots and are set out, designated,
and numbered as follows.
Lot No. Lot Name Description Area in Square Feet Ord. No. Date Passed
Lot No. Lot Name     Description    Area in Square Ord. No.       Date Passed
                                    Feet
                     From a point
                     approximately
                     180 feet from
                     center of East
                     Second St. due
                     south along
                     east side of
                     Indianapolis
                     Ave. to a
                     point in
                     northwest lot                                4-24-1995; 9-
1       B&O Railroad corner, thence 42,000         11, 1995; 30,  8-1997; 9-11-
        Lot          318 feet east, (approx.)      1997; 11, 2006 2006
                     thence south
                     approximately
                     132 feet,
                     thence west
                     approximately
                     318 feet,
                     thence north
                     132 feet to
                     the northwest
                     point of
                     beginning
                     From northeast
                     lot corner at
                     the
                     intersection
                     of St. Louis
                     Ave. and
                     Walnut St.,
                     south 152 feet
                     along west                                   4-24-1995; 9-
2       Walnut St.   side of Walnut 23,000         11, 1995; 30,  8-1997; 9-11-
        Lot          St., thence    (approx.)      1997; 11, 2006 2006
                     west
                     approximately
                     150 feet,
                     thence north
                     152 feet,
                     thence 150
                     feet to the
                     point of
                     beginning
                     From a point
                     approximately
                     155 feet from
                     center of
                     Highway 50
                     (Tipton St.)
                     along east
                     side of
                     Chestnut St.
                     to a point of
        Chestnut St. beginning;     6,500          11, 1995; 30,  4-24-1995; 9-
3       Lot          thence 55 feet (approx.)      1997; 11, 2006 8-1997; 9-11-
                     south, thence                                2006
                     east 119 feet,
                     thence north
                     along Carter
                     St.
                     approximately
                     55 feet,
                     thence west
                     119 feet to
                     the point of
                     beginning
                     From a point
                     on southeast
                     lot corner,
                     being
                     northwest
                     corner of
                     intersection
                     of Second St.
        Interurban   and Ewing St.;                11, 1995; 30,  4-24-1995; 9-
4       Lot          thence north   9,711          1997; 11, 2006 8-1997; 9-11-
                     117 feet,                                    2006
                     thence west 83
                     feet, thence
                     south 117
                     feet, and
                     thence east 83
                     feet to the
                     point of
                     beginning
                     From a point
                     on southeast
                     lot corner,
                     being
                     northwest
                     corner of
                     intersection
                     of
                     Indianapolis
        Lynn Hotel   Ave. and                      11, 1995; 30,  4-24-1995; 9-
5       Lot          Second St.;    7,371          1997; 11, 2006 8-1997; 9-11-
                     thence north                                 2006
                     117 feet,
                     thence west 63
                     feet, thence
                     south 117
                     feet, and
                     thence east 63
                     feet to the
                     point of
                     beginning
                     From a point
                     on northwest
                     lot corner,
                     being
                     southeast
                     corner of
                     Second St. and
                     Ewing St.;                                   4-24-1995; 9-
6       Pennsylvania thence east    6,100          11, 1995; 30,  8-1997; 9-11-
        Railroad Lot 100 feet,                     1997; 11, 2006 2006
                     thence south
                     61 feet,
                     thence west
                     100 feet, and
                     thence north
                     61 feet to the
                     point of
                     beginning
                     From a point
                     on northwest
                     lot corner,
                     being
                     southwest
                     corner of
                     intersection
                     of Fourth St.
                     and Walnut
                     St.; thence
                     south 150      22,500         30, 1997; 11,  9-8-1997; 9-
7       Keach Lot    feet, thence   (approx.)      2006           11-2006
                     east a
                     distance of
                     150 feet,
                     thence north a
                     distance of
                     150 feet, and
                     thence west a
                     distance of
                     150 feet to
                     the point of
                     beginning
                     Starting at a
                     point on the
                     northwest
                     corner of the
                     lot and being
                     the southeast
                     corner of the
                     intersection
                     of St. Louis
        Robertson    Ave. and       30,900         30, 1997; 11,  9-8-1997; 9-
8       Mill Lot     Walnut St.;    (approx.)      2006           11-2006
                     thence south
                     154.5 feet,
                     thence east
                     200 feet,
                     thence north
                     154.5 feet,
                     thence west
                     200 feet to
                     the point of
                     beginning
 
(1987 Code, § 8-27)
   (B)   Handicapped spaces. The city parking lots designated above shall have
the following number of designated handicapped parking spaces.
Lot No. Lot Name Handicapped Spaces Ord. No. Date Passed
Lot No. Lot Name                  Handicapped Spaces Ord. No.  Date Passed
1       B & O Lot                 5                  30, 1997; 9-8-1997;
                                                     14, 2017  8-14-2017
2       Walnut St. Lot            5                  30, 1997; 9-8-1997;
                                                     14, 2017  8-14-2017
3       Chestnut St. Lot          2                  30, 1997  9-8-1997
4       Interurban Lot            1                  30, 1997; 9-8-1997;
                                                     14, 2017  8-14-2017
5       Lynn Hotel Lot            1                  30, 1997  9-8-1997
6       Pennsylvania Railroad Lot 1                  30, 1997; 9-8-1997;
                                                     14, 2017  8-14-2017
7       Keach Lot                 2                  30, 1997; 9-8-1997;
                                                     14, 2017  8-14-2017
8       Robertson Mill Lot        5                  30, 1997  9-8-1997
 
(1987 Code, § 8-27)
   (C)   Temporary non-passenger vehicle parking.  
      (1)   No person driving any truck tractor, farm tractor, road truck,
other than a pick-up or panel truck, or any bus, school bus, or any other type
of motor vehicle other than that which is commonly defined as a passenger
vehicle (the definition to be that included in the Uniform Act Regulating
Traffic on Highways, being I.C. 9-21-1-1 et seq.) shall stop, stand, or park,
or cause to stop, stand, or park, any of these vehicles within any municipal
parking lot.
(1987 Code, § 8-36) (Am. Ord. 41, 1998, passed 8-24-1998; Am. Ord. 14, 2017,
passed 8-14-2017; Am. Ord. 22, 2020, passed 10-12-2020) Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross-reference:
   City Parking Lots, see §§
73.15 et seq.
SCHEDULE VII. ANGLE PARKING AREAS.
   Designated employees of the city, under the supervision and authority of the
Board of Public Works and Safety, are authorized to mark, for angle parking,
the following areas within the city.
Street Side Angle Parking Location Ord. No. Date Passed
Street   Side      Angle Parking Location                                                    Ord. Date
                                                                                             No.  Passed
Bruce    North     From a point 20 feet west of the west crosswalk line at South Poplar St.  26,  11-14-
St.                to the north-south alley west of South Poplar St.                         1983 1983
Bruce    North     From west boundary of Chestnut St. to east boundary of the north-south    4,   2-22-
St.                alley between Bruce St. and West Tipton St.                               1988 1988
Bruce    North     Between Chestnut St. and Walnut St.                                       4,   2-22-
St.                                                                                          1988 1988
Bruce    South     Between Poplar St. and Walnut St.                                         14,  5-24-
St.                                                                                          1976 1976
East St. Both      Between Tipton St. and Bruce St.                                          2,   4-10-
                                                                                             1989 1989
East                                                                                         17,  5-28-
Fifth    Both      Between Ewing St. and Mill St.                                            2024 2024
St.
East                                                                                         2,   4-10-
Fifth    North     Between Broadway St. and Vine St.                                         1989 1989
St.
East                                                                                         14,  5-24-
Second   Both      From east boundary of Indianapolis Ave. to west boundary of Ewing St.     1976 1976
St.
East                                                                                         30,  9-27-
Second   North     From O’Brien St. to its eastern terminus                                1976 1976
St.
East                                                                                         21,  7-25-
Second   South     From Ewing St. to Broadway St.                                            1988 1988
St.
East                                                                                         2,   4-10-
Second   South     Between Vine St. and Park St.                                             1989 1989
St.
East               Between North Chestnut St. and Indianapolis Ave. (Penn Central Railroad   30,  9-27-
Third    North     tracks)                                                                   1976 1976
St.
East                                                                                         30,  9-27-
Third    North     Between Mill St. and Indianapolis Ave. (Penn Central Railroad tracks)     1976 1976
St.
East                                                                                         30,  9-27-
Third    North     Between Ewing St. and Broadway St.                                        1976 1976
St.
East               From the east curb line of Ewing St. and continuing eastward a distance   4,   2-25-
Third    South     of 65 feet                                                                1980 1980
St.
East               From a point 297 feet east of the center line of North O’Brien St. to a 39,  12-27-
Third    South     point 172 feet east                                                       1999 1999
St.
North                                                                                        2,   4-10-
Broadway East      Between Fifth St. and Sixth St.                                           1989 1989
St.
North              From north boundary of St. Louis Ave. to south boundary of the east-west  4,   2-22-
Chestnut East      alley between Chestnut St. and Indianapolis Ave.                          1988 1988
St.
North              From north boundary of St. Louis Ave. to south boundary of the east-west  4,   2-22-
Chestnut West      alley between Chestnut St. and Indianapolis Ave.                          1988 1988
St.
North    West      From Second St. south to the northern limit of the first alley south of   30,  9-27-
Lynn St.           Second St.                                                                1976 1976
South                                                                                        4,   2-22-
Chestnut Both      From north boundary of Bruce St. to south boundary of St. Louis Ave.      1988 1988
St.
South                                                                                        2,   4-10-
Chestnut East      From South St. to Bruce St.                                               1989 1989
St.
South    South     From Chestnut St. to Carter St.                                           30,  9-27-
St.                                                                                          1976 1976
St.
Louis    North;
Ave.,    South     From east boundary of North Chestnut St. to west boundary of Indianapolis 4,   2-22-
north of side of   Ave.                                                                      1988 1988
B & O    westbound
Railroad lane
tracks
St.
Louis
Ave.,              From east boundary of South Chestnut St. to west boundary of              4,   2-22-
south of South     Jeffersonville Ave.                                                       1988 1988
B & O
Railroad
tracks
St.
Louis
Ave.,              From east boundary of the north-south alley between West Tipton St. and   4,   2-22-
south of South     St. Louis Ave. to west boundary of South Chestnut St.                     1988 1988
B & O
Railroad
tracks
West                                                                                         17,  8-26-
Fifth    North     Between Walnut St. and Pine St.                                           2013 2013
St.
West                                                                                         2,   4-10-
Fifth    North     Between Chestnut St. and Walnut St.                                       1989 1989
St.
West                                                                                         2,   4-10-
Fourth   North     From Chestnut St. to Walnut St.                                           1989 1989
St.
West                                                                                         2,   4-10-
Fourth   North     From Poplar St. to the first alley east thereof                           1989 1989
St.
West                                                                                         2,   4-10-
Fourth   South     From Walnut St. to the first alley west thereof                           1989 1989
St.
West               From east boundary of North Chestnut St. to west boundary of Indianapolis 14,  5-24-
Second   Both      Ave.                                                                      1976 1976
St.
West               From Poplar St. west to the eastern limit of the east driveway into the   30,  9-27-
Second   North     Kroger parking lot                                                        1976 1976
St.
West               From east boundary of North Walnut St. to west boundary of North Chestnut 14,  5-24-
Second   North     St.                                                                       1976 1976
St.
West               From east boundary of North Poplar St. to west boundary of North Walnut   14,  5-24-
Second   North     St.                                                                       1976 1976
St.
West               Between east boundary of the north-south alley between Third St. and      14,  5-24-
Third    North     Fourth St. and west boundary of Indianapolis Ave.                         1976 1976
St.
 
(1987 Code, § 8-44)
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHEDULE VIII. LOADING ZONES.
   (A)   School bus loading zones. The following areas, being adjacent to the
curb and sidewalk along the designated streets, are declared to be school bus
loading zones, and when so marked, by appropriate paintings on the surface of
the areas so designated, and by the posting of signs thereby, it shall be
unlawful for the driver or operator of any motor vehicle, other than a school
bus, to park the same, or to cause the same to be parked or remain standing,
on, upon, or within a school bus loading zone at any time between the hours of
7:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. (current time) during any normal school day. The school
bus loading zones are specifically designated as follows.
 
Street         Side  School Loading     School             Ord. No. Date Passed
                     Zone Location
Fifth St.      North Between Emerson    Emerson Elementary 1556     11-24-1969
                     Dr. and Elm St.
                     Starting at
                     Chestnut St. and   Immanuel Lutheran
Oak St.        North extending to the   Elementary         1556     11-24-1969
                     middle of the
                     block west
South Chestnut       Between Bruce St.  St. Ambrose
St.            East  and entrance of    Parochial          1556     11-24-1969
                     St. Ambrose Church
 
(1987 Code, § 8-46)
   (B)   Freight, patient, and merchandise loading zones. Loading zones are
authorized at the following specific locations, where the parking of motor
vehicles shall be prohibited, and these areas may be used only, temporarily,
for the loading or unloading of freight, merchandise, or patients. These areas
are as follows.
Street Side Loading Zone Location Use Ord. No. Date Passed
Street         Side             Loading Zone     Use      Ord. No. Date Passed
                                Location
                                From Vine St. to
Centennial St. North            a point 155 feet          1556     11-24-1969
                                west thereof
                                One loading
Brown St.      West             space in front   Patient  13, 2011 7-11-2011
                                of 309 West
                                Bruce St.
                                From a point 372
                                feet east of
East Sixth St. North            Broadway St. to           1556     11-24-1969
                                a point 475 feet
                                east of Broadway
                                St.
                                Second and third
East Third St. South            parking spaces   Patients 14, 2000 6-12-2000
                                east of Ewing
                                St.
                                From a point 28
                                feet north of
Indianapolis   West; southbound Second St. to a           1556     11-24-1969
Ave.                            point 58 feet
                                north of Second
                                St.
                                From a point 63
                                feet of St.
Indianapolis   West; southbound Louis Ave. to a           35, 2002 11-25-2002
St.                             point 131 feet
                                north of St.
                                Louis Ave.
Jeffersonville                  From St. Louis
Ave.           West             Ave. south 27             1556     11-24-1969
                                feet
                                From Second St.
North Pine St. East             to a point 100            1556     11-24-1969
                                feet south
                                thereof
                                From Second St.
North Pine St. West             to a point 100            1556     11-24-1969
                                feet south
                                thereof
                                From a point 144
                                feet south of
South Chestnut East             Tipton St. to a           1556     11-24-1969
St.                             point 155 feet
                                south of Tipton
                                St.
                                From a point 34
                                feet south of
South Chestnut East             St. Louis Ave.            1556     11-24-1969
St.                             to a point 45
                                feet south of
                                St. Louis Ave.
                                From a point 150
                                feet north of
South Chestnut West             Bruce St. to a            1556     11-24-1969
St.                             point 161 feet
                                north of Bruce
                                St.
                                From St. Louis
South Walnut   East             Ave. south to             1556     11-24-1969
St.                             the first alley
                                south thereof
                                From a point 204
St. Louis Ave. North; westbound feet east of              1556     11-24-1969
                                Chestnut St.
                                From a point 20
                                feet east of
St. Louis Ave. South; eastbound Walnut St. to a           1556     11-24-1969
                                point 48 feet
                                east of Walnut
                                St.
                                From a point 157
                                feet east of
St. Louis Ave. South; eastbound Walnut St. to a           1556     11-24-1969
                                point 175 feet
                                east of Walnut
                                St.
                                From a point 130
                                feet west of
                                Jeffersonville
St. Louis Ave. South; eastbound Ave. to a point           26, 2003 12-22-2003
                                171 feet west of
                                Jeffersonville
                                Ave.
                                Second parking
Walnut St.     West             space south of   Patients 16, 2001 7-23-2001
                                Fourth St.
                                First parking
                                place east of
West Third St. North            North Chestnut   Patients 12, 1987 4-13-1987
                                St., at the
                                Vehslage
                                Building
 
(1987 Code, § 8-48)
   (C)   Passenger loading zones. Passenger pick-up and unloading zones are
authorized at the following locations, where the parking of motor vehicles
shall be prohibited, and these areas may be used only, temporarily, for the
pick-up and unloading of passengers from motor vehicles. These areas are as
follows.
 
Street           Side  Passenger Loading Zone Location     Ord. No. Date Passed
                       From a point 116 feet east of the
Ninth St.        South east curb line of Ewing St., thence 7, 2002  4-8-2002
                       east 23 feet
Oesting St.      West  From Oak St. south for a distance   8, 1978  3-27-1978
                       of 100 feet
                       From a point 142 feet north of the
South Walnut St. West  intersection with Bruce St., thence 13, 1979 6-25-1979
                       north 60 feet
                       Beginning at a point 140 feet east
Third Street     North of the east curb line of Park       24, 2002 9-23-2002
                       Street and running east 23 feet
 
(1987 Code, § 8-49)
Penalty, see § 70.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   FAIR HOUSING
      
91.   ALARM SYSTEMS
      
92.   FIRE PREVENTION; BURNING REGULATIONS
      
93.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
94.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
95.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
96.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
97.   ANIMALS
      
98.   SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES AND PLACES OF EMPLOYMENT
      
99.   OUTDOOR WOOD-FIRED HYDRONIC HEATERS
      
100.   CITY CEMETERY
CHAPTER 90: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
90.01   Policy
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Unlawful practice
   
90.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
90.05   Discrimination in residential real estate- related transactions
   
90.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
90.07   Interference, coercion, or intimidation
   
90.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
90.09   Equal access to housing in HUD programs
   
90.10   Exemptions
   
90.11   Administrative enforcement
§ 90.01 POLICY.
   It shall be the policy of the City of Seymour to provide, within
constitutional limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as
provided for under the federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended, the
Federal Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended, and I.C. 22-
9.5-1 et. seq.
(Ord. 13, 2017, passed 7-24-2017)
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-2)
   COMMISSION. The Indiana Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-
9-1-4 et seq.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-3)
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-4)
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
90.04,
90.05,
90.06,
90.07,
90.08 or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or part of a building or structure that
is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure, or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families (I.C. 22-9.5-2-8).
   FAMILIAL STATUS.
      (1)   One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18 years
being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of such
individual or the written permission of such parent or other person.
      (2)   The protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of
familial status shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process
of securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18
years.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual, with the status of such family being
further defined in FAMILIAL STATUS.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-9)
   HANDICAP.
      (1)    With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person's major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment; or
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990;
         (e)   Any other impairment defined in 910 IAC 2-3.
      (2)   The term HANDICAP shall not include current illegal use of or
addictions to a controlled substance as defined in Section 802 of Title 21 of
the United States Code 910 IAC 2-3-2(14); nor does the term HANDICAP include an
individual solely because that individual is a transvestite 910 IAC 2-3-2(14).
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees,
trustees in cases under Title 11 of the United States Code, receivers, and
fiduciaries.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the rights to occupy the premises owned by the occupant.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-13)
(Ord. 13, 2017, passed 7-24-2017)
§ 90.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below, §
90.09 and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or
rental of housing set forth I.C. 22-9.5-5-1 and in §
90.04 shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) below and I.C. 22-
9.5-3.
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) below, nothing in §
90.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that in the sale of such single- family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24-month period. The
private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or
reserved on his behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the
proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses
at any one time. The sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be
exempted from application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesman, or any person in the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any
such broker, agent or salesman, or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
90.04(C), but noting in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstracters, title companies and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title; or
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) above, a person shall be deemed to be
in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (2)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as agent,
other than in the sale of his own personal residence, in providing sales or
rental facilities or services in two or more transactions involving the sale or
rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   They are the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 13, 2017, passed 7-24-2017)
§ 90.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
90.03 and except as exempted by §§
90.03(B) and
90.09, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status or national origin.
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services of
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin.
   (C)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or published
any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, or an
intention to make any such preference, limitation or discrimination.
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin that any dwelling is not available
for inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is in fact so available.
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induct any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
   (F)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap
of:
      (1)   That buyer or renter;
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person.
   (G)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a handicap of:
      (1)   That person; or
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person.
   (H)   For purposes of this section, DISCRIMINATION includes:
      (1)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may where it is reasonable to do so condition permission for a modification on
the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
      (2)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
      (3)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13, 1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that:
         (a)   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
         (b)   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
         (c)   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
            1.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
            2.   Light, switches, electrical outlets, thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations;
            3.   Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
   (I)   Compliance with the appropriate requirement of Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990 and of the American National Standard for Buildings
and Facilities providing accessibility an usability for physically handicapped
people (commonly cited as ANSI Al 17.1) suffices to satisfy the requirements of
division (H)(3)(c)3. above.
   (J)   Nothing in this subsection requires that a dwelling be made available
to an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health
of safety of other individuals of whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 13, 2017, passed 7-24-2017)
§ 90.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED
TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap, or familial status.
(Ord. 13, 2017, passed 7-24-2017)
§ 90.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers'
organization or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him in the
terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation, on account of
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
(Ord. 13, 2017, passed 7-24-2017)
§ 90.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION, OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his having exercised
or enjoyed, or on account of his having aided or encouraged any other person in
the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or protected by §§
90.03,
90.04,
90.05 or
90.06.
(Ord. 13, 2017, passed 7-24-2017)
§ 90.07 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under code or law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempt to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status, or national origin and because he is or has been selling,
purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting or negotiating for
the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any dwelling, or
applying for or participating in any service, organization, or facility
relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings; or
   (B)   Any person because he is or has been, or in order to intimidate such
person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A)
above; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate; or
   (C)   Any citizen because he is or has been, or in order to discourage such
citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or encouraging other persons
to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the activities,
services, organizations or facilities described in division (A) above, or
participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any denial of
the opportunity to participate shall be fined according to local, state and
federal law; and if bodily injury results shall be fined not more than $10,000
or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both; and if death results shall be
subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for life.
(Ord. 13, 2017, passed 7-24-2017)
§ 90.09 EQUAL ACCESS TO HOUSING IN HUD PROGRAMS.
   Pursuant to 24 CFR Part 5.403 and 24 CFR Part 574.3 the definition of FAMILY
is revised to include families regardless of the actual or perceived sexual
orientation, gender identity, or marital status of its members.
(Ord. 13, 2017, passed 7-24-2017)
§ 90.10 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et. seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color or national
origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact
open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes
provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to its members
or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons. As used in this section, HOUSING FOR
OLDER PERSONS means housing:
      (1)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary of
the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the state Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly person (as defined in the state or federal program) or;
      (2)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, person 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years
of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 13, 2017, passed 7-24-2017)
§ 90.11 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commissioner as set forth
in division (B) below shall be vested in the Chief Elected Official of the City
of Seymour, Indiana.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the city, because
of lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under the chapter, herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of this chapter by
complainants to the Indiana Civil Rights Commission for administrative
enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6 and the Chief Elected Official of
the City of Seymour, Indiana, shall refer all said complaints to the Commission
as provided for under division (A) above to said Commission for purposes of
investigation, resolution and appropriate relief as provided for under I.C. 22-
9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the city shall administer
their departments, programs and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter
and shall cooperate with the Chief Elected Official and the Commission to
further such purposes.
   (D)   The Chief Elected Official of the City of Seymour, Indiana, or the
Chief Elected Official's designee, shall provide information on remedies
available to any aggrieved person or complainant requesting such information.
(Ord. 13, 2017, passed 7-24-2017)
CHAPTER 91: ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Testing of alarm device
   
91.03   Automatic voice dialer prohibited
   
91.04   Automatic shut-off required
   
91.05   Connection to central answering point; permit required
   
91.06   Security companies
   
91.07   Disconnection from central answering point; reconnection
   
91.08   False alarm service charge
   
91.09   Misuse of alarm system
   
91.10   Right of discontinuance reserved
   
91.11   Enforcement authority
   
91.12   Disposition of fees and charges
   
91.13   Appeals
   
91.14   Violations; remedies not exclusive
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM AGENT. The business, firm, corporation, or partnership designated and
employed by the Alarm Board on behalf of the Police and Fire Departments to
maintain, service, alter, repair, replace, move, and connect any burglar, hold-
up, or fire alarm to the monitoring equipment and related paraphernalia to be
maintained by the Police and Fire Departments at the central answering point
within the city Police Department.
   ALARM BOARD. The Board which performs the duties herein set out. The members
of the Board shall be made up of the three members of the Board of Public Works
and Safety and two members of the business community whose businesses utilize
the alarm systems, set appointments to be made by the Mayor. No more than three
members of the Board may be of the same political party. The Board shall
perform the following duties:
      (1)   On behalf of the city, enter into a contractual agreement with an
alarm agent;
      (2)   Acquire information to determine the effectiveness of this chapter;
      (3)   Contract for the acquisition, installation, and maintenance of
appropriate equipment and related paraphernalia to grade the response by the
Police and Fire Departments to alarms;
      (4)   Promulgate rules and regulations as are necessary to implement and
carry out the intent of this chapter; and
      (5)   Perform other activities as may be required by the Fire Chief or
Chief of Police to carry out, improve, and implement the intent of this
chapter.
   ALARM DEVICE. The portion of the alarm system located within or upon the
premises of the alarm holder to detect entry into the premises by an
unauthorized intruder or detect the presence of heat, smoke, fire, or drop in
water pressure within the premises.
   ALARM HOLDER. The owner, lessee, or person responsible for the existence of
an alarm system within or upon his or her premises.
   ALARM SYSTEM. An assembly of equipment and devices designed to signal or
transmit a signal to monitoring equipment maintained at the city Police
Department indicating the presence of a hazard the police or fire personnel are
expected to respond to. An ALARM SYSTEM may include burglar, hold-up, robbery,
fire, smoke, excess heat, or explosion warning devices. Included in the ALARM
SYSTEM are alarm devices emitting sounds, flashing lights, or beacon hazard at
the premises. For the purposes of this chapter, an ALARM SYSTEM shall not
include:
      (1)   An alarm installed in or on a motor vehicle;
      (2)   An alarm designated and operated so that no notification is given
to the Fire or Police Departments until after the occupants, an agent of the
owner or lessee, or an agent of the alarm system business has checked the alarm
site and determined that the alarm was possibly or probably the result of a
fire or explosion or a burglary or an attempted burglary of the kind for which
the alarm system was designed to give notice. The alarm shall be equipped to
disconnect any exterior sounding alarm automatically within ten minutes of
activation, except an alarm attached to a sprinkler system; or
      (3)   An alarm installed upon the premises occupied by the state or a
municipal corporation or city; provided, however, this definition shall not
exempt a facility owned or operated by any school corporation and the County
Hospital.
   AUTOMATIC DIALER. An alarm system which automatically sends over regular
telephone lines (as distinguished from dedicated telephone lines) a prerecorded
voice message, or coded signal, indicating the existence of a hazard at the
premises of the alarm holder.
   BURGLAR ALARM. An alarm device activated automatically signaling the entry
or attempted entry of an unauthorized intruder in or upon the premises of an
alarm holder, or whose activation is to signal a robbery, an attempted robbery,
a hold-up, an attempted hold-up, a burglary, or an attempted burglary at the
premises.
   CENTRAL ANSWERING POINT. An office maintained by the Police and Fire
Departments to which burglar alarms and fire alarms are connected and where
police and fire personnel supervise or monitor alarm signals through the use of
monitoring equipment.
   CITY. Any and all departments of the city, its officers, employees, agents,
and servants, including elected officials and appointed officials.
   DEDICATED TELEPHONE LINE. A telephone line which has as its sole use the
transmission of an alarm signal from an alarm device to monitoring equipment.
   DIRECT CONNECTION. The method of using a telephone line, or other
transmission line which has as its sole use the transmission of a burglar alarm
signal or a fire alarm signal from an alarm device to the monitoring equipment
maintained at the central answering point.
   FALSE ALARM. An alarm eliciting a Police or Fire Department response when
the situation does not warrant such a response. This does not include alarms
triggered by severe weather or atmospheric conditions or outside transmission
lines.
   FEES. Monies paid by an alarm holder to allow the alarm device to be
connected to the central answering point.
   FIRE. The city Fire Department.
   LOCAL ALARM. Alarm equipment which when activated causes an audible and/or
visual signal in or on the premises. This type of alarm equipment may or may
not be a part of the alarm system.
   MONITORING EQUIPMENT. An assembly of equipment and devices maintained at the
central answering point which is part of the alarm system which registers the
activation of an alarm device in response to which fire and police personnel
are expected to respond.
   POLICE. The city Police Department.
   SERVICE CHARGE. An assessment by the Police or Fire Department against an
alarm holder.
   TROUBLE INDICATION. A transmitted signal different from a fire or burglar
alarm signal, which indicates a mechanical or electrical problem within the
alarm system.
(1987 Code, § 6-230) (Ord. 14, 1991, passed 5-20-1991)
§ 91.02 TESTING OF ALARM DEVICE.
   (A)   An alarm holder, in the first 30 days of the installation of an alarm
device, shall be authorized to test the alarm device without the imposition of
any false alarm service charge or without the risk of disconnection, subject to
the alarm holder’s filing of a written statement with the Police or Fire
Department stating the testing procedure to be utilized and the name of the
alarm holder’s delegate performing the testing procedure.
   (B)   The testing procedure will be as follows:
      (1)   In the event the testing procedure is an on-site test designed to
simulate conditions to induce an alarm signal to be generated, the alarm
holder, or his or her delegate, shall timely and properly inform the Police or
Fire Department of the testing; and
      (2)   The Police or Fire Department will telephone the alarm holder, or
his or her delegate, each time an alarm signal is received at the central
answering point, but the Police or Fire Department will not otherwise respond
to such an alarm signal.
(1987 Code, § 6-231) (Ord. 14, 1991, passed 5-20-1991)
§ 91.03 AUTOMATIC VOICE DIALER PROHIBITED.
   The installation of any automatic voice dialer to the Police or Fire
Department or central answering point is prohibited.
(1987 Code, § 6-232) (Ord. 14, 1991, passed 5-20-1991) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.04 AUTOMATIC SHUT-OFF REQUIRED.
   All alarm devices and local alarms shall have an automatic shut-off which
will deactivate the sound, light, or beacon signal of an alarm device or local
alarm within ten minutes after the commencement of the sound, light, or beacon
signal, except for an alarm attached to a sprinkler system. The Police or Fire
Department may enter the premises to deactivate the sound, light, or beacon
signal which has not been shut off within ten minutes of activation of same and
which disturbs surrounding residents or premises. This deactivation by police
or fire personnel shall be taken only after reasonable efforts have been made
by the Police or Fire Department to contact the owner of the local alarm or
alarm holder, or his or her delegate, as the case may be. Neither the Police or
Fire Department nor the city shall be liable for any damages resulting from
this deactivation.
(1987 Code, § 6-233) (Ord. 14, 1991, passed 5-20-1991) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.05 CONNECTION TO CENTRAL ANSWERING POINT; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   All connections to the central answering point shall be subject to the
following.
   (B)   No person shall hereafter be authorized to have direct connection to
the central answering point for an alarm system within the corporate limits of
the city, or from financial institutions outside the city limits, without first
obtaining a permit from the Police or Fire Department.
      (1)   The permit application shall be on a form prescribed by the Police
or Fire Department.
      (2)   All applicants for a permit shall agree as follows:
         (a)   The applicant and his or her delegate are solely responsible for
the alarm device of the alarm holder, including any liability directly or
indirectly connected with the use or non-use of all the alarm devices of the
alarm holder; and
         (b)   The applicant shall indemnify, defend, and hold free and
harmless the city, its agents, employees, appointed and elected officials, and
the alarm agent from any and all claims, demands, judgments, liabilities,
litigation, costs, including reasonable attorney fees, or expenses that may
arise, directly or indirectly, as a result of a connection to the central
answering point, unless the applicant is not statutorily authorized to enter
into contractual agreements which require indemnifying and holding harmless
third parties.
(1987 Code, § 6-234) (Ord. 8, 1992, passed 3-9-1992) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.06 SECURITY COMPANIES.
   (A)   Alarm holders who are directly or indirectly connected to an alarm
security company or other answering service, whose primary purpose is that of
notifying the Police or Fire Department by telephone of a burglary, attempted
burglary, hold-up, robbery, fire, smoke, excess heat, explosion, or other
emergency, shall be subject to comply with all sections of this chapter with
the exception of the connection and monthly maintenance fees.
   (B)   Registration shall be required with the central answering point.
Information shall include, but not be limited to, names of persons that can be
contacted to allow entry into the building or to shut off an alarm.
(1987 Code, § 6-235)
§ 91.07 DISCONNECTION FROM CENTRAL ANSWERING POINT; RECONNECTION.
   (A)   Disconnection. Causes for disconnection from the central answering
point are hereinafter set out. The alarm holder shall be liable and responsible
for all costs, charges, and fees arising from disconnection for the following
reasons:
      (1)   Failure to pay any fees or charges required herein;
      (2)   Twelve false alarms from an alarm device of the alarm holder,
transmitted to the monitoring equipment, within a 12-month period, unless state
or local laws require the connection;
      (3)   Three or more trouble indications from an alarm system of the alarm
holder, transmitted to the monitoring equipment, within any 12-month period,
except this provision shall not apply where state or local laws require the
connection;
      (4)   A continuous transmission to the monitoring equipment of a trouble
indication from an alarm device of the alarm holder for a period of more than
48 hours; or
      (5)   Violation of the above division relating to equipment.
   (B)   Reconnection. In the event an alarm holder has had his or her alarm
device disconnected from the central answering point for causes set out in
division (A) above, the alarm device can be reconnected to the central
answering point, in accordance with the following.
      (1)   If an alarm system has been discon- nected from the central
answering point by reason of division (A)(1) hereof, then, upon repayment in
full of all outstanding fees and charges, the alarm system may be reconnected
to the central answering point.
      (2)   If an alarm system has been disconnected by reason of division (A)
(2) or (A)(3) hereof, then the alarm holder must submit a written statement
indicating that repairs have been made to correct the problem in the
appropriate alarm device and its related paraphernalia. After verification, on
behalf of the alarm holder, that the alarm system is properly functioning, the
alarm holder may have the alarm device reconnected to the central answering
point.
      (3)   If an alarm system has been disconnected from the central answering
point by reason of division (A)(4) hereof, then the alarm holder must submit a
written statement indicating the reasons for the false alarm and stating what
measures have been taken to prevent or minimize future false alarms. After
review of these statements by the Fire Chief or Chief of Police, the alarm
device may, in the sole discretion of the Fire Chief or Chief of Police, be
reconnected to the central answering point.
      (4)   If an alarm system has been disconnected from the central answering
point by reason of division (A)(5) hereof, then upon proof submitted to the
Police or Fire Department by the alarm holder of the acquisition of an
appropriate maintenance agreement by the alarm holder, the alarm device of the
alarm holder can be reconnected to the central answering point.
      (5)   The alarm holder shall be responsible for any cost or charge
arising from the reconnection.
(1987 Code, § 6-236) (Ord. 14, 1991, passed 5-20-1991)
§ 91.08 FALSE ALARM SERVICE CHARGE.
   A service charge for false alarms received at the central answering point
shall be payable as follows.
   (A)   Alarms responded to by the police.
      (1)   Three false alarms shall be allowed each alarm system in any
calendar year.
      (2)   A service charge as set forth in Ch. 36 of this code shall be paid
by the alarm holder for each of the additional false alarms received within the
calendar year.
   (B)   Alarms responded to by fire.
      (1)   (a)   Three false alarms in any calendar year shall be allowed each
alarm system that would have 50 or less detectors and pull stations.
         (b)   Four false alarms in any calendar year shall be allowed each
alarm system that has in service from 51 to 250 detectors and pull stations.
         (c)   Six false alarms in any calendar year shall be allowed each
alarm system that has in service over 250 detectors and pull stations.
      (2)   A service charge as set forth in Ch. 36 of this code shall be paid
by the alarm holder for all subsequent false alarms received within the
calendar year.
(1987 Code, § 6-237) (Ord. 14, 1991, passed 5-20-1991)
§ 91.09 MISUSE OF ALARM SYSTEM.
   It is unlawful for any person to activate an alarm system for any purpose
other than what the alarm system was originally designed to detect.
(1987 Code, § 6-238) (Ord. 14, 1991, passed 5-20-1991) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.10 RIGHT OF DISCONTINUANCE RESERVED.
   The city reserves the right, at any time, to discontinue the service of
providing monitoring of any and all alarm systems after 60 days’ written notice
to the alarm holder. The city is under no obligation to supply this special
type of service described in this chapter to any person.
(1987 Code, § 6-239) (Ord. 14, 1991, passed 5-20-1991)
§ 91.11 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   The Fire Chief and Chief of Police or their designees shall have the
responsibility for enforcement of this chapter.
(1987 Code, § 6-240) (Ord. 14, 1991, passed 5-20-1991)
§ 91.12 DISPOSITION OF FEES AND CHARGES.
   Fees paid to file an application for the permit described herein, and all
charges relative to false alarms, shall be paid directly to the Fire or Police
Department. All fees paid directly to the police shall be dedicated,
cumulatively, and shall be non-reverting for the upgrading of response by the
police to burglary, hold-up, and robbery alarms. The dedication shall include
the acquisition of appropriate equipment and related paraphernalia pertaining
thereto. All fees paid directly to the Fire Department shall be dedicated,
cumulatively, and shall be non- reverting for the upgrading of response by the
Fire Department to fire, smoke, excessive heat, explosion, and drop in water
pressure alarms. The dedication shall include acquisition of appropriate
equipment and related paraphernalia pertaining thereto. The office of the
Clerk-Treasurer of the city shall maintain in its records these dedicated funds
on a cumulative basis.
(1987 Code, § 6-241) (Ord. 14, 1991, passed 5-20-1991)
§ 91.13 APPEALS.
   A decision by the Chief of Police, the Fire Chief, or the Alarm Board may be
appealed by the alarm holder, or his or her delegate, to the Alarm Board within
30 days after the issuance of the decision.
(1987 Code, § 6-242) (Ord. 14, 1991, passed 5-20-1991)
§ 91.14 VIOLATIONS; REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   Any person who violates any section of this chapter or who fails to comply
with any of its requirements, including violations of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with the chapter, shall be guilty of a code violation
and shall be fined for each day’s violation. Every day that a violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense. This imposition of a fine shall
be in addition to any service charge assessed pursuant to §
91.08 of this code.
(1987 Code, § 6-243) (Ord. 14, 1991, passed 5-20-1991) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PREVENTION; BURNING REGULATIONS
Section
Fire Prevention Code
   
92.01   Title
   
92.02   Purpose
   
92.03   Application; exceptions
   
92.04   State codes adopted
   
92.05   Enforcement authority
   
92.06   Inspections
   
92.07   Right of entry
   
92.08   Investigation of fires
   
92.09   Fire records; reports
   
92.10   Violations; notice to correct; emergency orders
   
92.11   Appeal
   
92.12   Remedies; injunctive relief
   
92.13   Violations
Outdoor and Refuse Burning
   
92.25   Applicability
   
92.26   Definitions
   
92.27   General prohibition on outdoor burning and refuse burning
   
92.28   Materials that may not be burned
   
92.29   Open burning exemptions
   
92.30   Restrictions on burning exemptions
   
92.31   Burn barrels prohibited
   
92.32   Smoke and gases
   
92.33   Liability
   
92.34   Right of entry and inspection
   
92.35   Enforcement
Fireworks
   
92.45   Use, discharge or ignition prohibited
 
   
92.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Fire hydrants; obstruction or tampering, see §§
95.04 and
95.30
FIRE PREVENTION CODE
§ 92.01 TITLE.
   This subchapter, and all ordinances supplemental or amendatory hereto, shall
be known as the “fire prevention code of the city,” may be cited as such, and
will be referred to herein as “this subchapter.”
(1987 Code, § 6-200) (Ord. 11, 1988, passed 7-24-1988)
§ 92.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose and intent of this subchapter is to prescribe minimum
requirements and controls to safeguard life, property, or public welfare from
the hazards of fire and explosion arising from the storage, handling, or use of
substances, materials, or devices and from conditions hazardous to life,
property, or public welfare in the use or occupancy of buildings, structures,
sheds, tents, lots, or premises.
(1987 Code, § 6-201) (Ord. 11, 1988, passed 7-24-1988)
§ 92.03 APPLICATION; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter and the building and fire safety
rules of the state Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission shall apply
equally to new and existing buildings and conditions. Exceptions:
      (1)   Existing conditions which do not constitute a distinct hazard to
life or property; or
      (2)   The transportation of any articles or substance under the
jurisdiction of and in compliance with the regulations prescribed by the
military forces of the United States.
   (B)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed, interpreted, or applied
to abrogate, nullify or abolish any law, ordinance, or code adopted by the city
governing the construction, alteration, addition, repair, removal, demolition,
use, location, occupancy, and maintenance of buildings specifically provided
herein. When any provision of this subchapter is found to be in conflict with
any building, zoning, safety, health, or other applicable law, ordinance, or
code of the city existing on the effective date of this subchapter or hereafter
adopted, the provision which establishes the higher standard for the promotion
and protection of the safety and welfare of the public shall prevail.
   (C)   The planning, design, and construction of new buildings and structures
to provide egress facilities, fire protection, and built-in fire protection
equipment shall be controlled by the building rules of the state Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission; and alterations, additions, or
changes in buildings required by the provisions of this subchapter which are
within the scope of those building rules shall be made in accordance therewith.
   (D)   Buildings built under and in full compliance with the building and
fire safety laws and rules in force at the time of construction or alteration
thereof, and that have been properly maintained and used for the use as
originally permitted, shall be exempt from the requirements of this subchapter
pertaining to any of the following matters:
      (1)   Fire protection of structural elements;
      (2)   Exits required, except as provided for existing buildings under
this subchapter;
      (3)   Isolation of hazardous operations and mixed uses; provided,
however, that the Fire Chief shall require the installation of fire safety
devices or systems (fire extinguishers, fire alarms, fire detection devices, or
similar systems) where they are necessary to provide safety to life. In lieu of
requiring the installation of safety devices or systems or when necessary to
secure safety in addition thereto, the Fire Chief shall prescribe limitations
on the handling and storage of materials or substances or upon operations that
are liable to cause fire, contribute to the spread of fire, or endanger life or
property. Any orders issued by the Fire Chief to obtain compliance with this
division shall be governed by the provisions of I.C. 36-8-17-10.
(1987 Code, § 6-202) (Ord. 11, 1988, passed 7-24-1988)
§ 92.04 STATE CODES ADOPTED.
   (A)   The following fire safety rules of the state Fire Prevention and
Building Safety Commission as set out in 675 I.A.C. 22 are incorporated by
reference in this code, and shall include later amendments to that article as
the same are published in the Indiana Register or the I.A.C. with effective
dates as fixed therein:
      (1)   State Flammable and Combustible Liquids and Gases Code, 675 I.A.C.
22-1; and
      (2)   State Fire Prevention Code, 675 I.A.C. 22-2.
   (B)   Copies of adopted fire safety rules, codes, and standards are on file
in the office of the Clerk- Treasurer.
(1987 Code, § 6-203) (Ord. 11, 1988, passed 7-24-1988)
§ 92.05 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   It shall be the duty and responsibility of the Chief of the Fire
Department, or the officer or designee who is an ex officio assistant to the
State Fire Marshal under I.C. 36-8-17-5(a), to enforce the provisions of this
subchapter. The designated enforcement officer of this subchapter is herein
referred to as the Fire Chief.
   (B)   The Fire Chief shall cooperate with the Building Commissioner
responsible for the enforcement of the code of building laws and orders
required to be enforced in the city pursuant to I.C. 36-7-2-9.
(1987 Code, § 6-204) (Ord. 11, 1988, passed 7-24-1988)
§ 92.06 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Fire Chief shall cause to be inspected all structures and premises
except the interiors of private single-family dwellings, and dwelling units in
two- family and multi-family dwellings for the purpose of ascertaining and
causing to be corrected any conditions liable to cause fire, contribute to the
spread of fire, interfere with firefighting operations, endanger life, or any
violations of the provisions or intent of this subchapter affecting fire
safety.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever in the enforcement of this subchapter the
responsibility of more than one official of the city is involved, it shall be
their duty to coordinate their inspections and administrative orders as fully
as practicable so that the owners and occupants of the structure shall not be
subjected to visits by numerous inspectors nor multiple or conflicting orders.
      (2)   Whenever an inspector from any agency or department observes an
apparent or actual violation of some provision of some law, ordinance, or code
of the city not within the inspector’s authority to enforce, the inspector
shall report the findings to the official having jurisdiction.
(1987 Code, § 6-205) (Ord. 11, 1988, passed 7-24-1988)
§ 92.07 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   Whenever necessary for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this
subchapter, or whenever the Fire Chief or authorized inspector has reasonable
cause to believe that there exists in any structure or upon any premises, any
condition which makes the structure or premises unsafe, the Fire Chief or fire
inspector shall be permitted to enter the structure or premises at all
reasonable times to inspect the same or to perform any duty imposed upon the
Fire Chief by this subchapter; provided that if the structure or premises be
occupied, the Fire Chief or fire inspector shall first present proper
credentials and request entry. If entry is refused, the Fire Chief shall have
recourse to every remedy provided by law to secure entry.
(1987 Code, § 6-206) (Ord. 11, 1988, passed 7-24-1988) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.08 INVESTIGATION OF FIRES.
   The Fire Chief shall investigate, or cause to be investigated, every fire or
explosion occurring within the city that is of a suspicious nature or which
involves the loss of life or serious injury or causes destruction or damage to
property. The investigation shall be initiated immediately upon the occurrence
of the fire or explosion; and if it appears that such an occurrence is of a
suspicious nature, the Fire Chief shall take charge immediately of the physical
evidence, and in order to preserve any physical evidence relating to the cause
or origin of that fire or explosion, take means to prevent access by any person
or persons to the buildings, structure, or premises until the evidence has been
properly processed. The Fire Chief shall notify the office of the State Fire
Marshal pursuant to I.C. 36-8-17-7 for further investigations into these
matters and shall further cooperate with that office in the collection of
evidence and prosecution of the case.
(1987 Code, § 6-207) (Ord. 11, 1988, passed 7-24-1988)
§ 92.09 FIRE RECORDS; REPORTS.
   (A)   The Fire Chief shall keep a record of all fires and all facts
concerning the same, including investigation findings and statistics and
information as to the cause, origin, and the extent of fires and the damage
caused thereby.
   (B)   The Fire Chief shall submit a report of each fire occurring within the
city to the office of the State Fire Marshal in accordance with I.C. 36-8-17-7,
and in the form as prescribed by that office.
(1987 Code, § 6-208) (Ord. 11, 1988, passed 7-24-1988)
§ 92.10 VIOLATIONS; NOTICE TO CORRECT; EMERGENCY ORDERS.
   (A)   Whenever the Fire Chief observes an apparent or actual violation of a
provision of this subchapter or other ordinance under the Fire Chief’s
jurisdiction, the Fire Chief shall prepare a written notice of violation and
order describing the condition deemed unsafe and specifying a reasonable time
for the required repairs or improvements to be made to correct the violation.
The written notice of violation of this code shall be served upon the owner, a
duly authorized agent, or upon the occupant or other person responsible for the
conditions under violation. The notice of violation shall be served either by
delivering a copy of same to the person or persons by ordinary mail to the last
known post office address, delivered in person, or by delivering it to and
leaving it in the possession of any person in charge of the premises, or in the
case the person is not found upon the premises, by affixing a copy thereof, in
a conspicuous place at the entrance door, or avenue of access; and this
procedure shall be deemed the equivalent of personal notice.
   (B)   If the notice of violation and order is not complied with within the
time specified by the Fire Chief, and if no review of the order has been
initiated under I.C. 36-8-17-10, the Fire Chief shall request the legal counsel
of the city to institute the appropriate legal proceedings to restrain,
correct, or abate the violation or to require removal or termination of the
unlawful use of the building or structure in violation of the provisions of
this subchapter or of any order or discretion made pursuant thereto.
   (C)   Temporary or emergency orders issued by the Fire Chief under I.C. 36-
8-17-9(b) shall first be approved by the State Fire Marshal.
   (D)   When, in the opinion of the Fire Chief, there is actual and potential
danger to the occupants or those in the proximity of any building, structure,
or premises because of unsafe structural conditions, or inadequacy of any means
of egress, the presence of explosives, explosive fumes or vapors, or the
presence of toxic fumes, gases, or materials, the Fire Chief may issue an
emergency order, with oral approval of the State Fire Marshal, for the
immediate evacuation of the building, structure, or premises. All of the
occupants so notified shall immediately leave the building, structure, or
premises and persons shall not enter or reenter until authorized to do so by
the Fire Chief. Any person who shall refuse to leave, interfere with the
evacuation of other occupants, or continue any operation after having been
given an evacuation order except any work as that person is directed to perform
to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be deemed in violation of this
subchapter.
(1987 Code, § 6-209) (Ord. 11, 1988, passed 7-24-1988) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.11 APPEAL.
   (A)   A person who is aggrieved by an order issued pursuant to §
92.10 of this code or I.C. 36-8-17-9, shall have the opportunity to informally
discuss the order with the State Fire Marshal, who may modify or reverse the
order.
   (B)   An order issued pursuant to §
92.10 of this code or I.C. 36-8-17-9, or an order affirmed or modified by the
State Fire Marshal, may be appealed to the state Fire Prevention and Building
Safety Commission under I.C. 4-21.5-3-7.
(1987 Code, § 6-210) (Ord. 11, 1988, passed 7-24-1988)
§ 92.12 REMEDIES; INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   The attorney for the city upon receipt of a written notice from the Fire
Chief, that after having issued lawful notice and order to abate a violation of
this subchapter, and after a reasonable time for compliance has expired, shall
bring action in the Circuit or Superior Court of the county, for mandatory and
injunctive relief in the enforcement of and to secure compliance with any order
or orders made by the Fire Chief, and any such action for mandatory or
injunctive relief may be joined with an action to recover the penalties
provided for in this subchapter.
(1987 Code, § 6-211) (Ord. 11, 1988, passed 7-24-1988) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.13 VIOLATIONS.
   If any person, firm, or corporation shall violate any of the provisions of
this subchapter, or shall do any act prohibited herein, or shall fail to
perform any duty lawfully enjoined, within the time prescribed by the Fire
Chief, or shall fail neglect or refuse to obey any lawful order given by the
Fire Chief in connection with the provisions of this subchapter, for each
violation, failure, or refusal, that person, firm, or corporation shall be
fined. Each day of unlawful activity as is prohibited by the first sentence of
this section shall constitute a separate offense.
(1987 Code, § 6-212) (Ord. 11, 1988, passed 7-24-1988) Penalty, see §
10.99
OUTDOOR AND REFUSE BURNING
§ 92.25 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter applies to all outdoor burning and refuse burning within the
city, except burning in “outdoor wood-fired hydronic heaters” as may be
regulated pursuant to this code. This subchapter does not apply to burning
which does not create a nuisance or a fire hazard and which is attended by a
responsible person at all times until completely extinguished and is done for
the following purposes:
   (A)   Outdoor grilling or cooking using charcoal, wood, propane or natural
gas in cooking or grilling appliances; or
   (B)   The use of propane, acetylene, natural gas, heating oil, or kerosene
in a device intended for heating, construction, or maintenance activities.
(Ord. 6, 2009, passed 3-23-2009)
§ 92.26 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAMPFIRE. Small outdoor fire intended for recreation or cooking, not
including a fire intended for disposal of waste wood or refuse.
   CLEAN WOOD. Natural wood which has not been painted, varnished or coated
with a similar material, has not been pressure treated with preservatives, and
does not contain resins or glues as in plywood or other composite wood
products.
   FIRE CHIEF. The Chief of the Seymour Fire Department, or other person
authorized by the Fire Chief.
   OPEN BURNING. Kindling or maintaining a fire where the products of
combustion are emitted directly into the ambient air.
   OUTDOOR BURNING. Open burning or burning in an unapproved device or
container.
   REFUSE. Any waste material except clean wood.
(Ord. 6, 2009, passed 3-23-2009)
§ 92.27 GENERAL PROHIBITION ON OUTDOOR BURNING AND REFUSE BURNING.
   Open burning, outdoor burning, and refuse burning are prohibited in the city
unless the burning is specifically permitted by this subchapter.
(Ord. 6, 2009, passed 3-23-2009) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.28 MATERIALS THAT MAY NOT BE BURNED.
   Unless a specific written approval has been obtained from the Indiana
Department of Environmental Management, or other appropriate state or federal
agency, the following materials may not be burned in an open fire, incinerator,
furnace, stove, or other indoor or outdoor incineration or heating device:
   (A)   Rubbish or garbage, including but not limited to, food wastes, food
wraps, packaging, animal carcasses, paint or painted materials, furniture,
composite shingles, construction or demolition debris, or other household or
business wastes;
   (B)   Asphalt and products containing asphalt;
   (C)   Treated or painted wood including but not limited to plywood,
composite wood products or other wood products that are glued, painted,
varnished or treated with preservatives;
   (D)   Any plastic material including but not limited to nylon, PVC, ABS,
polystyrene or urethane foam, synthetic fabrics, plastic films and plastic
containers;
   (E)   Rubber including tires and synthetic rubberlike products;
   (F)   Newspaper, corrugated cardboard, container board and paper products.
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, small quantities of newspaper, paper
and cardboard products may be used as starter fuel for any fire that is
permitted under this subchapter; and
   (G)   Leaves, weeds, brush, stumps, clean wood, trees and other vegetative
debris, except as specifically permitted by this subchapter.
(Ord. 6, 2009, passed 3-23-2009) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.29 OPEN BURNING EXEMPTIONS.
   The following types of open burning are permitted:
   (A)   Campfires;
   (B)   Recreational fires, such as ceremonial fires, fires for school pep
rallies and scouting or similar activities;
   (C)   Burning of clean wood and vegetation derived from the following
maintenance operations, if approved by the Board of Public Works and Safety of
the city:
      (1)   Vegetation from a farm, an orchard, a nursery, a tree farm, a golf
course, a cemetery or drainage ditch; or
      (2)   Wood products derived from pruning or clearing a roadside by
various departments of city government.
   (D)   By variance obtained from the Indiana Air Pollution Control Board
Commissioner or the Commissioner’s designated agent if approved by the Board of
Public Works and Safety of the city;
   (E)   An owner or operator of an air curtain destructor subject to approval
of Indiana Department of Environmental Management pursuant to 326 I.A.C. 4-1-
6 et seq., if approved by the Board of Public Works and Safety of the city;
   (F)   Burning by the Fire Department for the purpose of fire fighting
training, subject to approval by Indiana Department of Environmental Management
pursuant to 326 I.A.C. 4-1-4, if approved by the Board of Public Works and
Safety of the city; and
   (G)   Emergency burning of refuse consisting of material resulting from a
natural disaster or other similar occurrence when authorized by proclamation of
the Mayor, subject to approval by the Indiana Department of Environmental
Management pursuant to 326 I.A.C. 4-1-4.1, and to such restrictions as may be
imposed by the Fire Chief.
(Ord. 6, 2009, passed 3-23-2009)
§ 92.30 RESTRICTIONS ON BURNING EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   All burning conducted under one or more of the burning exemptions
contained in §
92.29 herein shall be subject to the following:
      (1)   Only clean wood shall be burned unless otherwise stated.
      (2)   All fires shall be attended at all times until completely
extinguished.
      (3)   No burning shall be conducted during unfavorable meteorological
conditions such as temperature inversions, high winds, air stagnation, drought,
and similar circumstances, when so declared by the Fire Chief or the Mayor.
      (4)   All burning shall comply with all other applicable federal or state
laws, rules and regulations.
   (B)   In the event a fire creates a pollution problem, threat to public
health, a nuisance or a fire hazard, the fire shall be immediately
extinguished.
(Ord. 6, 2009, passed 3-23-2009)
§ 92.31 BURN BARRELS PROHIBITED.
   No person, firm or other entity shall use or maintain a burn barrel in the
city.
(Ord. 6, 2009, passed 3-23-2009) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.32 SMOKE AND GASES.
   It shall be unlawful to cause or permit the emission or escape of any foul
or noxious smoke, fumes, gases or ash, dust, soot or cinders into the open air
in such quantities as to cause injury or annoyance to the public or damage to
any property or to have a natural tendency to do so within the city, even if
the burning is in compliance with all regulations contained herein.
(Ord. 6, 2009, passed 3-23-2009) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.33 LIABILITY.
   (A)   Any person who conducts outdoor burning shall be responsible for all
fire suppression costs and any other liability resulting from damage caused by
the fire.
   (B)   Any person who allows the accumulation or existence of combustible
material on property owned or occupied by such person and which constitutes or
contributes to a fire causing air pollution may not refute liability for
violation of this subchapter or 326 I.A.C. 4-1, as amended from time to time,
on the basis that the fire was set by vandals, accident, or act of God.
(Ord. 6, 2009, passed 3-23-2009)
§ 92.34 RIGHT OF ENTRY AND INSPECTION.
   Upon reasonable cause, the Fire Chief, police officers or any authorized
building commissioner of the city who presents credentials may inspect any
property for the purpose of ascertaining compliance with the provisions of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 6, 2009, passed 3-23-2009)
§ 92.35 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Fire Chief, the Building Commissioner or their designees, and the Police
Department are authorized to enforce the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 6, 2009, passed 3-23-2009)
FIREWORKS
§ 92.45 USE, DISCHARGE OR IGNITION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The use, discharge or ignition of consumer fireworks by any person or
other entity is prohibited in the corporate limits of the city except during
the following periods:
      (1)   Between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and two hours after sunset on June
29, June 30, July 1, July 2, July 3, July 5, July 6, July 7, July 8 and July 9
each year;
      (2)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight on July 4 each
year; and
      (3)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. on December 31 until 1:00 a.m. the
next day each year.
   (B)   Consumer fireworks shall have the meaning as set forth in I.C. 22-11-
14-1 as may be amended from time to time.
   (C)   The use, discharge or ignition of all other fireworks shall be
governed by Indiana state statutes.
(Ord. 6, 2009, passed 3-23-2009)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Violations of this chapter shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
(Ord. 6, 2009, passed 3-23-2009)
CHAPTER 93: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
93.01   Purpose
   
93.02   Definitions
   
93.03   Exceptions
   
93.04   Responsibility of owner
   
93.05   Vehicles in possession of person other than owner
   
93.06   Rental property
   
93.07   Removal of abandoned vehicles
   
93.08   Disposal of abandoned vehicles
   
93.09   Towing contracts
   
93.10   Liability for loss or damage
§ 93.01 PURPOSE.
   The City Council finds that abandoned vehicles are a public nuisance and a
safety and health hazard.
§ 93.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   ABANDONED VEHICLE.
      (1) A vehicle located on public property illegally;
      (2) A vehicle left on public property without being moved for three days;
      (3) A vehicle located on public property in such a manner as to
constitute a hazard or obstruction to the movement of pedestrian or vehicle
traffic on a public right-of-way;
      (4) A vehicle from which the engine, transmission, or differential has
been removed or that is otherwise partially dismantled or inoperable and left
on public property;
      (5)   A vehicle that has remained on private property without the consent
of the owner or person in control of that property for more than 48 hours;
      (6) A vehicle that has been removed by a towing service or the city upon
request of an officer enforcing a statute or ordinance other than this chapter,
if the impounded vehicle is not claimed or redeemed by the owner or the owner’s
agent within 20 days of the vehicle’s removal; and
      (7) A vehicle that is at least three model years old, mechanically
inoperable, and is left on private property continuously in a location visible
from public property for more than 20 days.
(I.C. 9-13-2-1)
   AUTOMOBILE SCRAPYARD. A business organized for the purpose of scrap metal
processing, automobile wrecking, or operating a junkyard.
(I.C. 9-13-2-8)
   BUREAU. The state Bureau of Motor Vehicles.
(I.C. 9-13-2-16)
   FISCAL BODY. The City Council.
(I.C. 9-13-2-63)
   OFFICER. The City Marshal, his or her designee, or a member of the City
Police Department.
(I.C. 9-22-1-2)
   OWNER. The last known record titleholder of a vehicle, according to the
records of the State Bureau under I.C. 9-17.
(I.C. 9-13-2-121(c))
   PARTS. All components of a vehicle that, as assembled, do not constitute a
complete vehicle.
(I.C. 9-13-2-122)
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. All property other than public property.
(I.C. 9-13-2-136)
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. A public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park, or
other state, county, or municipal property.
(I.C. 9-13-2-144)
   TOWING SERVICE. A business that engages in moving or removing disabled
vehicles and, once removed, stores or impounds vehicles.
(I.C. 9-13-2-179)
   VEHICLE. An automobile, motorcycle, truck, trailer, semi-trailer, tractor,
bus, school bus, recreational vehicle, or motorized bicycle.
(I.C. 9-13-2-196(d))
§ 93.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   A vehicle stored as the property of a member of the armed forces of
the United States who is on active duty assignment;
   (B)   A vehicle located on a vehicle sale lot or at a commercial vehicle
servicing facility; or
   (C)   A vehicle located upon property licensed or zoned as an automobile
scrapyard.
(Am. Ord. 6, 2022, passed 3-28-2022)
§ 93.04 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (C) of this section, the owner of an
abandoned vehicle or parts is responsible for the abandonment and is liable for
all of the costs incidental to the removal, storage, and disposal of the
vehicle or the parts under this chapter.
   (B)   The costs for storage of an abandoned vehicle may not exceed $1,500.
   (C)   If an abandoned vehicle is sold by a person who removed, towed, or
stored the vehicle, the person who previously owned the vehicle is not
responsible for storage fees.
   (D)   If an abandoned vehicle is sold by a person who removed, towed, or
stored the vehicle, and proceeds from the sale of the vehicle covered the
removal, towing, and storage expenses, any remaining proceeds from the sale of
the vehicle shall be returned to the previous owner of the vehicle if the
previous owner is known.
§ 93.05 VEHICLES IN POSSESSION OF PERSON OTHER THAN OWNER.
   (A) When an officer discovers a vehicle in the possession of a person other
than the owner of the vehicle, and the person cannot establish the right to the
possession of the vehicle, the vehicle shall be taken to and stored in a
suitable place determined by the officer.
(I.C. 9-22-1-5)
   (B) If the owner or lienholder under division (C) of this section does not
appear and pay all costs, or the owner of a vehicle cannot be determined by a
search under §
90.08, the vehicle is considered abandoned and must be disposed of under this
chapter.
(I.C. 9-22-1-7)
   (C)   Subject to division (D), if the property identified person who owns or
holds a lien on a vehicle appears at the site of storage before disposal of the
vehicle or parts and pays all costs relating to a tow, the storage of the
vehicle, and all allowable fees, as applicable, the vehicle or parts shall be
released.
   (D)   A towing service or storage yard may charge an inspection fee to an
owner, a lienholder, or an insurance company representative to inspect a
vehicle or retrieve items from the vehicle. A fee under this division must be
refunded if the costs relating to a tow, the storage of the vehicle, and all
allowable fees, as applicable, are paid under division (C).
   (E)   (1)   A towing service or storage yard must accept payment made by any
of the following means from a person seeking to release a vehicle under I.C. 9-
22-1-8:
         (a)   Cash;
         (b)   Certified check;
         (c)   Insurance check; or
         (d)   Money order.
      (2)   A towing service or storage facility may elect to accept payment by
means of a credit card or debit card.
   (F)   Upon receiving payment of all costs relating to a tow, the storage of
a vehicle, and all allowable fees, as applicable, a towing service or storage
yard shall provide to the person making payment an itemized receipt that
includes the information set forth in I.C. 24-14-5, to the extent the
information is known or available.
   (G)   A towing service or storage yard must be open for business and
accessible by telephone during regular office hours. A towing service or
storage yard must provide a telephone number that is available on a 24-hour
basis to receive calls and messages from callers, including calls made outside
of regular office hours. All calls made to a towing service or storage yard
must be returned within 24 hours from the time
received. However, if adverse weather, an act of God, or an emergency situation
over which the towing service or storage yard has no control prevents the
towing service or storage yard from returning calls within 24 hours, the towing
service or storage yard shall return all calls received as quickly as possible.
   (H)   A towing service or storage yard shall, if required, notify the
appropriate public agency of all releases under I.C. 9-22-1-8. The notification
must include:
      (1)   The name and address of:
         (a)   The person that owns or holds a lien on the vehicle; and
         (b)   The insurance company that insures the vehicle, if the vehicle
was released to a representative of the insurance company.
      (2)   The signature of the individual to whom the vehicle was released;
      (3)   A description of the vehicle or parts;
      (4)   Costs paid; and
      (5)   The date of release.
(I.C. 9-22-1-8)
   (I) If the person who owns or holds a lien under division (C) through (H) of
this section does not appear and pay all costs, the Bureau shall declare the
vehicle abandoned and provide for disposal in accordance with this chapter.
(I.C. 9-22-1-10)
Editor’s note:
   I.C. 9-22-1-10 was repealed by P.L. 191-2007, Sec. 21.
§ 93.06 RENTAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   A person who finds a vehicle believed to be abandoned on the person’s
rental property shall attach in a prominent place a notice tag containing the
following information:
      (1)   The date, time, name, and address of the person who owns the rental
property, and a telephone number to contact for information;
      (2)   That the vehicle is considered abandoned;
      (3)   That the vehicle will be removed after 72 hours;
      (4)   That the person who owns the vehicle will be held responsible for
all costs incidental to the removal, storage, and disposal of the vehicle; and
      (5)   That the person who owns the vehicle may avoid costs by removal of
the vehicle or parts within 72 hours.
(I.C. 9-22-1-15)
   (B)   If, after 72 hours, the person who owns a vehicle believed to be
abandoned on rental property has not removed the vehicle from the rental
property, the person who owns the rental property may have the vehicle towed
from the rental property. The towing operator shall do the following:
      (1)   Contact the Bureau of Motor Vehicles to obtain the name and address
of the person who owns the vehicle; and
      (2)   Deliver, by certified mail, a copy of the information contained in
the notice required under division (B) of this section to the person who owns
of the vehicle. The notice required by this division (C)(2) must be given not
later than five business days after the vehicle is removed.
(See I.C. 9-22-1-16(a))
   (C)   Notwithstanding division (B) of this section, in an emergency
situation, a vehicle believed to be abandoned on private property may be
removed immediately. As used in this section, EMERGENCY SITUATION means that
the presence of the vehicle believed to be abandoned interferes physically with
the conduct of normal business operations of the owner of the rental property
or poses a threat to the safety or security of persons or property, or both.
(I.C. 9-22-16(b))
   (D)   A towing service that tows a vehicle under division (C) of this
section shall give notice to the city that the abandoned vehicle is in the
possession of the towing service.
(I.C. 9-22-1-17)
§ 93.07 REMOVAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   (A)   An officer who finds or is notified of a vehicle or parts believed to
be abandoned shall attach in a prominent place a notice tag containing the
following information:
      (1)   The date, time, officer’s name, City Police Department, and address
and telephone number to contact for information;
      (2)   That the vehicle or parts are considered abandoned;
      (3)   That the vehicle or parts will be removed after:
         (a)   Thirty-six hours, if the vehicle is located on or within the
right-of-way of an interstate highway or any highway that is designated as part
of the state highway under I.C. 8-23-4; or
         (b)   Seventy-two hours, for any other vehicle.
      (4)   That the person who owns the vehicle will be held responsible for
all costs incidental to the removal, storage, and disposal of the vehicle; and
      (5)   That the person who owns the vehicle may avoid costs by removal of
the vehicle or parts within:
         (a)   Thirty-six hours, if the vehicle is located on or within the
right-of-way of an interstate highway or any highway that is designated as part
of the state highway system under I.C. 8-23-4; or
         (b)   Seventy-two hours, for any other vehicle.
(I.C. 9-22-1-11)
   (B)    If a vehicle or a part tagged under division (A) of this section is
not removed within the applicable period, the officer shall prepare a written
abandoned vehicle report of the vehicle or parts, including information on the
condition and missing parts. Photographs may be taken to describe the condition
of the vehicle or parts.
(I.C. 9-22-1-12)
   (C)    If the vehicle is a junk vehicle and the market value of an abandoned
vehicle or parts is less than $1,000, the towing service shall immediately
transfer the vehicle to a storage yard. A copy of the abandoned vehicle report
and photographs, if applicable, relating to the abandoned vehicle shall be
provided to the storage yard. A towing service or storage yard may dispose of
an abandoned vehicle not less than 30 days after the date on which the towing
service removed the abandoned vehicle. A city, county, or town that operates a
storage yard under I.C. 36-9-30-3 may dispose of an abandoned vehicle to an
automobile scrapyard or an automotive salvage recycler upon removal of the
abandoned vehicle. The Police Department or City Marshal or storage yard
disposing of the vehicle shall retain the original records and photographs for
at least two years. If the vehicle is demolished, a copy of the abandoned
vehicle report shall be forwarded to the State Bureau of Motor Vehicles by the
automobile scrap yard after the vehicle has been demolished.
(I.C. 9-22-1-13)
   (D)    (1)   If, in the opinion of the officer, the market value of the
abandoned vehicle or parts is at least $1,000, the officer, before placing a
notice tag on the vehicle or parts, shall make a reasonable effort to ascertain
the person who owns the vehicle or parts or who may be in control of the
vehicle or parts.
      (2)   After 72 hours, the officer shall require the vehicle or parts to
be towed to a storage yard or towing service.
(I.C. 9-22-1-14)
   (E)    Upon complaint of a person who owns or controls private property that
a vehicle has been left on the property for at least 48 hours without the
consent of the person who owns or controls the property, an officer shall
follow the procedures set forth in divisions (A) through (D) of this section.
(I.C. 9-22-1-18)
§ 93.08 DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Within three business days after removal of a vehicle to a storage
yard or towing service under §§
93.06,
93.07,
93.09 or I.C. 9-22-6, the Police Department, City Marshal, or towing service
shall conduct a search of the National Motor Vehicle Title Information System
or an equivalent and commonly available database to attempt to obtain the last
state of record of the vehicle in order to attempt to ascertain the name and
address of the person who owns or holds a lien on the vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   The Police Department, City Marshal, or towing service that
obtains the name and address of the owner of or lienholder on a vehicle shall,
not later than three business days after obtaining the name and address, notify
the person who owns or holds a lien on the vehicle of the following:
         (a)   The name, address, and telephone number of the Police
Department, City Marshal, or towing service;
         (b)   That storage charges are being accrued and the vehicle is
subject to sale if the vehicle is not claimed and the charges are not paid;
         (c)   The earliest possible date and location of the public sale or
auction,
      (2)   The notice must be made by certified mail or a certificate of
mailing or by means of an electronic service approved by the State Bureau of
Motor Vehicles. Notwithstanding §
93.04, the Police Department, City Marshal, or towing service that fails to
notify the owner of or lienholder on the vehicle as set forth in this
subsection may not collect additional storage costs incurred after the date of
receipt of the name and address obtained.
(I.C. 9-22-1-19)
§ 93.09 TOWING CONTRACTS.
   To facilitate the removal of abandoned vehicles or parts, the city may
employ personnel; acquire equipment, property, and facilities; and enter into
towing contracts for the removal, storage, and disposition of abandoned
vehicles and parts.
(I.C. 9-22-1-31)
§ 93.10 LIABILITY FOR LOSS OR DAMAGE.
   The following are not liable for loss or damage to a vehicle or parts
occurring during the removal, storage, or disposition of a vehicle or parts
under this chapter:
   (A)   A person who owns, leases, or occupies property from which an
abandoned vehicle or parts are removed;
   (B)   The city;
   (C)   A towing service; and
   (D)   An automobile scrapyard.
(I.C. 9-22-1-32)
CHAPTER 94: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Potentially Damaging Street Usage
   
94.01   Vehicles requiring permit
   
94.02   Moving building; permit required
   
94.03   Storage of construction material on street; permit required
   
94.04   Permit application forms
   
94.05   Permit conditions and restrictions
   
94.06   Bond
   
94.07   Permit fees
   
94.08   Coordination with city departments
Obstruction of Public Ways
   
94.20   Obstructions prohibited
   
94.21   Fires prohibited
   
94.22   Responsibility for damages
Excavations and Construction
   
94.35   Permit required
   
94.36   Scope
   
94.37   Fifteen-day advance application
   
94.38   Permit fees
   
94.39   Repair costs
   
94.40   Backfilling; restoration
   
94.41   Barricades and lights
   
94.42   Permit conditions
   
94.43   Coordination with city departments
   
94.44   Permit issuance; guarantees required
   
94.45   Permit cancellation
   
94.46   Insurance; bond
   
94.47   Performance bonds
   
94.48   Posting of permit required
   
94.49   Violations
Street Names
   
94.60   Naming new streets
   
94.61   Changing name
   
94.62   Recording street names
   
94.63   Official street name map
   
94.64   Revision of map
Cross-reference:
   Street Closings, see §§
71.120 et seq.
   Street Naming and Renaming, see
TSO III
POTENTIALLY DAMAGING STREET USAGE
§ 94.01 VEHICLES REQUIRING PERMIT.
   Before any person shall use any street, alley, or other public way, or any
portion thereof, for any of the following purposes, that person shall first
secure a permit so to do from the City Clerk-Treasurer, to be issued only upon
the approval of the application therefor by the Board of Public Works and
Safety of this city:
   (A)   The movement of any heavy machinery;
   (B)   The movement of any vehicle not equipped with pneumatic tires; or
   (C)   Any vehicle or combination of vehicles with a gross weight in excess
of 72,000 pounds.
(1987 Code, § 8-113) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
§ 94.02 MOVING BUILDING; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Before any person shall use any street, alley, or any other public way or
any portion thereof for the purpose of removing or moving any house, building,
or other structure, that person shall first secure a permit so to do from the
City Clerk-Treasurer, to be issued only upon the approval of the application
therefor, by the Board of Public Works and Safety.
(1987 Code, § 8-114) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
§ 94.03 STORAGE OF CONSTRUCTION MATERIAL ON STREET; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Before any person shall be permitted to use any street, sidewalk, alley, or
other public way or any portion thereof for the storage of supplies or material
to be used in the construction, renovation, repair, or the tearing down of any
building or structure, or any improvement of any type whatsoever, that person
shall first secure a permit so to do from the City Clerk- Treasurer, to be
issued only upon the approval of the application therefor by the Board of
Public Works and Safety of this city.
(1987 Code, § 8-115) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
§ 94.04 PERMIT APPLICATION FORMS.
   Applications for the permits in all of the above instances shall be on forms
as prescribed by the Board, and applicants shall furnish details thereon as the
Board may require.
(1987 Code, § 8-116) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
§ 94.05 PERMIT CONDITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   In the issuance thereof, the Board may designate or otherwise limit
specifically the street, sidewalk, alley, or other public way or portion
thereof that may be so used, and for the periods of time the street, sidewalk,
alley, or other public way may be so used for the purposes as described in the
permit.
(1987 Code, § 8-117)
   (B)   In the issuance of permits as described above, the Board may further
require as a condition precedent thereof that this use of the street, alley,
sidewalk, curb, gutter, or other public way shall not interfere with the flow
of any surface water or totally interfere with pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
(1987 Code, § 8-119)
(Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
§ 94.06 BOND.
   The Board, as a further condition of the issuance of permits as described
above, may require the applicant to post an indemnifying bond payable to the
city in an amount and with that surety as the Board may deem proper and
reasonable, the terms and conditions of the bond to protect and indemnify the
city against damage to any of its public improvements.
(1987 Code, § 8-118) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
§ 94.07 PERMIT FEES.
   The Board, at its option and by its regulation duly adopted in advance of
the application therefor, may prescribe the license fees to be charged for the
issuance of all permits as described above, the license charge therefor not to
be in excess of the amount given in Ch. 36 of this code for any single permit.
(1987 Code, § 8-120) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
§ 94.08 COORDINATION WITH CITY DEPARTMENTS.
   Persons securing permits before utilizing the same shall coordinate in
advance the use of any street, alley, or other public way, with both the Police
Department and the Fire Department of the city, and all concerned public
utilities, to include the city Sanitation Department.
(1987 Code, § 8-121) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
OBSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC WAYS
§ 94.20 OBSTRUCTIONS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct by any means, including but
not limited to the storage of trash, litter, or other disposable debris, the
free passage and movement of pedestrians or vehicles upon any street, sidewalk,
alley, or any other public way or any portion thereof at any time, unless the
obstruction as described above is in response to other specific authority so to
do in accord with other provisions of this chapter, the traffic code in Title
VII of this code, or other sections of this code.
(1987 Code, § 8-136) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Disorderly conduct, see I.C. 35-45-1-3
§ 94.21 FIRES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to build, cause to be built, place, or
cause to be placed any fire at any time upon any street, sidewalk, alley, or
other public way or any portion thereof, whether that street, sidewalk, alley,
or other public way or portion thereof be paved or not.
(1987 Code, § 8-137) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.22 RESPONSIBILITY FOR DAMAGES.
   Any person causing damage to any sidewalk, curb, gutter, street, alley, or
any other public way of any type shall be held responsible in law therefor
irrespective of whether the use thereof was lawful or unlawful, and without
further regard to whether the use thereof was in accord with a permit duly
issued as herein provided.
(1987 Code, § 8-138) (Ord. 1556, passed 11-24-1969)
EXCAVATIONS AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 94.35 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation, not under general
or special contract with the city, or not being a regular employee of the city,
to cut, dig, excavate, remove, repair, renovate, or replace, any street, alley,
sidewalk, curb, or gutter, or to do or perform any work or labor that disturbs
the surface of any public easement or other public way, or of any other type of
public improvement, or portion or part thereof, without first securing a permit
so to do, as hereinafter provided.
(1987 Code, § 7-17) (Ord. 1581, passed 12-22-1969) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.36 SCOPE.
   Any and all work within the street, alley, any public easement or other
public way, or the right-of- way thereof, or that which affects the surface
thereof or the surface of any sidewalk, curb, gutter, or other public
improvement, including but not limited to the following, i.e., forcing a pipe
or other conduit under the surface, trenches between the sidewalk or curb, or
trenches outside the actual surface thereof, but within the right-of-way
containing the improvements, shall be covered by this subchapter and require
that a permit be first secured before the work is begun.
(1987 Code, § 7-18) (Ord. 1581, passed 12-22-1969)
§ 94.37 FIFTEEN-DAY ADVANCE APPLICATION.
   These permits shall be secured at least fifteen days in advance of their
intended use, unless an emergency therefor exists, in which event a permit may
be issued on a lesser interval when the emergency is so justified to the
issuing authority.
(1987 Code, § 7-19) (Ord. 1581, passed 12-22-1969; Am. Ord. 30, 2021, passed 8-
23-2021)
§ 94.38 PERMIT FEES.
    Permits may be issued, on proper application, by the City Clerk-Treasurer,
or their designee, upon approval thereof by the Board of Public Works and
Safety (hereinafter referred to as the “Board”), and subject to further
compliance by the permittee with subsequent sections of this subchapter, on
payment of a fee as set forth in
Ch. 36 of this code for regular permits or emergency permits.
(1987 Code, § 7-20) (Ord. 1581, passed 12-22-1969; Am. Ord. 30, 2021, passed 8-
23-2021)
§ 94.39 REPAIR COSTS.
   In the event a permit is required for any cutting, digging, excavating,
removing, repairing, renovating, or replacing any sidewalk, curb, gutter,
street, alley, or any public easement or other public way, that is paved with
any type of permanent surface material, the application shall also include the
tender of the cost of the repairs thereof, the charge therefor to be determined
by using, where applicable, the same schedule of fees as established for the
state Highway Commission in determining its street repair charges.
(1987 Code, § 7-21) (Ord. 1581, passed 12-22-1969)
§ 94.40 BACKFILLING; RESTORATION.
   No additional or further charge other than the permit fee shall be required
for any cut or excavation in any unimproved street, alley, or public easement,
provided, however, that the applicant shall be required to backfill the trench
or opening therein with the same material as that of the street, alley, or
public easement itself, by filling and tamping the refilled trench thoroughly
and maintaining its surface, which has been disturbed, in a smooth and uniform
condition for a period of four weeks after traffic is permitted to pass over
the filled trench or opening. Backfilling the opening with well-graded gravel
shall remove the requirement of tamping.
(1987 Code, § 7-22) (Ord. 1581, passed 12-22-1969)
§ 94.41 BARRICADES AND LIGHTS.
   All holders of permits, issued as described above, shall further be required
to post, keep, and maintain any and all necessary barricades, detour or other
warning signs, including appropriate signals, flashing lights, or other
illumination, to protect either vehicular or pedestrian traffic affected by the
work being performed under the permit.
(1987 Code, § 7-23) (Ord. 1581, passed 12-22-1969)
§ 94.42 PERMIT CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Restriction on blocking rights-of-way. As a condition precedent to the
issuance of this type of permit, the Board, in its approval of the application,
may specifically provide that the entire street, sidewalk, alley, or other
public way, including easement, shall not be totally blocked at one time, and
the Board may further specify for what period of time or under what limitations
the blocking of the streets, sidewalks, alleys, or other public ways, may be
authorized under the permit.
(1987 Code, § 7-24)
   (B)   Restriction on flow interference. As a further condition precedent to
the issuance of the permit, in its approval of the application, the Board may
provide that the work, construction, or repair will not interfere with the
proper flow of surface water, and further provide that pedestrian and vehicular
traffic shall be maintained.
(1987 Code, § 7-25)
(Ord. 1581, passed 12-22-1969)
§ 94.43 COORDINATION WITH CITY DEPARTMENTS.
   Persons securing permits, as mentioned above, before utilizing the same,
shall be required to coordinate, in advance, with the city Police Department,
the city Fire Department, and all concerned public utilities, to include the
city Sanitation Department.
(1987 Code, § 7-26) (Ord. 1581, passed 12-22-1969)
§ 94.44 PERMIT ISSUANCE; GUARANTEES REQUIRED.
   As a condition precedent to the issuance of the permits detailed herein, the
applicant, by the application, warrants as follows:
   (A)   Permanent repairs will be effected within a maximum of 30 days after
the surface of the street, alley, sidewalk, curb, gutter, or any other public
way or easement is first cut or removed, unless extended, for an additional 30
days, by the Board of Public Works and Safety, upon application in writing by
the permit holder;
   (B)   The permanent repairs shall include using the same materials as are
used in the remainder of the surface, that is to say, if the surface is of
concrete, then repairs shall be of concrete, and further, if the sub-surface is
of one material, for example, concrete, and the outer surface is of another,
such as blacktop, then and in that event, by the requirements of the permit,
the required repairs shall include in that instance both a concrete sub-surface
and a blacktop outer surface;
   (C)   When the permit holder has completed the repairs, notice thereof shall
be reported to the Board of Public Works and Safety of the city, so that the
repairs may be inspected by employees of the city, under the Board’s direction;
and
   (D)   All repairs, when completed by the permit holder himself or herself,
shall be subject to the requirements of a bond, as detailed in §
94.46 of this code.
(1987 Code, § 7-27) (Ord. 1581, passed 12-22-1969)
§ 94.45 PERMIT CANCELLATION.
   Upon failure to comply with any of the requirements of §§
94.40 -
94.42, permits may be automatically canceled and voided and the persons
receiving or holding those permits may be punished as hereinafter provided.
(1987 Code, § 7-28) (Ord. 1581, passed 12-22-1969) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.46 INSURANCE; BOND.
   As an additional condition precedent to the issuance of these permits, the
Board may require the filing of proof of liability insurance on behalf of the
applicant, or in the event the applicant does not carry this insurance, the
Board may require a bond, in the sum as the Board finds appropriate, under the
circumstances, having regard to the work to be performed, with surety to be
approved by the Board of Public Works and Safety, to indemnify the city against
any loss arising because of the injury or damage to any person or property due
to the negligence or fault of the permit holder or his or her agents, in the
work being performed under the permit, provided that, in lieu of individual
bonds, persons, firms, or corporations regularly engaged in this work may post
an annual bond, of the same terms, with the City Clerk-Treasurer.
(1987 Code, § 7-29) (Ord. 1581, passed 12-22-1969)
§ 94.47 PERFORMANCE BONDS.
   In the event any firm, person, or corporation, generally engaged in this
type of work within the city, prefers to make the required repairs to streets
and the like with its own labor forces, that person, firm, or corporation may,
in lieu of making a deposit for street repairs as hereinbefore required, with
the approval of the Board of Public Works and Safety, post and keep a
performance bond in the office of the City Clerk- Treasurer, which performance
bond shall be in an amount, as fixed by the Board of Public Works and Safety,
equal to the estimated cost of repairs to be made by that person, firm, or
corporation for one calendar year beginning at the time of the application. In
addition thereto, this performance bond shall cover a two-year period and
guarantee, first, that the repairs will be made and perform satisfactorily for
a period of one year, and second, that the bond shall remain in effect for an
additional period of at least one year after date of last repairs.
(1987 Code, § 7-30) (Ord. 1581, passed 12-22-1969)
§ 94.48 POSTING OF PERMIT REQUIRED.
   All permits issued under this subchapter shall be posted conspicuously by
the holder thereof, at the place where the work authorized by the permit is
being performed.
(1987 Code, § 7-31) (Ord. 1581, passed 12-22-1969)
§ 94.49 VIOLATIONS.
   The violation of any provision of this subchapter shall constitute a code
violation, and, upon conviction thereof, violators may be fined, with each day
of continuing violation to constitute a separate offense.
(1987 Code, § 7-32) (Ord. 1581, passed 12-22-1969) Penalty, see §
10.99
STREET NAMES
§ 94.60 NAMING NEW STREETS.
   New streets shall be assigned names in accordance with the following:
   (A)   Plan Commission. Proposed street names shall be referred to the Plan
Commission for review and recommendation.
   (B)   Building Commissioner. Proposed street names shall also be referred to
the Building Commissioner for final determination to ensure no duplication of
names and provide for ease of provision of public safety and other municipal
services.
(Ord. 12, 2005, passed 7-11-2005)
§ 94.61 CHANGING NAME.
   The Council may, by ordinance, change the name of a street.
(Ord. 12, 2005, passed 7-11-2005)
§ 94.62 RECORDING STREET NAMES.
   Following adoption of an ordinance or plat naming or changing the name of a
street, the Clerk-Treasurer shall file a copy thereof with the County Recorder,
County Auditor, and County Assessor.
(Ord. 12, 2005, passed 7-11-2005)
§ 94.63 OFFICIAL STREET NAME MAP.
   Streets within the city are named as shown on the Official Street Name Map
which is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.
The Official Street Name Map shall be identified by the signature of the Mayor,
and bearing the seal of the city under the following words: “This is to certify
that this is the Official Street Name Map referred to in the Code of Ordinances
of Seymour, Indiana.”
(Ord. 12, 2005, passed 7-11-2005)
§ 94.64 REVISION OF MAP.
   If, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, changes are made in
street names, such changes shall be entered on the Official Street Name Map
promptly after the amendment has been approved by the Council with an entry on
the Official Street Name Map as follows: “On (date) by official action of the
City Council, the following changes were made in the Official Street Name Map:
(brief description),” which entry shall be signed by the Mayor and attested by
the Clerk. No amendment to this chapter which involves naming or changing the
name of a street shall become effective until after such change and entry has
been made on said map.
(Ord. 12, 2005, passed 7-11-2005)
CHAPTER 95: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
Nuisances
   
95.01   Nuisance and public nuisance; abatement
   
95.02   Excessive noise from vehicles
   
95.03   Barbed wire fencing
   
95.04   Fire hydrants; obstruction or tampering
Weeds and Rank Vegetation
   
95.15   Uncut weeds prohibited; abatement
   
95.16   Abatement by city; owner responsible for costs
   
95.17   Appeals
Trees and Shrubbery
   
95.30   Distance from fire hydrants
   
95.31   Tree trimming regulations
   
95.32   Tree trimming; permit required
Statutory reference:
   Cutting of weeds and rank vegetation, see I.C. 36-7-10.1 et seq.
   Hedges and live fences along public highways; trimming and maintaining, see
I.C. 32-26-4-1 et seq.
NUISANCES
§ 95.01 NUISANCE AND PUBLIC NUISANCE; ABATEMENT.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      NUISANCE. Any of the following:
         (a)   Activity which arises from unreasonable, unwarranted, or
unlawful use by a person of his or her own property, working obstruction or
injury to the right of another, or to the public, and producing such material
annoyance, inconvenience, and discomfort that will presume resulting damage;
         (b)   Everything that endangers life or health, gives offense to
senses, or obstructs reasonable and comfortable use of property;
         (c)   The class of wrongs that arise from the unreasonable,
unwarrantable, or unlawful use by a person of his or her own property, either
real or personal, or from his or her own improper or unlawful personal conduct,
working an obstruction of or injury to the right of another or of the public,
and producing such material annoyance, inconvenience, discomfort, or hurt, that
the law will presume resulting damage; or
         (d)   The term comprehends interference with an owner’s reasonable use
and enjoyment of his or her property by means of smoke, odors, noise, or
vibration, obstruction of private easements and rights of support, interference
with public rights, such as free passage along streams and highways, enjoyment
of public parks and places of recreation, and, in addition, activities and
structures prohibited as statutory NUISANCES.
      PUBLIC NUISANCE. A nuisance annoying that part of the public as
necessarily comes in contact with it or which is prejudicial to the general
public. It has also been stated that whatever obstructs the free use of
property, interfering with the comfortable enjoyment of life and property by an
entire community or neighborhood, is a PUBLIC NUISANCE. It may also be an
unreasonable interference with a right, common to the general public; it is
behavior which unreasonably interferes with the health, safety, peace, comfort,
or convenience of the general community.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this subchapter shall be
guilty of a code violation. Each day a violation of this subchapter is
committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense. The
penalty for the offense shall be a fine for each day a person shall so fail,
refuse, or neglect to abate the nuisance, but in no case shall the aggregate of
these fines exceed $25,000.
   (C)   After any person shall have been convicted of erecting, causing,
keeping, continuing, or maintaining any public nuisance, the court may make it
a part of the judgment that the nuisance be abated at the cost of the person
convicted.
(1987 Code, § 6-142) (Ord. 10, 1990, passed 3-26-1990) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.02 EXCESSIVE NOISE FROM VEHICLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons operating upon any
street, alley, or public places in the city any automobile, motorcycle, or
other motor vehicle to at any time release or operate any attachment or
structurally alter the muffler or exhaust system, causing excessive and
unreasonable sound.
   (B)   Any person or persons convicted of the violation of the provisions of
this section shall be fined.
(1987 Code, § 6-141) (Ord. 668, passed 4-18-1911) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.03 BARBED WIRE FENCING.
   (A)   A barbed wire is declared to be unlawful, a nuisance, and a menace to
the public safety to erect, place, keep, or maintain as an outside fence.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this section shall be
guilty of a code violation and upon conviction thereof shall be fined. Provided
further that each day the fence or fences shall be erected, kept, placed, or
maintained in violation of this section shall be deemed and treated as a
separate and distinct offense for which a separate prosecution may be
maintained.
   (C)   The agent or person in charge of any property on which any fence or
fences shall be maintained in violation of this section shall incur the penalty
prescribed.
(1987 Code, § 6-140) (Ord. 322, passed 9-23-1899) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.04 FIRE HYDRANTS; OBSTRUCTION OR TAMPERING.
   (A)   No person, not being authorized by the Chief of the Fire Department or
the Superintendent of the Water Department, shall open any fire plug or
hydrant, and no person place or deposit any building material or other
obstruction of any kind within ten feet of any fire plug or hydrant within the
city. No person shall, without authority from the Chief of the Fire Department
or the Superintendent of the Water Department draw or attempt to draw any water
from any fire plug or hydrant or obstruct, interfere with, or in any manner
tamper with any fire plug or hydrant.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this section
shall on conviction be fined.
(1987 Code, § 6-143) (Ord. 693, passed 12-9-1912) Penalty, see §
10.99
 WEEDS AND RANK VEGETATION
§ 95.15 UNCUT WEEDS PROHIBITED; ABATEMENT.
   (A)   The owners of real property located within the city and the
unincorporated jurisdictional area, as shown on the city’s Jurisdictional Area
and Zone Map, are required to cut and remove weeds and other rank vegetation
growing on the property as provided herein.
   (B)   (1)   Weeds and rank vegetation shall be maintained at a height not to
exceed ten inches.
      (2)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         WEEDS AND OTHER RANK VEGETATIONS. The term does not include
agricultural crops, such as hay and pasture.
      (3)   (a)   A business entity within a designated industrial park, which
is participating in the Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design ("LEED")
and/or the Sustainable Sites Initiative ("SITE") programs, and which can
demonstrate that it has received LEED and/or SITE certifications in one or more
other building projects owned or operated by such business entity in any other
location in the United States, shall be permitted to utilize natural and native
grasses on its real estate.
         (b)   The business entity must provide the City Building Commissioner
with evidence of its planned compliance with the scoring systems used in either
program; specifically addressing the effects that the sustainability project
will have on the community and environment.
         (c)   The benefit of compliance with this section shall be reduction
of water use because of planting and maintaining grasses native to the Southern
Indiana area.
         (d)   Because native grasses are similar in nature to pasture, these
grasses do not constitute weeds or rank vegetation; and further, these grasses
need not be mowed, which is consistent with growth in their natural
environment.
   (C)   The Board of Public Works and Safety of the city shall be responsible
for the administration of this subchapter.
   (D)   Upon determination of a violation of this subchapter by the Building
Commissioner or his or her agents, notice shall be given to the owner of the
real property of the condition constituting a violation, and requiring that the
weeds and rank vegetation be cut and removed within five days after receipt of
the notice. Notice shall be given by certified or registered mail, or any other
means available whereby proof of receipt thereof is procurable, including by
personal service.
   (E)   If the owner fails to abate the violation as stated in the notice of
violation, the city or its contractors may enter the real property immediately
or within a reasonable time after the owner’s failure to comply, during
daylight hours, to abate a violation of the subchapter.
(1987 Code, § 6-74) (Ord. 8, 1996, passed 3-11-1996; Am. Ord. 5, 2006, passed
6-26-2006; Am. Ord. 7, 2013, passed 6-10-2013; Am. Ord. 18, 2024, passed 5-28-
2024) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.16 ABATEMENT BY CITY; OWNER RESPONSIBLE FOR COSTS.
   (A)   Upon the city abating the violation, the city fiscal officer shall
issue a bill to the real property owner for the costs incurred by the city,
including administrative costs and removal costs.
   (B)   If the owner of real property fails to pay a bill issued under this
subchapter within 15 days, the Board of Public Works and Safety shall certify
to the County Auditor the amount of the bill plus any additional administrative
costs incurred in the certification. The Auditor shall place the total amount
certified on the tax duplicate for the property affected, and the total amount,
including any accrued interest, shall be collected as delinquent taxes are
collected and shall be disbursed to the General Fund of the city.
(1987 Code, § 6-75) (Ord. 8, 1996, passed 3-11-1996) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.17 APPEALS.
   (A)   The procedure for appealing a notice of violation or a bill issued
under this subchapter shall be by written notice to the Board of Public Works
and Safety, received prior to the time specified to respond or act in the
notice of violation or the bill issued, stating the reason for the appeal and
requesting a hearing by the Board of Public Works and Safety.
   (B)   A hearing shall be set by the Board of Public Works and Safety on a
business day no earlier than ten days after the request for hearing is
received.
   (C)   Each person may appear at the hearing in person or by counsel and is
entitled to present evidence, cross-examine opposing witnesses, and present
arguments.
   (D)   The decision of the Board of Public Works and Safety after hearing is
subject to review by the Circuit or Superior Court of the county. A person
seeking judicial review must file a complaint with the court within ten days of
the Board’s decision.
(1987 Code, § 6-76) (Ord. 8, 1996, passed 3-11-1996)
TREES AND SHRUBBERY
§ 95.30 DISTANCE FROM FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to plant,
keep, suffer, or permit any shrubbery or bushes within ten feet of any city
fire hydrant in the city.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation found guilty of violating this
section shall, upon conviction, be fined.
(1987 Code, § 6-125) (Ord. 1080, passed 3-20-1945) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.31 TREE TRIMMING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Cutting of live limbs from shade trees is prohibited, except the
cutting of the lower branches to a height of nine feet is permitted.
   (B)   Dead limbs from all trees must be cut and removed each year.
   (C)   The tops and limbs of all shade trees inside the corporate limits of
the city shall be trimmed so that they will not interfere with the light from
the street lights.
(Ord. 528, passed 11-30-1899)
   (D)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating this section shall be
guilty of a code violation and upon conviction thereof shall be fined.
(Ord. 916, passed 1-20-1927)
(1987 Code, § 6-126) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.32 TREE TRIMMING; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to engage in
tree trimming, for hire, without first securing a permit so to do, as
hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation desiring to engage in the service of
tree trimming, for hire, shall file with the Clerk-Treasurer a general
performance bond in the minimum amount of $500 payable to the city, and
maintain public liability insurance in the minimum amount of $10,000 to
indemnify the public generally against loss or damage to person or property
through the negligence of the tree trimmers or their agents, servants, and
employees.
   (C)   Permits will be issued by the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer upon
request, without charge therefor, upon proof of clearance by the applicant as
to the specific tree trimming by the Chief of Police of this city.
   (D)   The Chief of Police may deny the clearance, until and unless that
person, firm, or corporation desiring to trim trees for hire shall furnish
satisfactory proof to the Chief of Police that the proposed tree trimming will
not interfere with or endanger traffic, whether vehicular or pedestrian, on any
public thoroughfare of this city.
   (E)   This section shall not apply to persons or individuals desiring to
trim trees on their own property.
   (F)   Any violation of this section shall be a code violation punishable
upon conviction by a fine.
(1987 Code, § 4-9) (Ord. 1467, passed 6-13-1966) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 96: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
General Provisions
   
96.01   Authority to operate
   
96.02   State law governs
   
96.03   Parks and Recreation Board; duties
   
96.04   Superintendent of Parks and Recreation
   
96.05   Petty Cash Fund
   
96.06   League Fee Assessment Fund
   
96.07   Listing of park facilities
Park Rules and Regulations
   
96.20   Hours of operation
   
96.21   Alcohol prohibited
   
96.22   Special hours use permit
   
96.23   Permit required
   
96.24   Vehicles prohibited
   
96.25   Defacement of property prohibited
   
96.26   Interference with animals prohibited
   
96.27   Dogs running at large prohibited
   
96.28   Metal detectors
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 96.01 AUTHORITY TO OPERATE.
   The city may establish, aid, maintain, and operate public parks,
playgrounds, and recreation facilities and programs.
(1987 Code, § 5-1)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to establish and maintain parks, see I.C. 36-10-2-2
§ 96.02 STATE LAW GOVERNS.
   The Park and Recreation Law found in I.C. 36-10-4-1 et seq. shall govern
operation of the Parks and Recreation Department.
(1987 Code, § 5-2)
§ 96.03 PARKS AND RECREATION BOARD; DUTIES.
   The powers of the Seymour Board of Parks and Recreation include:
   (A)   Enter into contracts and leases for facilities and services;
   (B)   Contract with persons for joint use of facilities for the operation of
park and recreation programs and related services;
   (C)   Contract with another board, a unit, or a school corporation for the
use of park and recreation facilities or services, and a township or school
corporation may contract with the Board for the use of park and recreation
facilities or services; acquire and dispose of real and personal property,
either within or outside Indiana;
   (D)   Exercise the power of eminent domain under statutes available to
municipalities;
   (E)   Sell, lease, or enter into a royalty contract for the natural or
mineral resources of land that it owns, the money received to be deposited in a
nonreverting capital fund of the Board;
   (F)   Engage in self-supporting activities as prescribed by this chapter;
   (G)   Contract for special and temporary services and for professional
assistance;
   (H)   Delegate authority to perform ministerial acts in all cases except
where final action of the Board is necessary;
   (I)   Prepare, publish, and distribute reports and other materials relating
to activities authorized by this chapter;
   (J)   Sue and be sued collectively by its legal name, as the "Seymour Park
and Recreation Board," with service of process being had upon the President of
the Board, but costs may not be taxed against the Board or its members in any
action;
   (K)   Invoke any legal, equitable, or special remedy for the enforcement of
this chapter, a park or recreation ordinance, or the Board's own action taken
under either;
   (L)   Release and transfer, by resolution, a part of the area over which it
has jurisdiction for park and recreational purposes to park authorities of
another unit for park and recreational purposes upon petition of the park or
recreation board of the acquiring unit;
   (M)   Make all rules and regulations, consistent with the laws of the state
and ordinances of the city for the establishment, operation, and maintenance of
the park and recreation facilities and park system within the city;
   (N)   The Board may also lease buildings or grounds belonging to the unit
and located within a park to a person for a period not to exceed 50 years. The
lease may authorize the lessee to provide upon the premises educational,
research, veterinary, or other proper facilities for the exhibition of wild or
domestic animals in wildlife parks, dining facilities, swimming facilities,
golf courses, skating facilities, dancing facilities, amusement rides generally
found in amusement parks, or other recreational facilities. A lease may be made
for more than one year only to the highest and best bidder, after notice that
the lease will be made has been given by publication in accordance with I.C. 5-
3-1;
   (O)   Notwithstanding division (N), the Board may lease buildings or grounds
belonging to the unit for a period of more than one year without soliciting the
highest and best bidder or providing notice under I.C. 5-3-1 if: the buildings
or grounds are leased to an Indiana nonprofit corporation; the buildings or
grounds are operated as a public golf course; and the golf course remains
subject to rules and regulations promulgated by the Board; and
   (P)   All other powers contained in the Park and Recreation statutes set
forth in the Indiana Code, specifically I.C. 36-10-3 et seq., as amended from
time to time.
(1987 Code, § 5-3) (Am. Ord. 4, 2004, passed 2-23-2004; Ord. 5, 2024, passed 3-
11-2024)
§ 96.04 SUPERINTENDENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION.
   (A)   Office created. There is created the office of Superintendent of Parks
and Recreation of the city.
(1987 Code, § 5-7)
   (B)   Appointment. The Superintendent of Parks and Recreation of the city
shall be appointed by the Mayor of the city, upon the recommendation and
subject to the approval of the City Council. The Superintendent shall also be
subject to removal by the Mayor of the city upon the recommendation of the
Parks and Recreation Committee of the City Council.
(1987 Code, § 5-8)
   (C)   Duties. The Superintendent of Parks and Recreation shall have
supervision over the parks of the city, shall be responsible for keeping the
parks clean and keeping the improvements and equipment in the parks in proper
repair. The Board shall approve all claims for materials and supplies purchased
for the parks and all claims for labor performed on the park property before
the claims are paid, and, in general, shall be responsible for the orderly
management of the park property.
(1987 Code, § 5-9)
(Ord. 1168, passed 2-25-1952)
   (D)   Salary of Superintendent. The salary of the Superintendent shall be
set by ordinance of the City Council.
(1987 Code, § 5-10)
Statutory reference:
   Superintendent; appointment and qualifications, see I.C. 36-10-3-13
   Superintendent; duties, see I.C. 36-10-3-14
§ 96.05 PETTY CASH FUND.
   This non-reverting fund established pursuant to I.C. 36-1-3 et seq. is more
specifically addressed in §
35.15 of this code.
(1987 Code, § 5-40)
§ 96.06 LEAGUE FEE ASSESSMENT FUND.
   This non-reverting fund established pursuant to I.C. 36-1-3 et seq. and Ord.
4, 1990, is more specifically addressed in §
35.16 of this code.
(1987 Code, § 5-41)
§ 96.07 LISTING OF PARK FACILITIES.
   The city offers the following parks and recreation facilities for use and
enjoyment by the public:
   (A)   Shields Park;
   (B)   Gaiser Park;
   (C)   Freeman Field;
   (D)   Kessler Park;
   (E)   City Cemetery;
   (F)   Community Center;
   (G)   Westside Park;
   (H)   One Chamber Square;
   (I)   Kasting Park;
   (J)   Steinker Platz; and
   (K)   Crossroads Park.
(1987 Code, § 5-31) (Ord. 25, 1992, passed 7-13-1992; Am. Ord. 9, 1999, passed
5-10-1999; Am. Ord. 12, 2018, passed 8-27-2018)
PARK RULES AND REGULATIONS
§ 96.20 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   All of the municipal parks of the city listed in §
96.07 of this code shall be open year round from 5:00 a.m. until midnight,
unless otherwise posted.
(1987 Code, § 5-32) (Ord. 25, 1992, passed 7-13-1992; Am. Ord. 40, 1998, passed
8-24-1998; Am. Ord. 12, 2018, passed 8-27-2018)
§ 96.21 ALCOHOL PROHIBITED.
   The possession and use of alcohol is prohibited in all park facilities
except as provided herein. Alcohol sales may be permitted for specific events
in Crossroads Park only by prior approval jointly by the Parks and Recreation
Department and the Board of Public Works and Safety. If alcohol sales are
permitted, the permittee shall be responsible for complying with all laws
concerning the sale and distribution of alcohol and shall provide adequate
insurance naming the City of Seymour as an additional insured for any damages
or liabilities arising out of the event.
(Ord. 12, 2018, passed 8-27-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.22 SPECIAL HOURS USE PERMIT.
   The Superintendent of Parks and Recreation is expressly authorized to issue
a permit for any person or persons to specifically use the parks during the
periods of time they are not ordinarily open, provided the person or persons
applies in writing at least 12 hours in advance of the time the use is
requested.
(1987 Code, § 5-16) (Ord. 9, 1977, passed 7-11-1977)
§ 96.23 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, without a permit as set out
in §
96.22 above, to be within the municipal parks at any time other than when the
parks are open for public use.
(1987 Code, § 5-17) (Ord. 9, 1977, passed 7-11-1977) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.24 VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to drive or operate any
motorized vehicle, within the municipal parks at any time, provided that this
prohibition shall not apply to park or other municipal employees while in the
performance of their official duties.
(1987 Code, § 5-18) (Ord. 35, 1978, passed 11-27-1978; Am. Ord. 12, 2018,
passed 8-27-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.25 DEFACEMENT OF PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   The defacement of any property of the parks is specifically prohibited.
Failure to abide by the provisions of this section can result in the
instituting of criminal charges against the violator.
(1987 Code, § 5-34) (Ord. 25, 1992, passed 7-13-1992) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.26 INTERFERENCE WITH ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to pursue, throw at, or shoot at any
squirrels or birds or to interfere with their nesting places or to climb any
trees.
(1987 Code, § 5-20) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.27 DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog to permit that animal to run
at large in the park at any time.
(1987 Code, § 5-21) (Ord. 836, passed 8-4-1922) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.28 METAL DETECTORS.
   The use of metal detectors in park facilities is acceptable provided that
they are not used in any part of any ball field at any of the parks.
(Ord. 12, 2018, passed 8-27-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 97: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
97.01   Definitions
   
97.02   Dog and kennel licensing; state law adopted
   
97.03   Laws supplemental
Regulations and Restrictions
   
97.15   (Reserved)
   
97.16   Restraint regulations
   
97.17   Nuisance prohibited
   
97.18   Impoundment regulations; reclamation
   
97.19   Animal care and treatment
   
97.20   Wild animals
   
97.21   Rabies prevention regulations
   
97.22   Disposal of animal waste on public or non-animal owner private property
Certain Animals Prohibited
   
97.30   Certain types of animals prohibited
Commercial Animal Establishments
   
97.35   Permit required
   
97.36   Inspection
   
97.37   Permit application and issuance
   
97.38   Establishment standards
   
97.39   Term of permit; fees
   
97.40   Reclassification
Kennels or Noncommercial Animal Establishments
   
97.50   Permit required
   
97.51   Permit application and issuance
   
97.52   Kennel standards
   
97.53   Term of permit; fees
   
97.54   Reclassification
Dog Regulations and Licensing
   
97.65   (Reserved)
   
97.66   Running at large prohibited
   
97.67   Nuisances; barking or unsanitary pen
   
97.68   Owner liability
Administration
   
97.80   Animal control authority
   
97.81   Animal control; duties and powers
   
97.82   Disposition of funds
 
   
97.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 97.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENCY SHELTER. Any facility operated by an Agency Shelter or municipal
agency, or its authorized agents, for the purpose of impounding or caring for
animals held under the authority of this chapter or of state law. The animal
shelter operating under contract, let, or other authority for the city shall be
known as the AGENCY SHELTER.
   ANIMAL. Any live, non-human vertebrate creature, domestic or wild.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. The animal control officer of the city Police
Department.
   AT LARGE. Any animal shall be deemed AT LARGE when it is not under
restraint.
   AUCTION. Any place or facility where animals are regularly bought, sold, or
traded, except for those facilities otherwise defined in this chapter.
   CHICKEN.  Gallus gallus domesticus, a domestic bird typically kept on a
farm. This definition does not include other fowl, such as, but not limited to,
peacocks, turkeys, or waterfowl.
   CHICKEN COOP.  An enclosed structure for housing chickens that provides
shelter from the elements.
   CHICKEN FLOCK.  One chicken or a group of two or more chickens which:
      (1)   Contains no more than six hens and no roosters. Roosters are
specifically prohibited within the city; and
      (2)   Have been issued a permit by the City of Seymour Animal Control
office.
   CHICKEN RUN.  An enclosed outside yard for keeping chickens.
   CIRCUS. A commercial variety show featuring animal acts for public
entertainment.
   COMMERCIAL ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any pet shop, auction, riding school or
stable, zoological park, circus, or performing animal exhibition.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any animal that is a member of one of the following species
that is not a wild animal:
      (1)   Dogs, cats, cattle, calves, horses, mules, swine, sheep, goats,
mice, rats, rabbits, guinea pigs, chinchillas, hamsters, gerbils, poultry,
ostriches, rhea, emus, or other birds, or non-poisonous snakes; or
      (2)   An animal of the bovine, equine, ovine, caprine, porcine, canine,
feline, avian, camelidae, cervidae, bison, or reptile species.
   FRESH PURSUIT. The immediate following of an animal that is found to be at
large and not on the owner’s property.
   HARBORING. The actions of any person, 18 years of age or older, that permits
any animal habitually to remain or lodge or to be fed within his or her home,
store, enclosure, yard, or place of business, or any premises on which that
person resides or controls. An animal shall be presumed HARBORED if it is fed
or sheltered for three consecutive days.
   KENNEL. Any establishment wherein any person engages in boarding, breeding,
buying, keeping, letting for hire, training for a fee, or selling dogs or cats.
   KENNEL OPERATOR. Anyone keeping a total of more than four adult dogs and/or
cats.
   OWNER. Any person owning, keeping, or harboring one or more animals.
   PERFORMING ANIMAL EXHIBITION. Any spectacle, display, act, or event, other
than circuses, in which performing animals are used.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, association, joint stock company, syndicate,
partnership, or corporation.
   PET. Any animal kept for pleasure rather than utility.
   PET SHOP. Any person, whether separately or in connection with another
business enterprise, except for a kennel, that buys, sells, or boards any
species of animal.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any animal or animals that:
      (1)   Molest passers by or passing vehicles;
      (2)   Attack other animals;
      (3)   Damage public property or private property; or
      (4)   Bark, whine, or howl in an excessive or continuous fashion.
   RESEARCH LABORATORY. Any animal research facility registered with the U.S.
Department of Agriculture under authority of the federal Laboratory Animal
Welfare Act, 21 USC 2132 et seq.
   RESTRAINT. The securing of an animal by a leash or lead or confining it
within the real property limits of its owner.
   RIDING SCHOOL OR STABLE. Any place that has available for hire, boarding, or
riding instruction, any horse, pony, donkey, mule, or burro.
   STRAY. Any animal that does not appear, upon reasonable inquiry, to have an
owner.
   VETERINARY HOSPITAL. Any establishment maintained and operated by a
veterinarian for surgery, diagnosis, and treatment of diseases and injuries of
animals.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any animal that by its behavior constitutes an immediate and
serious physical threat to human beings or animals.
   WILD ANIMALS. Any animal not a domestic animal, with the exception of small,
non-poisonous aquatic or amphibious animals and small cage birds.
   ZOOLOGICAL PARK. Any facility, other than a pet shop or kennel, displaying
or exhibiting, without the predominant purpose of selling, one or more species
of non-domesticated animals, operated by a person or government agency.
(1987 Code, § 6-112) (Ord. 13, 1995, passed 5-8-1995; Am. Ord. 19, 2001, passed
8-27-2001; Am. Ord. 20, 2014, passed 6-23-2014)
§ 97.02 DOG AND KENNEL LICENSING; STATE LAW ADOPTED.
   All of the terms and conditions of I.C. 15-5-9-1 et seq. and any amendments
thereto regarding the licensing and taxation of dogs and kennels are hereby
adopted by reference.
(1987 Code, § 6-115) (Ord. 20, 1995, passed 8-14-1995)
Editor’s note:
   I.C. 15-5-9-1 was repealed by P.L. 2-2008, Sec. 83.
§ 97.03 LAWS SUPPLEMENTAL.
   (A)   All other ordinances of the city that are in conflict with this
chapter are repealed to the extent of the conflict.
   (B)   However, the provisions of this chapter supplement all laws of the
state and county, if any, covering the same subject matter.
(1987 Code, § 6-124.3) (Ord. 13, 1995, passed 5-8-1995)
REGULATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS
§ 97.15 (RESERVED).
§ 97.16 RESTRAINT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   All animals shall be properly restrained, including, but not
limited to, electronic fencing devices.
      (2)   No animal shall be hitched, tied, or fastened by any rope, chain,
or cord that is directly attached to the animal’s neck. Animals that must be
tied, hitched, or fastened to restrain them must wear a properly fitted collar
or harness made of leather or nylon, not of the choker type.
      (3)   This is not to prohibit the proper use of choker collars while
walking with or in the training of animals. The tying device shall be attached
to the animal’s collar or harness and shall be at least ten feet in length.
   (B)   Animals in heat. Every female animal in heat shall be confined in a
building or secure enclosure in such a manner that the animal cannot come into
contact with a male animal of the same species except for planned breeding.
   (C)   Vicious animals. Every vicious animal, as determined by the animal
control officer, shall be confined by the owner within a building or secure
enclosure and shall be securely muzzled or caged whenever off the premises of
the presumed that an animal is vicious if it has previously bitten at least one
person.
(1987 Code, § 6-120) (Ord. 13, 1995, passed 5-8-1995; Am. Ord. 1, 2000, passed
1-24-2000; Am. Ord. 19, 2001, passed 8-27-2001) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.17 NUISANCE PROHIBITED.
   No owner shall fail to exercise due care and control of his or her animals
to prevent them from becoming a public nuisance.
(1987 Code, § 6-121) (Ord. 13, 1995, passed 5-8-1995; Am. Ord. 1, 2000, passed
1-24-2000; Am. Ord. 19, 2001, passed 8-27-2001) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.18 IMPOUNDMENT REGULATIONS; RECLAMATION.
   (A)   Animals to be impounded.
      (1)   At-large animals, nuisance animals, and animals which have bitten
persons may be taken by law enforcement officers or by any animal control
officer and impounded in the Agency Shelter and there confined in a humane
manner.
      (2)   In lieu of impounding an animal which is at large, unlicensed, or a
public nuisance according to this chapter, the law enforcement officer or
animal control officer may issue to the known owner of that animal a notice of
code violation.
      (3)   Any animal deemed to be suffering or which has a contagious and
serious medical condition with little or no chance for survival or by court
order may be humanely euthanized before the holding period has expired.
   (B)   Jurisdiction for impoundment. The jurisdiction of the city Police
Department for purposes of this chapter shall be within the city limits of the
municipality.
   (C)   Notice and term of impoundment. If by a license tag or other means the
owner of an impounded animal can be identified, the animal control officer
shall immediately upon impoundment notify the owner in person, by telephone or
registered mail. Aggressive animals, including feral cats, whose owners are not
identifiable or cannot be notified after reasonable effort shall be held for
three nights from impoundment before becoming the property of the Agency
Shelter. Animals that are the property of the Agency Shelter may be placed for
adoption or humanely euthanized.
   (D)   Impounded animals; reclamation.
       (1)   An owner reclaiming an impounded dog or cat shall pay a board fee
as set forth in
Ch. 36 of this code for each night the animal was impounded, in addition to any
fines due for any violations of this title. An owner reclaiming an impounded
animal other than a dog or cat shall pay a board fee in keeping with the size
and needed care of the animal in addition to any fines due for any violation of
this title.
      (2)   An owner reclaiming an impounded animal that is not under the
jurisdiction of the city shall pay, in addition to the board fee, a fee,
increasing by an increment each subsequent time the animal is reclaimed, not to
exceed a maximum, all as set forth in
Ch. 36 of this code. In the event the animal is not impounded for a period of
12 consecutive months, the fee for reclamation after that period shall be the
initial fee, with the fee increasing by an increment each subsequent time the
animal is impounded, not to exceed the maximum, all as set forth in
Ch. 36 of this code.
(1987 Code, § 6-122) (Ord. 13, 1995, passed 5-8-1995; Am. Ord. 1, 2000, passed
1-24-2000; Am. Ord. 19, 2001, passed 8-27-2001; Am. Ord. 15, 2002, passed 8-12-
2002) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.19 ANIMAL CARE AND TREATMENT.
   (A)   Giving animals as prizes. No person or group of persons shall give
away any live animal, domestic animal, or reptile as a prize for, or as an
inducement to enter any contract, game, or other competition, or as an
inducement to enter a place of amusement; or offer such a vertebrate as an
incentive to enter into any business agreement in which the offer was for the
purpose of attracting trade.
   (B)   Poisoning animals. No person shall expose any known poisonous
substance, whether mixed with food or not, so that it shall be liable to be
eaten by any animal; provided, that it shall not be unlawful for a person to
expose on his or her own property common rat or mouse poison, unmixed or mixed
only with vegetable substances.
   (C)   Motor vehicle accidents involving animals. Any person who, as the
operator of a motor vehicle, strikes a dog or cat, shall at once report the
accident to the appropriate law enforcement agency.
   (D)   Use of devices to induce performance. No performing animal exhibition
or circus shall be permitted in which animals are induced or encouraged to
perform through the use of chemical, mechanical, electrical, or manual devices
in a manner that is likely to cause physical injury or suffering.
   (E)   General animal care.
      (1)   Every owner of an animal within the city shall see that his or her
animal:
         (a)   Is kept in a clean, sanitary, and healthy manner and is not
confined so as to be forced to stand, sit, or lie in its own excrement;
         (b)   Has proper and adequate food, water, shelter, and protection
from the weather;
         (c)   If diseased or injured, receives care as necessary to prevent
suffering and, if diseased, is segregated from other animals so as to prevent
the transmittal of the disease to other animals;
         (d)   Is not beaten, cruelly ill-treated, overloaded, overworked, or
otherwise abuse any animal or cause, instigate, or permit any dog fight,
cockfight, bullfight or other combat between animals or between animals and
humans; and
         (e)   Is not physically altered in any manner by anyone other than a
veterinarian, with the exception of tattooing and grooming.
      (2)   Division (E)(1) above shall also apply to animals kept at the
Agency Shelter.
      (3)   No animal shall be left unattended in a vehicle when the conditions
in that vehicle would constitute a health hazard to the animal.
   (F)   Abandonment. No owner of an animal or any other person shall abandon
an animal.
   (G)   Destruction of animals. No person other than a duly authorized agent
of the Agency Shelter may destroy any domestic animal within the city limits;
provided, however, this provision shall not apply to the following:
      (1)   A licensed veterinarian or registered animal technician;
      (2)   Those persons acting in immediate self- protection;
      (3)   City police officers or firefighters acting to prevent undue
suffering; or
      (4)   Licensed butcher and slaughterhouse establishments.
   (H)   Substances permitted for use. The Agency Shelter, other animal
shelters, and public animal facilities which destroy animals in the city, shall
use only sodium phenobarbital or a derivative substance for that purpose.
   (I)   Persons authorized to destroy animals. Only persons trained in humane
procedures by licensed veterinarians or by registered animal technicians shall
perform the destruction of animals in a humane manner.
   (J)   Assurance of death prior to disposal. No animal’s body shall be
disposed of until all vital signs are checked (fixed pupil, cessation of
heartbeat and respiration) to assure that death has occurred.
   (K)   Dog shelter regulations. Unless a dog is an inside pet and has
otherwise adequate shelter, as determined by the Police Department as
enforcement authority of this section, all dog owners shall provide dog
shelters as follows:
      (1)   Have five sides, including a top, a bottom and three sides;
      (2)   Be of adequate size to allow the dog to stand up and turn about
freely;
      (3)   Have a floor constructed so as to protect the dog’s feet and legs
from injury;
      (4)   Allow dog(s) kept outdoors to remain dry during inclement weather
and have adequate shade during hot sunny weather; and
      (5)   Be constructed and maintained so that the dog contained therein has
convenient access to clean food and water.
(1987 Code, § 6-123) (Ord. 13, 1995, passed 5-8-1995; Am. Ord. 1, 2000, passed
1-24-2000; Am. Ord. 19, 2001, passed 8-27-2001; Am. Ord. 1, 2007, passed 3-12-
2007) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.20 WILD ANIMALS.
   (A)   Keeping wild animals.
      (1)   No person shall keep or permit to be kept on his or her premises
any wild or vicious animal for any purpose, except as provided in division (B).
      (2)   This section shall not be construed to apply to zoological parks,
circuses, performing animal exhibitions, or research laboratories.
   (B)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Any person owning a wild animal prior to the enactment of this
chapter shall be permitted to continue ownership of the animal; provided, that
he or she registers the animal with the conservation officer within six weeks
after enactment of this chapter.
      (2)   A copy of this registration must be kept by the owner as evidence
of possession of the animal prior to the enactment of this chapter.
(1987 Code, § 6-124) (Ord. 13, 1995, passed 5-8-1995; Am. Ord. 1, 2000, passed
1-24-2000; Am. Ord. 19, 2001, passed 8-27-2001) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.21 RABIES PREVENTION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Rabies vaccination required. It is unlawful to own or harbor a dog or
cat over the age of six months without a valid rabies vaccination.
   (B)   Animals biting persons. If an owned or stray animal has bitten a
person, the animal shall be impounded in the Agency Shelter, veterinary
hospital, or kennel, or the owner’s property, at the discretion of the animal
control officer, at the owner’s expense. This impoundment shall be for a period
of ten days. If the animal dies during that period it shall, at the owner’s
expense, be sent to the proper authorities to determine whether or not it was
rabid. If the owner cannot be found, existing state law shall prevail.
   (C)   Disposition of exposed animals. Any animal that has been bitten by an
animal known to have rabies shall be confined for a period up to six weeks at
the owner’s expense or be destroyed.
   (D)   Duties of the owner of a suspect animal. It is unlawful for any owner
knowing an animal to have rabies to allow the animal to leave his or her
premises, except to be taken to the Agency Shelter or to a veterinarian. Every
owner, upon ascertaining an animal is rabid, shall immediately notify the
appropriate law enforcement agency.
(1987 Code, § 6-124.1) (Ord. 13, 1995, passed 5-8-1995; Am. Ord. 1, 2000,
passed 1-24-2000; Am. Ord. 19, 2001, passed 8-27-2001) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.22 DISPOSAL OF ANIMAL WASTE ON PUBLIC OR NON-ANIMAL OWNER PRIVATE
PROPERTY.
   (A)   The owner or person having immediate control of an animal shall
immediately remove and dispose of, in a sanitary manner, any excreta left or
deposited by the animal, upon public or non-animal owner private property. This
section shall not be applicable to cases where a person is physically unable or
is legally blind and is being assisted by a certain companion dog.
   (B)   All pens, yards, structures or areas where animals are kept shall be
maintained in a nuisance free manner. Droppings and manure shall be removed
regularly and disposed of properly so not to attract insects or rodents, become
unsightly or cause objectionable odors.
   (C)   The civil provisions of this section shall be enforced by employees of
the Seymore Police Department, the Seymour animal control officer, and/or other
persons authorized by the City of Seymour Board of Public Words and Safety.
This section may be enforced by citation, injunction or civil forfeiture.
   (D)   The Seymour Police Department, the Seymour animal control officer,
and/or other persons authorized by the City of Seymour Board of Public Works
and Safety are authorized to catch and impound animals at large with such
authorization to include the pursuit of animals upon non-animal owner private
property. It shall be a violation of this section to interfere with the animal
control officer, law enforcement officer, public health officer or designee, in
the performance of their duties.
(Ord. 26, 2005, passed 1-9-2006) Penalty, see §
97.99
CERTAIN ANIMALS PROHIBITED
§ 97.30 CERTAIN TYPES OF ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep within the city certain
livestock or fowl, including, but not limited to, equidae, cattle, swine,
sheep, goats, llamas, roosters (male chickens), geese, ducks, turkeys, and
peacocks.
   (B)   As used this section, the word KEEP shall mean the raising, tending,
feeding, and/or harboring of a live animal in such a way as to imply ownership
or custody of the animal.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to retail locations, zoological parks,
bona fide circuses, or carnivals.
   (D)   A chicken flock may be kept in the city, subject to the following
restrictions.
      (1)   Application to harbor a chicken flock shall be made to the city's
animal control officer and shall include:
         (a)   Name, address, and phone number of the applicant.
         (b)   The permit to harbor a chicken flock shall be $10. The permit
will be valid for a period of five years at which time it must be renewed. All
permit fees collected shall be used in support of animal control operations.
      (2)   One chicken flock may be permitted for owner-occupied single-family
residential address/home.
      (3)   Single-family residences, which are rental homes or not owner
occupied, must have written permission of the property owner attached to the
application and any issued permit.
      (4)   No applicant shall harbor more than one flock within the city.
      (5)   The keeping of chicken flocks is prohibited on/in duplex, multi-
family, apartment buildings/complex's and mobile home/trailer parks.
   (E)   Standards for maintaining/harboring chickens.
      (1)   Keep all chickens completely and securely enclosed and under
control of the owner and on the owner's property at all times;
      (2)   A chicken coop and chicken run shall be provided. During daylight
hours chickens may be located in the chicken run;
      (3)   Provide a chicken coop that must afford shelter from the elements;
      (4)   Provide a chicken coop and run that provides adequate sun, shade
and ventilation; both must be impermeable to rodents, wild birds and predators
including dogs and cats;
      (5)   Provide chickens with access to feed and clean water at all times,
such feed and water shall be unavailable to rodents, wild birds and predators;
      (6)   Provide a chicken coop and chicken run that afford a combined ten
square feet per chicken; and
      (7)   The chicken coop and run shall be constructed of traditional
building material and be predator proof. It may be fixed or mobile. Coops and
runs shall be constructed so as to confine the chickens to the owners'
property.
      (8)    Non-commercial use only.  The keeping of chickens authorized under
this code shall be kept as pets or for personal use only. Eggs and chicken
manure shall not be sold.
      (9)   Owners are subject to the same ordinances concerning nuisance and
general animal care as regulated in §
97.17, §
97.19(E) and §
97.22.
   (F)   Location.
      (1)   Chickens, coops, and runs shall be confined to the rear of the
residential structure.
      (2)   Coops and runs shall comply with the city building codes as to
setback and location on the property.
   (G)   Any person owning an animal described in division (A) at the time of
the enactment of this section shall be permitted to keep the animal provided
that the owner registers the animal in accordance with section (D)(1) within 60
days after the enactment of this section. A copy of the registration shall be
kept by the owner as evidence of the lawful possession of the animal. This
permit is valid only for the originally permitted animal.
(Ord. 20, 2014, passed 6-23-2014)
COMMERCIAL ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 97.35 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall operate a commercial animal establishment except for
the Agency Shelter, without first obtaining a permit in compliance with this
subchapter.
   (B)   Every facility regulated by this subchapter shall be considered a
separate enterprise and shall require an individual permit.
(1987 Code, § 6-118) (Ord. 13, 1995, passed 5-8-1995; Am. Ord. 1, 2000, passed
1-24-2000; Am. Ord. 19, 2001, passed 8-27-2001) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.36 INSPECTION.
   It shall be a condition of the issuance of any permit required by this
subchapter that the Police Department, its agents or employees, shall be
permitted to inspect at any time all animals and the premises where the animals
are kept.
(1987 Code, § 6-118) (Ord. 13, 1995, passed 5-8-1995; Am. Ord. 1, 2000, passed
1-24-2000; Am. Ord. 19, 2001, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 97.37 PERMIT APPLICATION AND ISSUANCE.
   Applicants must apply for permits required by this chapter with the Clerk-
Treasurer. The application must contain, in addition to the information whether
the applicant has been convicted of cruelty to animals, a statement that the
applicant complies and will comply with the regulations promulgated under
authority of §
97.81(B) of this code, and that he or she authorizes the Police Department to
inspect the facilities and animals. The permit shall be issued when the
applicant complies with the laws and regulations pertaining to the issuance of
permits, and pays the fee required. If the applicant withholds or falsifies any
information on the application, the permit shall not be issued, and any permit
issued upon false or withheld information shall be null and void. No permit to
operate a commercial animal establishment shall be issued to an applicant who
has been convicted of cruelty to animals without review by the Board of Public
Works and Safety.
(1987 Code, § 6-118) (Ord. 13, 1995, passed 5-8-1995; Am. Ord. 1, 2000, passed
1-24-2000; Am. Ord. 19, 2001, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 97.38 ESTABLISHMENT STANDARDS.
   In order to be eligible to obtain a permit, a commercial animal
establishment must:
   (A)   Be operated in such a manner as not to constitute a public nuisance;
   (B)   Provide an isolation area for animals which are sick or diseased to be
sufficiently removed so as not to endanger the health of other animals;
   (C)   Keep all animals caged, within a secure enclosure or under the control
of the owner or operator at all times;
   (D)   With respect to all animals kept on the premises, comply with all of
the provisions of this chapter providing for the general care of animals; and
   (E)   Not sell animals which are unwanted, strays, or obviously diseased.
(1987 Code, § 6-118) (Ord. 13, 1995, passed 5-8-1995; Am. Ord. 1, 2000, passed
1-24-2000; Am. Ord. 19, 2001, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 97.39 TERM OF PERMIT; FEES.
   (A)   Permit period. The commercial animal establishment permit period shall
begin on January 1 and shall run for one year. Applicants requiring a permit
during the year shall pay a pro rata fee for the remaining portion of the year.
Applications must be made within ten days of the establishment of a commercial
animal establishment.
   (B)   Fees.
      (1)   Fees for permits shall be in amounts as set forth in Ch. 36 of this
code.
      (2)   No fee shall be required of any veterinary hospital, animal
shelter, research laboratory, or government-operated zoological park.
(1987 Code, § 6-118) (Ord. 13, 1995, passed 5-8-1995; Am. Ord. 1, 2000, passed
1-24-2000; Am. Ord. 19, 2001, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 97.40 RECLASSIFICATION.
   Any person who has a change in the category under which the commercial
animal establishment permit was issued shall report the change to the Clerk-
Treasurer and apply for the new permit required. Appropriate changes, including
pro rata credit for the previous permit, shall be made by the Clerk- Treasurer.
(1987 Code, § 6-118) (Ord. 13, 1995, passed 5-8-1995; Am. Ord. 1, 2000, passed
1-24-2000; Am. Ord. 19, 2001, passed 8-27-2001)
KENNELS OR NONCOMMERCIAL ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 97.50 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate a kennel without obtaining a permit in compliance
with this subchapter. Dogs and cats housed in a kennel need not have licenses.
(1987 Code, § 6-119) (Ord. 13, 1995, passed 5-8-1995; Am. Ord. 1, 2000, passed
1-24-2000; Am. Ord. 19, 2001, passed 8-27-2001) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.51 PERMIT APPLICATION AND ISSUANCE.
   Applicants must apply for permits required by this chapter with the Clerk-
Treasurer. The application must contain, in addition to whether the applicant
has been convicted of cruelty to animals, a statement that the applicant
complies and will comply with the regulations promulgated under authority of §
97.81 of this code, the number, breed, color, and sex of each dog or cat held,
and the location in the city at which the animals will be housed as of the time
of application. If the applicant withholds or falsifies any information, no
permit shall be issued, and any permit issued upon false or withheld
information shall be null and void. No person who has been convicted of cruelty
to animals shall be issued a permit without review by the Board of Public Works
and Safety. If the proposed or existing site of the kennel is not located in an
area zoned for kennels, the application will not be accepted. If not accepted
because of zoning, the applicant must then, within a period of two months,
apply to the Board of Zoning Appeals for a variance, and if a variance is
granted, and all other requirements are met, the application shall be accepted.
(1987 Code, § 6-119) (Ord. 13, 1995, passed 5-8-1995; Am. Ord. 1, 2000, passed
1-24-2000; Am. Ord. 19, 2001, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 97.52 KENNEL STANDARDS.
   In order to be eligible to obtain a permit, a kennel must:
   (A)   Be operated in such a manner as not to constitute a public nuisance;
   (B)   Provide an isolation area for animals which are sick or diseased that
is sufficiently removed so as not to endanger the health of other animals;
   (C)   Keep all animals caged, within a secure enclosure, or under the
control of the owner or operator at all times;
   (D)   With respect to all animals kept on the premises, comply with all of
the provisions of this chapter providing for the general care of animals; and
   (E)   Not sell animals which are unweaned or obviously diseased.
(1987 Code, § 6-119) (Ord. 13, 1995, passed 5-8-1995; Am. Ord. 1, 2000, passed
1-24-2000; Am. Ord. 19, 2001, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 97.53 TERM OF PERMIT; FEES.
   (A)   Kennel permit period. The kennel permit period shall begin on January
1 and shall run for one year. Applicants requiring a permit during the year
shall pay a pro rata fee for the remaining portion of the year. Application
must be made within ten days of the creation of a kennel.
   (B)   Fees. Fees for noncommerical animal permits shall be as set forth in
Ch. 36 of this code.
(1987 Code, § 6-119) (Ord. 13, 1995, passed 5-8-1995; Am. Ord. 1, 2000, passed
1-24-2000; Am. Ord. 19, 2001, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 97.54 RECLASSIFICATION.
   Any person who has a change in the category under which the kennel or
noncommercial animal permit was issued shall report the change to the Clerk-
Treasurer and apply for the new permit required. Appropriate changes, including
pro rata credit for the previous permit, shall be made by the Clerk- Treasurer.
(1987 Code, § 6-119) (Ord. 13, 1995, passed 5-8-1995; Am. Ord. 1, 2000, passed
1-24-2000; Am. Ord. 19, 2001, passed 8-27-2001)
DOG REGULATIONS AND LICENSING
§ 97.65 (RESERVED).
§ 97.66 RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper, harborer, or person having
control or charge of any dog, licensed or unlicensed, in the city, to permit it
to run at large within the limits of the city.
(1987 Code, § 4-22) (Ord. 1320, passed 7-11-1960) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.67 NUISANCES; BARKING OR UNSANITARY PEN.
   (A)   It is declared a nuisance for any person to keep or harbor, within the
limits of the city, any dog which howls or barks to the annoyance of the
inhabitants of the city, and it is declared unlawful for any person to create,
continue, contribute to, or suffer this nuisance to exist within the limits of
the city.
   (B)   Furthermore, it shall be the responsibility of any person owning,
keeping, or harboring any dog in the city limits to keep the aforementioned
dog’s pen or run in a sanitary condition. Failure to do so will be considered a
public nuisance.
   (C)   All complaints pertaining to this section must be signed by those
persons making the complaint.
(1987 Code, § 4-22) (Ord. 1320, passed 7-11-1960) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.68 OWNER LIABILITY.
   The owner or keeper of a dog shall be liable for any damage or injuries
caused by the dog unless that damage or injury was to the body or property of a
person who, at the time the damage or injuries were sustained, was committing a
trespass on the property of the owner, or was, at the time of the injury or
damage, teasing, tormenting, or abusing the dog on the owner’s or keeper’s
property.
(1987 Code, § 4-22) (Ord. 1320, passed 7-11-1960)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 97.80 ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The governing entity for animal control issues shall henceforth be the
Board of Public Works and Safety of the city.
   (B)   The city Police Department and its animal control officer shall be
responsible for the implementation and enforcement of this chapter.
   (C)   (1)   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall be responsible for collecting all
fees, fines, and penalties set forth in this chapter.
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall also be responsible for issuing all
licenses and permits required by this chapter.
      (3)   The Agency Shelter shall not have any authority to collect fines
and fees or issue licenses and permits.
(Ord. 19, 2001, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 97.81 ANIMAL CONTROL; DUTIES AND POWERS.
   (A)   Animal control responsibility. The positions of animal control
officers shall be appointed by the Police Department with the approval of the
Mayor and the Board of Public Works and Safety.
   (B)   Regulations. The Police Department, with the approval of the Board of
Public Works and Safety, shall promulgate regulations for the issuance and
maintenance of all licenses and permits and adoption of animals from the Agency
Shelter and shall include requirements for humane care of all animals and for
compliance with the provisions of this chapter. All regulations shall be
approved by the City Council before made effective.
   (C)   Police Department; duties, jurisdiction, and powers. The Police
Department and its agents and employees shall carry out and supervise the
enforcement of this chapter within the city. All those powers ordinary and
necessary to carry out their duties shall be vested in them.
      (1)   These duties and powers shall specifically include, but not be
limited to:
         (a)   To educate the public concerning humane ethics, consequences of
pet overpopulation, and their responsibilities as pet owners;
         (b)   To maintain the physical facility herein known as the Agency
Shelter which shall be operated in a humane manner in accordance with the
standards set forth in the ordinance and established rules and regulations;
         (c)   To make an annual report to the Board of Public Works and Safety
and the City Council concerning the animal control within the city;
         (d)   To prepare and submit to the City Council for approval an annual
budget of funds adequate to carry out the purposes of this chapter;
         (e)   The power to apprehend and impound any animal that appears to be
stray or at large;
         (f)   The power to apprehend and impound any animal that is on the
owner’s property without being under physical or electronic restraint and
posing an immediate physical danger to the community. This impoundment must be
preceded by written certification by a witness or by the Police Department.
However, no animal shall be apprehended and impounded if the owner is available
and capable of restraining the animal or there is other means of restraint
available;
         (g)   The power to issue official warning or a notice of code
violation for violations of this chapter;
         (h)   The power to apprehend and impound any animal when the Police
Department or staff have probable cause to believe that the animal has been
treated cruelly, neglected, or used by the owner or agent in a fighting
contest; and
         (i)   The power to enter private real property in fresh pursuit of an
animal to enforce this chapter.
      (2)   In performing their duties, the Police Department and staff shall,
however, be specifically prohibited from:
         (a)   Entering a dwelling unit or secured area without the dwelling
unit owner's pe1mission or being accompanied by a uniformed law enforcement
officer with a warrant authorizing the entity; or
         (b)   Making arrests of human beings.
   (D)   Interference with animal control officer; penalty. Whoever forcibly
assaults, resists, opposes, obstructs, prevents, impedes, or interferes with
any animal control officer while that officer is engaged in the execution of
any duties required of those officers under this chapter shall be cited by the
animal control officer and ordered to appear before the Board of Public Works
and Safety for a hearing.
      (1)   Hearings held pursuant to this section shall be held on a business
day no earlier than ten days after notice of the order to appear is issued. The
Board of Public Works and Safety may, however, take action at the hearing, or
before the hearing if a written request is received by the animal control
officer not later than five days after notice is given, to continue the hearing
to a business day not later than 14 days after the hearing date shown on the
order. Unless the Board of Public Works and Safety takes action to have the
continued hearing held on a definite, specified date, notice of the continued
hearing must be given to the person to whom the order was issued at least five
days before the continued hearing date, by certified U.S. mail, return receipt
requested.
      (2)   The person to whom the order was issued or any other person with an
interest in the proceedings may appear in person or by counsel at the hearing.
Each person appearing at the hearing is entitled to present evidence, cross-
examine opposing witnesses, and present arguments.
      (3)   At the conclusion of any hearing at which a continuance is not
granted, the Board of Public Works and Safety may make findings and take action
to:
         (a)   Issue a code violation and impose a fine upon the violator
pursuant to the fine schedule established by the Board of Public Works and
Safety; or
         (b)   Rescind the citation.
      (4)   The record of the findings made and action taken by the Board of
Public Works and Safety at the hearing shall be available to the public upon
request. However, neither the animal control officer nor the Board of Public
Works and Safety is required to give any notice of the findings and action.
(1987 Code, § 6-114) (Ord. 13, 1995, passed 5-8-1995; Am. Ord. 1, 2000, passed
1-24-2000; Am. Ord. 19, 2001, passed 8-27-2001; Am. Ord. 3, 2024, passed 2-12-
2024) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.82 DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   All fees or monies collected shall be paid to the Clerk-Treasurer. The
Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a receipt for all monies received and shall deposit
all monies in the appropriate city account daily. Money so paid shall be used
by the Board of Public Works and Safety in carrying out the provisions of this
chapter.
(1987 Code, § 6-124.3) (Ord. 13, 1995, passed 5-8-1995; Am. Ord. 1, 2000,
passed 1-24-2000; Am. Ord. 19, 2001, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of
Chapter 97 shall be punishable by a fine. If any violation is continuing, each
day’s violation shall be deemed a separate violation. The amount of fines, plus
any fee or assessment imposed by state code and provided by this code.
      (1)   First violation in one year: fine will be $25;
      (2)   Second violation in one year: fine will be $50;
      (3)   Third violation within two years: fine will be $75;
      (4)   Fourth violation within three years and subsequent violations: fine
will be $100;
      (5)   Notwithstanding the above provisions, violations of §
97.22 shall be punished by a fine of not less than $50 nor more than $250. If
the violation is continuing, each day’s violation shall be deemed a separate
violation.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §
97.19 shall be allowed 24 hours to make corrections as directed by the
enforcement authority. The failure to make corrections shall result in a fine
of $50 for each finding of a violation of this section.
      (1)   Any person who has been cited on two separate occasions, and fails
to make corrections as directed by the enforcement authority, shall be subject
to confiscation of their animals until such time as corrections are made.
      (2)   If, after multiple violations by the same person or at the same
business, the legal department has reason to believe that the fines will not be
effective in enforcing this section, then the city legal department shall be
empowered to seek any other remedies provided by law.
(1987 Code, §§ 6-116, 6-118, 6-119, 6-121, 6-123, 6-124) (Ord. 13, 1995, passed
5-8-1995; Am. Ord. 20, 1995, passed 8-14-1995; Am. Ord. 1, 2000, passed 1-24-
2000; Am. Ord. 19, 2001, passed 8-27-2001; Am. Ord. 26, 2005, passed 1-9-2006;
Am. Ord. 1, 2007, passed 3-12-2007; Am. Ord. 20, 2014, passed 6-23-2014)
CHAPTER 98: SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES AND PLACES OF EMPLOYMENT
Section
   
98.01   Definitions
   
98.02   Prohibition of smoking in public places and places of employment
   
98.03   Policies regarding smoking in places of employment
   
98.04   Reasonable distance
   
98.05   Where smoking is not regulated
   
98.06   Posting of signs; removing of paraphernalia
   
98.07   Compliance
   
98.08   Violations
   
98.09   Public education
 
   
98.99   Penalty
§ 98.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BAR. An establishment that serves alcoholic beverages for consumption on the
premises, by guests who must be at least 21 years of age to enter the premises,
including but not limited to, taverns, nightclubs, cocktail lounges, and
cabarets. The establishment may also give, serve, or provide food to those
guests, however, where there exists any part, portion, or area on the premises
that allows for guests who are not at least 18 years of age to enter the
premises, that establishment shall not fit the definition of a BAR.
   BUSINESS.  Any sole proprietorship, partnership, joint venture, corporation
or other BUSINESS entity formed for profit-making purposes, including retail
establishments where goods or services are sold as well as professional
corporations and other entities where legal, medical, dental, engineering,
architectural or other professional services are delivered.
   ELECTRONIC SMOKING DEVICE (ESD) or E-CIGARETTE. Any electronic oral device,
such as one composed of a heating element, battery, and/or electronic circuit,
which provides a vapor of nicotine or any other substance, the use or
inhalation of which simulates smoking. These terms shall include such devices,
whether manufactured, distributed, marketed or sold as an e-cigarette, e-cigar,
e-pipe or other descriptor.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person who is employed by any employer for direct or indirect
monetary wages or profit, including those employed full-time, part-time, on a
temporary basis, or by contract through a third party. A person who volunteers
his or her services for a non-profit entity shall also be considered an
employee for purposes of this chapter.
   EMPLOYER.  Any person, partnership, corporation, including a municipal
corporation, or non-profit entity, which employs the services of one or more
individual persons.
   ENCLOSED AREA. All space between a floor and ceiling which is enclosed on
all sides by solid walls or windows (exclusive of door or passage ways) which
extend from the floor to the ceiling, including all space therein screened by
partitions which do not extend to the ceiling or are not solid, “office
landscaping” or similar structures.
   PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT. Any enclosed area under the control of a public or
private employer which employees normally frequent during the course of
employment, including, but not limited to, work areas, private offices,
employee lounges and restrooms, conference and class rooms, employee cafeterias
and hallways. A private residence is not a PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT unless it is
used as a childcare, adult day care or health care facility.
   PRIVATE CLUB. A facility owned or operated by an association or corporation,
which shall:
      (1)   Not be operated for pecuniary gain; and
      (2)   Registered under Indiana law; and
      (3)   Determined by the Internal Revenue Service to be operating under
not-for-profit status; and
      (4)   Consist of a membership:
         (a)   Formed as a lodge, local chapter, or corresponding unit of a
fraternal order recognized on a national basis; or
         (b)   Comprised of persons who have served in the armed forces of the
United States; or
         (c)   Formed as a recognized, exclusive association of persons
organized for a joint or common purpose for which application for membership,
the payment of dues, and self governance by the membership are distinguishing
characteristic, and, where entry into, and use of the facility is restricted to
members and guests of members.
   PUBLIC GATHERING. Any assembly of 50 or more individuals attending events on
public property where entertainment, vending of wares or food and beverages or
sporting activities are being observed or participated in.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any enclosed area to which the public is invited or in which
the public is permitted, including but not limited to banks, educational
facilities, health facilities, hotels and motels, laundromats, public
transportation vehicles and facilities, reception areas, restaurants, retail
food production and marketing establishments, retail service establishments,
retail stores, shopping malls, sports arenas, theaters and waiting rooms. A
private residence is not a PUBLIC PLACE unless it is used as a child care,
adult day care or health care facility.
   RESTAURANT.  Any coffee shop, cafeteria, sandwich stand, private and public
school cafeteria, and any other eating establishment which gives or offers for
sale of food to the public, guests, or employees, as well as kitchens in which
food is prepared on the premises for serving elsewhere, including catering
facilities. The term RESTAURANT shall include a bar area within the RESTAURANT.
   RETAIL TOBACCO STORE. A retail store utilized primarily for the sale of
tobacco products and accessories and in which the sale of other products is
merely incidental. The term does not include retail stores where food or
beverages are sold for consumption on the premises or where an area has been
set-aside on the premises for customers to consume food or beverages.
   SERVICE LINE. Any indoor line at which one or more persons are waiting for
or receiving service of any kind, whether or not such service involves the
exchange of money.
   SMOKING. Any act of inhaling, exhaling, burning, carrying or holding of a
lighted or heated cigarette, electronic smoking device, cigar, pipe, or any
other lighted or heated tobacco or plant produced intended for inhalation, in
any manner or form. SMOKING also includes the use of any e-cigarette or other
electronic smoking device which creates a vapor, in any manner or form, or the
use of any oral smoking device for the purpose of circumventing the prohibition
of smoking in this chapter. SMOKING does not include the burning of incense.
   SPORTS ARENA. Sports pavilions, stadiums, gymnasiums, health spas, boxing
arenas, swimming pools, roller and ice rinks, bowling alleys and other similar
places where members of the general public assemble either to engage in
physical exercise, participate in athletic competition, or witness sports
events.
(Ord. 4, 2006, passed 5-22-2006; Am. Ord. 21, 2017, passed 1-8-2018)
§ 98.02 PROHIBITION OF SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES AND PLACES OF EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, smoking shall be
prohibited in the following public places and places of employment, including,
but not limited to, the following areas:
      (1)   Elevators;
      (2)   Restrooms, lobbies, reception areas, hallways and any other common-
use areas;
      (3)   Buses, taxicabs, and other means of public transit under the
authority of the city, and ticket, boarding, and waiting areas of public
transit depots;
      (4)   Service lines;
      (5)   Retail stores;
      (6)   Restaurants
      (7)   Public areas of aquariums, galleries libraries, and museums;
      (8)   Any facility which is primarily used for exhibiting any motion
picture, stage, drama, lecture, musical recital or other similar performance,
except performers when smoking is part of a theatrical production;
      (9)   Sports arenas and convention halls, including bowling facilities
and enclosed places in outdoor arenas or facilities;
      (10)   Every room, chamber, place of meeting or public assembly,
including school buildings under the control of any board, council, commission,
committee, including joint committees, or agencies of the city or any political
subdivision of the state during such time as a public meeting is in progress,
to the extent such place is subject to the jurisdiction of the city;
      (11)   Hospitals, clinics, physical therapy facilities, doctors’ offices,
and dentists’ offices;
      (12)   Private and semi-private rooms in nursing homes and long-term care
facilities;
      (13)   Lobbies, hallways, and other common areas in apartment buildings,
condominiums, trailer parks, retirement facilities, nursing homes, and other
multiple-unit residential facilities;
      (14)   Polling places;
      (15)   Hotes and motels;
      (16)   Bingo facilities;
      (17)   Child care and adult day care facilities;
      (18)   Shopping malls;
      (19)   Public gatherings;
      (20)   Educational facilities, both public and private; and
      (21)   Areas available to the general public in businesses and non-profit
entities patronized by the public, including but not limited to banks,
laundromats, professional offices and retail service establishments, but not
including bars, private clubs, retail tobacco stores, retail vape shops, cigar
bars, or hookah bars.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, any owner,
operator, manager or other person who controls any establishment or facility
may declare that entire establishment or facility as a nonsmoking
establishment.
(Ord. 4, 2006, passed 5-22-2006; Am. Ord. 21, 2017, passed 1-8-2018)
§ 98.03 POLICIES REGARDING SMOKING IN PLACES OF EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of employers to provide a smoke-free
workplace for all employees, but employers are not required to incur any
expense to make structural or other physical modifications.
   (B)   Within 180 days of the adoption of this chapter, each employer having
an enclosed place of employment located within the city shall adopt, implement,
and comply with this chapter that shall contain the following requirements:
Smoking shall be prohibited in all enclosed facilities within a place of
employment. This includes common work areas, auditoriums, classrooms,
conference and meeting rooms, private offices, elevators, hallways, medical
facilities, cafeterias, employee lounges, stairs, restrooms, and all other
enclosed facilities.
   (C)   This chapter shall be communicated to all employees.
   (D)   All employers shall supply a written copy of this chapter upon request
to any existing or prospective employee.
(Ord. 4, 2006, passed 2-2-2006)
§ 98.04 REASONABLE DISTANCE.
   Smoking shall be prohibited within ten feet of any entrance to a public
place so as to insure that tobacco smoke does not enter the area through
entrances, windows, ventilation systems or any other means. It shall be a
violation for smoke to be detected in any area where smoking is prohibited.
(Ord. 4, 2006, passed 2-2-2006)
§ 98.05 WHERE SMOKING IS NOT REGULATED.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter to the contrary, the
following areas shall not be subject to the smoking restrictions of this
chapter:
   (A)   Private residences, except when used as a licensed childcare, adult
day care, or health care facility;
   (B)   Hotel and motel rooms that are rented to guests and are designated as
smoking rooms; provided, however, that not more than 20% of rooms rented to
guests in a hotel or motel may be so designated. The status of rooms as smoking
or nonsmoking may not be changed, except to add additional nonsmoking rooms;
   (C)   Retail tobacco stores, retail vape shops, cigar bars and hookah bars;
provided that smoke from these places does not infiltrate into areas where
smoking is prohibited under the provisions of this chapter;
   (D)   Private clubs;
   (E)   Bars; and
   (F)   Outdoor areas of places of employment.
(Ord. 4, 2006, passed 2-2-2006; Am. Ord. 21, 2017, passed 1-8-2018)
§ 98.06 POSTING OF SIGNS; REMOVING OF PARAPHERNALIA.
   (A)   “No Smoking” signs or the international “No Smoking” symbol
(consisting of a pictorial representation of a burning cigarette enclosed in a
red circle with a red bar across it) shall be clearly, sufficiently and
conspicuously posted in every building or other area where smoking is
prohibited by this chapter, by the owner, operator, manager or other person
having control of such building or other area.
   (B)   Every public place where smoking is prohibited by this chapter shall
have posted at every entrance a conspicuous sign clearly stating that smoking
is prohibited.
   (C)   All ashtrays and other smoking paraphernalia shall be removed from any
area where smoking is prohibited by this chapter by the owner, operator,
manager or other person having control of such area.
(Ord. 4, 2006, passed 2-2-2006)
§ 98.07 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Enforcement of this chapter shall be implemented by the Police
Department or an authorized designee of the Chief of Police.
   (B)   Notice of the provisions set forth in this chapter shall be given to
all applicants for a business registration in the city, provided, however, that
failure to receive such notice shall not exempt any person from the
requirements of this chapter or its enforcement.
   (C)   Any citizen who desires to register a complaint under this chapter may
initiate enforcement with the Police Department or an authorized designee of
the Chief of Police.
   (D)   The Seymour Fire Department shall require, while an establishment is
undergoing otherwise mandated inspections, a “self-certification” from the
owner, manager, operator or other person having control of such establishment
that all requirements of this chapter have been complied with.
   (E)   Any owner, manager, operator or employee of any establishment
regulated by this chapter may inform persons violating this chapter of the
appropriate provisions thereof.
(Ord. 4, 2006, passed 2-2-2006; Am. Ord. 21, 2017, passed 1-8-2018)
§ 98.08 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person who owns, manages, operates or
otherwise controls the use of any premises subject to regulation under this
chapter to fail to comply with any of its provisions.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person who owns, manages, operates or
otherwise controls the use of any premises subject to regulation under this
chapter to knowingly or willfully allow smoking to occur where prohibited by
this chapter. It is a defense to this section, if the foregoing persons or
their employees act in a reasonable and timely manner to personally inform the
violator of the prohibition and request that he or she refrain from smoking.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to smoke in any area where smoking
is prohibited by the provisions of the ordinance codified in this chapter.
(Ord. 4, 2006, passed 2-2-2006)
§ 98.09 PUBLIC EDUCATION.
   The Office of the Mayor shall initiate a program to explain and clarify the
purposes and requirements of this chapter to citizens affected by it, and to
guide owners, operators and managers in their compliance with it. Such program
may include publication of a brochure for affected businesses and individuals
explaining the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 4, 2006, passed 2-2-2006)
§ 98.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be subject to a
fine of $50 for each finding of a violation of this chapter. If, after multiple
violations by the same person or at the same business, the city legal
department has reason to believe that the fines will not be effective in
enforcing this chapter, then the city legal department shall be empowered to
seek any other remedies provided by law.
(Ord. 4, 2006, passed 2-2-2006)
CHAPTER 99: OUTDOOR WOOD-FIRED HYDRONIC HEATERS
Section
   
99.01   Definitions
   
99.02   Unit requirements and permit required
   
99.03   Location, setback and stack height requirements
   
99.04   Permitted fuels
 
   
99.99   Penalty
§ 99.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CLEAN WOOD. Wood that has not been painted, stained, coated, preserved, or
treated with chemicals such as copper chromium arsenate, creosote, or
pentachlorophenol. The term does not include construction and demolition
debris.
   EPA. The United States Environmental Protection Agency.
   OUTDOOR WOOD-FIRED HYDRONIC HEATER (OWHH) or OUTDOOR WOOD BOILER. A fuel
burning device:
      (1)   Designed to burn wood or other solid fuels;
      (2)   That the manufacturer specifies for outdoor installation or in
structures not normally occupied by humans, including structures such as
garages and sheds; and
      (3)   Which heats building space and water through the distribution,
typically through pipes, of a fluid heated in the device, typically water or a
mixture of water and antifreeze.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, firm or co-partnership, association,
company, trust, corporation, department, bureau, agency, private or municipal
corporation, or any political subdivision of the state, the United States or
political subdivisions or agencies thereof, or any other entity recognized by
law as subject to rights and duties.
   PHASE II OWHH. An OWHH that has been certified or qualified by the EPA as
meeting a particulate matter emission limit of 0.32 pounds per million British
Thermal Units output and is labeled accordingly.
(Ord. 7, 2009, passed 4-27-2009)
§ 99.02 UNIT REQUIREMENTS AND PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall install or use an OWHH without first providing the
Building Commissioner with detailed plans showing the proposed location, height
of stack, and the like, of the OWHH and obtaining a permit from the Building
Commissioner approving the plan.
   (B)   No person shall install or use an OWHH that is not compliant with
Phase II OWHH specifications or with the most current EPA specifications for
OWHHs.
(Ord. 7, 2009, passed 4-27-2009) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.03 LOCATION, SETBACK AND STACK HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any permitted OWHH must be installed only in a rear yard of the
building being served by the OWHH.
   (B)   Any permitted OWHH must be installed at least 50 feet from the nearest
property line.
   (C)   If an OWHH is installed within 300 feet from any residence not served
by the OWHH, the stack/chimney must be at least two feet higher than the peak
of the roof of the residence or place of business served by the OWHH.
   (D)   If an OWHH is located within 100 feet from any residence not served by
the OWHH, the stack/chimney must be at least two feet higher than the peak of
the roof of the residence or place of business served or not served by the
OWHH, whichever is higher.
   (E)   Regardless of the distance to property lines or residences served or
not served by the outdoor unit, the height of the stack shall be no less than
12 feet.
(Ord. 7, 2009, passed 4-27-2009)
§ 99.04 PERMITTED FUELS.
   Any person that owns or operates an OWHH shall not use a fuel other than the
following:
   (A)   Clean wood;
   (B)   Wood pellets made from clean wood; or
   (C)   Home heating oil, natural gas, or propane that complies with all
applicable sulfur limits and is used as a starter or supplemental fuel for
dual-fired OWHHs.
(Ord. 7, 2009, passed 4-27-2009) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.99 PENALTY.
   Violations of this chapter shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99 of this code.
(Ord. 7, 2009, passed 4-27-2009)
CHAPTER 100: CITY CEMETERY
Section
   
100.01   Administration
   
100.02   Rates
§ 100.01 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Board of Public Works shall control and manage all public
cemeteries owned by the city and located within five miles of the city.
   (B)   The Board of Public Works shall be generally governed by and shall
have all powers and duties prescribed by I.C. 23-14-65, City and Town
Cemeteries, as amended or recodified.
(Ord. 29, 2021, passed 8-23-2021)
§ 100.02 RATES.
   The rate for burial plots in the Seymour City Cemetery is $400 per plot.
(Ord. 29, 2021, passed 8-23-2021)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
      
111.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS; ADVERTISEMENTS
      
112.   AMUSEMENTS
      
113.   TAXICABS
      
114.   JUNK YARDS AND JUNK DEALERS
      
115.   TELEVISION AND RADIO
      
116.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
      
117.   SALE OF VEHICLES
      
118.   SHORT-TERM RENTALS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   Authority to license
   
110.02   License issuance; inspection
   
110.03   Complaints; revocation and suspension
   
110.04   For-profit business; license required
§ 110.01 AUTHORITY TO LICENSE.
   The city has the authority to impose a license fee reasonably related to the
administrative cost of exercising its regulatory powers.
(1987 Code, § 4-1)
Cross-reference:
   Fee Schedule, see
Ch. 36, App.
Statutory reference:
   City authority to impose license fee, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(5)
§ 110.02 LICENSE ISSUANCE; INSPECTION.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall issue licenses upon payment of the license
fees and compliance with the applicable provisions of this code.
   (B)   The Police Department shall inspect all places of business under
license or required to have a license.
(1987 Code, § 4-2)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to inspect licensed businesses, see I.C. 36-8-3-10(a)(13)
   City authority to regulate businesses, see I.C. 36-8-2-10
   Clerk-Treasurer authority to issue licenses, see I.C. 36-4-10-5(b)(10) and
36-4-10-5(b)(11)
§ 110.03 COMPLAINTS; REVOCATION AND SUSPENSION.
   (A)   The executive shall hear any complaint against a person to whom the
city has issued a license in accordance with the provisions in this code and
the several statutes of the state.
   (B)   The executive may revoke or suspend any license if he or she finds,
after proper notice and hearing, that the person has willfully violated a term
or condition of his or her license, or has willfully done or permitted to be
done an act in violation of a statute or provisions of this code.
   (C)   The executive shall file a copy of his or her findings and
determination with the Clerk-Treasurer within 24 hours after they are made.
(1987 Code, § 4-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Governing state law, see I.C. 36-4-5-5
§ 110.04 FOR-PROFIT BUSINESS; LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   All for-profit businesses which are currently doing business, or will
do business, from one or more locations within the city limits are required to
submit to the city Planning and Zoning office, within 15 days of the opening of
the business, a completed business license form.
   (B)   The fee for this business form shall be as given in
Ch. 36 of this code.
   (C)   Each business shall be required to submit a new or updated business
license form to the Planning and Zoning office by March 31 of each calendar
year. There will be no fee for submission of the updated form each year.
   (D)   Upon return of the business license form, each business will receive a
license, which is to be displayed in the place of business.
   (E)   Any business that does not comply with this section shall be subject
to fines and penalties in accordance with §
10.99 of this code.
(Ord. 58, 1998, passed 12-14-1998)
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS; ADVERTISEMENTS
Section
Advertisements
   
111.01   Handbills; scattering prohibited
   
111.02   Handbills; violations
Peddlers and Solicitors
   
111.15   Definitions
   
111.16   License requirement
   
111.17   Application procedure
   
111.18   Standards for issuance
   
111.19   Fees
   
111.20   Fixed standing prohibited
   
111.21   Prohibited areas
   
111.22   Practices prohibited
   
111.23   Curb service prohibited
   
111.24   Hours of operation
   
111.25   Fines and enforcement
   
111.26   Revocation
   
111.27   Emergency revocation
   
111.28   Appeal
   
111.29   Exempt persons
   
111.30   Mobile food vehicles
Garage Sales and Rummage Sales
   
111.40   Purpose
   
111.41   Temporary use; duration; zoning rules apply
   
111.42   Definition; time limit; jurisdiction
   
111.43   Standards and restrictions
Solicitation Regulations
   
111.50   Purpose
   
111.51   Definitions
   
111.52   Restrictions
   
111.53   Permit requirements
   
111.54   Investigation and issuance
   
111.55   Regulations; locations and times
   
111.56   Violations and enforcement
   
111.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Amusements, see
Ch. 112
   Sexually Oriented Business, see
Ch. 116
Statutory reference:
   Public solicitation of sales, see I.C. 36-8-2-11
   Transient merchant laws, see I.C. 25-37-1-1 et seq.
ADVERTISEMENTS
§ 111.01 HANDBILLS; SCATTERING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall scatter or throw upon the streets, sidewalks, alleys, or
other public places of the city, or place on any motor vehicle, any handbills,
posters, advertisements, or papers, and nothing herein shall be construed to
authorize any person, firm, or corporation to obstruct the streets, sidewalks,
alleys, or other public places of the city or create any nuisance therein, or
prevent the posting up of notices by law required to be posted.
(1987 Code, § 4-27) (Ord. 648, passed 6-15-1910) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.02 HANDBILLS; VIOLATIONS.
   Any person, or persons, violating any of the provisions of this subchapter
shall upon conviction thereof be fined for each offense.
(1987 Code, § 4-27) (Ord. 648, passed 6-15-1910) Penalty, see §
10.99
PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
§ 111.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CANVASSER or SOLICITOR. Any individual, whether or not a resident of the
city traveling, either by foot, automobile, truck, or any other type of
conveyance, from place to place, from house to house, or from street to street,
taking or attempting to take orders for the sale of goods, wares and
merchandise, personal property of any nature whatsoever for future delivery, or
for services to be furnished or performed in the future, whether or not such
individual has, carries or exposes for sale a sample of the subject of such
sale, or whether he or she is collecting advance payments on such sales or not,
provided that such definition shall include any person, who for himself, or for
another person hires, leases, uses or occupies any building, structure, tent,
railroad box car, boat, or hotel room, lodging house, apartment, shop, or any
place within the city for sole purpose of exhibiting samples and taking orders
for future delivery.
   PEDDLER. Includes any person, whether a resident of the city or not,
traveling by foot, automobile, truck, or any other type of conveyance, from
place to place, from house to house, or from street to street, carrying,
conveying or transporting goods, wares, or other merchandise, offering the same
for sale or making sales and delivering articles to purchasers, or who without
traveling from place to place shall sell or offer the same for sale from
automobile, truck, or other vehicle or conveyance. The word PEDDLER shall
include the words "hawker" and "huckster."
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT, ITINERANT MERCHANT, ITINERANT VENDOR.  
      (1)   Any person, whether as owner, agent, consignee or employee, whether
a resident of the city or not, who engages in a temporary business of selling
and delivering vehicles, goods, wares and merchandise within the city, and who,
in furtherance of such purpose, hires, leases, uses or occupies any parking
lot, vacant lot, building, structure, motor vehicle, tent, railroad box car, or
boat, public room in hotels, lodging houses, apartments, shops, or other place
within the city, for the exhibition and sale of such vehicles, goods, wares and
merchandise, either privately or at public auction. Tent and trailer operations
are included in this definition.
      (2)   This definition shall be construed to include any person who while
occupying such temporary location, does not sell from stock, but exhibits
samples only for the purpose of securing orders for future delivery. The person
so engaged shall not be relieved from complying with the provisions of this
chapter merely by reason of associating temporarily with any local dealer,
trader, merchant or auctioneer, or by conducting such transient business in
connection with, as a part of, or in the name of any local dealer, trader,
merchant or auctioneer.
      (3)   However, this definition shall not be construed to include
charitable fund-raising activities, for example: Girl Scout cookie sales, fruit
and bake sales, farmers' market activity, band candy, high school magazine
sales, and the like. In addition, this definition shall not be construed to
include legitimate route sales such as Schwan's, etc.
(Ord. 7, 2006, passed 8-28-2006)
§ 111.16 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for a peddler, transient merchant, itinerant merchant,
itinerant vendor, solicitor or canvasser to engage in such business within the
limits of the city without first obtaining a license therefore in compliance
with the provisions of this subchapter. Operators of mobile food vehicles shall
be excepted from the requirement to obtain a peddlers and solicitors license
and instead shall be required to obtain a license under the provisions of §
111.30.
(Ord. 7, 2006, passed 8-28-2006; Am. Ord. 8, 2017, passed 6-12-2017)
§ 111.17 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Applicants for licenses under this subchapter must file with the City
Clerk a verified application on forms furnished by the City Clerk, signed by
the applicant if an individual, by all partners if a partnership, or by the
president if a corporation, giving the following information:
      (1)   The name and description of the applicant, including federal
identification number and/or Social Security number; and Indiana sales-tax
number;
      (2)   The permanent home address and full local address of the applicant;
and business and home telephone numbers;
      (3)   A brief description of the nature of the business and where such
goods or products to be sold are located at the time the application is filed;
      (4)   The length of time for which the right to do business is desired
and for which a license is sought;
      (5)   The vehicle to be used, with a description of same, and, if a motor
vehicle, the license number of same;
      (6)   A photograph of the individual applicant or, if a company,
partnership or corporation, a photograph of the individual who will have local
supervision or management. This photograph must be taken not more than 60 days
prior to the date of filing the application, and shall be two inches by two
inches, showing head and shoulders only of the applicant in a clear and
distinguishable manner;
      (7)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted
of any felony, misdemeanor or violation of any local ordinance, the nature of
the offense and punishment or penalty assessed therefor;
      (8)   The place in the city where it is proposed to carry on applicant's
business, taking into account that no vehicle can obstruct traffic, and
attaching a letter of permission from the business owner if the businesses to
be conducted on the premises of an existing Seymour business;
      (9)   The place, other than the permanent place of business of the
applicant, where applicant, within the six months next preceding the date of
the application, conducted business as a transient merchant, itinerant
merchant, itinerant vendor peddler, solicitor or canvasser;
      (10)   Credentials from the person for which the applicant proposes to do
business, authorizing the applicant to act as such representative;
      (11)   Such other reasonable information as to the identity of character
of the person having the management or supervision of the applicant's business
or the method or plan of doing such business as the City Clerk may deem proper
to fulfill the purpose of this chapter in the protection of the public good;
      (12)   Proof of insurance, including policy number and declaration sheet;
and
      (13)   The applicant shall post a $1,000-cash bond, refundable, if the
applicant is in compliance with this subchapter after its permit expires.
      (14)   The application fee is $100.00.
   (B)   A separate application shall be required for each individual intended
to be licensed as a transient merchant, itinerant merchant, itinerant vendor
peddler, solicitor or canvasser.
(Ord. 7, 2006, passed 8-28-2006; Am. Ord. 21, 2024, passed 8-12-2024)
§ 111.18 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of such application, the original shall be referred to
the City Clerk, who shall cause such investigation of the applicant's business
and background to be made as he deems necessary for the protection of the
public health, safety, and welfare.
   (B)   If, as a result of such investigation, the applicant's background and
business responsibility is found to be unsatisfactory, the City Clerk shall
endorse on such application his disapproval and his reasons for same, and shall
notify the applicant that his application has been disapproved and that no
license will be issued.
   (C)   If, as a result of such investigation, the character and business
responsibility of the applicant are found to be satisfactory, the City Clerk,
who shall, upon payment of the prescribed license fee, deliver to the applicant
his permit, and issue a license. Such license shall contain the signature and
seal of the issuing officer, and shall show the name, address of the licensee,
the class of license issued and the kind of goods to be sold thereunder, the
amount of fee to be paid, the date of issuance, and the length of time the same
shall be operative, as well as the business to be transacted. The City Clerk
shall keep a permanent record of all licenses issued.
(Ord. 7, 2006, passed 8-28-2006)
§ 111.19 FEES.
   (A)   No fee shall be required for selling products of the farm or orchard
actually produced by the seller.
   (B)   No fee shall be required of a nonprofit organization.
   (C)   The license fee which shall be charged by the City Clerk for a license
for soliciting and canvassing shall be as prescribed by resolution of the Board
of Public Works from time to time.
   (D)   For each license issued to a transient merchant, itinerant merchant,
itinerant vendor peddler, solicitor or canvasser, the applicant shall pay to
the City Clerk the fee prescribed by resolution of the Common Council from time
to time and this license shall not be transferred by any transient merchant,
itinerant merchant, itinerant vendor peddler, solicitor or canvasser without
the written consent of the City Clerk.
   (E)   All licenses issued pursuant to this subchapter shall have a term of
three days. The applicant may retain the license issued by the city for a
period of one year after issuance, before use, but in no event is the license
valid for more than three-day term.
   (F)   No license shall be issued less than 48 hours from the date of
application.
   (G)   The applicant shall, by affidavit and supporting testimony, show his
method of business and gross volume or estimated gross volume of business and
such other information as the City Clerk, deem necessary.
(Ord. 7, 2006, passed 8-28-2006)
§ 111.20 FIXED STANDING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall stop or remain in any one place upon any street, alley or
public place longer than necessary to make a sale to a customer. Any person
using a vehicle, when stopped, shall place his or her vehicle parallel to and
within 12 inches of the curb, and shall depart from such place as soon as he or
she has completed sales with customers actually present.
(Ord. 7, 2006, passed 8-28-2006)
§ 111.21 PROHIBITED AREAS.
   (A)   In connection with the sale of goods by a merchant as defined in this
subchapter, wares and merchandise, no person shall obstruct any street, alley,
sidewalk or driveway, except as may be necessary and reasonable to consummate a
sale, nor remain, barter, sell, offer or expose for sale any goods, wares or
merchandise in front of or at the side of any property against the wish or
desire of the property owner or the tenant or occupant of such property.
   (B)   No person regulated by this subchapter shall engage in peddling on any
street, alley or public place after having been requested to desist by any
police officer of the city because of congested or dangerous traffic
conditions.
   (C)   No person regulated by this subchapter shall engage in business or
solicitation on any railroad line or highway or county road within the city.
   (D)   No person regulated by this subchapter shall engage in business in a
commercially zoned district outside of any building. Sidewalk sales properly
permitted by the Board of Public Works and Safety are exempt from this
prohibition.
(Ord. 7, 2006, passed 8-28-2006)
§ 111.22 PRACTICES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall shout or cry out his goods or merchandise, nor blow any
horns, ring any bell, flash any light, or use any other similar device to
attract the attention of the public. The practice of going in and upon private
residences in the city by a person who has not been requested or invited to do
so by the owner or owners, occupant or occupants of such private residences for
the purpose of soliciting orders for the sale of goods, wares and merchandise
and/or for the purpose of disposing of and/or peddling or hawking the same, is
hereby declared/to be a nuisance and punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 7, 2006, passed 8-28-2006)
§ 111.23 CURB SERVICE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall operate or maintain any stand, vehicle, store, or place of
business on or near to any highway in such a manner that the customers or
traders with such person occupy or congregate within the limits of any street,
lane, highway, or public place within the city. No person shall be permitted to
use the streets, alleys, lanes, or public places of the city for the service of
customers or for the transaction of business, or to locate any stand, store, or
other place of business in any manner that requires the customer, when
transacting such business, to stand within the limits of the streets, highways,
alleys, or public places of the city.
(Ord. 7, 2006, passed 8-28-2006)
§ 111.24 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   It is hereby declared to be the public policy of the city that any
license granted herein shall conform to the following hours of effectiveness
and no person granted a license hereunder shall transact business at any times
other than stated: from 9:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m.
   (B)   To violate the time period established by this section will be to
commit a public nuisance within the city and render the violator thereof liable
to penalties.
(Ord. 7, 2006, passed 8-28-2006)
§ 111.25 FINES AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The fine schedule for violation of this subchapter shall be set as
follows:
      (1)   First offense, $500.
      (2)   Second offense, $750.
      (3)   Third offense, $1,000.
   (B)   The Ordinance Administrator of the city is hereby authorized to
enforce this subchapter. The Ordinance Administrator is further authorized and
empowered to issue citations for violations of this subchapter, issue cease-
and-desist orders, enlist the assistance of the Seymour Police Department for
enforcement of this subchapter, and levy fines in accordance with the fine
schedule set forth above.
(Ord. 7, 2006, passed 8-28-2006)
§ 111.26 REVOCATION.
   All licenses and permits issued hereunder may be revoked by the City Clerk,
after notice and hearing for any of the following causes:
   (1)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for license;
   (2)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in connection
with the selling of goods, wares or merchandise, or false statement made in the
carrying on of the business for which the license was issued;
   (3)   Any violation of this subchapter;
   (4)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony or misdemeanor;
   (5)   Conducting the business licensed under this subchapter in an unlawful
manner or in such a manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or to
constitute a menace to health, safety or general welfare to the public. Notice
of the hearing for revocation of a license shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. Such notice shall be mailed, postage prepaid, to the licensee, at his
or her last known address at least five days prior to the date set for the
hearing. Hearings shall follow the procedure established by §
111.27.
(Ord. 7, 2006, passed 8-28-2006)
§ 111.27 EMERGENCY REVOCATION.
   If the City Clerk deems it to be in the best interests of the health, safety
and general welfare of the people of the city, he or she may, forthwith, revoke
any license granted hereunder by serving or causing to have served upon the
licensee notice of revocation and notice to immediately cease and desist with
further conduct of business under the license and issued, together with a
notice of hearing. The Seymour Police Department is hereby authorized to
deliver said notices on behalf of the City Clerk.
(Ord. 7, 2006, passed 8-28-2006)
§ 111.28 APPEAL.
   Any person feeling himself or herself aggrieved by revocation under the
terms of § 111.65, or by the action of the City Clerk in an emergency
revocation of the license as provided for in §
111.27, shall have the right of appeal to the City Board of Public Works. Such
appeal shall be filed in writing with the City Board within 14 days after
notice of the action complained of, and shall contain a written statement
setting forth fully the grounds for the appeal. The City Board shall set a time
and place for hearing on such appeal and give notice of such hearing to the
appellant in a reasonable manner so as to provide him ample opportunity to be
present at the hearing. The decision of the City Board on such appeal shall be
final and conclusive.
(Ord. 7, 2006, passed 8-28-2006)
§ 111.29 EXEMPT PERSONS.
   Farmers or truck gardeners selling or offering for sale any products grown,
raised or produced by them on the same parcel of land, the sale of which is not
otherwise prohibited or regulated, shall be exempt from the licensing
requirements of this chapter, but shall be subject to the other provisions
hereof.
(Ord. 7, 2006, passed 8-28-2006)
§ 111.30 MOBILE FOOD VEHICLES.
   (A)   Applicability,
      (1)   The provisions of this section apply to mobile food vehicles used
to store, prepare, display or serve food or beverage with or without charge
whether operated on public or private property. This section applies to such
food service vehicles that are generally self-contained, movable, wheeled,
towed, motorized or non-motorized.
      (2)   The requirements of this section shall not apply to the following
persons:
         (a)   Any person selling fruits, vegetables or farm products grown by
himself/ herself or other homemade products with or without the help of others
at an established farm market within the city at a stationary location on
public or private property. A FARM MARKET means a collection of three or more
persons selling a variety of agricultural products and other homemade products.
         (b)   Any business or merchant making delivery of food previously
ordered by the customer.
         (c)   Any person selling food as part of a city-approved special event
or festival such as the Oktoberfest.
   (B)   License required.
      (1)   Any vendor wishing to operate a mobile food vehicle must first
apply for a mobile food license on a form prescribed by the Board of Public
Works and Safety. The application fee shall be $150 which shall be paid at the
time the application is submitted.
      (2)   Vendors shall provide proof of general liability insurance in the
amount of not less than $1,000,000 per occurrence and $2,000,000 aggregate at
the time the application is filed.
      (3)   Separate applications shall be required for each mobile food
vehicle.
      (4)   The application shall be forwarded by the Clerk-Treasurer to the
Board of Works and Safety and shall be acted on by the Board of Works and
Safety within 30 days of the date of the application.
      (5)   If the application is in order, the Board of Works and Safety shall
issue a mobile food vehicle license to the applicant. A license shall be valid
for a period of one year from the date of issuance.
      (6)   Any failure to comply with the regulations in this section may
result in the revocation, suspension of the license, or the city not renewing
the mobile food vehicle license.
   (C)   General regulations.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, including any religious,
charitable or nonprofit organization to operate a mobile food vehicle within
the city without a license unless otherwise exempted by these regulations.
      (2)   A mobile food vehicle must hold all requisite health department,
business, and resale licensures to sell food and beverages.
      (3)   A separate license is required for each mobile food vehicle,
      (4)   A license issued under this section shall expire after one year.
      (5)   Mobile food vehicles shall not be required to obtain a temporary
use permit from the Planning Department.
      (6)   A vendor shall not operate on private property without first
obtaining written consent to operate from the affected private property owner.
      (7)   No mobile food vehicle unit shall locate in any parking lot,
parking space, or parking facility owned, leased or managed by the city unless
approval has been given by the city's Board of Public Works.
      (8)   Unless granted permission from the establishment owner, no mobile
food vehicle unit shall operate within 50 feet of any facade of a ground level
establishment that also sells food or beverages, or operate within 50 feet of
the perimeter of such an establishment's outdoor seating area, regardless of
whether or not the mobile food vehicle unit is currently conducting business.
The distance restriction only applies from one hour before the opening time
until one hour after the closing time posted by a ground level establishment on
the facade of its building.
      (9)   No mobile food vehicle unit shall locate within one block from the
perimeter of a special event or festival unless prior approval has been granted
by either the organizer/operator of the special event or the city's Board of
Public Works.
      (10)   The operator of the mobile food vehicle must comply with the motor
vehicle laws of the State of Indiana.
      (11)   In locations where mobile food vehicles are permitted to operate,
mobile food vehicles shall comply with all parking rules.
      (12)   Mobile food vehicles shall not interfere with or obstruct the free
passage of pedestrians or vehicles along any street, sidewalk, road, or parking
lot drive aisle or operate in such a way that would endanger the safety or
property of the public. On public streets, a mobile food vehicle shall not park
within 20 feet of any intersection, bus stop, crosswalk, driveway, alleyway,
building entrance or walk-up window or within 15 feet of any fire hydrant. No
mobile food vehicle unit may be located in or operate in an alleyway.
      (13)   Mobile food vehicles may operate at events on public property if
they have a vendor agreement with the event coordinator.
      (14)   No mobile food vehicle shall be equipped with any external
electronic sound. Ice cream trucks are expressly exempt from this section. ICE
CREAM TRUCK is a motor vehicle from which  vendors exclusively offer ice cream,
popsicles, ice sherbets, frozen desserts or other similar items forsale. Other
food items unrelated to frozen novelties shall not be made available for sale
from an ice cream truck.
      (15)   Except as provided herein, all signs must be permanently affixed
to or painted on the mobile food vehicle and shall not extend more than six
inches from the vehicle. No sign shall flash, cause interference with radio,
telephone, television or other communication transmissions; produce or reflect
motion pictures; emit visible smoke, vapor, particles, or odor; be animated or
produce any rotation, motion, or movement. Each mobile food vehicle shall be
permitted to display one sandwich board sign that does not exceed four feet in
height, two feet in width or eight square feet in total area. Each sandwich
board sign shall be located within ten feet of the location of the food truck.
The sign may be located within die public right-of-way, provided there is a
minimum clearance distance of five feet between the sign and the food truck.
Said sign shall be removed each day by the license holder or his/her/its
designated representative.
      (16)   All exterior lights with over 60 watts shall contain opaque, hood
shields to direct the illumination downward.
      (17)   All mobile food vehicle vendors shall offer a waste container for
public use which the vendor shall empty at its own expense. All trash and
garbage originating from the operation of mobile food vehicles shall be
collected and disposed of off-site by the operators each day. Spills of food or
food by-products shall be cleaned up, and no dumping of gray water, grease or
oil into the storm water inlets, sanitary sewers or on the street is allowed.
      (18)   Any power required for the mobile food vehicle located on a public
way shall be self-contained and a mobile food vehicle shall not use utilities
drawn from the public right-of-way. Mobile food vehicles on private property
may use electrical power from the property being occupied or an adjacent
property, but only when the property owner provides written consent to do so.
No power cable or equipment shall be extended at or across any city street,
alley.
      (19)   No mobile food vehicle shall be parked on a public street or
public parking lot overnight.
      (20)   Mobile food vehicles may be open to the public 24 hours a day.
      (21)   Mobile food vehicles may only operate in areas within the city’s
jurisdiction which are zoned commercial or industrial. Mobile food vehicles
shall not operate in areas zoned residential. Ice cream trucks are expressly
exempt from this section and shall be permitted to operate in areas zoned
residential. ICE CREAM TRUCK is a motor vehicle from which vendors exclusively
offer ice cream, popsicles, ice sherbets, frozen desserts or other similar
items for sale. Other food items unrelated to frozen novelties shall not be
made available for sale from an ice cream truck.
   (D)   Enforcement; penalties.
      (1)   The Ordinance Administrator shall be vested with enforcement
authority to issue citations for violations of this section in conformance with
§
34.08 of this Code.
      (2)   Violations of this section shall be subject to penalty and
enforcement provisions of §
10.99.
(Ord. 8, 2017, passed 6-12-2017; Am. Ord. 7, 2022, passed 3-28-2022; Am. Ord.
12, 2022, passed 6-13-2022)
GARAGE SALES AND RUMMAGE SALES
§ 111.40 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter shall be the creation of temporary uses for
garage and rummage sales to be permitted in applicable zoning districts in
accordance with the requirements of
Ch. 157 of this code, regarding zoning, and the requirements of this
subchapter.
(1987 Code, § 6-190) (Ord. 15, 1989, passed 9-27-1989)
§ 111.41 TEMPORARY USE; DURATION; ZONING RULES APPLY.
   (A)   The duration of the temporary period is stated in §
111.42 of this code. Renewals may be requested.
   (B)   Temporary uses shall be subject to all the regulations of the
applicable zoning district.
(1987 Code, § 6-191) (Ord. 15, 1989, passed 9-27-1989)
§ 111.42 DEFINITION; TIME LIMIT; JURISDICTION.
   Within any zoning district, no temporary use shall be used or arranged or
designed to be used except in conformance with the following rules and time
limits.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARAGE SALE or RUMMAGE SALE. The sale of second-hand goods and miscellaneous
objects by a noncommercial vendor.
   (B)   A garage or rummage sale or similar temporary use shall be limited to
ten sale days in any one calendar year; however, each sale period is not to
exceed five sale days at one time.
   (C)   No fee or permit is required.
   (D)   The Board of Public Works and Safety is granted jurisdiction to
oversee the administration of this subchapter in conjunction with the Building
Commissioner.
(1987 Code, § 6-192) (Ord. 15, 1989, passed 9-27-1989) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.43 STANDARDS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   Any garage sale or rummage sale or similar temporary use shall be subject to
the following standards, prohibitions, and restrictions.
   (A)   Adequate access shall be provided which shall not interfere with
traffic movement on adjacent streets.
   (B)   No public address systems or other noise producing devices shall be
permitted in a residential district.
   (C)   Any floodlights or other lighting shall be directed upon the premises
and shall not be detrimental to adjacent properties.
   (D)   No banners, pennants, or unnecessary signs shall be permitted in a
residential district.
   (E)   The lot shall be put in clean condition devoid of temporary use
remnants upon termination of the temporary period.
   (F)   Any violation of this subchapter shall result in a fine. Each day a
violation occurs shall constitute a separate offense.
(1987 Code, § 6-193) (Ord. 15, 1989, passed 9-27-1989) Penalty, see §
10.99
SOLICITATION REGULATIONS
§ 111.50 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to protect, maintain and enhance the
public health, safety, and general welfare by regulating roadside solicitation
and other charitable events where contributions are sought. Solicitors are put
at risk by entering the roadway and also put drivers and other pedestrians at
risk. The citizens of the city are subject to unregulated solicitation by
sometimes questionable organizations, or solicitations in a hazardous manner or
location. It is the purpose of this subchapter to regulate solicitation on
streets and highways and other public areas of the county, to protect the
public health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. 13, 2007, passed 5-29-2007)
§ 111.51 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT.  The charitable organization seeking a permit.
   CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION.  An organization that is qualified under Section
501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended; Indiana registered
non-profit corporations; churches; and public and private schools. Charitable
organizations must also either be registered with the Indiana Secretary of
State or be exempt from such registration.
   CHIEF OF POLICE.  The Chief of the Police Department or his or her designee.
   EVENT.  Any charitable solicitation within the city.
   EVENT PERMIT.  A permit issued pursuant to this subchapter to conduct an
event.
   ORDINANCE ADMINISTRATOR. The ordinance enforcement officer of the city.
   ORGANIZER.  The person responsible for organizing the event and whose name
shall be on the application.
   PERMIT.  An event permit.
   SOLICITATION or CHARITABLE SOLICITATION. The act of asking for employment,
business or contributions on a public road, street, highway, right-of-way,
sidewalk or other public property from the occupant of any vehicle or any
pedestrian.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who engages in solicitation.
   TRAVEL LANES.  The marked lanes on a road or highway, or the lanes of travel
for vehicles, including turn lanes, access lanes, and acceleration or
deceleration lanes.
(Ord. 13, 2007, passed 5-29-2007)
§ 111.52 RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Solicitation restricted. The city prohibits any person from standing,
entering on a highway, or public street, sidewalk, easement, or right-of-way
for the purposes of soliciting employment, business solicitations, and/or
contributions from the occupant of a vehicle or any pedestrian without a
permit. Solicitation shall only be allowed by charitable organizations with a
permit, under the terms of this subchapter. It shall be a violation of this
subchapter to engage in solicitation without a permit, or otherwise not in
accordance with the terms of this subchapter and the permit. This subchapter is
not intended to apply to fundraisers such as car washes, bake sales, garage
sales, and the like, where the sponsoring organization uses the public right-
of-way to direct passers-by to activities primarily taking place on private
property.
   (B)   Permit required. No individual or charitable organization is allowed
to engage in solicitation on any public way, street, sidewalk, easement or
right-of-way in the city without first obtaining an event permit. Persons,
businesses and organizations that are not charitable organizations as defined
in this subchapter are not eligible to receive a permit for solicitation. An
event permit shall be obtained from the Clerk-Treasurer, after prior approval
by the Board of Public Works and Safety. An event permit is not required for
any event sponsored or conducted by the city or its departments and agencies.
(Ord. 13, 2007, passed 5-29-2007)
§ 111.53 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A) Permit application. All requests for a permit must be provided to the
Board of Public Works and Safety at least 14 days but no more than 60 days
prior to the date of the requested activity. The Board of Public Works and
Safety shall issue a decision within 14 days of the application being filed.
The Board of Public Works and Safety, for good cause shown, shall have the
authority to consider any application under this section which is filed less
than 14 days before the date such event is proposed to be conducted, provided
the Chief of Police shall have adequate time to conduct the investigation. An
application and permit shall be required for each event, provided however only
one application and permit shall be required for each proposed event.
   (B)   Required information. All applications for permits must include the
following information, and shall be signed by the organizer(s), unless such
information is known by the Clerk-Treasurer's Office:
      (1)   Name and address of charitable organization, including headquarters
address and the address of the closest branch office if there is no city
office;
      (2)   Type of organization and certification, if listed below. The
organization must be one of the following types to apply for a permit:
         (a)   Organization qualified under Section 501(c) of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, including certification from IRS;
         (b)   Non-profit corporation registered in Indiana, including
certification from Secretary of State;
         (c)   Church; or
         (d)   Public or private school.
      (3)   Name of organizer(s), and address, and social security number and/
or driver's license number of each organizer for background check purposes;
      (4)   Photocopy of driver's license or other official photo
identification of each organizer;
      (5)   Proposed solicitation activity, and purpose for activity (i.e., use
of funds);
      (6)   Dates and times of solicitation activity;
      (7)   Names of all participants proposed to be solicitors, and their
ages;
      (8)   If any solicitors are under age 18, the names and addresses of
adult supervisors; one adult supervisor per four solicitors under age 18 is
required;
      (9)   If the event is to be held on behalf of any person or organization
other than the applicant, a communication in written form from that person or
organization authorizing the applicant to apply for the permit;
      (10)   The application shall contain a statement that the submission of
the application shall be considered to be consent by the organizer(s), the
charitable organization, and the officers of the organization for a background
check to be run by the Chief of Police at his or her discretion on any person
named on the application, and a statement that all information contained
thereon is true and correct; and
      (11)   Any additional information the Chief of Police may find reasonably
necessary for a fair determination as to whether the proposed event will
endanger public health, safety or welfare.
   (C)   Organizer.  A minimum of one organizer is required for an event. No
more than five persons shall be designated organizers for any event. The
organizer(s) are required to be at the event in person at all times. There
shall be one organizer for each location where solicitation is occurring. All
events shall be conducted under the supervision of a person or persons making
application for same (the organizer) and shall be conducted in a peaceable and
orderly manner in compliance with the laws and ordinances applicable thereto.
   (D)   Permit onsite. The signed permit is to be kept on-site in the
possession of an organizer at all times that solicitation is underway. If
multiple locations are involved, a permit copy shall be kept at each location
by each organizer. Permits shall be displayed at the request of any citizen or
law enforcement personnel.
   (E)   Fees. No fee is required of an applicant.
(Ord. 13, 2007, passed 5-29-2007)
§ 111.54 INVESTIGATION AND ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Investigation. The Chief of Police shall review the application for
completeness and compliance with the terms of this subchapter. The Chief of
Police shall check if the charitable organization is registered with the
Secretary of State, or is exempt from registration. The Chief of Police shall
determine whether there are any records of complaints against the applicant or
organizers in the records of the Indiana State Police or the GCIC/NCIC crime
database system. The Chief of Police may, at his or her discretion, conduct a
background check of the organizers or corporate officers, or any other person
named on the application. The Chief of Police may, at his or her discretion,
make any other inquiries he or she deems necessary for the investigation of the
applicant or the organizers.
   (B)   Decision. The Board of Public Works and Safety may grant, deny, or
grant a restricted permit. The Board shall issue a permit as provided in this
subchapter from a consideration of the application and from such information as
may otherwise be obtained, unless it finds that any or all of the following
apply:
      (1)   The conduct of the event will substantially interrupt the safe and
orderly movement of traffic;
      (2)   The conduct of the event will substantially interrupt the safe and
orderly movement of police and/or fire fighting and/or emergency medical
vehicles and equipment en route to a fire, or other emergency services;
      (3)   The applicant or any organizers or participants have any criminal
complaints pending against them, or have a criminal record involving crimes of
theft, fraud, or other moral turpitude;
      (4)   The applicant is not a qualifying charitable organization or is
otherwise not a legitimate organization;
      (5)   The Chief of Police has reasons to believe the event is a fraud or
sham;
      (6)   If a charitable organization required to be registered with the
Secretary of State is not so registered;
      (7)   The conduct of the event is contrary to the public's health, safety
or general welfare; or
      (8)   The application was not complete, or the application or permit
requested are not fully in compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   Restrictions. The Board shall indicate on the permit the permitted
activities, locations, and times of the event. The Board may approve a smaller
or shorter event than requested, may reduce the number of solicitors, may
approve a different location, or may generally make any other adjustments it
believes necessary to the application to serve the public health, safety and
welfare.
   (D)   Non-content based review. The content of the message of any applicant,
their beliefs, the identification of the participants, or any other matter
which does not directly impact on the public health, safety, and welfare, shall
not be relevant to the determination of whether to grant or deny a permit.
(Ord. 13, 2007, passed 5-29-2007)
§ 111.55 REGULATIONS; LOCATIONS AND TIMES.
   (A)   Prohibited times. No solicitation shall be allowed during the
following times:
      (1)   Before 9:00 a.m. or after 4:00 p.m. Monday through Friday;
      (2)   Between the hours of 11:30 a.m. and 1:30 p.m. Monday through
Friday;
      (3)   Before 9:00 a.m. or after 5:00 p.m. on Saturday or Sunday; and
      (4)   At any time after sunset or before sunrise.
   (B)   Locations. Solicitation shall only be allowed at intersection of
Second Street and Walnut Street:
      (1)   Solicitors are required to stay on median strips, sidewalks or
otherwise out of the street;
      (2)   Solicitation from travel lanes is not permitted;
      (3)   When all vehicles are stopped at an intersection, solicitors may
approach cars to receive donations if the occupants have indicated they seek to
make a donation;
      (4)   Walking along a line of cars shall only be permitted if the
solicitor stays out of the travel lanes;
      (5)   No more than one organization may solicit at the same intersection
at the same time. An event may occur at more than one location or intersection
on the same day, if permitted by the Board of Public Works and Safety.
   (C)   Duration. An event may last no longer than one day. A separate permit
shall be required for each additional event.
   (D)   Solicitors under 18. All charitable organizations which are permitted
to solicit funds must have one adult supervisor over the age of 21 if there are
minors under the age of 18.
   (E)   Peddling. Peddling shall not be allowed without an itinerant
merchant's license. A separate peddler's license is required. See the City
Itinerant Merchant's provision.
(Ord. 13, 2007, passed 5-29-2007)
§ 111.56 VIOLATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Persons soliciting without a permit or in violation of the permit
shall be cited with a citation for violations in the Jackson Superior Court, in
accordance with the requirements of law for such citations. Any member of the
Police Department or the Ordinance Administrator shall be authorized to issue
such citations.
   (B)   Any violation of this subchapter shall immediately revoke the permit.
The Chief of Police and/or Ordinance Administrator shall also have the
discretion to revoke the permit upon charge of violation being made, or upon
awareness of illegal or unauthorized activity, if revocation is required in the
best interests of public health, safety and welfare.
   (C)   Any person, organization, business or entity found in violation of
this subchapter may not be issued a permit for a two-year period from the date
of the violation. Upon second offense, the person, organization, business or
entity found in violation of this subchapter shall be permanently banned from
further solicitation in the city.
   (D)   The City Attorney shall be authorized to seek injunctive relief and
other relief in court if necessary to effectuate the intent of this subchapter.
The city shall be entitled to seek civil fines in the amounts specified above,
and shall be entitled to its attorney's fees for any successful action.
(Ord. 13, 2007, passed 5-29-2007)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, organization, business or entity violation the §§
111.50 et seq. is subject to a fine of up to $1,000 per day per violation per
individual participant. The minimum fine shall be $100 per day per violation
per individual participant.
(Ord. 13, 2007, passed 5-29-2007)
CHAPTER 112: AMUSEMENTS
Section
Carnivals and Circuses
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Permit required
   
112.03   Application form
   
112.04   Application procedure
   
112.05   Liability insurance required
   
112.06   Additional permit requirements
   
112.07   Hours of operation
   
112.08   Violations a nuisance
CARNIVALS AND CIRCUSES
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CARNIVAL. Includes amusement activities, rides, merry-go-rounds, booths for
the conduct of games of skill, food dispensing facilities, and sideshows
presented by traveling companies.
   CIRCUS. Includes performances given by traveling companies on vacant lots
with tents, or some other kind of temporary enclosure, where performances are
given for a fee. Performances may include, but are not limited to: trained
animal acts, races, feats of horsemanship, acrobatics, strength, trapeze
acting, or clowns.
(1987 Code, § 4-17) (Ord. 437, passed 2-3-1930)
§ 112.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to conduct or operate any carnival or circus which is
open to the public and for admittance to which a fee is charged, without first
obtaining a permit from the City Clerk-Treasurer after approval by the Board of
Public Works and Safety.
(1987 Code, § 4-17) (Ord. 437, passed 2-3-1930) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.03 APPLICATION FORM.
   (A)   Each applicant for a permit under this subchapter shall procure from
the clerk of the Board of Public Works and Safety an application for this
license which must be filed at least 30 days prior to the proposed carnival or
circus.
   (B)   The application shall require the applicant to furnish information,
including but not limited to the following:
      (1)   Legal name of the applicant and position;
      (2)   Present address and telephone number of the applicant;
      (3)   Name and address of the traveling company or organization;
      (4)   Location of the proposed carnival or circus;
      (5)   Proposed dates of the circus or carnival to be in the city;
      (6)   Number and types of sideshows, concessions, and rides to be
included therein;
      (7)   Date of issuance and number of licenses issued by the city for
vendors associated with the circus or carnival; and
      (8)   References of other cities or citys recently visited by the
applicant.
(1987 Code, § 4-17) (Ord. 437, passed 2-3-1930)
§ 112.04 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Each completed application for a permit under this subchapter shall be
accompanied by a site plan, drawing, or diagram, showing the location and the
layout of the proposed carnival or circus, and proof of required public
liability insurance.
   (B)   Upon the filing of a complete application, the same shall be referred
to the Board of Public Works and Safety and thereafter shall be referred by the
Board to the following departments or agencies for review and recommendation:
      (1)   To the Chief of Police or designee thereof, for a background check
of the applicant and for recommendations for crowd and noise control, litter
control, proper restroom facilities, security, and other matters related to
public safety. The Chief of Police shall also refer the application to the
County Health Department;
      (2)   To the Fire Chief or designee for a check of ingress and egress to
the proposed site for proper emergency fire lanes, parking, and other matters
related to public safety; and
      (3)   The Board of Public Works and Safety may request or receive
inspection reports and recommendations from any other department or bureau
prior to or after issuance of a permit.
   (C)   Each of the individuals listed in divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2), above,
shall file a signed written report with the Board of Public Works and Safety.
   (D)   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall approve each permit
application if it meets all of the requirements of this subchapter.
   (E)   Any applicant may appeal a denial of a permit pursuant to the
procedures set forth in §
110.03 of this code.
(1987 Code, § 4-17) (Ord. 437, passed 2-3-1930)
§ 112.05 LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No permit shall be issued unless the applicant files with the clerk to
the Board of Public Works and Safety a certificate or certificates of insurance
indicating that there is in effect public liability insurance covering any
damages arising out of the use and operation of any and all devices and
facilities operated in connection with the carnival or circus. This insurance
shall be in the minimum amount of $500,000 for each person, and $1,000,000 for
each occurrence. This policy shall also contain a provision specifically
holding the city harmless from any liability resulting from the carnival or
circus.
   (B)   Worker’s compensation coverage shall be in full force and effect
during the duration of the carnival or circus which complies with the
requirements of the several statutes of the state.
(1987 Code, § 4-17) (Ord. 437, passed 2-3-1930)
Statutory reference:
   Worker’s compensation, see I.C. 22-3 et seq.
§ 112.06 ADDITIONAL PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The fee for the issuance of a permit under this subchapter shall be as
given in
Ch. 36 of this code.
   (B)   All other license requirements of this code shall be complied with by
vendors proposing to do business at the carnival or circus.
   (C)   Permits issued under this subchapter shall be done in quadruplicate.
(1987 Code, § 4-17) (Ord. 437, passed 2-3-1930)
§ 112.07 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   In no event shall a carnival or circus begin before 10:00 a.m., nor shall it
continue past 12:00 midnight.
(1987 Code, § 4-17) (Ord. 437, passed 2-3-1930) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.08 VIOLATIONS A NUISANCE.
   (A)   Any carnival or circus operated, conducted, or maintained contrary to
the provisions of this subchapter shall be unlawful and declared a public
nuisance.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this subchapter
shall, upon conviction, be fined, and may be subject to the provisions of §
10.99 of this code, and each violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(1987 Code, § 4-17) (Ord. 437, passed 2-3-1930)
CHAPTER 113: TAXICABS
Section
   
113.01   Definition
   
113.02   Vehicle license required
   
113.03   License application
   
113.04   Vehicle inspection and regulations
   
113.05   Fees
   
113.06   Bond requirements
   
113.07   License and expiration
   
113.08   Operating regulations
   
113.09   Service discontinuance; notice required
   
113.10   Taxicab driver’s license application
   
113.11   Grounds for denial or revocation
   
113.12   Driver’s license display required
   
113.13   Violations
§ 113.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TAXICAB. A motor vehicle, designed or constructed to accommodate or
transport passengers, when a charge is made for that service, the principal
operation of which is within the corporate limits of the city and the suburban
areas thereof, excluding what is usually defined as a bus, ambulance, funeral
car, or school bus, or similar type vehicles.
(1987 Code, § 4-56) (Ord. 34, 1977, passed 12-26-1977)
§ 113.02 VEHICLE LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall operate a taxicab or, while operating
a taxicab, stop to solicit or pick up passengers anywhere within the city,
unless and until that person, firm, or corporation shall first procure a
license so to do from the Board of Public Works and Safety of the city as
hereinafter provided.
(1987 Code, § 4-56) (Ord. 34, 1977, passed 12-26-1977) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.03 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   Any person, firm, or corporation desiring a taxicab license, shall first
file an application therefor with the City Clerk-Treasurer.
(1987 Code, § 4-56) (Ord. 6, 1985, passed 2-25-1985)
§ 113.04 VEHICLE INSPECTION AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   No license as herein provided shall be issued permitting the
operation of any motor vehicle to be used as a taxicab until that taxicab shall
have been inspected and found to be in good repair and in a clean and sanitary
condition, so as to be capable of safely and comfortably transporting
passengers therein. The cost, if any, of this inspection shall be paid by the
owner of the motor vehicle inspected.
      (2)   The Board of Public Works and Safety may cause taxicabs to be
inspected at 90-day intervals, or as often as deemed necessary by the Board
during the term of the license issued therefor, and for the purpose of this
inspection the Police Department or some person or firm delegated by the Police
Department is authorized to make these inspections and report the same to the
Board of Public Works and Safety. If upon inspection a taxicab is found in an
unsanitary or unsafe condition, that taxicab may be ordered withdrawn from
service until placed in a sanitary and serviceable condition, and upon failure
to comply with this order the license of that taxicab may be revoked and no
portion of the license fee shall be refunded.
   (B)   Taxicabs licensed under the provisions of this chapter shall have no
fewer than four doors.
   (C)   Every taxicab shall be identified by having painted thereon in letters
of not less than three inches in height, the name of the owner or the trade
name under which the owner does business, and that name shall be painted on
each side and on the rear of the taxicab; and whenever the name of the owner or
trade name under which he, she, or it does business does not include any of the
words “taxicab,” “taxi,” or “cab,” then the word “taxicab” shall be painted on
each side and on the rear of the taxicab immediately beneath the name or trade
name; and the license number issued for the taxicab shall also in the same
manner be painted upon each side and the rear thereof.
(1987 Code, § 4-56) (Ord. 6, 1985, passed 2-25-1985)
§ 113.05 FEES.
   (A)   With the filing of the application, as established by §
113.03 above, and the certificate of inspection as required by §
113.04, the applicant shall tender to the Clerk-Treasurer an annual license fee
as set forth in
Ch. 36 of this code.
   (B)   If an application is made after June 30 of any calendar year, the
license fees shall then be reduced to an amount equal to one-half of the above-
mentioned license fees, which one-half license fees shall entitle the taxicab,
or taxicabs, to be operated only during the remainder of the calendar year, if
license be issued by authority of the Board of Public Works and Safety, as
hereinafter provided.
(1987 Code, § 4-56) (Ord. 34, 1977, passed 12-26-1977)
§ 113.06 BOND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No license shall be issued and no taxicab shall be operated upon any
street, avenue, or public highway in the city until there shall have been filed
with the Clerk-Treasurer a bond, indemnity undertaking, or paid-up policy of
insurance executed by a company legally authorized to execute this type of
instrument in this state, running for the year of the license to be issued to
the applicant as provided by this chapter.
   (B)   When the filings as mentioned above have been made with the Clerk-
Treasurer, that office shall then transmit the application and applied papers
to the Board of Public Works and Safety who shall have the exclusive right to
issue or deny the application; and in approving or denying the application the
Board may require the applicant to submit proof, to the Board’s satisfaction,
that the applicant is financially able to render taxicab services as applied
for; and the Board shall require the applicant to furnish and file proof with
the Board, and to its approval, of financial responsibility for each vehicle in
the amount of $100,000 per person, $150,000 per occurrence, bodily injury, and
$10,000 for property damage, and, further, the Board shall determine before
ordering the issuance of such a license that there is a public necessity for
this service in the city and that the applicant is fully qualified to render
this service.
(1987 Code, § 4-56) (Ord. 9, 1986, passed 6-9-1986)
§ 113.07 LICENSE AND EXPIRATION.
   Upon and after the determination as set out in §
113.06 above, the Board shall return the file to the Clerk-Treasurer with its
written approval or disapproval of the license, and upon receipt of the written
approval thereof, as mentioned above, the Clerk-Treasurer shall be authorized,
required, and directed to issue a license to the applicant in the name of the
city to render taxicab service, a copy of which license shall always be carried
in that taxicab and which license shall expire on December 31 of the calendar
year in which it was issued.
(1987 Code, § 4-56) (Ord. 34, 1977, passed 12-26-1977) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.08 OPERATING REGULATIONS.
   Upon receipt of the license as mentioned above, the applicant shall comply
further as follows:
   (A)   The name, license number, and photo of each and every driver for the
applicant shall always be on file in the city Police Department;
   (B)   A copy of the registration for each vehicle shall be on file at all
times with the city Police Department;
   (C)   The Chief of Police may require an inspection of any licensed taxicab
vehicle, at any time, to ascertain that the vehicle continues to fulfill the
requirements of §
113.04 of this code, and if the vehicle is found to be unsafe, or in violation
of §
113.04 of this code, the Chief of Police, or by his or her authority, may
suspend the license for that vehicle until the vehicle is returned to the
standards required by §
113.04;
   (D)   No taxicab shall be used for the purpose of transportation or delivery
of alcoholic beverages at any time;
   (E)   No vehicle shall be used for any public purpose when the license
therefor has been suspended as required by division (C) above;
   (F)   No taxicab shall be parked at any time on the public streets of the
city, excepting only for the necessary time to pick up or unload passengers;
and
   (7)   All taxicab businesses shall be domiciled only in commercially zoned
areas.
(1987 Code, § 4-56) (Ord. 34, 1977, passed 12-26-1977; Am. Ord. 38, 2000,
passed 12-11-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.09 SERVICE DISCONTINUANCE; NOTICE REQUIRED.
   Taxicab owners shall not discontinue their services to the public on
holidays or other occasions without giving due notice in the press at least 48
hours in advance.
(1987 Code, § 4-56) (Ord. 6, 1985, passed 2-25-1985) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.10 TAXICAB DRIVER’S LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   Form of application. Every person desiring to drive a taxicab in the
city shall, before undertaking so to do, file an application in writing for a
taxicab driver’s license that is duly sworn to by the applicant with the City
Clerk-Treasurer, which application shall show the following:
      (1)   The name and present address of the applicant;
      (2)   The address of each place of residence of the applicant during the
last six years prior to the date of the application;
      (3)   The place of employment, the kind of employment, and the name of
each of the employers of the applicant for the two years immediately preceding
the date of the application;
      (4)   The applicant’s experience in automobile operation;
      (5)   Whether or not the applicant has ever been convicted in any court
for any crime or misdemeanor, and if so, the facts concerning each conviction;
      (6)   Upon the face of the application, a certificate of the Chief of
Police of the city that the applicant has been duly examined as to his or her
ability to drive and operate a motor vehicle and has been examined concerning
the traffic ordinances and this code of the city and the traffic laws of the
state and has been examined as to conviction of any crime or misdemeanor, and
that in the opinion of the Chief of Police and the Board of Public Works and
Safety of the city the applicant is a fit and proper person to receive a
taxicab driver’s license.
   (B)   Fee. The applicant shall also at the time of filing the application
for a taxicab driver’s license pay to the Clerk-Treasurer the sum as set forth
in
Ch. 36 of this code, for an annual taxicab driver’s license, and this license
shall be valid for one year after issuance, unless the license shall be revoked
pursuant to the sections of this chapter.
(1987 Code, § 4-56) (Ord. 6, 1985, passed 2-25-1985; Am. Ord. 29, 2024, passed
10-14-2024)
§ 113.11 GROUNDS FOR DENIAL OR REVOCATION.
   (A)   Felony violations.
      (1)   No taxicab driver’s license shall be issued to any applicant whose
application shows that he or she, within seven years immediately preceding the
date of application, has been convicted of:
         (a)   Any felony;
         (b)   The violation of any liquor law of the state; or
         (c)   Has three times been convicted of the violation of any moving
traffic law.
      (2)   Any taxicab driver’s license shall be revoked upon a showing that
the license was obtained by a false statement contained in the application for
the license.
   (B)   Liquor violations. If any person holding a license under this chapter
shall be convicted of violating any of the provisions of the liquor laws of the
state, or if it shall be shown that any licensed person is engaged in the
handling of intoxicating liquors in relation to the business licensed to
operate with the provisions of this chapter, the license so held shall be
revoked.
(1987 Code, § 4-56) (Ord. 6, 1985, passed 2-25-1985; Am. Ord. 29, passed 10-14-
2024) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.12 DRIVER’S LICENSE DISPLAY REQUIRED.
   The license cards shall be displayed in a prominent place in each taxicab at
all times and shall be exhibited to any police officer upon request. These
cards shall be kept corrected as to date, motor number, state license number,
and the name of the driver. Upon any change being made, the old license card
shall be delivered up and cancelled and a new card issued in its place, and the
old license card destroyed and necessary correction made in the original
license. There shall be displayed in every taxicab a clear photograph of the
driver of the cab together with his or her name in legible print or type. This
picture shall be at least two inches by two inches in size, mounted in a metal
container, and shall show the head and shoulders of the driver. The picture
shall be clearly visible from the back seat of any taxicab. And it shall be the
duty of the holder of any license to see that this chapter is complied with
under additional penalty or revocation of the license.
(1987 Code, § 4-56) (Ord. 6, 1985, passed 2-25-1985) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.13 VIOLATIONS.
   Any violations of this chapter may be enforced by an action brought in
accordance with I.C. 34-28-5 and judgment sought against any violator as
provided in §
10.99 of this code.
(1987 Code, § 4-56) (Ord. 6, 1985, passed 2-25-1985)
CHAPTER 114: JUNK YARDS AND JUNK DEALERS
Section
   
114.01   License required
   
114.02   Definitions
   
114.03   Requirements for junk yard
   
114.04   Junk in motor vehicles; restrictions
   
114.05   License application
   
114.06   Inspection of premises
   
114.07   License issuance
   
114.08   Fee
   
114.09   Record keeping
   
114.10   Age requirement to sell junk
   
114.11   Enforcement
   
114.12   Violations; notice to abate
§ 114.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to establish, use,
maintain, conduct, or operate any junk yard, junk facility, or junk place, as
hereinafter defined, without first procuring from the City Clerk-Treasurer an
annual license therefor as hereinafter prescribed.
(1987 Code, §§ 4-37, 6-154) (Ord. 1469, passed 6-27-1966) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JUNK YARD, JUNK FACILITY, or JUNK PLACE. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any yard, place, or facility where junk, including but not limited
to iron, other metals, and all other types of scrap materials, is stored, or
kept for future sale or exchange;
      (2)   Any yard, place, or facility where junk, including but not limited
to iron, other metals, and all types of scrap materials, is bought, sold, or
exchanged;
      (3)   Any yard, place, or facility where one or more inoperative, or
partially or totally wrecked motor vehicles are stored, bought, held for sale
or storage, sold, or exchanged; or
      (4)   Any yard, place, or facility where one or more inoperative, or
partially or totally wrecked motor vehicles are dismantled, or intended to be
dismantled, for the purpose of salvage, sale, or exchange of either mechanical
parts, or component portions, of those motor vehicles.
(1987 Code, §§ 4-37, 6-155) (Ord. 1469, passed 6-27-1966)
§ 114.03 REQUIREMENTS FOR JUNK YARD.
   Any person, firm, or corporation desiring to establish, use, maintain,
conduct, or operate a junk yard, junk facility, or junk place within the city
limits, shall be required to first provide physical facilities to include the
following:
   (A)   An enclosed office building with sufficient sanitary facilities for
the employees and patrons of the yard, facility, or place;
   (B)   A minimum of one entrance of sufficient size to permit motor vehicles,
including trucks, to enter the premises from a public thoroughfare;
   (C)   All physical facilities, and the area itself, comply with all rules,
regulations, and requirements of the state and county Boards of Health;
   (D)   Suitable and adequate loading and unloading docks, or berths, off the
public street or public right- of-way, and solely upon the premises used for
these purposes;
   (E)   Off-street parking spaces at a minimum of at least one for every two
employees and a further minimum of three additional spaces for the patrons or
customers of that junk yard, junk facility, or junk place;
   (F)   The physical facilities shall be further located with a minimum of 25
feet setback from any public street or thoroughfare, with the front yard
thereof to be suitably landscaped in harmony with other businesses and
residences within the block;
   (G)   The premises shall further be screened, on all sides, including front
and back, by a solid wall, solid fence, or tight screen planting, at least
eight feet in height, maintained in a good state of repair; and
   (H)   Provided further, that in the event the junk yard, junk facility, or
junk place be located in an area of the city that is zoned industrial, any
person, firm, or corporation conducting and operating the junk yard, junk
facility, or junk place may substitute a chain link fence for the solid wall,
solid fence, or tight screen planting as hereinbefore required in this section.
(1987 Code, §§ 4-37, 6-156) (Ord. 1469, passed 6-27-1966; Am. Ord. 1525, passed
12-18-1967)
§ 114.04 JUNK IN MOTOR VEHICLES; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Parking restricted. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or
corporation establishing, using, maintaining, conducting, or operating any junk
yard, junk facility, or junk place, as herein defined, to cause, permit, or
suffer any motor vehicle containing junk, as herein defined, to be parked, or
to remain standing, upon any public street or thoroughfare of this city, at any
time.
(1987 Code, §§ 4-37, 6-157)
   (B)   Transfers between vehicles restricted. It shall be unlawful for any
person, firm, or corporation establishing, using, maintaining, conducting, or
operating any junk yard, junk facility, or junk place, as herein defined, to
transfer, exchange, receive, or sort any junk, as herein defined, from one
motor vehicle to another motor vehicle, while the motor vehicle or motor
vehicles are parked or permitted to remain standing upon any public street or
public thoroughfare of this city, at any time.
(1987 Code, § 6-157)
(Ord. 1469, passed 6-27-1966) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.05 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   Any person, firm, or corporation desiring to establish, use, maintain,
conduct, or operate any junk yard, junk facility, or junk place, within the
city, shall make written application, upon forms prescribed by the Board of
Public Works and Safety of the city, to the City Clerk-Treasurer, for a license
so to do, tendering with this application, the annual license fee as
hereinafter prescribed.
(1987 Code, §§ 4-37, 6-158) (Ord. 1469, passed 6-27-1966)
§ 114.06 INSPECTION OF PREMISES.
   Upon receipt of the application, as mentioned above, the Clerk-Treasurer
shall cause the application to be forwarded to the Chief of Police of the city,
who shall inspect the premises to ascertain if all requirements of this chapter
are complied with and file, within ten days thereafter, his or her written
report of that inspection.
(1987 Code, §§ 4-37, 6-159) (Ord. 1469, passed 6-27-1966)
§ 114.07 LICENSE ISSUANCE.
   Upon receipt of the written report of the Chief of Police, showing
compliance with this chapter as hereinbefore provided, the City Clerk-Treasurer
shall issue the license and forward the same to the Mayor of the city, who
shall countersign the same and cause the license to be then forwarded to the
applicant.
(1987 Code, §§ 4-37, 6-160) (Ord. 1469, passed 6-27-1966)
§ 114.08 FEE.
   The fee for this annual license will be the sum as set forth in
Ch. 36 of this code, and shall be for a period expiring December 31 next
following its issuance.
(1987 Code, §§ 4-37, 6-161) (Ord. 1469, passed 6-27-1966)
§ 114.09 RECORD KEEPING.
   Every person, firm, or corporation licensed to conduct, maintain, use, or
operate a junk yard, junk facility, or junk place, shall keep a book in which
shall be legibly written in ink at the time of purchasing, taking, or
recovering of any goods, articles, or things, and preserve an accurate account
and description in the English language of the goods, articles, or things
purchased, taken, or received, the amount of money paid therefor, the time of
purchasing, taking, or receiving the same, and the name, age, and residence of
person selling or delivering the same, which book shall be open to the
inspection of any member of the city Police Department at any time on demand;
provided further, that the provisions of this section shall not apply to the
purchase of old newspapers, paper, and other paper products.
(1987 Code, §§ 4-37, 6-162) (Ord. 1469, passed 6-27-1966)
§ 114.10 AGE REQUIREMENT TO SELL JUNK.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to buy any junk,
or any other scrap material of any kind, from any person under the full age of
18 years of age, unless the seller has the written consent of his or her parent
or lawful guardian.
(1987 Code, §§ 4-37, 6-163) (Ord. 1469, passed 6-27-1966) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.11 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Police Department, Fire Department, and the Department of Public Works
and Safety are designated as the agencies which shall enforce the provisions of
this chapter. When any violation of this chapter is discovered or brought to
the attention of these departments, the departments shall study the
circumstances and determine if this chapter has been violated. Whenever the
departments determine that a violation exists, they or it shall forward a
report setting out the nature, extent, and location of the violation, and refer
the report to the Board of Public Works and Safety. Thereupon, the Board of
Public Works and Safety shall request the City Attorney to commence an action
in the name of the city, in a proper court in order to enjoin a violation of
this chapter. In addition, the City Attorney may request the prosecuting
attorney of the Judicial Circuit to institute criminal proceedings against any
persons who are responsible for the establishment, maintenance, use, or
operation which is in violation of this chapter.
(1987 Code, § 6-166) (Ord. 19, 1985, passed 8-26-1985) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.12 VIOLATIONS; NOTICE TO ABATE.
   A person who violates this chapter or knowingly allows a junk yard, junk
facility, or junk place to be established or maintained on his or her property
in violation of this chapter, shall suffer the following penalties. Whenever
the Board of Public Works and Safety is given written notice by one of the
responsible departments, that a junk yard, junk facility, or junk place is
maintained or operated in violation of this chapter, the city shall give 30
days’ notice, by certified mail, to the owner of the property upon which the
violation exists. If the owner fails to act within 30 days as required in the
notice, the person failing or refusing shall become liable and forfeit to the
city a fine, to be recovered by the city in a civil action brought in a proper
court by the City Attorney. Each day’s delay in complying with the requirements
in the notice shall constitute a separate violation of the chapter and result
in additional liability. The penalty shall be paid into the General Fund for
the use of the city.
(1987 Code, § 6-167) (Ord. 19, 1985, passed 8-26-1985) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 115: TELEVISION AND RADIO
Section
   
115.01   Authority of Board of Public Works and Safety
   
115.02   Bids for franchise
   
115.03   Franchise conditions and limitations
§ 115.01 AUTHORITY OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS AND SAFETY.
   The Board of Public Works and Safety of the city be, and it is expressly
authorized, empowered, and granted, the right and responsibility to contract on
behalf of the city, for the transmission and distribution of television and
radio signal impulses to the residents of the city.
(1987 Code, § 4-70) (Ord. 1585, passed 4-13-1970)
§ 115.02 BIDS FOR FRANCHISE.
   Pursuant to the authority granted in §
115.01 above, the Board of Public Works and Safety shall, as by law required,
advertise for bids on the furnishing of the services, as hereinafter detailed,
and upon the acceptance by the Board of the bid which, in its opinion, is the
best as determined by the following requirements and conditions of this
chapter, the Board of Public Works and Safety shall grant a franchise, license,
and right to construct, erect, maintain, and use wires, lines, cables,
conduits, poles, appur- tenances thereto, and attachments or equipment thereto,
over and along any street, alley, or other public way or right-of-way within
the city, as may be necessary for the construction and operation of a
subscription system for the transmission and distribution of television and
radio signal reception impulses to the inhabitants of the city, residing
exclusively within its corporate boundaries as they now exist, or as they may
be hereafter extended, for a determinate period not in excess of 20 years.
(1987 Code, § 4-71) (Ord. 1585, passed 4-13-1970)
§ 115.03 FRANCHISE CONDITIONS AND LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   In addition to the requirements of law of the state, as to contracts
and agreements with municipal corporations, the franchise or license described
in §
115.02 above shall be further subject to each and all of the following
conditions and limitations.
   (B)   The acceptance of the following conditions and limitations shall be
expressly included in each proposal or bid submitted.
      (1)   The franchisee shall commence service within 18 months after
obtaining pole rights or within two years after the date of the acceptance of
its bid, or whichever date and event shall come first.
(Ord. 1615, passed 8-9-1971)
      (2)   The franchisee shall give bond, as hereinafter prescribed, to
insure that it will maintain service for a period of at least two years after
the commencement of its service, as mentioned above.
      (3)   The franchise shall be exclusive for the purposes herein expressed
for a period of two years beginning on the date service hereunder became
effective.
      (4)   The franchise shall be and become non- exclusive for the purposes
herein specified, beginning two years after the date service hereunder becomes
effective and shall continue to be non-exclusive thereafter for the duration of
the original term.
      (5)   The franchisee shall be granted the right, privilege, and authority
to lease, rent, or in any other lawful manner obtain the use of towers, poles,
lines, cables, and other equipment and facilities from any and all holders of
public licenses and franchises within the corporate limits of the city; subject
to all existing and future ordinances and regulations of the city and the
state.
      (6)   All services of the franchisee hereunder and its poles and
appurtenances thereto, its wires, lines, cables, conduits, equipment, and all
attachments of equipment thereto, and the construction, erection, maintenance,
and use of all its facilities shall be in accordance with the provisions of the
National Electrical Safety Code prepared by the National Bureau of Standards,
the National Electrical Code of National Board of Fire Underwriters, and all
standards, codes, laws, ordinances, and regulations of the United States, the
state, the city, and all governmental or regulatory authorities thereof, now
and hereafter in effect, and those standards and specifications as may be
prescribed expressly under any pole rental agreements, which standards and
specifications under the pole rental agreements shall likewise apply to all
poles owned or placed by it.
      (7)   The franchisee agrees that it will not erect new poles for its
lines, unless and until the location thereof is approved in advance, by the
Board of Public Works and Safety, which approval shall not be unreasonably
withheld, to insure the proper utilization of the streets, alleys, and other
public ways of the city and that the wires, lines, cables, poles, and
appurtenances and attachments of equipment thereto, shall not interfere with,
hinder, or obstruct the public use of streets, alleys, and other public places
and shall not unnecessarily or unreasonably interfere with, hinder, or obstruct
the use or enjoyment of private property adjacent thereto.
      (8)   The franchisee agrees that no underground cable or conduit shall be
placed by it under any street, alley, or other public place, unless through
existing utility conduits or conduits which these utilities may have the right
to install, without the express written consent of the Board of Public Works
and Safety obtained in advance of the installation thereof.
(Ord. 1585, passed 4-13-1970)
      (9)   The franchisee shall agree to provide, as a part of its television
reception service, for its subscribers and customers in the city, the maximum
number of channels authorized by the Federal Communication Commission, to
include one channel to be reserved for local weather reporting.
(Ord. 12, 1978, passed 5-22-1978)
      (10)   The franchisee shall agree it shall establish, and at all times
maintain, reasonable standards of service and performance to its customers as
are consistent with generally accepted practices and standards in the trade and
field of community television systems, and that its failure to do so may, at
the option of the city or its Board of Public Works and Safety, be cause for
default of the franchise hereunder and for cancellation of the franchise
agreement.
(Ord. 1585, passed 4-13-1970)
      (11)   The franchisee shall agree to install signal distribution
facilities sufficient to service any and all residences or other places of
human habitation within the city, desiring to receive those services, and when
the franchisee’s initial facilities become fully operative, then the franchisee
agrees to furnish these services to any requesting residences, or other places
of human habitation, within the city, or which may hereafter come within the
city’s corporate boundaries, within a maximum of 60 days after the request
therefor, in writing, is received at the franchisee’s local office.
(Ord. 1615, passed 8-9-1971)
      (12)   The franchisee shall agree to furnish, without charge,
installation and service to a single outlet to any public or parochial school
building, or any other building owned by the city, which buildings, as
aforementioned, are within the corporate limits of the city and within a
maximum of 300 feet of regularly installed service lines of the franchisee.
      (13)   The franchisee shall agree that it shall not exercise any powers
or rights of eminent domain, which might inure to it as a result of this
franchise, without the express written consent in advance of the Board of
Public Works and Safety of the city.
      (14)   The franchisee shall agree that it will not, directly or
indirectly through a subsidiary, sell, lease, or distribute, either at retail
or wholesale, any television sets or any component parts of television
receivers or other equipment or supplies appurtenant thereto, including but not
limited to antennas, and further that it will not, directly or indirectly, as
aforementioned, engage in the repair or maintenance of, or service, any
television equipment, other than its own antennas and signal distribution
system.
      (15)   The franchisee shall agree that it shall maintain all parts of its
cable and distribution system at no charge to its subscribers and customers
other than an installation charge and a regular monthly service charge and
those applicable city, county, state, and federal taxes, if any, as may be
required to be passed on to the customer.
      (16)   The franchisee shall further agree that:
         (a)   It shall, at all times, maintain and furnish a telephone
answering service and a system maintenance service:
            1.   Adequate to maintain a reasonable standard of service to its
patrons;
            2.   Adequate to investigate any complaint from any resident of the
city that the franchisee’s construction, maintenance, or operation of its
system is interfering with the resident’s private reception of radio or
television impulses; and
            3.   Adequate to eliminate any interference from its system with
the private reception of radio or television impulses of any resident of the
city.
         (b)   There shall not be any requirement as to a minimum period of
time a subscriber must remain a subscriber; and
         (c)   No deposit or payment by the subscriber, other than an
authorized connection charge or authorized monthly service fee, will be
required.
      (17)   As a part of its bid or proposal, the bidder and prospective
franchisee shall furnish bonds as follows:
(Ord. 1585, passed 4-13-1970)
         (a)   A bond in the sum of $10,000, which bond is conditioned upon
commencement of service by it within the period fixed by division (B)(1)
hereof, as amended, or as extended, for good cause shown, by the Board of
Public Works and Safety; the condition of this bond shall be that in the event
it commences service as hereinbefore required, then and in that event, the bond
shall become void; and
(Ord. 1615, passed 8-9-1971)
         (b)   A further and additional bond in the principal sum of $10,000,
that it will operate the system for two years from the date the first service
is commenced. In the event it should not operate the system for two full years
for any reason other than court decree or injunctions, governmental orders,
decrees, or prohibiting restrictions, strikes, fires, tornadoes, windstorms,
and other acts of God, then it shall refund to any subscriber to the service
the full amount of payment for connections to the system and proportionately
any unearned monthly charge.
(Ord. 1585, passed 4-13-1970)
      (18)   Prior to beginning construction of its facilities, the franchisee
shall furnish proof of insurance to the city, as follows:
         (a)   It shall indemnify, protect, and save harmless the city from and
against losses and physical damages to property, and bodily injury or death to
persons, including payments made under any worker’s compensation law, which may
arise out of or be caused by the erection, maintenance, presence, use, or
removal of attachments on poles, or by any act of it, its agents, or employees;
         (b)   It shall carry insurance to protect the city from and against
all claims, demands, actions, judgments, costs, expenses, and liabilities which
may arise or result directly or indirectly from or by reason of this type of
loss, injury, or damage;
         (c)   The amounts of this insurance against liability due to physical
damages to property shall not be less than $100,000 as to any one accident;
         (d)   The amount of this insurance against liability due to bodily
injury or death of persons shall not be less than $300,000 as to any one person
and not less than $500,000 aggregate as to any one accident;
         (e)   It shall also carry insurance as it deems necessary to protect
it from all claims under the worker’s compensation laws in effect that may be
applicable to it;
         (f)   It shall carry insurance to indemnify and save harmless the
city, and all agents, officers, employees, and representatives thereof, from
all claims, demands, causes of action, damages, liability, judgments, costs,
and expenses, or losses at law and in equivalent to or asserted by any
corporation, firm, or person, private or public, as a result of, arising out
of, or connected with its franchise; and
         (g)   All insurance required by this agreement shall be and remain in
full force and effect for the entire life of this agreement; and the policy or
policies of insurance or a certified copy or copies thereof shall be approved
by the Board of Public Works and Safety of the city and then deposited with and
kept on file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer of the city.
      (19)   The franchisee shall agree that upon its failure to perform any
condition herein contained on or before 30 days after service upon it by
registered or certified mail of notice of default, the city shall be entitled,
at its option, by written resolution, to declare the franchise null and void,
whereupon it shall be the duty of the franchisee, at its sole expense, to
remove its property from the streets and other public ways of the city, but on
failure to promptly perform this duty, the city reserves the right to effect
this removal, whereupon the city shall acquire a specific lien against all
property of the company equal to its costs and expenses thus incurred.
      (20)   In addition to any other requirements, the franchisee shall:
         (a)   Pay to the city a license fee for the franchisee of 3%, per
annum, of all basic cable service revenue, which sums shall be paid in
quarterly installments, to the order of the city; and
(Ord. 26, 1989, passed 11-13-1989)
         (b)   Maintain, on file with the Board of Public Works and Safety of
the city, its current schedule of rates and charges for its basic services to
subscribers, and further provided that the franchisee may file, at any time, a
new or amended schedule of rates with the Board, which new or amended schedule
shall automatically become effective on and after 60 days from the date of its
filing with the Board, unless the Board objects, in writing, to the proposed
schedule as being unreasonable or excessive, which objections shall be entered
in the usual records of the Board, and upon the filing of these objections, as
aforementioned, the adoption of the new or amended schedule shall be held in
abeyance unless and until agreement thereof is reached by the franchisee and
the Board.
(Ord. 12, 1978, passed 5-22-1978)
      (21)   In consideration of the bids by the prospective franchisees, as
aforementioned, and in its determination of the best bid, the primary
determinant of the Board of Public Works and Safety shall be the service, and
extent thereof, offered by the prospective franchisee, and its proposed rate of
tariffs or charges, rather than the proposed amount of income to the city
itself, it being intended that the Board shall have a full and complete right,
duty, and obligation to reject any and all bids without announcement of cause,
if the Board is of the opinion that the acceptance of that bid is not in the
best interest of the city and its inhabitants, the bidders and prospective
franchisees expressly agreeing, in advance, the same being an express condition
of the bids, that the Board shall have the right to refuse any and all bids, as
stated.
(Ord. 1585, passed 4-13-1970)
      (22)   The Board of Public Works and Safety of the city shall have the
authority to enter into contracts with the franchisee.
(Ord. 26, 1989, passed 11-13-1989)
(1987 Code, § 4-72) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 116: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
General Provisions
   
116.01   Definitions
Location Regulations and Restrictions
   
116.15   Purpose and intent
   
116.16   Zoning and location restrictions
   
116.17   Measurement of distance
   
116.18   Location violations; defense
   
116.19   Existing businesses; grandfather provisions
Permits
   
116.30   Purpose and intent
   
116.31   Permit required; enforcement responsibility
   
116.32   Application procedure
   
116.33   Investigation
   
116.34   Issuance or denial
   
116.35   Fee
   
116.36   Inspection of premises
   
116.37   Permit expiration
   
116.38   Suspension
   
116.39   Revocation
   
116.40   Judicial review
   
116.41   Permit transfer restricted
Operating Regulations
   
116.55   Minors on premises prohibited
   
116.56   Advertising and display; lighting
   
116.57   Hours of operation
   
116.58   Public nudity prohibited
   
116.59   Operating without valid permit prohibited
   
116.60   Distribution of sexual devices prohibited
Administration and Enforcement
   
116.70   Exemptions and defenses
   
116.71   Remedies
   
116.72   Injunction
   
116.73   Officials immune from trespass prosecution
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 116.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT ARCADE. An establishment where, for any form of consideration, one or
more still or motion picture projectors, slide projectors, or similar machines,
or other image producing machines, for viewing by five or fewer persons each,
are regularly used to show films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or
other photographic reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE, or ADULT VIDEO STORE.
      (1)   A commercial establishment which has a significant or substantial
portion of its stock-in-trade or derives 25% or more of its revenues to the
sale or rental for any form of consideration, of any one or more of the
following:
         (a)   Books, magazines, periodicals, or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other visual
representations which are characterized by the depiction or description of
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; or
         (b)   Instruments, devices, or para- phernalia which are designed for
use or marketed primarily for stimulation of human genital organs or for sado-
masochistic use or abuse of themselves or others.
      (2)   An establishment may have other principal business purposes that do
not involve the offering for sale, rental, or viewing of materials depicting or
describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, and still
be categorized as ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE, or ADULT VIDEO STORE.
The other business purposes will not serve to exempt these establishments from
being categorized as an ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE, or ADULT VIDEO
STORE so long as one of its principal business purposes is offering for sale or
rental, for some form of consideration, the specified materials which depict or
describe specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities.
      (3)   Regardless of the percentage of revenues from adult materials
defined herein, any business which devotes any portion of its interior business
space or advertising, for any form of consideration or viewing of any of the
adult materials defined herein shall be considered to be an ADULT BOOKSTORE,
ADULT NOVELTY STORE, or ADULT VIDEO STORE as defined by and governed by this
chapter.
   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, restaurant bottle club, or similar
commercial establishment, whether or not alcoholic beverages are served, which
regularly features:
      (1)   Persons who appear semi-nude or in a state of semi-nudity; or
      (2)   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or by pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other
photographic reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT MOTEL. A motel, hotel, or similar commercial establishment which:
      (1)   Offers public accommodations, for any form of consideration, which
provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions which
are characterized by the depiction or description of specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas and which advertises the availability
of this sexually oriented type of material by means of a sign visible from the
public right-of- way, or by means of any off-premises advertising including,
but not limited to, newspapers, magazines, pamphlets or leaflets, radio, or
television;
      (2)   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time less than ten
hours; or
      (3)   Allows a tenant or occupant to sub-rent the sleeping room for a
time period of less than ten hours.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, slides, or similar photographic reproductions which
are characterized by the depiction or description of specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas are regularly shown for any form of
consideration.
   ADULT THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar commercial
establishment which, for any form of consideration, regularly features persons
who appear in a state of semi-nudity or live performances which are
characterized by exposure of specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual
activities.
   EMPLOYEE. A person who works or performs in or for a sexually oriented
business, regardless of whether or not that person is paid a salary, wage, or
other compensation by the operator of that business.
   ESCORT. A person who, for any form of consideration, agrees or offers to act
as a companion, guide, or date for another person, or who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another
person.
   ESCORT AGENCY. A person or business association who furnishes, offers to
furnish, or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary business
purposes for a fee, tip, or other consideration.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Includes any of the following:
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any of this type of business as a
new business after the adoption of this chapter;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, if not a sexually oriented
business, to any of the sexually oriented businesses defined in this chapter;
      (3)   The addition of any of the sexually oriented businesses defined in
this chapter to any other existing sexually oriented business; or
      (4)   The relocation of any sexually oriented business.
   MASSAGE PARLOR. Any place where, for any form of consideration or gratuity,
massage, alcohol rub, administration of fomentations, electric or magnetic
treatments, or any other treatment manipulation of the human body which occurs
as a part of or in connection with specified sexual activities, or where any
person providing this treatment, manipulation, or service related thereto,
exposes his or her specified anatomical areas. The definition of sexually
oriented businesses shall not include the practice of massage in any licensed
hospital, nor by a licensed hospital, nor by a licensed physician, surgeon,
chiropractor, osteopath, or certified massage therapist, nor by any nurse or
technician working under the supervision of a licensed physician, surgeon,
chiropractor, osteopath, or certified massage therapist, nor by trainers for
any amateur, semi-professional, or professional athlete or athletic team or
school athletic program.
   NUDITY or STATE OF NUDITY. Any of the following:
      (1)   The appearance of human bare buttock, anus, male genitals, female
genitals, or the areola or nipple of the female breast; or
      (2)   A state of dress which fails to opaquely and fully cover a human
buttocks, anus, male or female genitals, pubic region, or areola or nipple of
the female breast.
   OPERATOR. Includes the owner, permit holder, custodian, manager, operator,
or person in charge of any permitted or licensed premises.
   PERMITTED OR LICENSED PREMISES. Any premises that requires a license or
permit and that is classified as a sexually oriented business.
   PERMITTEE or LICENSEE. A person in whose name a permit or license to operate
a sexually oriented business has been issued, as well as the individual listed
as an applicant on the application for a permit or license.
   PERSON. An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation,
association, or other legal entity.
   PUBLIC BUILDING. Any building owned, leased or held by the United States,
the state, the county, the city, any special district, school district, or any
other agency or political subdivision of the state or the United States, which
building is used for government purposes.
   PUBLIC PARK or RECREATION AREA. Public land which has been designated for
park or recreational activities, including but not limited to a park,
playground, nature trails, swimming pool, reservoir, athletic field, basketball
or tennis courts, pedestrian or bicycle paths, open space, wilderness areas, or
similar public land within the city which is under the control, operation, or
management of the city parks and recreation authorities.
   RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION. Any church, synagogue, mosque, temple, or building
which is used primarily for religious worship and related religious activities.
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT OR USE. A single family, duplex, townhouse, multiple
family, or mobile home park or subdivision and campground as defined in this
code.
   SCHOOL. Any public or private educational facility, including but not
limited to child day care facilities, nursery schools, preschools,
kindergartens, elementary schools, primary schools, intermediate schools,
junior high schools, middle schools, high schools, vocational schools,
secondary schools, continuation schools, special education schools, junior
colleges, and universities. SCHOOL includes the school grounds, but does not
include the facilities used primarily for another purpose and only incidentally
as a school.
   SEMI-NUDE. A state of dress in which clothing covers no more than the
genitals, pubic region, and areola of the female breast as well as portions of
the body covered by supporting straps or devices.
   SEMI-NUDE MODEL STUDIO. Any place where a person, who regularly appears in a
state of semi-nudity, is provided for money or any form of consideration to be
observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed, or similarly
depicted by other persons.
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER ESTABLISHMENT. A business or commercial establishment that,
as one of its primary business purposes, offers for any form of consideration,
a place where two or more persons may congregate, associate, or consort for the
purposes of specified sexual activities when one or more of the persons is
semi-nude. The definition of sexually oriented businesses shall not include an
establishment where a medical practitioner, psychologist, psychiatrist, or
similar professional person licensed by the state engages in medically approved
and recognized sexual therapy.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. Any of the following businesses, as defined
herein: adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult novelty store, adult video store,
adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion picture theater, adult theater,
escort, escort agency, massage parlor, semi-nude model studio, or sexual
encounter establishment.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Includes any of the following:
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus, or female breasts below a point immediately above the
top of the areola; or
       (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Includes any of the following:
      (1)   The fondling or other intentional touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus, or female breast;
       (2)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, or sodomy;
      (3)   Masturbation, actual or simulated;
      (4)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation, arousal, or
tumescence; or
      (5)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in divisions (1) through (4) of this definition.
   SUBSTANTIAL ENLARGEMENT OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. Increase in the floor
areas occupied by the business by more than 15%, as the floor areas exist on
April 13, 1998.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. Includes
any of the following:
      (1)   The sale, lease, or sublease of the business;
      (2)   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling interest
in the business, whether by sale, exchange, or similar means; or
      (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift, or other similar legal devise
which transfers ownership or control of the business, except for transfer by
bequest or other operation of law upon the death of a person possessing the
ownership or control.
(1987 Code, § 4-101) (Ord. 39, 1998, passed 4-13-1998)
LOCATION REGULATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS
§ 116.15 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   It is the purpose and intent of this subchapter to regulate sexually
oriented businesses to promote the health, safety, morals, and general welfare
of the citizens of the city and to establish reasonable and uniform regulations
to prevent any deleterious location and concentration of sexually oriented
businesses within the city, thereby reducing or eliminating the adverse
secondary effects from sexually oriented businesses.
   (B)   The provisions of this subchapter have neither the purpose nor effect
of imposing a limitation or restriction on the content of any communicative
materials, including sexually oriented materials.
   (C)   Similarly, it is not the intent nor effect of this subchapter to
restrict or deny access by adults to sexually oriented materials protected by
the First Amendment, or to deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of
sexually oriented entertainment to their intended market. Neither is it the
intent nor effect of this subchapter to condone or legitimize the distribution
of obscene material.
(1987 Code, § 4-100) (Ord. 39, 1998, passed 4-13-1998)
§ 116.16 ZONING AND LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The establishment of a sexually oriented business shall be permitted
only in the appropriately designated zoning category, and shall be subject to
the following restriction.
   (B)   No person shall cause or permit the establishment of any of the
following sexually oriented businesses, as defined above, within 1,000 feet of
another of this type of business or within 1,000 feet of any religious
institution, school, boys’ club, girls’ club, or similar existing youth
organization, or public park or public building, or within 1,000 feet of any
property zoned for residential use or used for residential purposes; and these
businesses are classified as follows:
      (1)   Adult arcade;
      (2)   Adult bookstore, adult novelty store, or adult video store;
      (3)   Adult cabaret;
      (4)   Adult motel;
      (5)   Adult motion picture theater;
      (6)   Adult theater;
      (7)   Massage parlor;
      (8)   Sexual encounter establishment;
      (9)   Escort agency; or
      (10)   Nude model studio.
(1987 Code, § 4-102) (Ord. 39, 1998, passed 4-13-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.17 MEASUREMENT OF DISTANCE.
   As regarding §
116.16(B) of this code, distance between any two sexually oriented businesses
shall be measured in a straight line, without regard to intervening structures,
from the closest exterior structural wall of each business. The distance
between any sexually oriented business and any religious institution, public or
private elementary or secondary school, boys’ club, girls’ club, or similar
existing youth organization, or public park or public building, or any
properties zoned for residential use or used for residential purposes, shall
also be measured in a straight line, without regard to intervening structures
or objects, from the nearest portion of the building or structure used as part
of the premises where the sexually oriented business is conducted, to the
nearest property line of the premises of a religious institution, public or
private elementary or secondary school, boys’ club, girls’ club, or similar
existing youth organization, or public park or public building, or any
properties zoned for residential use or used for residential purposes.
(1987 Code, § 4-103) (Ord. 39, 1998, passed 4-13-1998)
§ 116.18 LOCATION VIOLATIONS; DEFENSE.
   (A)   
Ch. 157 of this code, the city’s zoning code, shall designate those areas in
which sexually oriented businesses are permitted and this chapter shall govern
their location and land use.
   (B)   In addition, any sexually oriented business not already in operation
at the time of adoption of this chapter shall be subject to the following
restrictions.
      (1)   A person commits an infraction, if he or she operates or causes to
be operated a sexually oriented business except as provided by this chapter.
      (2)   A person commits an infraction if he or she operates or causes to
be operated a sexually oriented business within 1,000 feet of:
         (a)   Any religious institution;
         (b)   Any school;
         (c)   The boundary of any residential district;
         (d)   A public park adjacent to any residential district;
         (e)   A property line of a lot devoted to residential use; or
         (f)   A boys’ club, girls’ club, or similar existing youth
organization.
      (3)   A person commits an infraction if he or she operates or causes to
be operated a sexually oriented business within 1,000 feet of another of this
type of business, which will include any adult arcade, adult book store, adult
video store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion picture theater, adult
theater, massage parlor, or sexual encounter establishment.
      (4)   A person commits an infraction if he or she causes or permits the
operation, establishment, or maintenance of more than one sexually oriented
business within the same building, structure, or portion thereof, or causes the
substantial enlargement of any sexually oriented business in any building,
structure, or portion thereof containing another sexually oriented business.
       (5)   It is a defense to prosecution under this section if the person
appearing in a state of nudity did so for a modeling class operated:
         (a)   By a proprietary school licensed by the state; a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation;
         (b)   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
         (c)   In a structure:
            1.   Which has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure
and no other advertising that indicates a nude person is available for viewing;
            2.   Where, in order to participate in a class a student must
enroll at least three days in advance of the class; and
            3.   Where no more than one nude model is on the premises at any
one time.
(1987 Code, § 4-104) (Ord. 39, 1998, passed 4-13-1998)
§ 116.19 EXISTING BUSINESSES; GRANDFATHER PROVISIONS.
   (A)   (1)   A sexually oriented business already in operation at the time of
adoption of this chapter is exempt from this chapter, and must comply only with
those laws established in the state for the ownership and operation of sexually
oriented businesses, establishments which serve alcoholic beverages, or any
other law of general application.
      (2)   If a sexually oriented business already in operation at the time of
adoption of this chapter should ever change locations, or add to its present
location so as to change the facade or frontage of the building from which it
operated at the time of adoption of this chapter, or to increase the size of
the building it currently inhabits, it will be subject to this chapter upon the
opening of its new location and will be required to submit to the permit
process as would any other sexually oriented business.
   (B)   (1)   A sexually oriented business lawfully operating as a conforming
use is not rendered a nonconforming use by the location, subsequent to the
grant or renewal of a sexually oriented business permit or license, of a
church, public or private elementary or secondary school, public park, public
building, residential district, or residential lot within 1,000 feet of the
sexually oriented business.
      (2)   This provision applies only to the renewal of a valid permit or
license and does not apply when an application for a permit or license is
submitted after a permit or license has expired or has been revoked.
   (C)   Any establishment subject to the provision of this section shall apply
for the permit provided for by §
116.31 of this code within 30 days of the effective date of this chapter.
(1987 Code, § 4-105) (Ord. 39, 1998, passed 4-13-1998)
PERMITS
§ 116.30 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to regulate sexually oriented
businesses to promote the health, safety, morals, and general welfare of the
citizens of the city, and to establish reasonable and uniform regulations to
prevent deleterious effects of sexually oriented businesses within the city.
The provisions of this subchapter have neither the purpose nor effect of
imposing a limitation or restriction on the content of any communicative
materials, including sexually oriented materials. Similarly, it is not the
intent nor effect of this subchapter to restrict or deny access by adults to
sexually oriented materials protected by the First Amendment, or to deny access
by the distributors and exhibitors of sexually oriented entertainment to their
intended market. Neither is it the intent or effect of this subchapter to in
any way condone or legitimize the distribution of obscene or harmful to minors
material.
(1987 Code, § 4-107) (Ord. 39, 1998, passed 4-13-1998)
§ 116.31 PERMIT REQUIRED; ENFORCEMENT RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   No sexually oriented business not already established at the time of
enactment of this chapter shall be permitted to operate without a valid
sexually oriented business permit issued by the city for the particular type of
business. It shall be unlawful and a person commits an infraction if he or she
operates or causes to be operated a non-exempt sexually oriented business
without this permit.
   (B)   (1)   The Mayor or his or her designee is responsible for granting,
denying, revoking, renewing, suspending, and canceling sexually oriented
business permits for proposed or existing sexually oriented businesses. The
Mayor or his or her designee is also responsible for ascertaining whether a
proposed sexually oriented business for which a permit is being applied for
complies with all locational requirements of §§
116.16,
116.18, and
116.19, all applicable zoning laws and regulations now in effect or as amended
or enacted subsequent to the effective date of this chapter in the city, and
the city Comprehensive Plan.
      (2)   The city Police Department is responsible for providing information
on whether an applicant has been convicted of a specified criminal act during
the time period set forth.
      (3)   The city’s Code Enforcement Office is responsible for inspecting a
proposed, permitted, or non-permitted sexually oriented business in order to
ascertain whether it is in compliance with applicable statutes and ordinances.
(1987 Code, § 4-108) (Ord. 39, 1998, passed 4-13-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.32 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   An application for a permit must be made on a form provided by the
city. Any person desiring to operate a sexually oriented business shall file
with the city an original and two copies of a sworn permit application on the
standard application form supplied by the city or designee.
   (B)   The completed application shall contain the following information and
shall be accompanied by the following documents:
      (1)   (a)   If the applicant is an individual, the individual shall state
his or her legal name and any aliases and submit satisfactory proof that he or
she is 18 years of age;
         (b)   If the applicant is a partnership, the partnership shall state
its complete name, the names of all partners, whether the partnership is
general or limited, and a copy of the partnership agreement, if any; or
         (c)   If the applicant is a corporation, the corporation shall state
its complete name, the date of its incorporation, evidence that the corporation
is in good standing under the laws of the state, the names and capacity of all
officers, directors, and principal stockholders, and the name of the registered
corporate agent and the address of the registered office for service of
process.
      (2)   If the applicant intends to operate the sexually oriented business
under a name other than that of the applicant, he or she must:
         (a)   State the sexually oriented business’s fictitious name; and
         (b)   Submit the required state registration documents.
      (3)   Whether the applicant or any of the other individuals listed
pursuant to this section has, within the two- or five-year period as specified
in §
116.34 immediately preceding the date of the application, been convicted of a
specified criminal act, and, if so, the specified criminal act involved, the
date of conviction, and the place of conviction;
      (4)   Whether the applicant or any of the other individuals pursuant to
this section and or licenses of this chapter has had a previous permit under
this chapter or other similar sexually oriented business ordinances from
another city or county denied, suspended, or revoked, including the name and
location of the sexually oriented business for which the permit was denied,
suspended, or revoked, as well as the date of the denial, suspension, or
revocation, and whether the applicant or any other individuals listed pursuant
to this section has been a partner in a partnership or an officer, director, or
principal stockholder of a corporation that is permitted under this chapter
whose permit has previously been denied, suspended, or revoked, including the
name and location of the sexually oriented business for which the permit was
denied, suspended, or revoked as well as the date of denial, suspension, or
revocation;
      (5)   Whether the applicant or any other individual listed pursuant to
this section holds any other permits or licenses under this chapter or other
similar sexually oriented business ordinance from another city or county and,
if so, the names and locations of the other permitted businesses;
      (6)   The single classification of permit for which the applicant is
filing;
      (7)   The location of the proposed sexually oriented business, including
a legal description of the property, street address, and telephone number(s),
if any;
      (8)   The applicant’s mailing addresses and residential address;
      (9)   A recent photograph of the applicant(s);
      (10)   The applicant’s driver’s permit number, Social Security number,
and/or his or her state or federally issued tax identification number;
      (11)   A sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises,
including a statement of total floor space occupied by the business. The sketch
or diagram need not be professionally prepared, but it must be drawn to a
designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the
premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches;
      (12)   A current certificate and straight- line drawing prepared within
30 days prior to application by a land surveyor registered in this state
depicting the property lines and the structures containing any established
existing uses regulated by this chapter within 1,000 feet of the property to be
certified; the property lines of any established religious institutions or
synagogue, school, or public park or recreation area within 1,000 feet of the
property to be certified; and the property lines of any residentially zoned
area or residential property within 1,000 feet of the property to be certified.
For purposes of this section, a use shall be considered existing or established
if it is in existence at the time an application is submitted;
      (13)   If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is
an individual, he or she must sign the application for a permit as applicant.
If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is other than an
individual, each individual who has a 10% or greater interest in the business
must sign the application for a permit as applicant. If a corporation is listed
as owner of a sexually oriented business or as the entity which wishes to
operate such a business, each individual having a 10% or greater interest in
the corporation must sign the application for a permit as applicant; and
      (14)   If a person wishes to operate a sexually oriented business which
shall exhibit on the premises films, video cassettes, or other video
reproductions which depict specified sexual activities, or specified anatomical
areas, then that person shall comply with the application requirements stated
at §
116.56 of this code.
   (C)   Applicants for a permit under this section shall have a continuing
duty to promptly supplement application information required by this section in
the event that the information changes in any way from what is stated on the
application. The failure to comply with this continuing duty within 30 days
from the date of the change by supplementing the application on file with the
Mayor or his or her designee, shall be grounds for suspension of a permit.
   (D)   In the event that the Mayor or his or her designee determines or
learns at any time that the applicant has improperly completed the application
for a proposed sexually oriented business, he or she shall promptly notify the
applicant of that fact and allow the applicant ten days to properly complete
the application. The time period for granting or denying a permit shall be
stayed during the period in which the applicant is allowed an opportunity to
properly complete the application.
   (E)   The applicant must be qualified according to the provisions of this
chapter and the premises must be inspected and found to be in compliance with
health, fire, and building codes and laws.
   (F)   The applicant shall be required to pay a non- refundable application
fee, as set forth in Ch. 36, at the time of filing an application under this
section.
   (G)   Prior to obtaining any permit or license to operate any sexually
oriented business defined in this chapter, and as part of any application for a
permit under this section, the applicant shall obtain from the city or its
designee a certification that the proposed location of that business complies
with the locational requirements of §§
116.18 and
116.19.
   (H)   The fact that a person possesses other types of state or city permits
or licenses does not exempt him or her from the requirement of obtaining a
sexually oriented business permit.
   (I)   By applying for a permit under this chapter, the applicant shall be
deemed to have consented to the provisions of this chapter and to the exercise
by the Mayor or his or her designee, the city Police Department, and all other
city agencies charged with enforcing the laws, ordinances, and codes applicable
in the city, of their respective responsibilities under this chapter.
   (J)   The applicant shall be required to provide the city with the names of
any and all employees who are required to be licensed under state law pursuant
to this chapter. The applicant also agrees to allow a representative of the
city to conduct an inspection of the names, ages, and dates of birth of all
employees who are working at any reasonable time while the establishment is
open. This shall be a continuing requirement even after a permit is granted or
renewed.
(1987 Code, § 4-108) (Ord. 39, 1998, passed 4-13-1998)
§ 116.33 INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application properly filed with the city and upon
payment of the nonrefundable application fee, the city or its designee shall
immediately stamp the application as received and shall immediately thereafter
send photocopies of the application to the city Police Department and any other
city agencies responsible for enforcement of health, fire, and building codes
and laws. Each department or agency shall promptly conduct an investigation of
the applicant, application, and the proposed sexually oriented business in
accordance with its responsibilities under law and as set forth in this
chapter. The investigation shall be completed within 20 days of receipt of the
application by the city or its designee. At the conclusion of its
investigation, each department or agency shall indicate on the photocopy of the
application its approval or disapproval of the application, date it, sign it,
and, in the event it disapproves, state the reasons therefor. The city Police
Department shall only be required to certify the NCIC records request check
mentioned at §
116.34 of this code. The city Police Department shall not be required to
approve or disapprove applications.
   (B)   A department or agency shall disapprove an application if it finds
that the proposed sexually oriented business will be in violation of any
provision of any statute, code, ordinance, regulation, or other law in effect
in the city. After its indication of approval or disapproval, each department
or agency shall immediately return the photocopy of the application to the city
or its designee.
(1987 Code, § 4-109) (Ord. 39, 1998, passed 4-13-1998)
§ 116.34 ISSUANCE OR DENIAL.
   (A)   Decision deadline. The Mayor or his or her designee shall grant or
deny an application for a permit within 30 days from the date of its proper
filing. Upon the expiration of the thirtieth day, unless the applicant requests
and is granted a reasonable extension of time, the applicant shall be permitted
to begin operating the business for which the permit is sought, unless and
until the city or its designee notifies the applicant of a denial of the
application and states the reason(s) for that denial.
   (B)   Grant of application for permit.
      (1)   The Mayor or his or her designee shall grant the application unless
one or more of the criteria set forth in division (C) below is present.
      (2)   The permit, if granted, shall state on its face the name of the
person or persons to whom it is granted, the expiration date, and the address
of the sexually oriented business. The permit shall also indicate that the
sexually oriented business, whether permitted or not, may be subject to
indecency pursuant to the U.S. Supreme Court decision in Barnes v. Glen
Theatre, Inc., 501 U.S., III S.Ct. 2456 (June 21, 1991). The permit shall be
posted in a conspicuous place at or near the entrance to the sexually oriented
business so that it can be read easily at any time.
   (C)   Denial of application for permit.
       (1)   The Mayor or his or her designee shall deny the application for
any of the following reasons:
         (a)   An applicant is under 18 years of age;
         (b)   An applicant or an applicant’s spouse is overdue on his or her
payment to the city of taxes, fees, fines, or penalties assessed against him or
her or imposed upon him or her in relation to a sexually oriented business;
         (c)   An applicant is residing with a person who has been denied a
permit by the city to operate a sexually oriented business within the preceding
12 months, or residing with a person whose permit to operate a sexually
oriented business has been revoked within the preceding 12 months;
         (d)   An applicant has failed to provide information required by this
subchapter or permit application for the issuance of the permit or has
knowingly falsely answered a question or request for information on the
application form;
         (e)   The premises to be used for the sexually oriented business have
not been approved as being in compliance with health, fire, and building codes
by the department or agency responsible under law for investigating that
compliance;
         (f)   The application or permit fees required by this chapter have not
been paid;
         (g)   An applicant of the proposed business is in violation of, or is
not in compliance with, any of the provisions of this chapter including but not
limited to the zoning locational requirements for a sexually oriented business
under §§
116.16,
116.18, and
116.19;
          (h)   The granting of the application would violate a statute,
ordinance, or court order;
         (i)   The applicant has a permit under this chapter which has been
suspended or revoked;
         (j)   An applicant has been convicted of a specified criminal act for
which:
            1.   Less than two years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement, whichever is the later date, if the
conviction is of an infraction offense for the specified criminal acts, which
are sexual crimes against children, sexual abuse, rape, or crimes connected
with another sexually oriented business including, but not limited to,
distribution of obscenity or material harmful to minors, prostitution,
pandering, or tax violations;
            2.   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement, whichever is the later date, if the
conviction is of a felony offense; for the specified criminal acts which are
sexual crimes against children, sexual abuse, rape, or crimes connected with
another sexually oriented business including, but not limited to, distribution
of obscenity or material harmful to minors, prostitution, pandering, or tax
violations;
            3.   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement, whichever is the later date, if the
convictions are of two or more misdemeanor offenses for specified criminal
acts, which are sexual crimes against children, sexual abuse, rape, or crimes
connected with another sexually oriented business including, but not limited
to, distribution of obscenity or materials harmful to minors, prostitution,
pandering, or tax violations; offenses occurring within any 24-month period;
            4.   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no
effect on the disqualification of the applicant; and
            5.   An applicant who has been convicted of the above described
specified criminal acts may qualify for a sexually oriented business permit
only when the time period required above in this division (C)(1)(j) has
elapsed.
         (k)   An applicant knowingly has in his or her employ, an employee who
does not have a valid license as required by this chapter.
      (2)   If the Mayor or his or her designee denies the application, he or
she shall notify the applicant of the denial and state the reason(s) for the
denial. The denied applicant shall have an opportunity for appeal of the Mayor
or designee’s decision as set forth in §
116.40 of this code.
      (3)   If a person applies for a permit for a particular location within a
period of 12 months from the date of denial of a previous application for a
permit at the location, and there has not been an intervening change in the
circumstances which could reasonably be expected to lead to a different
decision regarding the former reasons for denial, the application shall be
denied.
(1987 Code, § 4-110) (Ord. 39, 1998, passed 4-13-1998)
§ 116.35 FEE.
   The annual fee for a sexually oriented business permit shall be as set forth
in
Ch. 36 of this code.
(1987 Code, § 4-111) (Ord. 39, 1998, passed 4-13-1998)
§ 116.36 INSPECTION OF PREMISES.
   (A)   An applicant or permittee shall permit representatives of the Code
Enforcement Office, the county Health Department, and the Fire Department to
inspect the premises of a sexually oriented business for the purpose of
insuring compliance with the law, at any time it is occupied or open for
business.
   (B)   A person who operates a sexually oriented business, regardless of
whether or not a permit has been issued for that business under this chapter,
or his or her agent or employee, commits an infraction if he or she refuses to
permit this lawful inspection of the premises at any time that it is occupied
or open for business.
(1987 Code, § 4-112) (Ord. 39, 1998, passed 4-13-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.37 PERMIT EXPIRATION.
   Each permit shall expire one year from the date of issuance and may be
renewed only by making application as provided in §
116.32 of this chapter; for renewals, filing of the original survey, if
applicable, shall be sufficient. Application for renewal shall be made at least
30 days before the expiration date, and when made less than 30 days before the
expiration date, the expiration of the permit will not be affected.
(1987 Code, § 4-113) (Ord. 39, 1998, passed 4-13-1998)
§ 116.38 SUSPENSION.
   (A)   The Mayor or his or her designee shall suspend a permit for a period
not to exceed 30 days if he or she determines that a permittee, or his or her
designee or employee:
      (1)   Has violated or is not in compliance with any section of this
chapter;
      (2)   Has been charged with or convicted of being under the influence of
alcoholic beverages while working in the sexually oriented business premises;
      (3)   Has refused to allow an inspection of sexually oriented business
premises as authorized by this chapter;
      (4)   Has knowingly permitted gambling by any person on the sexually
oriented business premises;
      (5)   Has operated the sexually oriented business in violation of a
building, fire, health, or zoning statute, code, ordinance, or regulation,
whether federal, state, or local; this determination being based on
investigation by the division, department, or agency charged with enforcing
those rules or laws. In the event of such a statute, code, ordinance, or
regulation violation, the city or its designee shall promptly notify the
permittee of the violation and shall allow the permittee a seven-day period in
which to correct the violation. If the permittee fails to correct the violation
before the expiration of the seven-day period, the city or its designee shall
forthwith suspend the permit and shall notify the permittee of the suspension;
      (6)   Has engaged in permit transfer contrary to §
116.41 of this code. In the event that the city or its designee suspends a
permit on the ground that a permittee engaged in a permit transfer contrary to
§
116.41 of this code, the Mayor or his or her designee shall forthwith notify
the permittee of the suspension. The suspension shall remain in effect until
the applicable section of this chapter has been satisfied;
      (7)   Has operated the sexually oriented business in violation of the
hours stipulated by state law which pertain to the sale or consumption of
alcoholic beverages; or
      (8)   Knowingly employs a person who does not have a valid license as
required in this chapter.
   (B)   The suspension shall remain in effect until the violation of the
statute, code, ordinance, or regulation in question has been corrected
(1987 Code, § 4-114) (Ord. 39, 1998, passed 4-13-1998)
§ 116.39 REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Mayor or his or her designee shall revoke a permit if a cause of
suspension in §
116.38 of this code occurs and the permit has been suspended for any reason
within the preceding 12 months.
   (B)   The Mayor or his or her designee shall revoke a permit upon
determining that:
      (1)   A permittee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted during the application process which was intended to enhance the
applicant’s opportunity for obtaining a permit;
      (2)   A permittee or an employee has knowingly allowed possession, use,
or sale of controlled substances in or on the premises;
      (3)   A permittee or an employee has knowingly allowed prostitution on
the premises;
      (4)   A permittee or an employee knowingly operated the sexually oriented
business during a period of time when the permittee’s permit was suspended;
      (5)   A permittee has been convicted of a specified criminal act for
which the time period required in §
116.34 has not elapsed;
      (6)   On two or more occasions within a 12-month period, a person or
persons committed an offense, occurring in or on the permitted premises,
constituting a specified criminal act for which a conviction has been obtained,
and the person or persons were employees of the sexually oriented business at
the time the offenses were committed. The fact that a conviction is being
appealed shall have no effect on the revocation of the permit;
      (7)   A permittee is convicted of tax violations for any taxes or fees
related to a sexually oriented business;
      (8)   A permittee or an employee has knowingly allowed any act of sexual
intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation, or any other specified
sexual activities to occur in or on the permitted premises; or
      (9)   A permittee has been operating more than one sexually oriented
business under a single roof, without proper permit, within the territorial or
zoning jurisdiction of the city.
   (C)   When the Mayor or his or her designee revokes a permit, the revocation
shall continue for one year and the permittee shall not be issued a sexually
oriented business permit for one year from the date revocation became
effective.
      (1)   If, subsequent to revocation, the Mayor or his or her designee
finds that the basis for revocation under this section has been corrected, the
applicant shall be granted a permit if at least 90 days have elapsed since the
date revocation became effective.
      (2)   If the permit was revoked under this section, an applicant may not
be granted another permit until the number of years required under this section
have elapsed.
(1987 Code, § 4-115) (Ord. 39, 1998, passed 4-13-1998)
§ 116.40 JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   After denial of an application, or denial of a renewal of an application, or
suspension or revocation of a permit, the applicant or permittee may seek
prompt review of the administrative action through the City Council or special
city Review Board if one is established by the city. If the denial, suspension,
or revocation is affirmed upon review, the administrative action shall be
promptly reviewed by a court having jurisdiction over the parties.
(1987 Code, § 4-116) (Ord. 39, 1998, passed 4-13-1998)
§ 116.41 PERMIT TRANSFER RESTRICTED.
   (A)   A permittee shall not operate a sexually oriented business under the
authority of a permit at any place other than the address designated in the
application for permit.
   (B)   A permittee shall not transfer his or her permit to another person
unless and until that other person satisfies the following requirements:
      (1)   Obtains an amendment to the permit from the Mayor or designee,
which provides that he or she is now the permittee, which amendment may be
obtained only if he or she has completed and properly filed an application with
the Mayor or designee, setting forth the information called for under §
116.32 in the application; and
      (2)   Pays the transfer fee of 20% of the annual permit fee set by this
code.
   (C)   No permit may be transferred when the Mayor or his or her designee has
notified the permittee that suspension or revocation proceedings have been or
will be brought against the permittee.
   (D)   A permittee shall not transfer his or her permit to another location.
   (E)   Any attempt to transfer a permit either directly or indirectly in
violation of this section is hereby declared void and the permit shall be
deemed revoked.
(1987 Code, § 4-117) (Ord. 39, 1998, passed 4-13-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
OPERATING REGULATIONS
§ 116.55 MINORS ON PREMISES PROHIBITED.
   A person commits an infraction if he or she operates or causes to be
operated a sexually oriented business, regardless of whether or not a permit
has been issued for that business under this chapter, and knowingly or with
reasonable cause to know, permits, suffers, or allows:
   (A)   Admittance of a person under 18 years of age to the business premises
unless accompanied by a parent or guardian;
   (B)   A person under 18 years of age to remain at the business premises
unless accompanied by a parent or guardian;
   (C)   A person under 18 years of age to purchase goods or services at the
business premises without the specific consent of a parent or guardian; or
   (D)   A person who is under 18 years of age to work at the business premises
as an employee.
(1987 Code, § 4-118) (Ord. 39, 1998, passed 4-13-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.56 ADVERTISING AND DISPLAY; LIGHTING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful and a person commits an infraction if he or she
operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business, regardless of
whether or not a permit has been issued for that business under this chapter,
and advertises the presentation of any activity prohibited by any applicable
state statute or local ordinance.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful and a person commits an infraction if he or she
operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business, regardless of
whether or not a permit has been issued for that business under this chapter,
and displays or otherwise exhibits the materials or performances at that
sexually oriented business in any advertising which is visible outside the
premises. This prohibition shall not extend to advertising of the existence or
location of the sexually oriented business.
   (C)   The permittee shall not allow any portion of the interior premises
germane to adult entertainment to be visible from outside the premises.
   (D)   All off-street parking areas and premise entries of the sexually
oriented business shall be illuminated from dusk to closing hours of operation
with a lighting system which provides an average maintained horizontal
illumination of one footcandle of light on the parking surface and walkways.
This required lighting level is established in order to provide sufficient
illumination of the parking areas and walkways serving the sexually oriented
business for the personal safety of patrons and employees and to reduce the
incidence of vandalism and criminal conduct. The lighting shall be shown on the
required sketch or diagram of the premises.
   (E)   Nothing contained in this section shall relieve the operator(s) of a
sexually oriented business from complying with the requirements of the city in
this chapter, commonly known as the sexually oriented business ordinance, as it
may be amended from time to time, or any subsequently enacted city ordinance or
regulations.
(1987 Code, § 4-119) (Ord. 39, 1998, passed 4-13-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.57 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful and a person commits an infraction if he or she
operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business, regardless of
whether or not a permit has been issued for that business under this chapter,
and allows that business to remain open for business, or to permit any employee
to engage in a performance, solicit a performance, make a sale, solicit a sale,
provide a service, or solicit a service, between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 9:
00 a.m. of any particular day.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful and a person commits an infraction if, working as
an employee of a sexually oriented business, regardless of whether or not a
permit has been issued for that business under this chapter, the employee
engages in a performance, solicits a performance, makes a sale, solicits a
sale, provides a service, or solicits a service, except during lawful hours of
operation as provided by the state Alcoholic Beverage Commission.
(1987 Code, § 4-120) (Ord. 39, 1998, passed 4-13-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.58 PUBLIC NUDITY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The U.S. Supreme Court decision in Barnes v. Glen Theatre, Inc. 501
U.S., 111 S.Ct. 2456, (June 21, 1991), which upheld the rights of cities to
prohibit live public exposure of a person’s private parts, specifically applies
to sexually oriented businesses, regardless of whether or not a permit has been
issued to those businesses under this chapter, including those businesses where
no alcoholic beverages are sold, served, or consumed at the premises.
   (B)   Public nudity is prohibited within the city, including any sexually
oriented business. Any sexually oriented business which is found in violation
of this section shall have its permit suspended pursuant to the provisions of §
116.38.
(1987 Code, § 4-121) (Ord. 39, 1998, passed 4-13-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.59 OPERATING WITHOUT VALID PERMIT PROHIBITED.
   (A)   In addition to the criminal provisions found at other sections of this
chapter, the following additional criminal provisions shall also apply to
sexually oriented businesses.
    (B)   If a sexually oriented business is subject to this chapter, it shall
be unlawful and a person commits an infraction if he or she operates or causes
to be operated a sexually oriented business, regardless of whether or not a
permit has been issued for that business under this chapter, and that person
knows or should know that:
      (1)   The business does not have a sexually oriented business permit
under this chapter for any applicable classification;
      (2)   The business has a permit which is under suspension;
      (3)   The business has a permit which has been revoked; or
      (4)   The business has a permit which has expired.
(1987 Code, § 4-122) (Ord. 39, 1998, passed 4-13-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.60 DISTRIBUTION OF SEXUAL DEVICES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for anyone to distribute, for commercial purposes,
sell, or offer for sale any device, instrument, or paraphernalia designed or
marketed primarily for stimulation of human genital organs or for sado-
masochistic use or abuse of themselves or others.
   (B)   These devices, instruments, or paraphernalia include but are not
limited to phallic shaped vibrators, dildos, muzzles, whips, chains, bather
restraints, racks, non-medical enema kits, body piercing implements (excluding
earrings or other decorative jewelry), or other tools of sado-masochistic
abuse.
   (C)   A violation of this section is an infraction punishable by a fine for
each day that the violator is found to be in violation.
(1987 Code, § 4-126) (Ord. 39, 1998, passed 4-13-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 116.70 EXEMPTIONS AND DEFENSES.
   (A)   It is a defense to prosecution for any violation of this chapter that
a person appearing in a state of nudity did so in a modeling class operated:
      (1)   By a college, junior college, or university supported entirely or
partly by taxation;
      (2)   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
      (3)   In a structure:
         (a)   Which has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and
no other advertising that indicates a nude person is available for viewing;
         (b)   Where, in order to participate in a class, a student must enroll
at least three days in advance of the class; and
         (c)   Where no more than one nude model is on the premises at any one
time.
   (B)   It is a defense to prosecution for a violation of this chapter that an
employee of a sexually oriented business, regardless of whether or not it is
permitted under this chapter, exposed any specified anatomical area during the
employee’s bona fide use of a restroom, or during the employee’s bona fide use
of a dressing room which is accessible only to employees.
   (C)   Schools and libraries are exempt from the regulations of this chapter.
   (D)   This chapter is not applicable to any community theater that shows
films rated G, PG, or R by the motion picture industry and where no more than
5% of its revenues are derived from films not covered by these ratings.
   (E)   It is a defense to this chapter that a sexually oriented business is
lawfully in operation prior to the date of enactment of this chapter.
(1987 Code, § 4-123) (Ord. 39, 1998, passed 4-13-1998)
§ 116.71 REMEDIES.
   (A)   In addition to whatever penalties are applicable under the penal code
of this state, if any person fails or refuses to obey or comply with or
violates any of the provisions of this chapter, that person, upon conviction of
the offense, shall be guilty of an infraction and shall be punished by a fine
in the discretion of the court. Each violation or noncompliance shall be
considered a separate and distinct offense. Further, each day of continued
violation or noncompliance shall be considered as a separate offense.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent or restrict the city from
taking other lawful action in any court of competent jurisdiction as is
necessary to prevent or remedy any violation or noncompliance. These other
lawful actions shall include, but shall not be limited to, an equitable action
for injunctive relief or an action at law for damages. All remedies and
penalties provided for in this section shall be cumulative and independently
available to the city, and the city shall be authorized to pursue any and all
remedies set forth in this section to the full extent allowed by law.
(1987 Code, § 4-124) (Ord. 39, 1998, passed 4-13-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.72 INJUNCTION.
   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business
subject to this chapter, without having a valid permit due to location
restrictions, is subject to a suit for injunction as well as prosecution for
the criminal violation. If any injunction must be sought, attorney’s fees and
costs will be assessed at the discretion of the court against the sexually
oriented business.
(1987 Code, § 4-106) (Ord. 39, 1998, passed 4-13-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.73 OFFICIALS IMMUNE FROM TRESPASS PROSECUTION.
   The city and its designee, the city Police Department, and all other
departments and agencies, and all other city officers, agents, and employees,
charged with enforcement of state and local laws and codes, shall be immune
from prosecution, civil or criminal, for reasonable, good faith trespass upon a
sexually oriented business while acting within the scope of authority conferred
by this chapter.
(1987 Code, § 4-125) (Ord. 39, 1998, passed 4-13-1998)
CHAPTER 117: SALE OF VEHICLES
Section
   
117.01   License required
   
117.02   Exemptions
   
117.03   Cease and desist order; hearing
 
   
117.99   Penalty
§ 117.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   A person may not display or park more than three motor vehicles offered or
posted for sale on real property if the primary purpose of displaying or
parking the vehicle on the property is to promote or effect the sale of the
vehicle; in the event that the person displaying such motor vehicles is doing
so for the purpose of sale, that person must first obtain a license from the
Clerk-Treasurer as approved by the Building Commissioner. The cost of such
license shall be $250.
(Ord. 19, 2003, passed 11-10-2003) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.02 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   This chapter does not prohibit the display or parking of a vehicle
offered or posted for sale when the display or parking of the vehicle is
incidental to the actual operation and the immediate use of the vehicle by the
vehicle owner.
   (B)   No person or business property shall offer for sale vehicles for more
than 120 days total in a calendar year without a dealer’s license.
   (C)   This chapter exempts banks and financial institutions and allows them
to offer for sale vehicles repossessed or similarly acquired vehicles by them
on their property.
(Ord. 19, 2003, passed 11-10-2003) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.03 CEASE AND DESIST ORDER; HEARING.
   If it appears to the Building Commissioner that a person has engaged or is
about to engage in an act or practice constituting a violation of this chapter,
or a rule adopted or an order issued under this chapter, the Building
Commissioner may issue an order directing the person to cease and desist from
continuing the act or practice. Reasonable notice of and opportunity for a
hearing shall be given. The Building Commissioner may issue a temporary order
pending a hearing. The temporary order shall remain in effect until ten days
after the hearing is held and shall become final if the person to whom the
notice is addressed does not request a hearing within 15 days after receipt of
the notice.
(Ord. 19, 2003, passed 11-10-2003)
§ 117.99 PENALTY.
   As to a person who violates this chapter:
   (A)   The Building Commissioner may levy and collect a civil penalty against
a person violating this chapter.
   (B)   The person is subject to a written warning for the first violation and
immediate removal and storage of the motor vehicles offered for sale by the
Building Commissioner.
   (C)   For a subsequent violation may be fined in an amount no less than $250
nor more than $2,500, as well as any towing and storage costs incurred by the
city.
   (D)   The person is also liable for the city’s attorney’s fees and
litigation costs and expenses for enforcement of this chapter.
   (E)   The civil penalty and associated costs and expenses are due within ten
days after levy by the Building Commissioner.
   (F)   Each violation of this chapter is considered a separate offense.
(Ord. 19, 2003, passed 11-10-2003)
CHAPTER 118: SHORT-TERM RENTALS
Section
   
118.01   Definitions
   
118.02   Short-term rental permits
   
118.03   Revocation of permit
   
118.04   Initial permit fee
   
118.05   Notice of potential tax liability
   
118.98   Violation
 
   
118.99   Penalty
§ 118.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions as set forth by I.C. 36-1-24 et seq. shall apply to this
chapter:
   OWNER. A person who has an interest in title or a present possessory
interest in property that is offered to the public as a short-term rental.
   OWNER OCCUPIED SHORT-TERM RENTAL PROPERTY. Property that is the owner’s
primary residence and is offered to the public as a short-term rental.
   PERMIT. A short-term rental permit issued by the city.
   PERMITTED PROPERTY. A property that is subject to a valid, unexpired,
unrevoked permit issued under this chapter. A PERMITTED PROPERTY may contain
one or more dwelling units offered as short-term rentals.
   SHORT-TERM RENTAL. The rental of:
      (1)   A single-family home;
      (2)   A dwelling unit in a single-family home;
      (3)   A dwelling unit in a two-family or multi-family dwelling; or
      (4)   A dwelling unit in a condominium, cooperative, or time share for
terms of less than 30 days at a time through a short-term rental platform. The
term includes a detached accessory structure, including a guest house, or other
living quarters that are intended for human habitation, if the entire property
is designated for a single-family residential use. The term does not include
property that is used for any nonresidential use.
   SHORT-TERM RENTAL PLATFORM. An entity that:
      (1)   Provides a platform through which unaffiliated parties offer to
rent a short-term rental to an occupant; and
      (2)   Collects consideration for the rental from the occupant.
(Ord. 14, 2023, passed 8-14-2023)
§ 118.02 SHORT-TERM RENTAL PERMITS.
   (A)   Permits required.
      (1)   An owner must obtain a permit for each property utilized as a
short-term rental in the city, however, only one permit is required for each
single-family home, two-family or multi-family dwelling, condominium,
cooperative, or time share that an owner rents in whole or in part. A permit
covers all:
         (a)   Dwelling units; and
         (b)   Detached accessory structures
located on the permitted property that the owner offers to the public as a
short-term rental.
      (2)   All owners utilizing a property as a short-term rental on August
14, 2023 shall obtain the necessary permit(s) required by this chapter within
30 thereof.
   (B)   Permit application(s). An owner must submit a permit application for
each property for which a permit is sought to the City Planning and Zoning
Department. If the owner is a corporation, partnership, or other legal entity,
the permit application must be made by an officer or agent of the owner. The
permit application shall require the owner to provide only the following
information for each property:
      (1)   The owner’s name, street address, mailing address, electronic mail
address, and telephone number. If the owner is a corporation or partnership,
the application must require the:
         (a)   Owner’s state of incorporation or organization; and
         (b)   Names, residence addresses, and telephone numbers of the owner’s
principal officers or partners.
      (2)   If a property manager is used, the property manager’s name, street
address, mailing address, electronic mail address, and telephone number.
      (3)   A short description of how each of the owner’s short-term rentals
on the property are marketed or advertised, including the following:
         (a)   The advertised occupancy limits of each short-term rental.
         (b)   Whether the short-term rental is:
            1.   A single-family home;
            2.   A dwelling unit in a single-family home;
            3.   A dwelling unit in a two-family or multi-family dwelling; or
            4.   A dwelling unit in a condominium, cooperative, or time share.
   (C)   Inspections.
      (1)   After the submission of an application for a short-term rental
permit, each property for which a permit is sought shall be inspected by:
         (a)   The city’s Building Commissioner or their designee, for the
purpose of ensuring the minimum standards for the protection of life, health,
environment, public safety, and general welfare, in the design and construction
of buildings and structures are met, in accordance with the scope and authority
granted to the Building Commissioner by Chapter 151 of the Seymour City Code;
and
         (b)   The city’s Fire Chief or their designee, for the purpose of
ascertaining and causing to be corrected any conditions liable to cause fire,
contribute to the spread of fire, interfere with firefighting operations,
endanger life, or any violations of the provisions or intent of this subchapter
affecting fire safety.
      (2)   Short-term rental inspections shall be conducted by the city’s
Building Commissioner or their designee and the city’s Fire Chief or their
designee annually when an owner renews their permit.
      (3)   There shall be no fee for initial or subsequent inspections by the
Building Commissioner and Fire Chief or their designees.
   (D)   Permit fee and expiration of permit.
      (1)   A permit expires one year after the date the permit is issued.
      (2)   The fee for an initial permit (and reissuance if the permit is
revoked) is established as set forth in Chapter 36 of the Seymour City Code.
The permit must be renewed annually with updated information with no fee for
renewal.
   (E)   Issuance of permit. Subject to division (F) below, if an owner submits
a permit application under this chapter that meets the requirements set forth
in this chapter, the City Planning and Zoning Department shall issue a permit
to the owner within 30 days of receipt of the application.
   (F)   Re-application for permit previously revoked. An owner may apply for a
permit for a short-term rental for which a previous permit of the owner was
revoked by the city. However, a new permit may not be issued until any
outstanding fines are paid for ordinance violation citations issued to the
owner with regard to use of the short-term rental.
   (G)   Duty of owner to update application information. If any information
provided by an owner to the city in the permit application changes, the owner
shall provide updated information to the Planning and Zoning Department in
writing within 30 business days after the change.
   (H)   Non-transferrable. If an owner sells all or part of a permitted
property, the permit may not be transferred to the new owner. The new owner
must apply for a new permit and pay the initial permit fee.
(Ord. 14, 2023, passed 8-14-2023) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.03 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Ordinance violations. If three or more citations for ordinance
violations are issued to an owner for a permitted property within a calendar
year, the City Planning and Zoning Department may revoke the permit for that
permitted property for a period of not more than one year after the date the
permit is revoked.
   (B)   Notice and hearing.
      (1)   Written notice. Whenever the City Planning and Zoning Department
determines that there are reasonable grounds to believe that a permit should be
revoked, the Department shall give notice of the alleged violation and of the
revocation to the owner. The notice shall be in writing, including the
statement of the reason(s) why it is being issued and be served upon the owner.
The notice shall be deemed to be properly served upon the owner if a copy
thereof is sent by registered or certified mail to the owner at the address of
the owner as listed on the permit application.
      (2)   Hearing. The owner may request and shall be granted a hearing on
this matter before the Board of Public Works and Safety of the City of Seymour,
Indiana (“Board”). The owner shall file in the office of the City Clerk-
Treasurer a written petition requesting the hearing and setting forth a brief
statement of the grounds therefor within ten days after the day the notice was
served. Upon receipt of the petition, the Board shall set a time and place for
the hearing and shall give the owner written notice thereof. At the hearing,
the owner shall be given an opportunity to be heard and to show why the notice
should be denied. The hearing shall be open to the public and notice thereof
published in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1-2.
      (3)   Decision and order. After the hearing, the Board shall either
sustain or deny the revocation. The Board’s decision shall be deemed to be an
order and final. Any notice served pursuant to this section shall automatically
become an order if a written petition for a hearing is not filed in the office
of the City Clerk within ten days after the notice is served. The City Planning
and Zoning Department shall not sit as a member of the Board at the hearing on
the petition, but shall be allowed to be present, present evidence, cross
examine witnesses, and be cross examined by the petitioner. The Board shall
make findings of facts relative to a decision under this section, which shall
be reduced to writing.
(Ord. 14, 2023, passed 8-14-2023)
§ 118.04 INITIAL PERMIT FEE.
   The fee for an initial permit (and reissuance if permit is revoked) as set
forth in
Chapter 36 of the Seymour City Code is $75.
(Ord. 14, 2023, passed 8-14-2023) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.05 NOTICE OF POTENTIAL TAX LIABILITY.
   This section is intended as notice to an owner as defined in §
118.01 of this chapter. An owner of short-term rental property who makes a
short-term rental in which payments for the room, lodging, or other
accommodation are not made through a marketplace facilitator (as defined by
I.C. 6-2.5-1-21.9) may be liable for collecting and remitting the following
taxes on consideration received by the owner for the short-term rental:
   (A)   State gross retail tax imposed under I.C. 6-2.5-4-4.
   (B)   Innkeeper’s tax imposed under I.C. 6-9.
(Ord. 14, 2023, passed 8-14-2023)
§ 118.98 VIOLATION.
   (A)   Failure to obtain permit. Pursuant to I.C. 36-1-24-18, an owner who
rents a short-term rental without first obtaining a valid permit from the City
Planning and Zoning Department commits a class C infraction. Each short-term
rental transaction that the short-term rental provider completes without a
short-term rental permit constitutes a separate violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Failure to comply with this chapter. Except for the violation stated
in division (A) above, failure to comply with the other terms and conditions of
this chapter shall be deemed to be a violation of this chapter and subject to a
fine as set forth in §
118.05.
(Ord. 14, 2023, passed 8-14-2023)
§ 118.99 PENALTY.
   Fines for violation of this chapter shall be:
   (A)   First offense: $50.
   (B)   Second offense: $100.
   (C)   Third offense: $250.
(Ord. 14, 2023, passed 8-14-2023)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
General Provisions
   
130.01   Interference with public officials prohibited
Offenses Against Public Order
   
130.15   Disturbing the peace
   
130.16   Congregating to obstruct public places
   
130.17   Disturbing meetings
   
130.18   Spitting in public places
   
130.19   Loitering
   
130.20   Violations
Obscene Matter
   
130.30   Definitions
   
130.31   Display or distribution to minors prohibited; defenses
   
130.32   Public exhibit prohibited; defenses
   
130.33   Enforcement procedures
   
130.34   Violations
Cross-reference:
   Distribution of sexual devices prohibited, see §
116.60
Statutory reference:
   Curfew violations, see I.C. 31-37-3-2 through 31-37-3-3.5
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.01 INTERFERENCE WITH PUBLIC OFFICIALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   At all times, it shall be unlawful for any person, or persons, to
intentionally impede or  interfere, or to attempt to impede or interfere, with
any police officer, firefighter, or any other city official, while in the
performance of his or her duty or in the performance of any emergency functions
as a firefighter, police officer, or city official.
   (B)   It is a defense to prosecution under this section that the
interference alleged consisted of speech only.
(1987 Code, § 6-17) (Ord. 1580, passed 12-22-1969) Penalty, see §
10.99
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
§ 130.15 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, or persons, to disturb the peace and
quiet of the city, or of its inhabitants, by making unreasonably loud noises,
or by the crying of any alarm without good cause, or by threatening any person,
or challenging any person to fight, or menacing him or her with physical
injury.
(1987 Code, § 6-13) (Ord. 1580, passed 12-22-1969) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.16 CONGREGATING TO OBSTRUCT PUBLIC PLACES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to congregate, or cause to be
congregated, a crowd or group of three or more persons upon any public street,
alley, sidewalk, parking lot, school, or school grounds, or near or adjacent to
any building, or any other public place, within the city, so as to obstruct the
same, or so as to hinder passers by or occupants of adjacent premises, or so as
to interfere with the activities normally carried on on the premises.
(1987 Code, § 6-14) (Ord. 1580, passed 12-22-1969) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.17 DISTURBING MEETINGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, or persons, within the city, by any
loud or unnecessary talking, or by shouting, or by any threatening, abusive,
profane, or obscene language, or by violent action, or by any other rude
behavior, to interrupt, molest, annoy, or disturb, any group of persons
convened for the purpose of worship, or in like manner, to interrupt, molest,
annoy, or disturb any meeting of persons met together for any lawful purpose.
(1987 Code, § 6-15) (Ord. 1580, passed 12-22-1969) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.18 SPITTING IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to spit upon any sidewalk or upon the
floor or steps of any public conveyance or any other public place.
(1987 Code, § 6-138) (Ord. 540, passed 2-8-1890) Penalty, see §
10.99 
§ 130.19 LOITERING.
   (A)   (1)   A person commits a violation if he or she loiters or prowls in a
place, at a time or in a manner not usual for law-abiding individuals under
circumstances that warrant alarm for the safety of persons or property in the
vicinity.
      (2)   Among the circumstances which may be considered in determining
whether alarm is warranted is the fact that the person takes flight upon
appearance of a police officer, refuses to identify himself or herself, or
manifestly endeavors to conceal himself or herself or any object.
      (3)   Unless flight by the person or other circumstances makes it
impractical, a police officer shall, prior to any arrest for an offense under
this section, afford the person an opportunity to dispel any  alarm which would
otherwise be warranted, by requesting the person to identify himself or herself
and to explain his or her presence or conduct. No person shall be convicted of
an offense under this section if the police officer did not comply with the
preceding sentence, or if it appears at trial that the explanation given by the
person was true and, if it had been believed by the police officer at the time,
would have dispelled the alarm.
      (4)   Any police officer may arrest any person suspected of being a
loiter or prowler without a warrant if it reasonably appears that the delay in
arresting the suspect caused by obtaining a warrant would result in the
suspect's escape.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, after first being warned by a
police officer, or where a "no loitering" sign or signs have been posted, to
loiter, stand, sit or lie in or upon any public or quasi-public sidewalk,
street, curb, crosswalk, walkway area, mall or that portion of private property
utilized for public use, so as to hinder or obstruct unreasonably the free
passage of pedestrians or vehicles thereon. It shall be unlawful for any person
to block, obstruct or pervent free access to the entrance to any building open
to the public.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PUBLIC PLACE. An area generally visible to public view, including
streets, sidewalks, bridges, alleys, plazas, parks, driveways, parking lots,
automobiles (whether moving or not), and buildings open to the general public,
including those which serve food or drink or provide entertainment, and the
doorways and entrances to buildings or dwellings and the grounds enclosing
them.
§ 130.20 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person violating any provision of this subchapter shall be fined and
subject to the provisions as set forth in §
10.99 of this code.
(1987 Code, § 6-18)
OBSCENE MATTER
§ 130.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISTRIBUTE. To transfer possession of matter, for a consideration.
   KNOWINGLY. Knowing or having good reason to know the character of the matter
or performance.
   MATTER. Any book, magazine, newspaper, or printed or written material; or
any picture, drawing, photograph, motion picture, or other pictorial
representation; or any state or other figure, or any recording, transcription,
or mechanical, chemical, or electrical reproduction; or any other articles,
equipment, machines, or materials.
   MINOR. Any person under the age of 18 years.
   OBSCENE MATTER OR PERFORMANCE. Any matter or performance is obscene if:
      (1)   The average person, applying contemporary community standards,
finds that the matter or performance, taken as a whole, appeals to the prurient
interest in sex;
      (2)   The matter or performance depicts or describes, in a patently
offensive way, sexual conduct; and
      (3)   The matter or performance, taken as a whole, lacks serious
literary, artistic, political, or scientific value.
   OWNER. Any person who owns or has a legal right to possession of any matter.
   PERFORMANCE. Any play, motion picture, dance, or other exhibition or
presentation, whether pictured, animated, or live, performed before an audience
of one or more persons.
   SADO-MASOCHISTIC ABUSE. Flagellation or torture by or upon a person as an
act of sexual stimulation or gratification.
   SEXUAL CONDUCT. Includes:
      (1)   Sexual intercourse or deviate sexual conduct;
      (2)   Exhibition of the uncovered genitals in the context of masturbation
or other sexual activity;
      (3)   Exhibition of the uncovered genitals of a person under 16 years of
age;
      (4)   Sado-masochistic abuse; or
      (5)   Sexual intercourse or deviate sexual conduct with an animal.
(1987 Code, §§ 6-275, 6-276) (Ord. 35, 1997, passed 10-27-1997)
§ 130.31 DISPLAY OR DISTRIBUTION TO MINORS PROHIBITED; DEFENSES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to:
      (1)   Distribute obscene matter to minors;
      (2)   Display obscene matter in an area to which minors have access; or
      (3)   Misrepresent his or her age for the purpose of obtaining admission
to an area where minors are being restricted.
   (B)   It shall be an affirmative defense to a prosecution under this section
for the defendant to show:
      (1)   The dissemination was made to the recipient by a bona fide school,
museum, or public library or by an employee of such an organization or of a
retail outlet affiliated with and serving the educational purpose of such an
organization acting in the course of his or her employment;
      (2)   The defendant made a reasonable bona fide attempt to ascertain the
true age of the minor;
      (3)   The act was done for legitimate scientific or educational purposes;
or
      (4)   The act was done by a sales clerk, motion picture projectionist,
usher, or ticket taker acting within the scope of his or her employment;
provided, that the sales clerk, motion picture projectionist, usher, or ticket
taker has no financial interest in the place where he or she is employed.
(1987 Code, § 6-275) (Ord. 35, 1997, passed 10-27-1997) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.32 PUBLIC EXHIBIT PROHIBITED; DEFENSES.
   (A)   Every person who knowingly exhibits in any public place, or in a place
readily accessible to the public, any obscene matter is guilty of an
infraction.
   (B)   It shall be an affirmative defense to a prosecution under this section
for the person to show:
      (1)   The matter was exhibited for legitimate scientific of educational
purposes; or
      (2)   The matter was exhibited by a person acting within the scope of
employment, provided that person has no financial interest in the place so
employed.
(1987 Code, § 6-275) (Ord. 35, 1997, passed 10-27-1997) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.33 ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Where the subject matter is offered for distribution to the public as
stock in trade of a lawful business or activity or, as in the case of films, is
exhibited at a commercial theater showing regularly scheduled performances to
the general public, no person shall be arrested for a violation of any of the
provisions of this subchapter unless the arresting officer shall have first
obtained an arrest warrant, and no property shall be seized as evidence unless
a search warrant shall have first been obtained pursuant to the  provisions of
this subchapter; provided, that the quantity of matter seized shall encompass
no more than is reasonable and necessary for the purpose of obtaining evidence,
and provided further, that no warrant for arrest shall issue upon probable
cause for any sales clerk, motion picture projectionist, usher, or ticket
taker, unless it shall be shown that the sales clerk, projectionist, usher, or
ticket taker has a financial interest in the act complained of other than that
interest normally within the scope of his or her employment.
   (B)   (1)   At any time after seizure or the obtaining of evidence by
purchase, prior to arrest, the city, defendant, owner, or other party in
interest of any matter seized or purchased may apply for and obtain a prompt
adversary hearing for the purposes of obtaining a preliminary determination of
obscenity. If evidence has been obtained by purchase, the court shall direct
the Clerk of the Court to issue notice to the defendant informing the person of
the availability of a prompt adversary hearing prior to the issuance of a
warrant of arrest.
      (2)   At any time after seizure the city, owner, or other party in
interest of any matter seized, may apply for and obtain a prompt adversary
hearing for the purpose of obtaining a determination of obscenity. If the court
determines at the hearing that the matter is obscene, the matter shall be held
as evidence and a warrant of arrest may be issued for the arrest of the
defendant; provided, if the defendant, owner, or other party in interest of any
matter seized or purchased shall not apply for a prompt adversary hearing with
five days after the seizure occurs or within seven days after notice is issued
by the court, an arrest warrant may be issued for the arrest of the defendant.
      (3)   In the case of films or motion pictures, at any time after arrest
and prior to a trial or any adversary hearing for the purpose of obtaining a
preliminary determination of obscenity, the defendant or owner of any matter
seized, upon showing that other copies of the film or motion picture are not
available to be exhibited, may apply to the court and upon this application the
court shall order that the applicant be permitted to copy the film or motion
picture, at his or her own expense, so that showing can be continued pending a
judicial determination of obscenity in an adversary hearing.
(1987 Code, § 6-275) (Ord. 35, 1997, passed 10-27-1997)
§ 130.34 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this subchapter shall be
guilty of an infraction, and shall upon conviction be fined.
(1987 Code, § 6-275) (Ord. 35, 1997, passed 10-27-1997) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
151.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
152.   ELECTRICAL INSTALLATION REGULATIONS
      
153.   UNSAFE BUILDINGS AND PREMISES
      
154.   MOBILE HOMES; TRAILER CAMPS
      
155.   FLOOD PLAIN MANAGEMENT
      
156.   SUBDIVISION CONTROL
      
157.   ZONING
      
158.   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT AND CONSTRUCTION SITE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 150: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Storm water runoff policy
Thoroughfare Plan
   
150.15   Thoroughfare Plan adopted
   
150.16   Classification of thoroughfares
   
150.17   Consideration of Plan
   
150.18   Permits; encroachment on rights-of-way prohibited
   
150.19   Street improvement program
   
150.20   Thoroughfare Fund
   
150.21   State statutes govern
   
150.22   Priority of improvements
   
150.23   Plan Commission authority
   
150.24   Amendments
Economic Revitalization Areas
   
150.35   Eligible area
   
150.36   Deductions
   
150.37   Uses not qualifying
   
150.38   Standards for ERA evaluation
   
150.39   Petitioner presence at meeting required
   
150.40   Benefit performance waiver certificates
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 STORM WATER RUNOFF POLICY.
   The impact of storm water runoff from all developed or developing territory
located within the city, or within the boundaries of the municipal sewage
utility system (SMSU), should be considered in public or private projects alike
within the city or SMSU by weighing the risks, benefits, and costs to the
property owners affected and the general public as a whole.
(Res. 32, 2000, passed 11-27-2000)
Cross reference:
   Stormwater management and construction site regulations, see
Ch. 158
THOROUGHFARE PLAN
§ 150.15 THOROUGHFARE PLAN ADOPTED.
   (A)   The Thoroughfare Plan of the city consists of a map dated July 1995,
entitled Major Streets and Highways Plan, which is on file and available for
public inspection at the Office of the Building Commissioner, which map is made
a part hereof by specific reference thereto.
   (B)   (1)   The map shows the location of existing and proposed
thoroughfares within the jurisdiction of the Plan Commission.
      (2)   The Thoroughfare Plan is declared to be part of this title, and
notations, references, indications, and other details shown therein are as much
a part of this code as if they were fully described in the text of this title.
   (C)   (1)   In addition to the streets designated, all areas within each
individual area covered on the map by designated secondary arterials and not
covered by sufficient feeder streets shall be provided with a through feeder
street system with a maximum separation of 1,320 feet.
      (2)   These feeder streets can be part of a residential development and
should be placed to the developer’s convenience, but subject to an alignment
that will be feasible to extend into other developments and ultimately to
connect to arterial thoroughfares.
(1987 Code, § 10-52) (Ord. 19, 1977, passed 8-29-1977)
§ 150.16 CLASSIFICATION OF THOROUGHFARES.
   The thoroughfares comprising the Thoroughfare Plan are classified in
accordance with the INDOT functional classification system as interstate,
principal arterial-other freeways or expressways, principal arterial-other,
minor arterial, major collector, minor collector, or local.
(1987 Code, § 10-53) (Ord. 5, 1977, passed 5-23-1977; Am. Ord. 19, 2024, passed
6-10-2024)
§ 150.17 CONSIDERATION OF PLAN.
   (A)   The City Council and the Board of Public Works and Safety shall be
guided by, and give consideration to, the general policy and pattern of street
development set out in the Thoroughfare Plan in the authorization construction,
alteration, relocation, or abandonment of the public streets, highways, and
related structures.
   (B)   Subject to the standards of this code being met, the Commission shall
attempt to enforce and regulate each proposed development as much as possible
to the convenience of the developer. Grievances of remonstrators shall be
considered to see if this grievance is in truly the best interest of planning
and public streets, highways, and related structures.
(1987 Code, § 10-55) (Ord. 5, 1977, passed 5-23-1977)
§ 150.18 PERMITS; ENCROACHMENT ON RIGHTS-OF-WAY PROHIBITED.
   Any permits, including but not limited to improvement location permits,
permitting the erection, alteration, or relocation of structures and other
improvements within the jurisdiction of the Commission, shall be issued only
if, in addition to satisfying other requirements of this title and other city
ordinances, the proposed street right-of-way as set forth herein will be
protected from encroachment. In this instance, the proposed street right-of-way
lines will be considered as the front line of lots and tracts bordering the
street.
(1987 Code, § 10-56) (Ord. 5, 1977, passed 5-23-1977)
§ 150.19 STREET IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM.
   The Board of Public Works and Safety is authorized to use funds available
for street improvements purposes to participate with owners of land abutting
streets within the city in the improvement of those streets in accordance with
the requirements of the Board of Public Works and Safety and the standards for
street improvement established by this title.
(1987 Code, § 10-57) (Ord. 5, 1977, passed 5-23-1977)
§ 150.20 THOROUGHFARE FUND.
   The City Council may levy a tax annually of not to exceed $0.15 on each $100
of taxable property within the city for the purpose of a Thoroughfare Fund,
which when collected shall be kept separate from the other funds of the city
and shall be a continuing fund.
(1987 Code, § 10-58) (Ord. 5, 1977, passed 5-23-1977)
§ 150.21 STATE STATUTES GOVERN.
   The authority for carrying out of any project under the official
Thoroughfare Plan by the Board of Public Works and Safety, or otherwise, is
subject to the provisions and requirements of I.C. 36-7-5-3 (now known as I.C.
36-9-6.1) or any other appropriate statutes of the state.
(1987 Code, § 10-59) (Ord. 5, 1977, passed 5-23-1977)
Editor’s note:
   I.C. 36-7-5-3 was repealed by P.L. 220-1986, Sec. 32.
§ 150.22 PRIORITY OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   The city Plan Commission may recommend to the Board of Public Works and
Safety the order in which improvements to be paid for, in part, out of the
Thoroughfare Fund, shall be undertaken and carried out.
(1987 Code, § 10-60) (Ord. 5, 1977, passed 5-23-1977)
§ 150.23 PLAN COMMISSION AUTHORITY.
   The Commission may:
   (A)   Determine lines for new, extended, widened, or narrowed thoroughfare
in any portion of the area within the jurisdiction of the Commission; and
   (B)   Certify to the City Council the amended or additional plan under the
same procedure as established for the certification and approval of the
original Thoroughfare Plan.
(1987 Code, § 10-61) (Ord. 5, 1977, passed 5-23-1977)
§ 150.24 AMENDMENTS.
   In addition to the provisions of §
150.23 above, amendments may be initiated as follows.
   (A)   The City Council may direct the Plan Commission to prepare an
amendment to the Thoroughfare Plan, as desired, and the Commission shall submit
the amendment to a public hearing within 60 days of this request. Not later
than 30 days following the public hearing, the Commission shall submit its
report on the amendment to the City Council.
   (B)   The owners of 50% or more of the area of property abutting upon a
street may petition the city Plan Commission requesting an amendment to the
Thoroughfare Plan.
(1987 Code, § 10-62) (Ord. 5, 1977, passed 5-23-1977)
ECONOMIC REVITALIZATION AREAS
§ 150.35 ELIGIBLE AREA.
   The area eligible for treatment as an economic revitalization area (ERA) is
all of the area within the municipal corporation boundaries.
(1987 Code, § 4-81) (Res. 19, 1985, passed 12-16-1985)
§ 150.36 DEDUCTIONS.
   The owner of property which is located in an economic revitalization area is
entitled to a deduction from the assessed value of the following type of
property for a period of years as set forth.
 
Property Type Number of Years for Deduction
Personal      5 years
Real          10 years
 
(1987 Code, § 4-82) (Res. 19, 1985, passed 12-16-1985)
§ 150.37 USES NOT QUALIFYING.
   The following type of development, redevelopment, or rehabilitation does not
qualify for deductions under I.C. 6-1.1-12.1 et seq.: residential, all types,
single, double, or multi- family, unless:
   (A)   The facility is a multi-family facility that contains at least 20% of
the units available for use by low and moderate income individuals;
   (B)   The facility is located in an economic development target area; or
   (C)   The area is designated as a residentially distressed area.
(1987 Code, § 4-83) (Res. 19, 1985, passed 12-16-1985; Am. Ord. 23, 2019,
passed 12-23-2019)
§ 150.38 STANDARDS FOR ERA EVALUATION.
   (A)   The purpose of the tax abatement program offered within economic
revitalization areas of the city are best served by allowing abatement by
taxpayers only when the benefits identified in the statement of benefits appear
to meet the following thresholds, and the City Council intends to consider but
not be limited by these thresholds in determining whether these benefits
justify the requested deduction.
   (B)   The thresholds are as follows.
      (1)   A minimum of one new full-time job should be created or retained
for each $5,000 to be expended on new manufacturing equipment or redevelopment
or rehabilitation of real property. A brief position description for each full-
time job to be created or retained, and the reason why the planned investment
will result in this creation or retention should be included with the statement
of benefits.
      (2)   Redevelopment or rehabilitation activities which may be accurately
described as routine facility maintenance will not be considered for tax
abatement.
      (3)   New manufacturing equipment which is acquired as a part of a
routine equipment replacement program, or is acquired to facilitate a change to
or addition of products manufactured at this location, or is acquired to
improve efficiency or product quality or competitiveness, will not be
considered for tax abatement.
(1987 Code, § 4-84) (Res. 6, 1989, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 150.39 PETITIONER PRESENCE AT MEETING REQUIRED.
   The City Council expects a representative of the requesting taxpayer to be
present at the Council meeting at which the statement of benefits is considered
in order to address questions of the Council, and failure of the taxpayer or
representative to be present may result in consideration being tabled or the
request being denied.
(1987 Code, § 4-85) (Res. 6, 1989, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 150.40 BENEFIT PERFORMANCE WAIVER CERTIFICATES.
   The purposes of the tax abatement program offered within economic
revitalization areas of the city are best served by allowing the deduction
claimed by taxpayers when causes beyond the reasonable control of the property
owner are preventing realization of the benefits identified in the statement of
benefits, and the City Council intends to issue a benefit performance waiver
certificate in those cases unless information provided to the City Council
suggests that incorrect information was intentionally provided in the statement
of benefits submitted to and approved by the City Council for the project.
(1987 Code, § 4-86) (Res. 4, 1988, passed 4-11-1988)
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
Building Code
   
151.01   Title
   
151.02   Purpose
   
151.03   Authority
   
151.04   Scope
   
151.05   State regulations adopted by reference
   
151.06   Standards; workmanship
Key Box Emergency Access System
   
151.10   Definitions
   
151.11   Mandatory key boxes and key caps
   
151.12   Non-applicability to certain dwellings
   
151.13   Key lock boxes
   
151.14   Registration and installation of key lock boxes
Building Permits
   
151.20   Permit application
   
151.21   Permit required
   
151.22   Compliance with other ordinances
   
151.23   Fees
   
151.24   Application review
   
151.25   Contractor requirements
Building Code; Administration and Enforcement
   
151.35   Inspections
   
151.36   Right of entry
   
151.37   Stop order
   
151.38   Certificate of occupancy
   
151.39   Violations
   
151.40   Right of appeal
   
151.41   Remedies
Street Address Numbering
   
151.55   Numbering required
   
151.56   City numbering plan
   
151.57   Uniform numbering system; purpose
   
151.58   Grids established
   
151.59   Administrative Officer; address assignment
   
151.60   Issuance of street number
   
151.61   Posted numbers; standards
   
151.62   Violations
   
151.63   Enforcement
Downtown Review Board
   
151.75   Purpose
   
151.76   Definitions
   
151.77   Establishment and organization
   
151.78   Powers and duties
   
151.79   Historic district and guidelines
   
151.80   Certificates of appropriateness
   
151.81   Visual compatibility of new construction
   
151.82   Maintenance and repairs
   
151.83   Vacant structures
   
151.84   Enforcement, penalties and judicial review
   
151.85   Downtown Historic District
Cross-reference:
   Excavations and Construction; Streets and Sidewalks, see §§
94.35 et seq.
BUILDING CODE
§ 151.01 TITLE.
   This chapter and all ordinances supplemental or amendatory shall be known as
the “building code of the city,” and may be cited as such, and will be referred
to herein as “this chapter.”
(1987 Code, § 7-1) (Ord. 10, 1989, passed 7-24-1989)
§ 151.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for minimum standards for the
protection of life, health, environment, public safety, and general welfare,
and for the conservation of energy in the design and construction of buildings
and structures.
(1987 Code, § 7-2) (Ord. 10, 1989, passed 7-24-1989)
§ 151.03 AUTHORITY.
   The Building Commissioner is authorized and directed to administer and
enforce all of the provisions of this chapter. Whenever, in this chapter, it is
provided that anything must be done to the approval of or subject to the
direction of the Building Commissioner or any other officer of the Board of
Public Works and Safety, this shall be construed to give that officer only the
discretion of determining whether this chapter has been complied with; and no
provision shall be construed as giving any officer discretionary powers as to
what this chapter shall be, or power to require conditions not prescribed by
ordinances or to enforce this chapter in an arbitrary or discriminatory manner.
(1987 Code, § 7-3) (Ord. 10, 1989, passed 7-24-1989)
§ 151.04 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the construction, alteration,
repair, use, occupancy, maintenance, and additions to all buildings and
structures, other than industrialized building systems or mobile structures
certified under I.C. 22-15-4, in the city and in the jurisdictional area of the
Plan Commission that lies outside the city limits.
(1987 Code, § 7-3) (Ord. 10, 1989, passed 7-24-1989; Am. Ord. 4, 2015, passed
2-9-2015)
§ 151.05 STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Building rules of the state Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission as set out in the following articles of I.A.C. Title 675 are
incorporated by reference in this title, and shall include later amendments to
those articles as the same are published in the Indiana Register or the I.A.C.,
with effective dates as fixed therein:
      (1)   Article 13: Building Codes:
         (a)   Fire and Building Safety Standards;
         (b)   State Building Code;
         (c)   State Building Code Standards; and
         (d)   State Handicapped Accessibility Code.
      (2)   Article 14: One- and Two-Family Dwelling Codes:
         (a)   Council of American Building Officials One- and Two-Family
Dwelling Code;
         (b)   CABO One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code: Amendments; and
         (c)   Standard for Permanent Installation of Manufactured Homes.
      (3)   Article 16: Plumbing Codes: State Plumbing Code;
      (4)   Article 17: Electrical Codes:
         (a)   State Electrical Code; and
         (b)   Safety Code for Health Care Facilities.
      (5)   Article 18: Mechanical Codes: State Mechanical Code;
      (6)   Article 19: Energy Conservation Codes:
         (a)   State Energy Conservation Code; and
         (b)   Modifications to the Model Energy Code.
      (7)   Article 20: Swimming Pool Codes: State Swimming Pool Code.
   (B)   Copies of adopted building rules, codes, and standards are on file in
the office of the Building Commissioner.
(1987 Code, § 7-4) (Ord. 10, 1989, passed 7-24-1989)
§ 151.06 STANDARDS; WORKMANSHIP.
   All work on the construction, alteration, and repair of buildings and other
structures shall be performed in a good and workmanlike manner according to
accepted standards and practices in the trade.
(1987 Code, § 7-9) (Ord. 10, 1989, passed 7-24-1989)
KEY BOX EMERGENCY ACCESS SYSTEM
§ 151.10 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTOMATIC FIRE SUPPRESSION SYSTEM. A system or assembly of piping, valves,
controls, and sprinklers, which are designed and installed to comply with the
National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) standards, which utilize water,
foam, carbon dioxide, or other gas to automatically react to suppress fire.
   FIRE OFFICIAL. The Fire Chief or his or her designee.
   KNOX BOX (LOCK OR KEY BOX). A high security key vault, which shall refer to
a UL type box, standards, size, and style approved by the Fire Official.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY. The property owner of a building subject to this
subchapter.
   STANDPIPE SYSTEM. A wet or dry system of piping, valves, outlets and related
equipment designed to provide water at specified pressures and installed
exclusively for the fighting of fires.
(Ord. 12, 2013, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 151.11 MANDATORY KEY BOXES AND KEY CAPS.
   (A)   Each building protected by an automatic fire suppression and/or
standpipe system and shall be equipped with a key box. The key box shall be a
Knox Box type and size approved by the Fire Official. In addition each such
building shall be equipped with Knox fire department caps. The Knox cap key
shall be one that is complaint with the Seymour Fire Department Knox cap key
system currently in use. The responsible party shall incur all necessary
expenses for the Knox caps.
   (B)   Every commercial building, and every multi-family residential unit of
more than four units shall be equipped with a key lock box. The key lock box
shall be a Knox Box type and size approved by the Fire Official.
   (C)   This section shall apply prospectively to any new building or
remodeling projects commenced within the city. All existing buildings are
requested to voluntarily comply with this section. Notwithstanding this
provision, any existing commercial building, industrial building or multi-
family residential unit of more than four units which is remodeled,
structurally altered in any way or change of occupancy classification
hereafter, must comply with the terms and provisions of this section.
   (D)   The key box shall be installed on the building no more than four feet
to the right of the main building entrance and approximately four feet above
the finished grade. Alternate locations shall be approved by the Fire Chief
and/or Fire Inspector.
(Ord. 12, 2013, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 151.12 NON-APPLICABILITY TO CERTAIN DWELLINGS.
   This subchapter shall not apply to residential buildings of less than four
units.
(Ord. 12, 2013, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 151.13 KEY LOCK BOXES.
   (A)   The responsible party is required at all times to keep a key(s) in the
lock box that will allow access to the structure. The key box shall contain,
but not be limited to, the following items as designated by the Fire Official:
      (1)   Labeled keys to locked points of egress, whether in interior or
exterior of the buildings;
      (2)   Labeled keys to the locked mechanical rooms;
      (3)   Labeled keys to locked elevator rooms and controls;
      (4)   Labeled keys to any fence or secured areas;
      (5)   Labeled keys to areas of the building where fire alarm panels and
fire protection systems are located;
      (6)   Labeled keys to any other areas that may be required by the Fire
Official;
      (7)   A card containing the emergency contact people and phone numbers
for the buildings;
      (8)   Floor plans of the rooms within the building showing locations of
shut offs;
      (9)   Hazardous materials information; and
      (10)   An inventory of the keys is to be placed inside all lock boxes.
   (B)   The responsible party shall notify the Seymour Fire Department when
any or all of the locks or keys have been changed and shall keep the immediate
area of the key lock box free and clear of any and all obstructions.
(Ord. 12, 2013, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 151.14 REGISTRATION AND INSTALLATION OF KEY LOCK BOXES.
   The responsible party shall apply for a registration for a lock box on forms
provided by and obtained from the Fire Official of the Seymour Fire Department.
A registration is required prior to the installation of a key lock box in order
to verify the proper mounting location and installation of the key lock box.
The key lock box shall be installed on the front exterior of the building near
the man entry door at a location approved by the Fire Official. No key lock box
shall be installed, voluntarily or otherwise, without first obtaining the
approval of the Fire Official of the Seymour Fire Department. The responsible
party shall be responsible for the cost to purchase, install, and maintain the
key lock box.
(Ord. 12, 2013, passed 7-8-2013)
BUILDING PERMITS
§ 151.20 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   No building permit shall be issued for the foregoing purposes, unless
the application for a permit is accompanied by a plat or sketch of the proposed
location showing lot boundaries, and by plans and specifications showing the
work to be done. In addition, a copy of a design release, issued by the State
Building Commissioner and the State Fire Marshal pursuant to I.C. 22-15-3-1,
shall be provided to the Building Commissioner before issuance of a permit for
construction covered by the design release.
   (B)   No structure demolition permit shall be issued unless the owner of the
structure, their agent, or contractor submits the demolition plans, or
tentative demolition plan of the proposed structure, with their demolition
permit application for review by the Building Commissioner.
(1987 Code, § 7-5) (Ord. 10, 1989, passed 7-24-1989; Am. Ord. 9, 2020, passed
5-11-2020)
§ 151.21 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   A permit shall be obtained before beginning construction, alteration,
repair, or demolition of any building or structure, and prior to construction
for permanently installed swimming pools (both in-ground and above-ground),
permanently installed spas and all fences that are four feet high or higher.
Application for a permit shall be made using forms furnished by the Building
Commissioner, and all fees required by this chapter shall be paid to the Clerk-
Treasurer.
(1987 Code, § 7-5) (Ord. 10, 1989, passed 7-24-1989; Am. Ord. 13, 2013, passed
7-8-2013; Am. Ord. 9, 2020, passed 5-11-2020)
§ 151.22 COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER ORDINANCES.
   All work done under any permit shall be in full compliance with all other
ordinances pertaining thereto, and in addition to the fees for permits, there
shall be paid the fees prescribed in those ordinances.
(1987 Code, § 7-5) (Ord. 10, 1989, passed 7-24-1989)
§ 151.23 FEES.
   The Board of Public Works and Safety is authorized to set fees upon the
recommendation of the Building Commissioner.
(1987 Code, § 7-6) (Ord. 10, 1989, passed 7-24-1989)
§ 151.24 APPLICATION REVIEW.
   (A)   Prior to the issuance of any building permit, the Building
Commissioner shall:
      (1)   Review all building permit applications to determine full
compliance with the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   Review all building permit applications for new construction or
substantial improvements to determine whether proposed building sites will be
reasonably safe from flooding;
      (3)   Review building permit applications for major repairs within the
floodplain area having special hazards to determine that the proposed repair:
         (a)   Uses construction materials and utility equipment that are
resistant to flood damage; and
         (b)   Uses construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
      (4)   Review building permit applications for new construction or
substantial improvements within the floodplain area having special flood
hazards to assure that the proposed construction (including prefabricated and
mobile homes):
         (a)   Is protected against flood damage;
         (b)   Is designed (or modified) and anchored to prevent floatation,
collapse, or lateral movement of the structure, flood damage; and
         (c)   Uses construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
   (B)   Prior to the issuance of any demolition permit, the Building
Commissioner shall:
      (1)   Review all demolition permit applications to determine compliance
with the provisions of this chapter; and
      (2)   Verify that all steps of the structure demolition permit have been
completed by the applicant.
(1987 Code, § 7-6) (Ord. 10, 1989, passed 7-24-1989; Am. Ord. 9, 2020, passed
5-11-20)
§ 151.25 CONTRACTOR REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A contractor shall provide the Building Commissioner, or his or her
designee, with proof of insurance and/or a surety bond in an amount set by the
Board of Public Works, as it deems appropriate from time to time.
   (B)   A homeowner, who owns his property, doing the work himself, can be
issued the permit without proof of insurance or surety bond. However, any
individual doing work on someone else’s property is considered a contractor and
is required to have the items listed in division (A).
   (C)   A homeowner obtaining the permit for the contractor is a prohibited
act because the contractor may not be bonded, licensed, or qualified.
   (D)   The contractor or property owner should bring two sets of drawings
when visiting the Building Commissioner’s Office to fill out a permit
application. All drawings must be to scale so that the Building Commissioner
can be sure of setback compliance.
   (E)   Violations of this section may be enforced by a stop work order issued
by the Building Commissioner, or his or her designee. In addition the Board of
Public Works shall have the authority to fine the offender in the amount of
$250 for noncompliance.
(Ord. 6, 2006, passed 6-26-2006)
BUILDING CODE; ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 151.35 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   After the issuance of any building permit, the Building Commissioner
shall make, or shall cause to be made, inspections of the work being done as
are necessary to insure full compliance with the provisions of this chapter and
the terms of the permit. Reinspections of work found to be incomplete or not
ready for inspection are subject to assessment of reinspection fees as
prescribed in this chapter.
   (B)   The Chief of the Fire Department, or his or her designated
representative, shall assist the Building Commissioner in the inspection of
fire suppression, fire safety, detection, and alarm systems and shall provide
reports of the inspection to the Building Commissioner.
(1987 Code, § 7-7) (Ord. 10, 1989, passed 7-24-1989)
§ 151.36 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   Upon presentation of proper credentials, the Building Commissioner or his or
her duly authorized representative may enter at reasonable times any building,
structure, or premises in the city to perform any duty imposed upon him or her
by this chapter.
(1987 Code, § 7-8) (Ord. 10, 1989, passed 7-24-1989)
§ 151.37 STOP ORDER.
   Whenever any work is being done contrary to the provisions of this chapter,
the Building Commissioner may order the work stopped by notice in writing
served on any persons engaged in the doing or causing that work to be done, and
those persons shall forthwith stop work until authorized by the Building
Commissioner to proceed with the work.
(1987 Code, § 7-8) (Ord. 10, 1989, passed 7-24-1989)
§ 151.38 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   No certificate of occupancy for any building or structure erected, altered,
or repaired after the adoption of this chapter shall be issued unless that
building or structure was erected, altered, or repaired in compliance with the
provisions of this chapter. It shall be unlawful to occupy any such building or
structure unless a full, partial, or temporary certificate of occupancy has
been issued by the Building Commissioner.
(1987 Code, § 7-8) (Ord. 10, 1989, passed 7-24-1989) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.39 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation, whether as owner,
lessee, sub-lessee, or occupant, to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair,
improve, remove, convert, demolish, equip, use, occupy, or maintain any
building or structure, other than fences, in the city or cause or permit the
same to be done, contrary to or in violation of the provisions of this chapter.
(1987 Code, § 7-9) (Ord. 10, 1989, passed 7-24-1989) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.40 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   All persons shall have the right to appeal the Building Commissioner’s
decision, first through the Board of Public Works and Safety and then to the
Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission of the state in accordance with
the provisions of I.C. 22-13-2-7 and I.C. 4-21.5-3-7.
(1987 Code, § 7-10) (Ord. 10, 1989, passed 7-24-1989)
§ 151.41 REMEDIES.
   (A)   The Building Commissioner shall in the name of the Board of Public
Works and Safety bring actions in the Circuit or Superior Courts of the county
for mandatory and injunctive relief in the enforcement of and to secure
compliance with any order or orders made by the Building Commissioner, and any
such action for mandatory or injunctive relief may be joined with an action to
recover the penalties provided for in this chapter.
   (B)   If any person, firm, or corporation shall violate any of the
provisions of the building code, or shall do any act prohibited herein, or
shall fail to perform any duty lawfully enjoined, within the time prescribed by
the Building Commissioner, or shall fail, neglect, or refuse to obey any lawful
order given by the Building Commissioner in connection with the provisions of
this chapter for each violation, failure, or refusal, that person, firm, or
corporation shall be fined. Each day of unlawful activity as is prohibited by
the first sentence of this division shall constitute a separate offense.
(1987 Code, § 7-10) (Ord. 10, 1989, passed 7-24-1989) Penalty, see §
10.99
STREET ADDRESS NUMBERING
§ 151.55 NUMBERING REQUIRED.
   All businesses, houses, and residences shall be numbered, and the plan of
numbering shall be consistent with this subchapter.
(1987 Code, § 7-11) (Ord. 809, passed 2-25-1920)
§ 151.56 CITY NUMBERING PLAN.
   (A)   For all streets extending north and south through the city, the
numbers shall begin at the Baltimore and Ohio (B & O) Railroad, and on all
streets extending east and west through the city the numbers shall begin at the
Pennsylvania Railroad.
   (B)   All of that part of the city that is north of the B & O Railroad shall
be designated as north and all that part that is south of that railroad shall
be designated as south. All that part of the city that is east of the
Pennsylvania Railroad shall be designated as east, and all that part that is
west of that railroad shall be designated as west.
   (C)   The numbering of the houses shall begin at the railroads, the first
block nearest the railroad on each street using the numbers from 101 to 200,
the next block using the numbers from 201 to 300, and so on, each block
representing 100 numbers. On all streets extending east and west on the east
side of the railroad the even numbers shall be on the south side thereof and
the odd numbers shall be on the north side thereof. On the west side of the
railroad the even numbers shall be on the north side thereof, and the odd
numbers on the south side thereof. On all streets that extend north and south
through the city on the north side of the railroad, the even numbers shall be
on the east side thereof and the odd numbers shall be on the west side thereof.
On the south side of the railroad, the even numbers shall be on the west side
thereof and the odd numbers shall be on the east side thereof. Each tract of
ground with a 25-foot frontage shall represent a number.
(1987 Code, § 7-12) (Ord. 829, passed 4-7-1922)
§ 151.57 UNIFORM NUMBERING SYSTEM; PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish a uniform numbering
system for the systematic numbering of addresses for houses and structures
located within the city and the jurisdictional area of the city Plan
Commission.
   (B)   The numbering of houses and other structures in an orderly and
systematic manner will make the location of these houses and structures more
expeditious in cases of fire emergencies, in situations involving immediate
need for medical attention for family members or occupants of a building, and
in instances where police protection may be required. An orderly and systematic
numbering process will also enhance the delivery of goods and services, as well
as increase the efficiency of operations such as postal delivery.
(1987 Code, § 7-90) (Ord. 34, 1991, passed 12-30-1991)
§ 151.58 GRIDS ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The uniform number system is generally based on the Lyman System by
assignment of 1000 addresses per mile. Even-numbered addresses shall be
assigned on the north and west sides of roads and odd-numbered addresses shall
be assigned on the south and east sides of roads.
   (B)   The grid system to be used is to be constructed on a north, south,
east, and west basis using the existing base roads in the county highway
system, with each mile portion of roadway becoming a block for uniform
numbering purposes. The road numbering system begins in the Town of Brownstown
at the corner of Sections 11, 12, 13, and 14, Township 5 North, Range 4 East.
Base Road North shall be that portion of county roadway that lies along the
section line extending north from the intersection named above to the
Bartholomew County line. Base Road South shall be that portion of county
roadway that lies along the section line extending south from the intersection
named above to the Washington County line. Base Road East shall be that portion
of county roadway that lies along the section line extending east from the
intersection named above to the Jennings County line. Base Road West shall be
that portion of county roadway that lies along the section line extending west
from the intersection named above to the Lawrence County line.
   (C)   The new system shall utilize the current official county road numbers
and add to them a prefix with a numerical location followed by a letter
indicating the general direction the road runs from the base road.
   (D)   The current addressing scheme of the city and of the Towns of
Brownstown, Crothersville, and Medora shall be taken into account for areas
adjoining each incorporated area.
(1987 Code, § 7-91) (Ord. 34, 1991, passed 12-30-1991)
§ 151.59 ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER; ADDRESS ASSIGNMENT.
   (A)   The city Building Commissioner shall act as the Administrative Officer
(hereinafter referred to as “Administrative Officer”) in charge of issuing
addresses to houses and structures, renumber houses and structures whenever it
becomes necessary to do so in the implementation of the uniform system, and
cause the numbering of all existing homes or structures which are not numbered
to be numbered in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter. Barns,
sheds, and out-buildings not used for habitation or business shall not be
numbered.
   (B)   The Administrative Officer may establish written guidelines to use in
implementing this subchapter and may amend those guidelines from time to time,
subject to prior approval of the City Council.
   (C)   The Administrative Officer may, if he or she deems proper and
necessary for the implementation of the uniform numbering system, assign
numbers to houses or structures that are situated on private streets or roads
within the jurisdictional area of the city Plan Commission.
   (D)   From the effective date of this subchapter, the numbering of all
houses and structures located on lots or parcels of land abutting public
streets or roads within the jurisdictional area of the city Plan Commission
shall be accomplished in conformity with the uniform numbering system as herein
described. At the time of the issuance of any permit for the construction of a
house or structure, a number shall be assigned by the Administrative Officer to
that house or structure as herein provided. This number shall be included on
the permit, and no permit authorizing the occupancy of a house or structure
shall be issued and no final inspection of a building performed for the purpose
of permitting its occupancy shall be deemed complete unless that house or
structure displays, at the time of inspection, the officially assigned number
in full compliance with the standards of this subchapter.
   (E)   Houses and structures that were numbered prior to the effective date
of this subchapter shall be renumbered, to the extent practicable, in order
that the same may comply with the uniform numbering system and so that the
numerical harmony throughout an area or areas is substantially achieved. The
city Building Commissioner shall authorize these changes.
   (F)   Houses and structures located within the city shall retain the system
of numbering previously used by the city as described in §
151.56 of this code, the city numbering plan. Houses and structures located
within the two-mile jurisdictional area of the city Plan Commission shall be
renumbered in order to comply with the uniform numbering system.
   (G)   Houses and structures constructed subsequent to the effective date of
this subchapter shall utilize the uniform numbering system.
   (H)   The Administrative Officer shall provide a uniform system of
notification of the issuance of numbers or the renumbering of houses and
structures. Notification shall be made reasonably ahead of impending changes so
as to allow interest groups and agencies to plan and to prepare for proposed
changes. The Administrative Officer shall keep accurate records and shall, from
time to time, prepare and make available to the City Council a report of the
status of the implementation of the uniform numbering system. In the assignment
of house numbers, the Administrative Officer shall use his or her best judgment
and shall carefully consider and evaluate all contingencies and shall, with due
regard to the sensitive nature of the job assigned to the office, be
considerate of the citizens of the county.
(1987 Code, § 7-92) (Ord. 34, 1991, passed 12-30-1991)
§ 151.60 ISSUANCE OF STREET NUMBER.
   It shall be the duty of the Building Commissioner to furnish each property
owner residing in the city, and in the event the owner is a nonresident the
tenant or agent, the proper number for each building.
(1987 Code, § 7-13) (Ord. 34, 1991, passed 12-30-1991)
§ 151.61 POSTED NUMBERS; STANDARDS.
   (A)   The owner or occupant of a house or structure located within the
jurisdictional area of the city Plan Commission shall post officially assigned
numbers in a location providing easy identification from the abutting street or
road. This official number shall be placed or attached to the mail box (in
accordance with postal regulations) or on a post or outside light, or on any
prominent place on the house or structure so that the number is identifiable.
Provided, however, that if a building is not visible from a road or if a
building is more than 200 feet from a road, the number shall be displayed at
the entrance to the access road or driveway to the building by means of a
separate marker or on a mail box.
   (B)   The number shall be a minimum of three inches in height and made of
durable, weatherproof material. The color of the number must stand out from its
background.
(1987 Code, § 7-93) (Ord. 34, 1991, passed 12-30-1991)
§ 151.62 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person, firm, or corporation owning or occupying a building who shall
fail to number the building or who shall fail to maintain the number of the
building as provided in this subchapter shall be deemed to have violated the
provisions of this subchapter and shall be fined for each day’s violation.
(1987 Code, § 7-94) (Ord. 34, 1991, passed 12-30-1991) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.63 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Plan Commission may institute a suit for injunction in the courts of the
county to restrain any person, firm, or corporation who shall take down, alter,
deface, destroy, or conceal any number assigned to, or place upon any building,
an erroneous or improper number not in compliance with this subchapter. The
Plan Commission may institute a suit for mandatory injunction directing a
person, firm, or corporation to correct any violation of the provisions of this
subchapter or to bring about compliance with the provisions of this subchapter.
If the Plan Commission is successful in any such suit, the defendant or
respondent shall bear the costs of the action, including reasonable attorney’s
fees.
(1987 Code, § 7-95) (Ord. 34, 1991, passed 12-30-1991)
DOWNTOWN HISTORIC DISTRICT
§ 151.75 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Purpose of preservation and protection of buildings in the Downtown
Historic District:
      (1)   To ensure orderly growth and development of the Downtown Historic
District;
      (2)   To protect property values and attract new residents;
      (3)   To ensure the viability of the traditional downtown area and to
enhance tourism within the City of Seymour, Indiana;
   (B)   These purposes are advanced through the restoration and preservation
of historic areas and buildings, the construction of compatible new buildings
where appropriate, and the maintenance and insurance of compatibility in
regards to style, form, proportion, texture, and material between historic
buildings and those of contemporary design.
   (C)   It is the intention of the City of Seymour, Indiana through this
section to preserve and protect historic or architecturally worthy buildings,
structures, sites, monuments, streetscapes, squares and neighborhoods of the
Downtown Historic District.
(Ord. 16, passed 9-12-2011; Am. Ord. 26, 2014, passed 8-25-2014)
§ 151.76 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALTERATION. A material or color change in the external architectural
features of any building, structure, or site within the Downtown Historic
District.
   CITY. The City of Seymour, Indiana.
   DOWNTOWN REVIEW BOARD. The Downtown Review Board established by this
subchapter.
   DOWNTOWN HISTORIC DISTRICT.  The boundaries of which are described or
delineated on a map establishing the boundaries of the Downtown Historic
District.
   INTERESTED PARTY. One of the following:
      (1)   The Mayor.
      (2)   The City Council.
      (3)   The City Plan Commission or other agency having land use planning
jurisdiction over a historic district designated by ordinance.
      (4)   An owner or occupant of property located in the Downtown Historic
District established by an ordinance adopted by the City Council.
   PRESERVATION GUIDELINES. Locally developed criteria which identify design
concerns to assist property owners in maintaining the character of the Downtown
Historic District or buildings during the process of rehabilitation or new
construction.
   PRIMARY AREA. The principal area of historic and/or architectural
significance as delineated on the map establishing the boundaries of the
historic district.
   ROUTINE MAINTENANCE. Work for which no Certificate of Appropriateness is
required.
   STREETSCAPE. Appearance from a public way, the distinguishing
characteristics of which are created by the width of the street and sidewalks,
their paving materials and color, the design of the street furniture (such as
street lights, trash receptacles, benches and the like) use of plant materials
such as trees and shrubs, and the setback, mass, and proportion of those
buildings which enclose the street.
   VISUAL COMPATIBILITY. Those elements of design that meet the guidelines set
out in this subchapter.
(Ord. 16, 2011, passed 9-12-2011; Am. Ord. 26, 2014, passed 8-25-2014)
§ 151.77 DOWNTOWN REVIEW BOARD ESTABLISHMENT AND ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   Establishment. There is hereby established the Downtown Review Board
of the City of Seymour, Indiana (hereinafter referred to as the “DRB”).
   (B)   Composition; appointment. The Commission shall consist of seven voting
members. The voting members shall be two members of the City Council, two
members of Seymour Main Street, two At Large member who are either large
property owners or downtown business owners to be appointed by the Mayor, and
one member of the Redevelopment Commission.
   (C)   Term. Voting members shall each serve for a term of two years;
however, the terms of original voting members shall be for one year and two
years in order for the terms to be staggered. A vacancy shall be filled within
30 days for the duration of the term.
   (D)   Commission Administrator. The Building Commissioner shall serve as the
ex-officio administrator of the Commission. The Administrator shall provide
staff assistance to the DRB, act as the DRB’s secretary, and issue Certificates
of Appropriateness.
   (E)   Officers. The DRB shall elect from its membership a Chairperson and
Vice-Chairperson who shall serve for one year and who may be reelected. The DRB
Administrator shall serve as the DRB’s secretary.
   (F)   Rules. The DRB shall adopt rules for the transaction of its business.
The rules must include the time and place of regular meetings and a procedure
for the calling of special meetings.
   (G)   Meetings. Commission meetings must be open to the public and a public
record shall be kept of the DRB’s resolutions, proceedings, and actions. The
DRB shall hold regular meetings, once a month, except when it has no business
pending. Special meetings may be called in a manner determined by the DRB and
its rules.
(Ord. 16, 2011, passed 9-12-2011; Am. Ord. 26, 2014, passed 8-25-2014)
§ 151.78 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE DRB.
   (A)   The DRB shall be concerned with those elements of development,
redevelopment, rehabilitation, and preservation that affect visual quality in
the Downtown Historic District. The DRB may not consider details of design,
interior arrangements, or building features, if those details, arrangements, or
features are not subject to public view.
   (B)   The DRB may conduct surveys, and draw and submit additional maps for
approval of the City Council, as the DRB considers appropriate.
   (C)   The DRB may promote public interest in historic preservation by
initiating and carrying on a public relations and community education program.
   (D)   Each official of the city who has responsibility for building
inspection, building permits, planning, or zoning shall provide any technical,
administrative, or clerical assistance requested by the DRB. The attorney for
the city shall serve as the attorney for the DRB.
   (E)   The DRB shall give recommendations to the Building Commissioner for
the issuance of Certificates of Appropriateness.
(Ord. 16, 2011, passed 9-12-2011; Am. Ord. 26, 2014, passed 8-25-2014)
§ 151.79 HISTORIC DISTRICTS AND GUIDELINES.
   (A)   From the date this subchapter is adopted, a Certificate of
Appropriateness is required for the following activities for any building
existing in the current Downtown Historic District: any remodeling or
rehabilitation of any building; the moving of any building; and any new
construction of a principal building or accessory building or structure subject
to view from a public way.
(Ord. 16, 2011, passed 9-12-2011; Am. Ord. 26, 2014, passed 8-25-2014)
§ 151.80 CERTIFICATES OF APPROPRIATENESS.
   (A)   Certificates of Appropriateness required. A Certificate of
Appropriateness must be issued by the Building Commissioner before work is
begun on any of the following:
      (1)   Within all areas of the Downtown Historic District:
         (a)   The demolition of any building;
         (b)   The moving of any building;
         (c)   A change in the exterior appearance of historic buildings by
additions, reconstruction, alteration, or maintenance involving exterior color
change; or
         (d)   Any new construction of a principal building or accessory
building or structure subject to view from a public way.
         (e)   A change in walls and fences, or the construction of walls and
fences along public ways;
   (B)   Application for Certificates of Appropriateness. Application for a
Certificate of Appropriateness shall be made in the office of City Hall on
forms provided by that office. Detailed drawings, plans, or specifications are
not required. However, to the extent reasonably required for the Building
Commissioner to make a decision, each application must be accompanied by
sketches, drawings, photographs, descriptions, or other information showing the
proposed exterior alterations, additions, changes, or new construction.
   (C)   Approval or denial of Certificates of Appropriateness.  If an
application for a Certificate of Appropriateness is not acted on by the
Building Commissioner within 30 days after it is filed, a Certificate of
Appropriateness shall be issued by the Building Commissioner. If the
certificate is issued, the application shall be processed in the same manner as
applications for building or demolition permits required by the city, if any
are processed. If no building or demolition permits are required, the applicant
may proceed with the work authorized by the certificate. If the Building
Commissioner denies an application for a certificate of appropriateness within
30 days after it is filed, the certificate may not be issued. The Building
Commissioner must state its reasons for the denial in writing, and must advise
the applicant. An application that has been denied may not be processed as an
application for a building or demolition permit and does not authorize any work
by the applicant. The Building Commissioner may grant an extension of the 30-
day limit if the applicant agrees to it. If a permit is denied, the applicant
may appeal to the Board of Works for a hearing.
   (D)   Criteria for considering effect of actions on buildings in the
Downtown Historic District. In considering the appropriateness of any
reconstruction, alteration, maintenance, or moving of a building or any part of
or appurtenance to such building, including walls, fences, light fixtures,
steps, paving, and signs shall require that such work be done in a manner that
will preserve the historical and architectural character of the building,
structure, or appurtenance. In considering historic and architectural
character, the Building Commissioner shall consider, among other things, the
following:
      (1)   Purposes of this subchapter;
      (2)   Historical and architectural value and significance of the
building, structure, site or appurtenance;
      (3)   Compatibility and significance of additions, alterations, details,
materials, or other non-original elements which may be of a different style and
construction date than the original;
      (4)   The texture, material, color, style, and detailing of the building,
structure, site or appurtenance;
      (5)   The continued preservation and protection of original or otherwise
significant structure, material, and ornamentation;
      (6)   The position of the building or structure in relation to the
street, public right-of-way and to other buildings and structures.
(Ord. 16, 2011, passed 9-12-2011; Am. Ord. 26, 2014, passed 8-25-2014)
§ 151.81 VISUAL COMPATIBILITY OF NEW CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Height.  The height of proposed buildings must not be less than 22
feet high on the primary side of the building. The second story may be facade
only to create the appearance of a two-story structure.
   (B)   Relationship of materials, texture, and color. The relationship of the
materials, texture, and color of the facade of a building must be visually
compatible with the predominant materials used in the buildings to which it is
geographically related to.
   (C)   The primary side of building facing the street shall be built
consistent with adjoining structures on zero lot line.
(Ord. 16, 2011, passed 9-12-2011; Am. Ord. 26, 2014, passed 8-25-2014)
§ 151.82 MAINTENANCE AND REPAIRS.
   (A)   Ordinary repairs and maintenance. Nothing in this section shall be
construed to prevent the ordinary repairs and maintenance of any historic
building, provided that such repairs or maintenance do not result in a
conspicuous change in the design, form, proportion, mass, configuration,
building material, texture, color, location, or external visual appearance of
any structure, or part thereof.
   (B)   Storm, fire, vandalism, potentially harmful deterioration of the
property, deterioration of appurtenances or other type of repair work is to be
completed within 60 days of incident or notification by the Building
Commissioner. Thirty-day extensions may be granted by the Building Commissioner
and a catastrophic repair timeline shall be set by the Building Commissioner.
(Ord. 16, 2011, passed 9-12-2011; Am. Ord. 26, 2014, passed 8-25-2014)
§ 151.83 VACANT STRUCTURES.
   Vacant structure means a building that is unoccupied for a period of 90
days.
   (A)   The building must be maintained in good repair and be structurally
sound. The interior of the building or structure shall be cleaned of all trash,
junk, garbage, debris, and solid waste and personal possessions shall be
removed from the interior of the building or structure, so as to eliminate any
fire or health hazard and prevent hindrance to firefighting equipment or
personnel in the event of a fire. Disposal of such trash and the like must
comply with any and all provisions of the City Code and no such trash and the
like shall be placed on city right-of-way.
   (B)   The exterior of the structure shall be free of loose or rotten
materials as well as holes. Any exposed metal, wood or other surface shall be
protected from the element by appropriate weather-coating materials (paint or
similar treatment).
   (C)   Any balconies, canopies, signs, metal awnings, stairways, fire escapes
or other overhanging extensions shall be in good repair and appropriately
anchored.
   (D)   Any accessories or appurtenant structures, including but not limited
to garages, sheds and other storage facilities shall meet the same standards.
(Ord. 16, 2011, passed 9-12-2011; Am. Ord. 26, 2014, passed 8-25-2014)
§ 151.84 ENFORCEMENT, PENALTIES, AND JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   (A)   Any person, whether as principal, agent, owner, lessee, tenant,
contractor, builder, architect, engineer, or otherwise, who violates any
provision of this subchapter shall be subject to a fine of $100 per day, plus
administrative costs, for each offense.
   (B)   Each day of the existence of any violation of this subchapter shall be
a separate offense.
   (C)   The remedies provided for in this section shall be cumulative and not
exclusive and shall be in addition to any other remedies provided by law.
   (D)   Any person or party aggrieved by a decision of the Commission shall be
entitled to judicial review.
(Ord. 16, 2011, passed 9-12-2011; Am. Ord. 26, 2014, passed 8-25-2014)
§ 151.85 SEYMOUR DOWNTOWN HISTORIC DISTRICT.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dbbc9b9e11c1086bd5e62848c5bbdaa09aab0120/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2583.jpg]
 
(Ord. 16, 2011, passed 9-12-2011; Am. Ord. 26, 2014, passed 8-25-2014)
CHAPTER 152: ELECTRICAL INSTALLATION REGULATIONS
Section
Electrical Installations and Inspection
   
152.01   Inspection authority
   
152.02   Installation; license required; homeowner exception
   
152.03   Inspection required
   
152.04   Reinspections; notice to abate unsafe condition
   
152.05   Certificate of approval; nonconformance; additional inspections
   
152.06   Furnishing electric current; certificate required
   
152.07   Liability disclaimer
Electrician Licensing
   
152.20   License requirements
   
152.21   Fees
   
152.22   Issuance; fee disposition
   
152.23   Expiration and renewal
   
152.24   Suspension
   
152.25   Unlicensed work unlawful
Electrician Examination
   
152.35   Board of Electrician Examiners
   
152.36   Examination required
   
152.37   Application
   
152.38   Failure to pass; reapplication
Cross-reference:
   Building Regulations; Construction, see
Chapter 151
   General Land Usage Provisions, see
Chapter 150
   Public Works, see Title V
ELECTRICAL INSTALLATIONS AND INSPECTION
§ 152.01 INSPECTION AUTHORITY.
   The Department of Planning and Zoning, through the office of the Building
Commissioner, shall be responsible for inspection of electrical work in the
city and the two-mile jurisdictional area.
(1987 Code, § 7-100)
§ 152.02 INSTALLATION; LICENSE REQUIRED; HOMEOWNER EXCEPTION.
   All electrical installations within the city and the two-mile jurisdictional
area shall be made by an electrician duly licensed under the provisions of this
chapter; except that nothing in this chapter shall be construed as prohibiting
the actual owner from doing one complete electrical installation or wiring job
per year in a new or existing domicile of all electrical fixtures normally
incidental to single-family residential occupancy of the building.
(1987 Code, § 7-120) (Ord. 23, 1993, passed 8-2-1993)
§ 152.03 INSPECTION REQUIRED.
   Before any electrician, electrical contractor, or other person shall
complete the wiring of any building or place located in the city and the two-
mile jurisdictional area and before electrical wiring shall be concealed in
conduit or any other manner, the work shall be inspected by the Building
Commissioner or his or her designated representative to determine whether or
not the work complies with the current state Electrical Code, which is
incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(1987 Code, § 7-121) (Ord. 23, 1993, passed 8-2-1993; Ord. 30, 1993, passed 9-
27-1993)
§ 152.04 REINSPECTIONS; NOTICE TO ABATE UNSAFE CONDITION.
   The Building Commissioner or his or her designated representative shall have
authority to periodically make a thorough reinspection of the installation of
all electrical wiring, devices, appliances, and equipment that may be installed
within the scope of this chapter. When the installation of any wiring, devices,
appliances, or equipment is found to be in a dangerous or unsafe condition, the
person owning, using, or operating that equipment shall be notified and shall
make the necessary repairs or changes required to place the wiring, devices,
appliances, and equipment in safe condition, and the work shall be completed
within 15 days or any longer period specified by the Building Commissioner or
his or her designated representative in that notice.
(1987 Code, § 7-122) (Ord. 23, 1993, passed 8-2-1993)
§ 152.05 CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL; NONCONFORMANCE; ADDITIONAL INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   When electrical work, wiring, and the like, conforms to the
requirements of this chapter, then the Building Commissioner or his or her
designated representative shall give his or her certificate to the person
performing the work.
      (2)   The certificate shall state the description and location of that
work.
   (B)   The certificate shall state the description and location of the
building inspected and the date the work is approved.
   (C)   If the work shall not conform to the provisions of this chapter, then
the Building Commissioner or his or her designated representative shall notify
the person performing the work wherein it fails to conform. If more than two
inspections are required, then there shall be an additional inspection fee, as
given in Ch. 36, for each additional inspection.
(1987 Code, § 7-123) (Ord. 23, 1993, passed 8-2-1993)
§ 152.06 FURNISHING ELECTRIC CURRENT; CERTIFICATE REQUIRED.
   No person shall furnish any electric current to any building hereafter wired
for electricity within the city and the two-mile jurisdictional area until it
has been furnished with a certificate signed by the Building Commissioner or
his or her designated representative showing that the work conforms to the
rules and requirements established in this chapter.
(1987 Code, § 7-124) (Ord. 23, 1993, passed 8-2-1993) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.07 LIABILITY DISCLAIMER.
   This chapter shall not relieve any person from liability for damages or
injuries to persons or property because of the installation of any electric
wiring, devices, appliances, or equipment; nor shall the city assume any such
liability by reason of the inspection authorized in this chapter or the
certificate of approval issued as provided in this chapter.
(1987 Code, § 7-125) (Ord. 23, 1993, passed 8-2-1993)
ELECTRICIAN LICENSING
§ 152.20 LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   To operate or engage in business as an electrician or electrical contractor
within the city and two-mile jurisdictional area, the person, firm,
partnership, or corporation desiring to operate or engage in that business
shall be duly licensed according to the provisions of this chapter. The license
shall be issued only in the name of the person, firm, partnership, or
corporation making application for the license. A person requesting the
issuance of a license in the name of a firm, partnership, or corporation shall
on that application list the names and addresses of all of that firm or
partnership or the name and location of the place of the principal office of
the corporation. Any change in the location of the place of business and any
change in the membership of the firm or partnership shall be reported to the
Department of Planning and Zoning within five days after the change occurs. The
examination described in §
152.36 of this code shall be required to be taken and passed by at least one
member of the firm, partnership, or corporation, which member or members shall
be required to be on the job site at all times in either a direct or
supervisory capacity. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as prohibiting
industrial manufacturing concerns from installing and maintaining customary
electrical installation incidental to the operations of that concern without
complying with the licensing provisions of this chapter.
(1987 Code, § 7-101) (Ord. 23, 1993, passed 8-2-1993; Am. Ord. 45, 1998, passed
9-14-1998)
§ 152.21 FEES.
   (A)   The fee for a license to operate as an electrician, any electrical
business, or an independent electrical contractor within city and two-mile
jurisdiction area shall be as set forth in
Ch. 36 of this code for the first license issued to the applicant and for each
annual renewal of the license; and, for each additional person engaged in
electrical work by the licensee, an additional fee for the first license issued
to the applicant and for each annual renewal of the license, as set forth in
Ch. 36 of this code, shall be charged.
   (B)   The Board of Public Works and Safety is hereby authorized to set fees
upon the recommendation of the Building Commissioner.
(1987 Code, § 7-102) (Ord. 23, 1993, passed 8-2-1993)
§ 152.22 ISSUANCE; FEE DISPOSITION.
   The license provided for in this chapter shall be issued by the Building
Commissioner by authority of the Board of Public Works and Safety. All fees for
licenses shall be deposited in and become a part of the Electrical Training
Program.
(1987 Code, § 7-103) (Ord. 23, 1993, passed 8-2-1993)
§ 152.23 EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL.
   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire on December 31 in the
year for which the license was issued. No license shall be issued for a longer
period than one calendar year, but a license may be renewed without
reexamination as provided for in this chapter. However, no license holder will
be entitled to renew a license without examination unless an application shall
be filed in due form and the proper fee for the renewal paid not later than 30
days after the expiration of the latest license in the office of the Department
of Planning and Zoning, but if the application is so filed and the fee is so
paid within 30 days from the expiration date of the latest license, then the
renewal license shall be granted without examination. No license shall be
transferable to any other person, firm, partnership, or corporation.
(1987 Code, § 7-104) (Ord. 23, 1993, passed 8-2-1993) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.24 SUSPENSION.
   The Building Commissioner is authorized to suspend the license of any
electrician or electrical contractor issued under this chapter for a period of
not more than 30 days for a violation of this chapter; and any person whose
license has been suspended may appeal the suspension to the Board of Public
Works and Safety by filing therewith a written request for a hearing within ten
days of the Building Commissioner’s action. The Board shall have the power to
reverse or affirm the decision appealed from or to permanently revoke the
license.
(1987 Code, § 7-105) (Ord. 23, 1993, passed 8-2-1993)
§ 152.25 UNLICENSED WORK UNLAWFUL.
   Any person, firm, corporation, or independent contractor doing electrical
work without an electrical license shall receive a fine as set by the Board of
Public Works and Safety from time to time.
(1987 Code, § 7-106) (Ord. 23, 1993, passed 8-2-1993) Penalty, see §
10.99
ELECTRICIAN EXAMINATION
§ 152.35 BOARD OF ELECTRICIAN EXAMINERS.
   A Board of Electrician Examiners is created and shall consist of the Board
of Public Works and Safety, the Building Commissioner, and/or his or her
designated representative.
(1987 Code, § 7-110) (Ord. 23, 1993, passed 8-2-1993)
§ 152.36 EXAMINATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any person, firm, corporation, or independent contractor desiring to
engage in electrical work within the city and the two-mile jurisdictional area
is required to first pass an examination as required by the Board of Examiners
concerning his or her ability, experience, training, and fitness to engage in
that line of work. Apprenticeship cards shall be issued to new hires and
temporary employees for a period of no more than two years.
   (B)   After the two-year period those employees shall apply for an
electrician’s license.
(1987 Code, § 7-111) (Ord. 23, 1993, passed 8-2-1993)
§ 152.37 APPLICATION.
   Any applicant desiring to take an examination for an electrician license,
where that examination is required by this chapter, shall be entitled to take
the examination within 30 days after the date of filing and perfecting his or
her application in the office of the Department of Planning and Zoning.
(1987 Code, § 7-112) (Ord. 23, 1993, passed 8-2-1993)
§ 152.38 FAILURE TO PASS; REAPPLICATION.
   In the event of an applicant failing to pass an examination for an
electrician’s license, he or she may, after 30 calendar days from the filing
date of his or her prior application, apply for another examination as the
Building Commissioner may deem necessary concerning his or her ability,
experience, training, and fitness for this line of work.
(1987 Code, § 7-113) (Ord. 23, 1993, passed 8-2-1993)
CHAPTER 153: UNSAFE BUILDINGS AND PREMISES
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Enforcement authority; Building Commissioner
   
153.02   Definitions
   
153.03   State law adopted
   
153.04   Minimum standards for occupancy
   
153.05   Property transfer by persons not in compliance
   
153.06   Violations
Orders to Correct
   
153.20   Order to correct; notice; condemnation
   
153.21   Modification and rescission of orders
   
153.22   Hearings; extensions; records
   
153.23   Appeals process
Administration and Enforcement Action
   
153.35   Emergency action; recovery of costs
   
153.36   Power to repair, or demolish and remove, unsafe structures
   
153.37   Action required by order; liability for costs
   
153.38   Unpaid costs; notice, hearing, and judgment
   
153.39   Unsafe Building Fund; deposits and expenditures
   
153.40   Inspection warrants
   
153.41   Manner of serving notice
   
153.42   Records; taking interest in premises
Court Proceedings
   
153.55   Civil actions
   
153.56   Injunctions
   
153.57   Civil forfeitures
   
153.58   Appointment of receiver
   
153.59   Court order authorizing work; judgment for costs
   
153.60   Emergency court order authorizing work; judgment for costs
   
153.61   Change of venue or judge
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY; BUILDING COMMISSIONER.
   This chapter is adopted pursuant to I.C. 36-7-9-3. The enforcement authority
for this chapter is the Building Commissioner of the city.
(1987 Code, § 7-60) (Ord. 28, 1988, passed 11-14-1988)
§ 153.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORITY or ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY. The Building Commissioner or his or her
designated representative.
   PERMANENT HEAT. Any fixed appliance that is UL listed capable of maintaining
a room temperature of 65°F in all habitable rooms and bathrooms.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. A nuisance annoying that part of the public as necessarily
comes in contact with it or which is prejudicial to the general public;
whatever obstructs the free use of property, interfering with the comfortable
enjoyment of life and property by an entire community or neighborhood;
unreasonable interference with a right, common to the general public; or
behavior which unreasonably interferes with the health, safety, peace, comfort,
or convenience of the general community.
   RUBBISH. Combustible and noncombustible waste materials, except garbage; the
term shall include the residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke, and other
combustible materials, paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior, rubber,
leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metals, mineral matter,
glass, crockery, and dust, and other similar materials.
   SANITARY. Free from elements, as filth or bacteria, that endanger health and
safety of the inhabitants of a premises or the general public.
(1987 Code, § 7-61) (Ord. 33, 2000, passed 11-13-2000)
   UNSAFE BUILDING and UNSAFE PREMISES.  
      (1)   A building or structure, or any part of a building or structure,
that constitutes a hazard to safety, health, or public welfare by reason of
inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, obsolescence, fire hazard, disaster,
damage, or abandonment shall be considered an UNSAFE BUILDING and be subject to
the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   An UNSAFE BUILDING and the tract of real property on which the
UNSAFE BUILDING is located shall be considered the same under all sections of
this chapter.
(1987 Code, §§ 6-181, 7-62) (Ord. 35, 1998, passed 8-10-1998)
§ 153.03 STATE LAW ADOPTED.
   This chapter is patterned after I.C. 36-7-9 et seq. The City Council adopts
by reference amendments, changes, and deletions made to that chapter of the
Indiana Code as they apply to the various sections of this chapter.
(1987 Code, § 7-85) (Ord. 28, 1988, passed 11-14-1988)
§ 153.04 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   A person shall not occupy as owner-occupant or permit another person
to occupy premises which are not in a sanitary and safe condition and which do
not comply with the requirements of this code. Occupants of a dwelling unit are
responsible for keeping in a clean, sanitary, and safe condition that part of
the dwelling unit or premises which they occupy and control.
   (B)   All vacant structures and premises thereof or vacant land shall be
maintained in a clean, safe, secure, and sanitary condition as provided herein
so as not to cause a public nuisance (as defined in §
95.01 of this code).
   (C)   (1)   All exterior property and premises shall be maintained in a
clean, safe, and sanitary condition. The occupant shall keep that part of the
exterior property which the occupant occupies or controls in a clean and
sanitary condition.
      (2)   Except as provided for in other regulations, not more than one
currently unlicensed motor vehicle shall be parked, kept, or stored on any
premises for not more than one year and no vehicle shall at any time be in a
state of major disassembly, disrepair, or in the process of being stripped or
dismantled. Exception: A vehicle of any type is permitted to undergo major
overhaul, including body work, provided that this work is performed inside a
structure or similarly enclosed area designed and approved for those purposes.
   (D)   The exterior of a structure shall be maintained in good repair,
structurally sound, and sanitary so as not to pose a public nuisance or pose a
threat to the public health, safety, or welfare.
   (E)   All exterior property and premises, and the interior of every
structure, shall be free from any accumulation of rubbish or garbage. Every
occupant of a structure shall dispose of all rubbish in a clean and sanitary
manner so as not to pose a health hazard.
   (F)   All structures shall be kept free from insect and rodent infestation.
Structures in which insects or rodents are found shall be promptly exterminated
by approved processes that will not be injurious to human health. After
exterminations proper precautions shall be taken to prevent reinfestation. The
owner of any structure shall be responsible for extermination within the
structure.
   (G)   Every bedroom occupied by one person shall contain at least 70 square
feet of floor area, and every bedroom occupied by more than one person shall
contain at least 50 square feet of floor area for each occupant thereof.
Kitchens and non-habitable spaces shall not be used for sleeping purposes.
   (H)   Dwelling units shall not be occupied by more occupants than permitted
by the minimum area requirements of the table below. Except for family units,
which term is defined as mother, father, and/or guardian and immediate
children.
 
Space       Minimum Area in Square Feet
            1 - 2 Occupants 3 - 5 Occupants 6 or More Occupants
Dining room -               80              100
Kitchen     50              50              60
Living room -               120             150
 
   (I)   Every dwelling unit shall contain its own bathtub or shower, lavatory,
toilet, and kitchen sink which shall be maintained in a sanitary, safe working
condition. The lavatory shall be placed in the same room as the toilet or
located in close proximity to the door leading directly into the room in which
the toilet is located. A kitchen sink shall not be used as a substitute for the
required lavatory.
   (J)   (1)   All plumbing fixtures shall be properly installed and maintained
in working order, and shall be kept free from obstructions, leaks, and defects
and be capable of performing the function for which those plumbing fixtures are
designed. All plumbing fixtures shall be maintained in a safe, sanitary, and
functional condition.
      (2)   Where it is found that a plumbing system in a structure constitutes
a hazard to the occupants or the structure by reason of inadequate service,
inadequate venting, cross-connection, back siphonage, improper installation,
deterioration, or damage, or for similar reasons, the code official shall
require the defects to be corrected to eliminate the hazard.
   (K)   (1)   Every sink, lavatory, bathtub or shower, drinking fountain,
toilet, or other plumbing fixture shall be properly connected to either a
public water system or to an approved private water system. All kitchen sinks,
lavatories, laundry facilities, bathtubs, and showers shall be supplied with
hot or tempered and cold running water in accordance with the plumbing code.
      (2)   The water supply shall be maintained free from contamination, and
all water inlets for plumbing fixtures shall be located above the flood-level
rim of the fixture. Shampoo basin faucets, janitor sink faucets, and other hose
bibs or faucets to which hoses are attached and left in place, shall be
protected by an approved atmospheric-type vacuum breaker or an approved
permanently attached hose connection vacuum breaker.
   (L)   The water supply system shall be installed and maintained to provide a
supply of water to plumbing fixtures, devices, and appurtenances in sufficient
volume and at pressures adequate to enable the fixtures to function properly,
safely, and free from defects and leaks.
   (M)   (1)   Water-heating facilities shall be proper-ly installed,
maintained, and capable of providing an adequate amount of water to be drawn at
every required sink, lavatory, bathtub, shower, and laundry facility at a
temperature of not less than 120°F.
      (2)   A gas-burning water heater shall not be located in any bathroom,
toilet room, bedroom, or other occupied room normally kept closed, unless
adequate combustion air is provided.
      (3)   An approved combination temperature and pressure relief valve and
relief valve discharge pipe shall be properly installed and maintained on water
heaters.
   (N)   All plumbing fixtures shall be properly connected to either a public
sewer system or to an approved private sewage disposal system. Every plumbing
stack, vent, and waste and sewer line shall function properly and be kept free
from obstructions, leaks, and defects.
   (O)   It shall be unlawful to occupy any dwelling unit without permanent
heat or electric.
   (P)   All mechanical equipment, fireplaces, and solid fuel-burning
appliances shall be properly installed and maintained in a safe working
condition and shall be capable of performing the intended function.
      (1)   All cooking and heating equipment, components, and accessories in
every heating, cooking, and water-heating device shall be maintained free from
leaks and obstructions.
      (2)   All fuel-burning equipment and appliances shall be connected to an
approved chimney or vent, except fuel-burning equipment and appliances which
are labeled for unvented operation.
   (Q)   (1)   Every occupied building shall be provided with an electrical
system in compliance with this division and division (R).
      (2)   Where it is found that the electrical system in a structure
constitutes a hazard to the occupants or the structure by reason of inadequate
service, improper fusing, insufficient outlets, improper wiring or
installation, deterioration, or damage, or for similar reasons, the code
official shall require the defects to be corrected to eliminate the hazard.
   (R)   All electrical equipment, wiring, and appliances shall be properly
installed and maintained in a safe and approved manner.
   (S)   Duct systems shall be maintained free of all obstructions and shall be
capable of providing the required function.
(1987 Code, § 7-86) (Ord. 33, 2000, passed 11-13-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.05 PROPERTY TRANSFER BY PERSONS NOT IN COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   A person who has been issued and has received notice of an order
relative to unsafe premises and has not complied with that order:
      (1)   Must supply full information regarding the order to a person who
takes or agrees to take a substantial property interest in the unsafe premises
before transferring or agreeing to transfer that interest; and
      (2)   Must, within five days after transferring or agreeing to transfer a
substantial property interest in the unsafe premises, supply the enforcement
authority with written copies of:
         (a)   The full name, address, and telephone number of the person
taking a substantial property interest in the unsafe premises; and
         (b)   The legal instrument under which the transfer or agreement to
transfer the substantial property interest is accomplished.
   (B)   If a judgment is obtained against the department, enforcement
authority, or other governmental entity for the failure of that entity to
provide notice to persons holding an interest in unsafe premises in an action
taken by the entity under this chapter, a person who failed to comply with this
section is liable to the entity for the amount of the judgment if it be shown
that the entity’s failure to give notice was a result of that person’s failure.
(1987 Code, § 7-84) (Ord. 28, 1988, passed 11-14-1988) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.06 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   A person who does any of the following commits a Class C infraction:
      (1)   Remains in, uses, or enters a building in violation of an order
made under this chapter;
      (2)   Knowingly interferes with or delays the carrying of an order made
under this chapter;
      (3)   Knowingly obstructs, damages, or interferes with persons engaged or
property used in performing any work or duty under this chapter; or
      (4)   Fails to comply with §
153.05 of this code.
   (B)   Each day that the violation continues constitutes a separate offense.
(1987 Code, § 7-84) (Ord. 28, 1988, passed 11-14-1988) Penalty, see §
10.99
ORDERS TO CORRECT
§ 153.20 ORDER TO CORRECT; NOTICE; CONDEMNATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a person, firm, or corporation to be in
conflict with or in violation of this chapter. The enforcement authority, as
defined above, shall serve a notice of violation or order in accordance with
division (B) below. If the notice of violation is not complied with, the
enforcement authority shall institute the appropriate proceeding at law or in
equity to restrain, correct, or abate the violation, or to require the removal
or termination of the unlawful occupancy of the structure in violation of the
provisions of this chapter or direction pursuant thereto.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate a provision of this chapter, or fail to
comply therewith, or with any of the requirements thereof, shall be guilty of a
Class C code violation and shall be subject to a civil penalty for each
violation. Each day that a violation continues after due notice has been served
shall be deemed a separate offense. The imposition of the penalties herein
prescribed shall not preclude the legal officer of the jurisdiction from
instituting appropriate action to restrain, correct, or abate a violation, or
to prevent illegal occupancy of a building, structure, or premises, or to stop
an illegal act, conduct, business, or utilization of the building, structure,
or premises.
   (C)   Whenever the enforcement authority has determined that there has been
a violation of this chapter or has grounds to believe that a violation has
occurred, notice shall be given to the owner or the person or persons
responsible therefor in the manner prescribed below. Notices for condemnation
procedures shall also comply with this section.
      (1)   These notices prescribed shall:
         (a)   Be in writing;
         (b)   Include a description of the real estate sufficient for
identification;
         (c)   Include a statement of the violation or violations and why the
notice is being issued;
         (d)   Include a correction order allowing a reasonable time to make
the repairs and improvements required to bring the dwelling unit or structure
into compliance with the provisions of this chapter; and
         (e)   Inform the property owner of the right to appeal.
      (2)   The notice shall be deemed to be properly served if a copy thereof
is:
         (a)   Delivered personally;
         (b)   Sent by certified or first-class mail addressed to the last
known address; or
         (c)   If the notice is returned showing that the letter was not
delivered, a copy thereof shall be posted in a conspicuous place in or about
the structure affected by the notice.
      (3)   Penalties for noncompliance shall be set forth in Section 1.
   (D)   When a structure or equipment is found by the enforcement authority to
be unsafe, that structure shall be condemned pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter. An unsafe structure is one that is found to be dangerous to the life,
health, property, or safety of the public or the occupants of the structure by
not providing minimum safeguards to protect or warn occupants in the event of
fire, or because the structure contains unsafe equipment or is so damaged,
decayed, dilapidated, structurally unsafe, or of such faulty construction or so
unstable, that partial or complete collapse is possible. Unsafe equipment
includes any boiler, heating equipment, electrical wiring or device, flammable
liquid containers, or other equipment on the premises or within the structure
which is in such disrepair or condition that the equipment is a hazard to life,
health, property, or safety of the public or occupants of the premises or
structure.
   (E)   A structure is unfit for human occupancy whenever the enforcement
authority finds that the structure is unsafe because of the degree to which the
structure is in disrepair or lacks maintenance, is unsanitary, vermin or rat
infested, contains filth and contamination, or lacks ventilation, illumination,
sanitary or heating facilities, or other essential equipment required by this
chapter, or because the location of the structure constitutes a hazard to the
occupants of the structure or to the public.
   (F)   If the structure is vacant and unfit for human occupancy, and is not
in danger of structural collapse, the enforcement authority is authorized to
post a placard of condemnation on the premises and order the structure closed
up so as not to be a public nuisance (as defined in §
95.01 of this code). Upon failure of the owner to close up the premises within
the time specified in the order, the enforcement authority shall cause the
premises to be closed through any available public agency or by contract or
arrangement by private persons and the cost thereof shall be charged against
the real estate upon which the structure is located and shall be a lien upon
that real estate.
   (G)   Whenever the enforcement authority has condemned a structure or
equipment under the provisions of this section, notice shall be posted in a
conspicuous place in or about the structure affected by the notice and served
on the owner or the person or persons responsible for the structure or
equipment. If the notice pertains to equipment, it shall also be placed on the
condemned equipment.
   (H)   Upon failure of the owner or person responsible to comply with the
notice provisions within the time given, the enforcement authority shall post
on the premises or on defective equipment a placard bearing the word
“Condemned” and a statement of the penalties provided for occupying the
premises, operating the equipment, or removing the placard.
   (I)   Any person who shall occupy a placarded premises or shall operate
placarded equipment, and any owner or any person responsible for the premises
who shall let anyone occupy a placarded premises or operate placarded
equipment, shall be liable for the penalties provided by this chapter. The
enforcement authority shall remove the condemnation placard whenever the defect
or defects upon which the condemnation and placarding action were based have
been eliminated. Any person who defaces or removes a condemnation placard
without the approval of the enforcement authority shall be subject to the
penalties provided by this chapter.
(1987 Code, § 7-63) (Ord. 33, 2000, passed 11-13-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.21 MODIFICATION AND RESCISSION OF ORDERS.
   (A)   The enforcement authority may issue an order that modifies the order
previously issued.
   (B)   The enforcement authority may rescind an order previously issued, even
if the order has been affirmed by the hearing authority.
(1987 Code, § 7-64) (Ord. 28, 1988, passed 11-14-1988)
§ 153.22 HEARINGS; EXTENSIONS; RECORDS.
   (A)   A hearing must be held relative to each order of the enforcement
authority, except for an order issued under §
153.20. An order issued under §
153.20 becomes final ten days after notice is given, unless a hearing is
requested before the ten-day period ends by a person holding a fee interest,
life estate interest, or equitable interest of a contract purchaser in the
unsafe premises. The hearing shall be conducted by the hearing authority.
   (B)   The hearing shall be held on a business day no earlier than ten days
after notice of the order is given. The hearing authority may, however, take
action at the hearing, or before the hearing if a written request is received
by the enforcement authority not later than five days after notice is given, to
continue the hearing to a business day not later than 14 days after the hearing
date shown on the order. Unless the hearing authority takes action to have the
continued hearing held on a definite, specified date, notice of the continued
hearing must be given to the person to whom the order was issued at least five
days before the continued hearing date, in the manner prescribed by §
153.41 of this code. If the order being considered at the continued hearing was
served by publication, it is sufficient to give notice of the continued hearing
by publication unless the enforcement authority has received information in
writing that enables it to make service under §
153.41 by a method other than publication.
   (C)   The person to whom the order was issued, any person having a
substantial property interest in the unsafe premises that are the subject of
the order, or any other person with an interest in the proceedings may appear
in person or by counsel at the hearing. Each person appearing at the hearing is
entitled to present evidence, cross-examine opposing witnesses, and present
arguments.
   (D)   At the conclusion of any hearing at which a continuance is not
granted, the hearing authority may make findings and take action to:
      (1)   Affirm the order;
      (2)   Rescind the order; or
      (3)   Modify the order, but unless the person to whom the order was
issued, or counsel for that person, is present at the hearing, the hearing
authority may modify the order in only a manner that makes its terms less
stringent.
   (E)   If, at a hearing, a person to whom an order has been issued requests
an additional period to accomplish action required by the order, and shows good
cause for this request to be granted, the hearing authority may grant the
request. However, as a condition for allowing the additional period, the
hearing authority may require that the person post a performance bond to be
forfeited if the action required by the order is not completed within the
additional period.
   (F)   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall, at a public hearing, after
having given notice of the time and place of the hearing by publication in
accordance with I.C. 5-14-1.5-1, adopt a schedule setting forth the maximum
amount of performance bonds applicable to various types of ordered action. The
hearing authority shall use this schedule to fix the amount of the performance
bond required under division (E) of this section.
   (G)   The record of the findings made and action taken by the hearing
authority at the hearing shall be available to the public upon request.
However, neither the enforcement authority nor the hearing authority is
required to give any notice of the findings and action.
(1987 Code, § 7-65) (Ord. 28, 1988, passed 11-14-1988)
§ 153.23 APPEALS PROCESS.
   (A)   Any person directly affected by a decision of the enforcement
authority or a notice or order issued under this chapter shall have the right
to appeal to the Board of Works and Safety provided that a written application
for appeal is filed within 20 days after the day the decision, notice, or order
was served. An application for appeal shall be based on a claim that the true
intent of this chapter or the rules legally
adopted thereunder have been incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of this
chapter do not fully apply, or the requirements of this chapter are adequately
satisfied by other means.
   (B)   All hearings before the Board shall be open to the public. The
appellant, the appellant’s representative, the enforcement authority, and any
person whose interests are affected shall be given an opportunity to be heard.
   (C)   (1)   The Board shall modify or reverse the decision of the
enforcement authority only by a concurring vote of a majority of the total
number of appointed Board members.
      (2)   Any person, whether or not a previous party of the appeal, shall
have the right to apply to the appropriate court for a writ of certiorari to
correct errors of law. Application for review shall be made in the manner and
time required by law following the filing of the decision in the office of the
chief administrative officer.
      (3)   Appeals of notice and orders (other than imminent danger notices)
shall stay the enforcement of the notice and order until the appeal is heard by
the Board of Public Works and Safety.
(1987 Code, § 7-66) (Ord. 33, 2000, passed 11-13-2000)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT ACTION
§ 153.35 EMERGENCY ACTION; RECOVERY OF COSTS.
   (A)   When, in the opinion of the enforcement authority, there is imminent
danger of failure or collapse of a building or structure which endangers life,
or when any structure or part of a structure has fallen and life is endangered
by the occupation of the structure, or when there is actual or potential danger
to the building occupants or those in the proximity of any structure because of
explosives, explosive fumes or vapors, or the presence of toxic fumes, gases,
or materials, or operation of defective or dangerous equipment, the owner is
given ten days to show or not show proof of imminent danger by hiring a
licensed contractor or equivalent expertise.
   (B)   If after the five days the owner has failed to comply, the enforcement
authority is hereby authorized and empowered to order and require the occupants
to vacate the premises forthwith. The enforcement authority shall cause to be
posted at each entrance to the structure a notice reading as follows: “This
structure is unsafe and its occupancy has been prohibited by the enforcement
authority.” It shall be unlawful for any person to enter the structure except
for the purpose of securing the structure, making the required repairs,
removing the hazardous condition, or demolishing the same.
   (C)   Notwithstanding other provisions of this code, whenever, in the
opinion of the enforcement authority, there is imminent danger due to an unsafe
condition, the enforcement authority shall order the necessary work to be done,
including the boarding up of openings to render the structure temporarily safe
whether or not the legal procedure herein described has been instituted; and
shall cause other action to be taken as the enforcement authority deems
necessary to meet the emergency. For the purpose of this section, the
enforcement authority shall employ the necessary labor and materials to perform
the required work as expeditiously as possible.
   (D)   Costs incurred in the performance of emergency work shall be paid by
the jurisdiction. The legal counsel of the jurisdiction shall institute
appropriate action against the owner of the premises where the unsafe structure
is or was located for the recovery of those costs.
   (E)   Any person ordered to take emergency measures shall comply with that
order forthwith. Any affected person shall thereafter be afforded a hearing as
described in this chapter.
(1987 Code, § 7-67) (Ord. 33, 2000, passed 11-13-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.36 POWER TO REPAIR, OR DEMOLISH AND REMOVE, UNSAFE STRUCTURES.
   (A)   The enforcement authority shall order the owner of any premises upon
which is located any structure which in the enforcement authority’s judgment is
so old, dilapidated, or has become so out of repair as to be dangerous, unsafe,
unsanitary, or otherwise unfit for human habitation or occupancy, and such that
it is unreasonable to repair the structure, which shall be certified by a
licensed contractor or equivalent expertise, to demolish and remove that
structure, or if the structure is capable of being made safe by repairs, to
repair and make safe and sanitary or to demolish and remove.
   (B)   All notices and orders shall comply with §
153.20 of this code.
   (C)   If the owner of a premises fails to comply with a demolition order
within the time prescribed, the enforcement authority shall cause the structure
to be demolished and removed, either through an available public agency or by
contract or arrangement with private persons, and the cost of the demolition
and removal shall be charged against the real estate upon which the structure
is located and shall be a lien upon that real estate.
(1987 Code, § 7-69) (Ord. 33, 2000, passed 11-13-2000)
§ 153.37 ACTION REQUIRED BY ORDER; LIABILITY FOR COSTS.
   (A)   When action required by an order is performed by the enforcement
authority or by a contractor acting under §
153.36 of this code, each person who held a fee interest, life estate interest,
or equitable interest of a contract purchaser in the unsafe premises from the
time when the order requiring the work performed was recorded to the time that
the work was completed is jointly and severally responsible for the following
costs:
      (1)   The actual cost of the work performed by the enforcement authority
or the bid price of work accomplished by the contractor under §
153.36; and
      (2)   An amount that represents a reasonable forecast of the average
processing expense that will be incurred by the enforcement authority in taking
the technical, administrative, and legal actions concerning typical unsafe
premises that are necessary under this chapter so that the action required by
an order may be performed by a contractor under §
153.36. In calculating the amount of the average processing expense, the
following costs may be considered:
         (a)   The cost of obtaining reliable information about the identity
and location of persons who own a substantial property interest in the unsafe
premises;
         (b)   The cost of notice of orders, notice of statement of rescission,
notice of continued hearing, notice of statements that public bids are to be
let or that the enforcement authority intends to accomplish the work, and
notice that a hearing may be held on the amounts indicated in the record, in
accordance with Section 7-22;
         (c)   Salaries for employees; and
         (d)   The cost of supplies, equipment, and office space.
   (B)   The board or commission having control over the department shall
determine the amount of the average processing expense at the public hearing,
after notice has been given in the same manner as is required for other
official action of the board or commission. In determining the average
processing expense, the board or commission may fix the amount at a full dollar
amount that is an even multiple of ten.
(1987 Code, § 7-70) (Ord. 28, 1988, passed 11-14-1988)
§ 153.38 UNPAID COSTS; NOTICE, HEARING, AND JUDGMENT.
   (A)   If all or any part of the costs listed in §
153.36 remain unpaid for any unsafe premises (other than unsafe premises owned
by a governmental entity) for more than 15 days after the compliance of the
work, and if the enforcement authority determines that there is a reasonable
probability of obtaining recovery, the enforcement authority shall prepare a
record stating:
      (1)   The name and last known address of each person who held a fee
interest, life estate interest, or equitable interest of a contract purchaser
in the unsafe premises from the time the order requiring the work to be
performed was recorded to the time that the work was completed;
      (2)   The legal description or address of the unsafe premises that was
the subject of work;
      (3)   The nature of the work that was accomplished;
      (4)   The amount of the unpaid bid price of the work that was
accomplished; and
      (5)   The amount of the unpaid average processing expense.
   (B)   The record must be in a form approved by the state Board of Accounts.
   (C)   The enforcement authority, or its head, shall swear to the accuracy of
the record before the Clerk of the Circuit Court and deposit the record in the
Clerk’s office. Notice that the record has been filed and that a hearing on the
amounts indicated in the record may be held must be sent to the persons named
in the record, in the manner prescribed by §
153.41.
   (D)   If, within 30 days after the notice required by division (C) above, a
person named in the record files with the Clerk of the Circuit Court a written
petition objecting to the claim for payment and requesting a hearing, the Clerk
shall enter the cause in the docket of the Circuit or Superior Court as a civil
action, and a hearing shall be held on the question in the manner prescribed by
I.C. 4-21.5. However, issues that could have been determined under §
153.23 may not be entertained at the hearing. At the conclusion of the hearing,
the court shall either sustain the petition or enter a judgment against the
persons named in the record for the amounts recorded or for modified amounts.
   (E)   If no petition is filed under division (D) above, the Clerk of the
Circuit Court shall enter the cause on the docket of the court and the court
shall enter a judgment for the amounts stated in the record.
   (F)   A judgment under division (D) or (E) above is a debt and a lien on all
the real and personal property of the person named, or a joint and several debt
and lien on the real and personal property of the persons named. The lien on
real property is perfected against all creditors and purchasers when the
judgment is entered on the judgment docket of the court. The lien on personal
property is perfected by filing a lis pendens notice in the appropriate filing
office, as prescribed by the state rules of trial procedure.
   (G)   Judgments rendered under this section may be enforced in the same
manner as all other judgments are enforced.
(1987 Code, § 7-71) (Ord. 28, 1988, passed 11-14-1988)
§ 153.39 UNSAFE BUILDING FUND; DEPOSITS AND EXPENDITURES.
   (A)   The enforcement authority shall establish in its operating budget a
fund designated as the Unsafe Building Fund. Any balance remaining at the end
of a fiscal year shall be carried over in the Fund for the following year and
does not revert to the General Fund.
   (B)   Money for the Unsafe Building Fund may be received from any source,
including appropriations by local, state, or federal governments, and
donations. The following money shall be deposited in the Fund:
      (1)   Money received as payment for or settlement of obligations or
judgments established under §§
153.35 -
153.38 and
153.55 -
153.60 of this code;
      (2)   Money received from bonds posted under §
153.23 of this code; and
      (3)   Money received in satisfaction of receiver’s notes or certificates
that were issued under
§
153.58 of this code and were purchased with money from the Unsafe Building
Fund.
   (C)   Money in the Unsafe Building Fund may be used for the expenses
incurred in carrying out the purposes of this chapter, including:
      (1)   The cost of obtaining reliable information about the identity and
location of each person who owns a substantial property interest in unsafe
premises;
      (2)   The cost of an examination of an unsafe building by a registered
architect or registered engineer not employed by the department;
      (3)   The cost of surveys necessary to determine the location and
dimensions of real property on which an unsafe building is located;
      (4)   The cost of giving notice or orders, notice of statement of
rescission, notice of continued hearing, and notice of statements that public
bids are to be let in the manner prescribed by §
94.40;
      (5)   The bid price of work by a contractor under §§
153.37 or
153.55 -
153.59;
      (6)   The cost of emergency action under §
153.35; and
      (7)   The cost of notes or receiver’s certificates issued under §
153.58.
   (D)   Payment of money from the Unsafe Building Fund must be made in
accordance with applicable law.
(1987 Code, § 7-72) (Ord. 28, 1988, passed 11-14-1988)
§ 153.40 INSPECTION WARRANTS.
   (A)   If the owners or those in possession of a building refuse inspection,
an inspection officer of the enforcement authority may obtain an inspection
warrant from any court of record in the county in which the building is located
in order to determine if the building is an unsafe building. The court shall
issue the warrant subject to the following conditions.
      (1)   The person seeking the warranty must establish that the building to
be searched or inspected is to be searched or inspected as part of a legally
authorized program of inspection that naturally includes the building, or that
there is probable cause for believing that a condition, object, activity, or
circumstance legally justifies a search or inspection of that building.
      (2)   An affidavit establishing one of the grounds described in division
(A)(1) must be signed under oath or affirmation by the affiant.
      (3)   The court must examine the affiant under oath or affirmation to
verify the accuracy of the affidavit.
   (B)   The warrant is valid only if it:
      (1)   Is signed by the judge of the court and bears the date and hour of
its issuance above that signature, with a notation that the warranty is valid
for only 48 hours after its issuance;
      (2)   Describes, either directly or by reference to the affidavit, the
building where the search or inspection is to occur so that the executor of the
warranty and the owner or possessor of the building can reasonably determine
what property the warrant authorizes an inspection of;
      (3)   Indicates the conditions, objects, activities, or circumstances
that the inspection is intended to check or reveal; and
      (4)   Is attached to the affidavit required to be made in order to obtain
the warrant.
   (C)   A warrant issued under this section is valid for only 48 hours after
its issuance, must be personally served upon the owners or possessor of the
building, and must be returned within 72 hours.
(1987 Code, § 7-73) (Ord. 28, 1988, passed 11-14-1988)
§ 153.41 MANNER OF SERVING NOTICE.
   (A)   Notice of orders, notice of continued hearings without a specified
date, notice of a statement that public bids are to be let, and notice of
claims for payment must be given by:
      (1)   Sending a copy of the order or statement by registered or certified
mail to the residence or place of business or employment of the person to be
notified, with return receipt requested;
      (2)   Delivering a copy of the order or statement personally to the
person to be notified; or
      (3)   Leaving a copy of the order or statement at the dwelling or usual
place of abode of the person to be notified.
   (B)   If, after a reasonable effort, service is not obtained by a means
described in division (A) above, service may be made by publishing a notice of
the order or statement in accordance with I.C. 5-14-1.5-5 in the county where
the unsafe premises are located. However, publication may be made on
consecutive days. If service of an order is made by publication, the
publication must include the information required by §
153.20 and must also include a statement indicating generally what action is
required by the order and that the exact terms of the order may be obtained
from the enforcement authority.
   (C)   When service is made by any of the means described in this section,
except by mailing or by publication, the person making service must make an
affidavit stating that he or she has made the service, the manner in which
service was made, to whom the order or statement was issued, the nature of the
order or statement, and the date of service. The affidavit must be placed on
file with the enforcement authority.
   (D)   The date when notice of the order or statement is considered given is
as follows.
      (1)   If the order or statement is delivered personally or left at the
dwelling or usual place of abode, notice is considered given on the day when
the order or statement is delivered to the person or left at his or her
dwelling or usual place of abode.
      (2)   If the order or statement is mailed, notice is considered given on
the date shown on the return receipt, or if no date is shown, on the date when
the return receipt is received by the enforcement authority.
      (3)   Notice by publication is considered given on the date of the second
day that publication was made.
   (E)   Notice of orders, notice of continued hearings without a specified
date, and notice of a statement that public bids are to be let need not be
given to a person holding a property interest in an unsafe premises if:
      (1)   No instrument reflecting the property interest held by the person
is recorded in the Recorder’s office of the county where the unsafe premises is
located;
      (2)   The order or statement was recorded in accordance with §
153.42; and
      (3)   The enforcement authority has received neither written information
nor actual notice of the identity of the person who holds a property interest
in the unsafe premises.
   (F)   A person who fails to record an instrument reflecting an interest in
his or her unsafe premises is considered to consent to action taken under this
chapter relative to which notice would otherwise be given.
(1987 Code, § 7-81) (Ord. 28, 1988, passed 11-14-1988)
§ 153.42 RECORDS; TAKING INTEREST IN PREMISES.
   (A)   The enforcement authority shall record in the office of the County
Recorder orders issued under §§
153.20 or
153.21 of this code, statements of rescission issued under §
153.21(B), statements that public bids are to be let, and affirmed, modified,
or rescinded taken by the hearing authority under §
153.22. The Recorder shall charge the fee required under I.C. 36-2-7-10 for
recording these items.
   (B)   A person who takes an interest in unsafe premises that are the subject
of an order takes that interest, whether or not a hearing has been held,
subject to the terms of the order and in such a manner that all of the
requirements of §§
153.36 and
153.55 -
153.60 of this code relating to the issuance of orders, service of orders, and
affirmation of orders are considered satisfied. If a hearing has been held, the
interest is taken subject to the terms of the order as modified at the hearing
and in such a manner that all of the requirements of §§
153.36 and
153.55 -
153.60 relating to the issuance of orders, service of orders, and modification
of orders at hearing are considered satisfied.
   (C)   A person who takes an interest in unsafe premises that are the subject
of a statement that public bids are to be let takes the interest subject to the
terms of the statement and in such a manner that the notice of the statement
required is considered given to the person.
(1987 Code, § 7-82) (Ord. 28, 1988, passed 11-14-1988)
COURT PROCEEDINGS
§ 153.55 CIVIL ACTIONS.
   The department, acting through its enforcement authority, may bring a civil
action regarding unsafe premises in the Circuit, Superior, or Municipal Court
of the county. The department is not liable for the costs of such an action.
The court may grant one or more of the kinds of relief authorized by §§
153.56 -
153.60 of this code.
(1987 Code, § 7-74) (Ord. 28, 1988, passed 11-14-1988)
§ 153.56 INJUNCTIONS.
   A court acting under §
153.55 above may grant a mandatory or prohibitory injunction against any person
that will cause the order to be complied with, if it is shown that:
   (A)   An order, which need not set a hearing date, was issued to the person;
   (B)   The person has a property interest in the unsafe premises that are the
subject of the order that would allow the person to take the action required by
the order;
   (C)   The building that is the subject of the order is an unsafe building;
and
   (D)   The order is not being reviewed under §
153.35 of this code.
(1987 Code, § 7-75) (Ord. 28, 1988, passed 11-14-1988)
§ 153.57 CIVIL FORFEITURES.
   (A)   A court acting under §
153.55 of this code may impose a civil forfeiture not to exceed $1,000 against
any person if the conditions of §
153.56 are met. The forfeiture imposed may not be substantially less than the
cost of complying with the order, unless that cost exceeds $1,000. The
effective date of the forfeiture may be postponed for a period not to exceed 30
days, after which the court may order the forfeiture reduced or stricken if it
is satisfied that all work necessary to fully comply with the order has been
done.
   (B)   On request of the enforcement authority the court shall enter a
judgment in the amount of the forfeiture. If there is more than one party
defendant, the forfeiture is separately applicable to each defendant. The
amount of a forfeiture that is collected shall be deposited in the Unsafe
Building Fund.
(1987 Code, § 7-76) (Ord. 28, 1988, passed 11-14-1988)
§ 153.58 APPOINTMENT OF RECEIVER.
   (A)   A court acting under §
153.55 of this code may appoint a receiver for the unsafe premises, subject to
the following conditions.
      (1)   The purpose of the receivership must be to take possession of the
unsafe premises for a period sufficient to accomplish and pay for repairs and
improvements.
      (2)   The receiver may be a not-for-profit corporation the primary
purpose of which is the improvement of housing conditions in the county where
the unsafe premises are located, or may be any other capable person residing in
the county.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any prior assignments of the rents and other income
of the unsafe premises, the receiver must collect and use that income to repair
or remove the defects as required by the order, and may, upon approval by the
court, make repairs and improvements in addition to those specified in the
order or required by applicable statutes, ordinances, codes, or regulations.
      (4)   The receiver may make any contracts and do all things necessary to
accomplish the repair and improvement to the unsafe premises.
      (5)   The court may, after a hearing, authorize the receiver to obtain
monies needed to accomplish the repairs and improvement by the issuance and
sale of notes or receiver’s certificates bearing interest fixed by the court.
The notes or certificates are a first lien on the unsafe premises and the rents
and income of the unsafe building. This lien is superior to all other
assignments of rents, liens, mortgages, or other encumbrances on the property,
except taxes, if within 60 days following the sale or transfer for value of the
notes by the receiver, the holder of the notes files a notice containing the
following information in the County Recorder’s office:
         (a)   The legal description of the tract of real property on which the
unsafe building is located;
         (b)   The face amount and interest rate of the note or certificate;
         (c)   The date when the note or certificate was sold or transferred by
the receiver; and
         (d)   The date of maturity.
      (6)   Upon payment to the holder of a receiver’s note or certificate of
the face amount and interest, and upon filing in the Recorder’s office of a
sworn statement of payment, the lien of that note or certificate is released.
Upon a default in payment on a receiver’s note or certificate, the lien may be
enforced by proceedings to foreclose in the manner prescribed for mechanic’s
liens or mortgages. However, the foreclosure proceedings must be commenced
within two years after the date of default.
      (7)   The receiver is entitled to the same fees, commissions, and
necessary expenses as receivers in actions to foreclose mortgages. The fees,
commissions, and expenses shall be paid out of the rents and incomes of the
property in receivership.
   (B)   The issuance of an order concerning unsafe premises is not a
prerequisite to the appointment of a receiver, nor does an order prevent the
appointment of a receiver.
   (C)   If the enforcement authority requests the appointment of a receiver,
all persons having a substantial property interest in the unsafe premises shall
be made party defendants.
(1987 Code, § 7-77) (Ord. 28, 1988, passed 11-14-1988)
§ 153.59 COURT ORDER AUTHORIZING WORK; JUDGMENT FOR COSTS.
   (A)   A court acting under §
153.55 of this code may authorize the department, acting through its
enforcement authority, to cause the action required by the order to be
performed by a contractor licensed and qualified under law, if it is shown
that:
      (1)   An order was issued to each person having a substantial property
interest in the unsafe premises;
      (2)   Each of the orders has been affirmed or modified at a hearing in
such a manner that all persons having substantial property interest in the
unsafe premises that are the subject of the orders are currently subject to an
order requiring substantially identical action;
      (3)   The order, as affirmed or modified at the hearing, has not been
complied with;
      (4)   The building that is the subject of the order is an unsafe
building; and
      (5)   The order is not being reviewed under §
153.23 of this code.
   (B)   If the enforcement authority requests permission to cause the action
required by the order to be performed by a contractor, all persons having a
substantial property interest in the unsafe premises shall be made party
defendants.
   (C)   The cost of the work and the processing expenses incurred by the
enforcement authority computed under §
153.37 of this code, may, after a hearing, be entered by the court as a
judgment against persons having a fee interest, life estate interest, or
equitable interest of a contract purchaser in the unsafe premises.
(1987 Code, § 7-78) (Ord. 28, 1988, passed 11-14-1988)
§ 153.60 EMERGENCY COURT ORDER AUTHORIZING WORK; JUDGMENT FOR COSTS.
   (A)   A court acting under §
153.55 of this code may set a hearing to be held within ten days after the
filing of a complaint alleging the existence of unsafe premises presenting an
immediate danger to the health and safety of the surrounding community
sufficient to warrant emergency action.
      (1)   Upon a finding at the hearing in favor of the department, the court
may:
         (a)   Permit the enforcement authority to cause the action necessary
to make the premises safe to be immediately performed by a contractor licensed
and qualified under law;
         (b)   Permit the enforcement authority to cause the action necessary
to make the premises safe to be immediately performed by a contractor licensed
and qualified under law after the defendants have had a reasonable time, as
established by the court, to make the unsafe premises safe and have failed to
complete the necessary action; or
         (c)   Grant a mandatory injunction relative to the unsafe premises
that would require a defendant who has an interest in the premises that allows
the defendant to take corrective action to immediately make the premises safe.
      (2)   In granting relief under division (A)(1)(b) or (A)(1)(c), the court
shall set a date certain for the completion of the necessary action and shall
hold a hearing within ten days after that date to determine whether the
necessary action has been completed.
   (B)   The issuance of an order concerning the unsafe premises is not a
prerequisite to permission by the court to cause action to be performed on the
unsafe premises. If an order has been issued concerning the unsafe premises, it
does not prevent the permission by the court to cause action to be performed on
the unsafe premises.
   (C)   If the enforcement authority requests authority to cause action on the
unsafe premises to be performed by a contractor, all persons having a
substantial property interest in the unsafe premises shall be made party
defendants.
   (D)   The cost of accomplishing the work may, after a hearing, be entered by
the court as a judgment against persons having a fee interest, life estate
interest, or equitable interest of a contract purchaser in the unsafe premises.
(1987 Code, § 7-79) (Ord. 28, 1988, passed 11-14-1988)
§ 153.61 CHANGE OF VENUE OR JUDGE.
   A change of venue may not be allowed in an action filed under §§
153.23,
153.38, or
153.55 of this code, but a change of judge shall be allowed in the same manner
as is provided for other civil matters.
(1987 Code, § 7-80) (Ord. 28, 1988, passed 11-14-1988)
CHAPTER 154: MOBILE HOMES; TRAILER CAMPS
Section
   
154.01   Definitions
   
154.02   Trailer camp; establishment requirements
   
154.03   Use as dwelling; compliance required
   
154.04   Registration required
   
154.05   Fire prevention
   
154.06   Camp manager
   
154.07   Violations or unlawful acts a nuisance
§ 154.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOBILE DWELLING UNIT. Any temporary living quarters, truck body, bus body,
tent, knock down house, or improvised shelter designed or intended to be moved
from place to place.
   TRAILER. Any vehicle intended for use for living or sleeping purposes or
which is equipped, intended, or designed to be equipped with any device for the
purpose of transportation being either self-propelled or otherwise.
   TRAILER CAMP. A plat of ground where accommodations are provided for two or
more trailers.
   TRAILER SITE. The area occupied by one trailer and/or two automobiles as
indicated on the plan accompanying the application for a permit.
   USE FOR LIVING QUARTERS. Includes the acts of sleeping, preparation of
meals, or any sanitary measure such as bathing, dish washing, or laundering of
clothes, or any operation which produces waste which may become a nuisance.
(1987 Code, § 6-169) (Ord. 1064, passed 6-19-1942)
§ 154.02 TRAILER CAMP; ESTABLISHMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to use or permit
the use of any lot, parcel, or tract of land within the limits of the city for
a trailer camp as herein defined, without having first complied with all the
provisions of applicable state law relating to tourist camps and with all the
requirements, rules, and regulations of the state Board of Health heretofore or
hereinafter promulgated under the authority of those Acts. No trailer camp
shall be hereafter established without securing the written consent of the
majority of the owners of any premises occupied for residence purposes located
within 300 feet of any part of the proposed trailer camp, which written consent
shall be filed in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer of the city at least ten
days prior to the opening of the trailer camp.
(1987 Code, § 6-170) (Ord. 1064, passed 6-19-1942) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.03 USE AS DWELLING; COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use or occupy as living quarters any
trailer or mobile dwelling as herein defined, within the limits of the city,
unless that trailer or mobile dwelling shall be located within a trailer camp
regularly established and maintained in full compliance with §
154.02 above.
(1987 Code, § 6-171) (Ord. 1064, passed 6-19-1942) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.04 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, operator, or manager of any trailer camp
located within the limits of the city to permit any person or persons to occupy
or use any trailer or mobile dwelling in that camp without requiring the person
or persons to first register in a permanent book kept for that purpose, showing
registrant’s full name, date of entry, license number of his or her vehicle,
permanent place of residence, and occupation, which register shall at all times
be open to inspection by any police or health officer of the state.
(1987 Code, § 6-172) (Ord. 1064, passed 6-19-1942) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.05 FIRE PREVENTION.
   It shall be unlawful to locate or maintain a trailer camp within the limits
of the city so as to cause an unusual fire hazard to permanent structures in
its vicinity, and adequate and proper provisions shall be made for fire
protection within any trailer camp, which provisions shall be inspected and
approved in writing by a representative of the state Fire Marshal’s office
before the camp is open for occupancy.
(1987 Code, § 6-173) (Ord. 1064, passed 6-19-1942) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.06 CAMP MANAGER.
   (A)   Every trailer camp shall be constantly under the direct supervision of
a camp manager who may be the owner or licensee or his or her agent or
representative, and who shall at all times reside on the premises occupied by
the trailer camp.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the camp manager to:
      (1)   Provide for the daily collection, removal, and proper disposal of
garbage and other waste material, the collection and disposal of which shall be
at the expense of the owner or licensee;
      (2)   Prohibit the placing or storage and prevent the accumulation of
unsightly materials or articles of any kind;
      (3)   Prohibit the spilling of sink or other domestic wastewater upon the
ground;
      (4)   Report immediately to the Health Office all suspected cases of
communicable diseases;
      (5)   Report immediately to the Chief of Police all acts of a disorderly
character committed within the trailer camp;
      (6)   Provide for regular cleaning, painting, repairing, and disinfecting
of all buildings; and
      (7)   Perform other duties as may be required by any health officer to
maintain the trailer camp in an orderly, decent, and healthful manner.
(1987 Code, § 6-175) (Ord. 1064, passed 6-19-1942)
§ 154.07 VIOLATIONS OR UNLAWFUL ACTS A NUISANCE.
   (A)   Any trailer camp maintained or operated in the limits of the city in
violation of the provisions of this chapter or in which disorderly or indecent
conduct or immoral practices or acts in violation of the criminal law of this
state are permitted or carried on, is declared to be a nuisance subject to
abatement as such.
(1987 Code, § 6-174) (Ord. 1064, passed 6-19-1942)
   (B)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be fined. Each day any violation hereof continues shall be
deemed a separate offense.
(1987 Code, § 6-176) (Ord. 29, 1977, passed 11-14-1977)
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 155: FLOOD PLAIN MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
155.01   Statutory authorization
   
155.02   Findings of fact
   
155.03   Statement of purpose
   
155.04   Methods of reducing flood loss
   
155.05   Definitions
   
155.06   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
155.07   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard
   
155.08   Establishment of floodplain development permit
   
155.09   Compliance
   
155.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
155.11   Discrepancy between mapped floodplain and actual ground elevations
   
155.12   Interpretation
   
155.13   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
155.30   Designation of Administrator
   
155.31   Floodplain development permit and certification requirements
   
155.32   Duties and responsibilities of the Administrator
   
155.33   Administrative procedures
   
155.34   Map maintenance activities
   
155.35   Variance procedures
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
155.45   Floodplain status standards
   
155.46   General standards
   
155.47   Specific standards
   
155.48   Standards for subdivision and other new developments
 
   
155.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Indiana Legislature has in I.C. 36-1-4-11 granted the power to local
government units to control land use within their jurisdictions. Therefore, the
Common Council of the City of Seymour does hereby adopt the following
floodplain management regulations.
(Ord. 30, 2014, passed 10-27-2014; Am. Ord. 27, 2023, passed 10-23-2023)
§ 155.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic inundation which
results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards, disruption of
commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public expenditures for flood
protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely
affect the public health, safety, and general welfare. Additionally, structures
that are inadequately elevated, floodproofed, or otherwise protected from flood
damage also contribute to the flood loss. In order to minimize the threat of
such damages and to achieve the purposes hereinafter set forth, these
regulations are adopted.
(Ord. 30, 2014, passed 10-27-2014; Am. Ord. 27, 2023, passed 10-23-2023)
§ 155.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone, and sewer lines, streets, and bridges located
in floodplains;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize flood blight
area;
   (G)   Ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard assume
responsibility for their actions;
   (H)   Minimize the impact of development on adjacent properties within and
near flood prone areas;
   (I)   Ensure that the flood storage and conveyance functions of the
floodplain are maintained;
   (J)   Minimize the impact of development on the natural, beneficial values
of the floodplain;
   (K)   Prevent floodplain uses that are either hazardous or environmentally
incompatible; and
   (L)   Meet community participation requirements of the National Flood
Insurance Program.
(Ord. 30, 2014, passed 10-27-2014; Am. Ord. 27, 2023, passed 10-23-2023)
§ 155.04 METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSS.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, these regulations include methods and
provisions for:
   (A)   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health, safety,
and property due to water hazards, or which result in damaging increases in
flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities, which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels,
and natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel flood
waters;
   (D)   Controlling filling, grading, dredging, excavating, and other
development which may increase flood damage; and
   (5)   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers, which
will unnaturally divert floodwaters, or which may increase flood hazards in
other areas.
(Ord. 27, 2023, passed 10-23-2023)
§ 155.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure with a floor area of 400 square feet or
less that is on the same parcel of property as a principal structure and the
use of which is incidental to the use of the principal structure; an ACCESSORY
STRUCTURE specifically excludes structures used for human habitation.
      (1)   ACCESSORY STRUCTURES are considered walled and roofed where the
structure includes at least two outside rigid walls and a fully secured roof.
      (2)   Examples of ACCESSORY STRUCTURES include but are not necessarily
limited to two-car detached garages (or smaller), carports, storage and tool
sheds, and small boathouses.
      (3)   The following may have uses that are incidental or accessory to the
principal structure on a parcel but are generally not considered to be
ACCESSORY STRUCTURES by the NFIP:
         (a)   Structures in which any portion is used for human habitation,
whether as a permanent residence or as temporary or seasonal living quarters,
such as a detached garage or carriage house that includes an apartment or guest
quarters, or a detached guest house on the same parcel as a principal
residence;
         (b)   Structures used by the public, such as a place of employment or
entertainment; and
         (c)   Development that does not meet the NFIP definition of a
structure for floodplain management purposes. Examples include, but are not
necessarily limited to, a gazebo, pavilion, picnic shelter, or carport that is
open on all sides (roofed but not walled).
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a structure in which the addition is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition, which is
connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing
walls, is new construction.
   ALTERATION OF A WATERCOURSE. A dam, impoundment, channel relocation, change
in channel alignment, channelization, or change in cross-sectional area of the
channel or the channel capacity, or any other modification which may alter,
impede, retard, or change the direction and/or velocity of the flow of water
during conditions of the base flood.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter, a request for a variance, or a
challenge of a board decision.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land within a community subject to a 1% or
greater chance of being flooded in any given year.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year. The BASE FLOOD may also be referred to as the 1% ANNUAL CHANCE
FLOOD or 100-YEAR FLOOD.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The water surface elevation of the base flood in
relation to a specified datum, usually the North American Vertical Datum of
1988.
   BASEMENT. That portion of a structure having its floor sub-grade (below
ground level) on all sides.
   BEST AVAILABLE FLOOD LAYER (BAFL). Floodplain studies and any corresponding
floodplain maps prepared and/or approved by the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources which provide base flood elevation information, floodplain limits,
and/or floodway delineations for flood hazards identified by approximate
studies on the currently effective FIRM (Zone A) and/or for waterways where the
flood hazard is not identified on available floodplain mapping.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   COMMUNITY. A political entity that has the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the areas within its jurisdiction.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. A facility for which even a slight chance of flooding
might be too great. CRITICAL FACILITIES include, but are not limited to,
schools, nursing homes, hospitals, police, fire, and emergency response
installations, and installations which produce, use, or store hazardous
materials or hazardous waste.
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   For floodplain management purposes, any man-made change to improved
or unimproved real estate including but not limited to:
         (a)   Construction, reconstruction, or placement of a structure or any
addition to a structure;
         (b)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home, or installing a recreational vehicle on a site for more than
180 days;
         (c)   Installing utilities, erection of walls and fences, construction
of roads, or similar projects;
         (d)   Construction of flood control structures such as levees, dikes,
dams, channel improvements, and the like;
         (e)   Mining, dredging, filling, grading, excavation, or drilling
operations;
         (f)   Construction and/or reconstruction of boat lifts, docks, piers,
and seawalls;
         (g)   Construction and/or reconstruction of, bridges or culverts;
         (h)   Storage of materials; or
         (i)   Any other activity that might change the direction, height, or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include activities such as the maintenance of
existing structures and facilities such as painting; reroofing; resurfacing
roads; or, gardening, plowing, and similar agricultural practices that do not
involve filling, grading, excavation, or the construction of permanent
structures.
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A FEMA form that is routinely reviewed and approved
by the White House Office of Management and Budget under the Paperwork
Reduction Act, that is encouraged to be used to collect certified elevation
information.
   ENCLOSED AREA (ENCLOSURE). An area of a structure enclosed by walls on all
sides.
   ENCLOSURE BELOW THE LOWEST FLOOR. See LOWEST FLOOR and ENCLOSED AREA.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FILL. For floodplain management purposes, any material deposited or placed
which has the effect of raising the level of the ground surface above the
natural grade elevation. FILL MATERIAL includes but is not limited to
consolidated material such as concrete and brick and unconsolidated material
such as soil, sand, gravel, and stone.
   FLOOD or FLOODING.
      (1)   A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from:
         (a)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters.
         (b)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters
from any source.
         (c)   Mudslides (i.e., mudflows) which are proximately caused by
flooding and are akin to a river of liquid and flowing mud on the surfaces of
normally dry land areas, as when earth is carried by a current of water and
deposited along the path of the current.
      (2)   FLOOD or FLOODING also includes the collapse or subsidence of land
along the shore of a lake or similar body of water as a result of erosion or
undermining caused by waves or current of water exceeding anticipated cyclical
levels that result in a flood as defined above.
   FLOOD HAZARD AREA. Areas subject to the 1% annual chance flood. (See SPECIAL
FLOOD HAZARD AREA.)
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
FEMA has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the risk premium
zones applicable to the community. A FIRM that has been made available
digitally is called a DIGITAL FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (DFIRM).
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official hydraulic and hydro logic report
provided by FEMA. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the FIRM and
the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOOD PRONE AREA. Any land area acknowledged by a community as being
susceptible to inundation by water from any source. (See FLOODPLAIN.)
   FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE (FPG). The BFE plus two feet at any given location in
the SFHA. (See FREEBOARD.)
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source. (See FLOOD.)
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including but not limited
to emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations, and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. Zoning ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances
(such as a floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and erosion control
ordinance), and other applications of police power which control development in
flood prone areas. The term describes such state or local regulations in any
combination thereof, which provide standards for the purpose of flood damage
prevention and reduction.
   FLOODPROOFING (DRY FLOODPROOFING). A method of protecting a structure that
ensures that the structure, together with attendant utilities and sanitary
facilities, is watertight to the floodproofed design elevation with walls that
are substantially impermeable to the passage of water. All structural
components of these walls are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy, and anticipated debris impact
forces.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form used to certify compliance for non-
residential structures as an alternative to elevating structures to or above
the FPG.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulative increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated
height.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood.
   FRINGE or FLOOD FRINGE. The portion of the floodplain lying outside the
floodway.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE. A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
   HARDSHIP. As related to variances of this chapter, the exceptional hardship
that would result from a failure to grant the requested variance. The Board of
Zoning Appeals requires that the variance is exceptional, unusual, and peculiar
to the property involved. Mere economic or financial hardship alone is not
exceptional. Inconvenience, aesthetic considerations, physical handicaps,
personal preferences, or the disapproval of one’s neighbors likewise cannot, as
a rule, qualify as an exceptional hardship. All of these problems can be
resolved through other means without granting a variance, even if the
alternative is more expensive, or requires the property owner to build
elsewhere or put the parcel to a different use than originally intended.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to the start of construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of the Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified by (a)
an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of Interior, or (b)
directly by the Secretary of Interior in states without approved programs.
   HYDROLOGIC AND HYDRAULIC ENGINEERING ANALYSIS. Analyses performed by a
professional engineer licensed by the State of Indiana, in accordance with
standard engineering practices that are accepted by the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources and FEMA, used to determine the base flood, other frequency
floods, flood elevations, floodway information and boundaries, and flood
profiles.
   INTERNATIONAL CODE COUNCIL-EVALUATION SERVICE (ICC-ES) REPORT. A document
that presents the findings, conclusions, and recommendations from a particular
evaluation. ICC-ES REPORTS provide information about what code requirements or
acceptance criteria were used to evaluate a product, and how the product should
be identified, installed.
   LETTER OF FINAL DETERMINATION (LFD). A letter issued by FEMA during the
mapping update process which establishes final elevations and provides the new
flood map and flood study to the community. The LFD initiates the six-month
adoption period. The community must adopt or amend its floodplain management
regulations during this six-month period unless the community has previously
incorporated an automatic adoption clause.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). A general term used to refer to the several
types of revisions and amendments to FEMA maps that can be accomplished by
letter. They are broken down into the following categories:
      (1)   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR). FEMA’s comment on a
proposed project that would, upon construction, result in modification of the
SFHA through the placement of fill outside the existing regulatory floodway.
      (2)   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (CLOMR-F). A
letter from FEMA stating that a proposed structure that will be elevated by
fill would not be inundated by the base flood.
      (3)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). An amendment by letter to the
currently effective FEMA map that establishes that a building or of land is not
located in a SFHA through the submittal of property specific elevation data. A
LOMA is only issued by FEMA.
      (4)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT OUT AS SHOWN (LOMA-OAS). An official
determination by FEMA that states the property or building is correctly shown
outside the SFHA as shown on an effective NFIP map. Therefore, the mandatory
flood insurance requirement does not apply. An out-as-shown determination does
not require elevations.
      (5)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). An official revision to the
currently effective FEMA map. It is issued by FEMA and changes flood zones,
delineations, and elevations.
      (6)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). FEMA’s modification
of the SFHA shown on the FIRM based on the placement of fill outside the
existing regulatory floodway.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The lowest elevation, after completion of
construction, of the ground, sidewalk, patio, deck support, or basement
entryway immediately next to the structure.
   LOWEST FLOOR. For floodplain management purposes, the lowest elevation
described among the following:
      (1)   The lowest floor of a building.
      (2)   The basement floor.
      (3)   The garage floor if the garage is connected to the building.
      (4)   The first floor of a structure elevated on pilings or pillars.
      (5)   The floor level of any enclosure, other than a basement, below an
elevated structure where the walls of the enclosure provide any resistance to
the flow of floodwaters. Designs for meeting the flood opening requirement must
either be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect or meet
or exceed the following criteria:
         (a)   The walls are designed to automatically equalize the hydrostatic
flood forces on the walls by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters.
         (b)   At least two openings are designed and maintained for the entry
and exit of floodwater; and these openings provide a total net area of at least
one square inch for every one square foot of enclosed area. The bottom of all
such openings shall be no higher than one foot above the exterior grade or the
interior grade immediately beneath each opening, whichever is higher. Doorways
and windows do not qualify as openings.
      (6)   The first floor of a building elevated on pilings or columns in a
coastal high hazard area (as that term is defined in 44 CFR 59.1), as long as
it meets the requirements of 44 CFR 60.3.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a “recreational vehicle.”
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MITIGATION. Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk to
people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of MITIGATION
is twofold: to protect people and structures, and to minimize the cost of
disaster response and recovery.
   NATURAL GRADE. For floodplain management purposes, the elevation of the
undisturbed natural surface of the ground. Fill placed prior to the date of the
initial identification of the flood hazard on a FEMA map is also considered
NATURAL GRADE.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For floodplain management purposes, any structure for
which the “start of construction” commenced on or after the effective date of a
floodplain management regulations adopted by a community and includes any
subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM OF 1988 (NAVD 88). As adopted in 1993, a
vertical control datum used as a reference for establishing varying elevations
within the floodplain.
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, wharf,
embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, canalization,
bridge, conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation, or other material in, along, across or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water; or due to its location, its propensity to snare
or collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being
carried downstream.
   ONE-PERCENT ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD or 1% ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD. The flood that
has a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year. See REGULATORY
FLOOD.
   PHYSICAL MAP REVISION (PMR). An official republication of a community’s FEMA
map to effect changes to base (1% annual chance) flood elevations, floodplain
boundary delineations, regulatory floodways, and planimetric features. These
changes typically occur as a result of structural works or improvements,
annexations resulting in additional flood hazard areas, or correction to base
flood elevations or SFHAs.
   PREFABRICATED BUILDING. A building that is manufactured and constructed
using prefabrication. It consists of factory-made components or units that are
transported and assembled on-site to form the complete building.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. At least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure, less land value, is above ground.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
quarters for recreational camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year, as calculated by a method and procedure that is acceptable
to and approved by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources and the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The regulatory flood elevation at any location is
as defined in §
155.07. The REGULATORY FLOOD is also known by the term BASE FLOOD, 1% ANNUAL
CHANCE FLOOD, and 100-YEAR FLOOD.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event, on the average, equaled or exceeded 25% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, and the like.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). Synonymous with AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD
HAZARD and floodplain, means those lands within the jurisdiction of the city
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year. SPECIAL FLOOD
HAZARD AREAS are designated by the Federal Emergency Management Agency on Flood
Insurance Rate Maps, Flood Insurance Studies, Flood Boundary and Floodway Maps
and Flood Hazard Boundary Maps as Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A1-A30, A99, or VE. The
SFHA includes areas that are flood prone and designated from other federal,
state or local sources of data including but not limited to best available
flood layer maps provided by or approved by the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources, historical flood information reflecting high water marks, previous
flood inundation areas, and flood prone soils associated with a watercourse.
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY. Any facility involved in the storage or
disposal of non-liquid, nonsoluble materials ranging from municipal garbage to
industrial wastes that contain complex and sometimes hazardous substances.
Solid waste also includes sewage sludge, agricultural refuse, demolition
wastes, mining wastes, and liquids and gases stored in containers.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date.
The ACTUAL START means either the first placement of permanent construction of
a structure on a site, such as the pouring of a slab or footings, the
installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers,
foundations, or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank, which is principally above ground. The term includes a manufactured home,
as well as a prefabricated building. It also includes recreational vehicles
installed on a site for more than 180 consecutive days.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the “start of construction” of the
improvement. This term includes structures that have incurred “repetitive loss”
or “substantial damage” regardless of the actual repair work performed. The
term does not include improvements of structures to correct existing violations
of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code requirements which have been
identified by the local code enforcement official and which are the minimum
necessary to assure safe living conditions.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter consistent
with the variance conditions herein.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter.
   WALLED AND ROOFED. A building that has two or more exterior rigid walls and
a fully secured roof and is affixed to a permanent site.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel, or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
(Ord. 30, 2014, passed 10-27-2014; Am. Ord. 27, 2023, passed 10-23-2023)
§ 155.06 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all SFHAs and known flood prone areas within the
jurisdiction of the city.
(Ord. 30, 2014, passed 10-27-2014; Am. Ord. 27, 2023, passed 10-23-2023)
§ 155.07 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING REGULATORY FLOOD DATA.
   (A)   This chapter's protection standard is the regulatory flood. The best
available regulatory flood data is listed below.
   (B)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for the
studied SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the city shall be as delineated on the
1% annual chance flood profiles in the Flood Insurance Study of Jackson County,
Indiana and Incorporated Areas and the corresponding Flood Insurance Rate map
dated November 19, 2014 as well as any future updates, amendments, or
revisions, prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency with the most
recent date.
   (C)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for each
of the SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the city, delineated as an “A Zone” on
the Jackson County, Indiana and Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance Rate Map
dated November 19, 2014 as well as any future updates, amendments, or
revisions, prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency with the most
recent date, shall be according to the best data available as provided by the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources, provided the upstream drainage area
from the subject site is greater than one square mile. Whenever a party
disagrees with the best available data, the party needs to replace existing
data with better data that meets current engineering standards. To be
considered, this data must be submitted to the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources for review and subsequently approved.
   (D)   In the absence of a published FEMA map, or absence of identification
on a FEMA map, the regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits of
any watercourse in the community’s known flood prone areas shall be according
to the best data available as provided by the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources; provided the upstream drainage area from the subject site is greater
than one square mile.
   (E)   Upon issuance of a Letter of Final Determination (LFD), any more
restrictive data in the new (not yet effective) mapping/study shall be utilized
for permitting and construction (development) purposes, replacing all
previously effective less restrictive flood hazard data provided by FEMA.
(Ord. 30, 2014, passed 10-27-2014; Am. Ord. 27, 2023, passed 10-23-2023)
§ 155.08 ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities in areas of special flood hazard.
(Ord. 30, 2014, passed 10-27-2014; Am. Ord. 27, 2023, passed 10-23-2023)
§ 155.09 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure shall hereafter be located, extended, converted, or
structurally altered within the SFHA without full compliance with the terms of
this chapter and other applicable regulations. No land or stream within the
SFHA shall hereafter be altered without full compliance with the terms of this
chapter and other applicable regulations.
(Ord. 30, 2014, passed 10-27-2014; Am. Ord. 27, 2023, passed 10-23-2023)
§ 155.10 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(Ord. 30, 2014, passed 10-27-2014; Am. Ord. 27, 2023, passed 10-23-2023)
§ 155.11 DISCREPANCY BETWEEN MAPPED FLOODPLAIN AND ACTUAL GROUND ELEVATIONS.
   (A)   In cases where there is a discrepancy between the mapped floodplain
(SFHA) on the FIRM and the actual ground elevations, the elevation provided on
the profiles shall govern.
   (B)   If the elevation of the site in question is below the base flood
elevation, that site shall be included in the SFHA and regulated accordingly.
   (C)   If the elevation (natural grade) of the site in question is above the
base flood elevation and not located within the floodway, that site shall be
considered outside the SFHA and the floodplain regulations will not be applied.
The property owner should be advised to apply for a LOMA.
(Ord. 30, 2014, passed 10-27-2014; Am. Ord. 27, 2023, passed 10-23-2023)
§ 155.12 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements.
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body.
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 30, 2014, passed 10-27-2014; Am. Ord. 27, 2023, passed 10-23-2023)
§ 155.13 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods can and
will occur on rare occasions. Therefore, this chapter does not create any
liability on the part of the city, the Indiana Department of Natural Resources,
or the state for any flood damage that results from reliance on this chapter or
any administrative decision made lawfully thereunder.
(Ord. 30, 2014, passed 10-27-2014; Am. Ord. 27, 2023, passed 10-23-2023)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 155.30 DESIGNATION OF ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Common Council of the city hereby appoints the Building Commissioner to
administer and implement the provisions of this chapter and is herein referred
to as the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 30, 2014, passed 10-27-2014; Am. Ord. 27, 2023, passed 10-23-2023)
§ 155.31 FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT AND CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   An application for a floodplain development permit shall be made to the
Floodplain Administrator for all development activities located wholly within,
partially within, or in contact with an identified special flood hazard area.
Such application shall be made by the owner of the property or his or her
authorized agent, herein referred to as the applicant, prior to the actual
commencement of such construction on a form furnished for that purpose. Such
applications shall include, but not be limited to plans drawn to scale showing
the nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area in question;
existing or proposed structures, earthen fill, storage of materials or
equipment, drainage facilities, and the location of the foregoing.
Specifically, the following information is required:
   (A)   Application stage.
      (1)   A description of the proposed development;
      (2)   Location of the proposed development sufficient to accurately
locate property and structure(s) in relation to existing roads and streams;
      (3)   A legal description of the property site;
      (4)   For the reconstruction, rehabilitation, or improvement of an
existing structure, or an addition to an existing building, a detailed quote
and description of the total work to be completed including but not limited to
interior work, exterior work, and labor as well as a certified valuation of the
existing (pre-improved or pre-damaged) structure;
      (5)   A site development plan showing existing and proposed development
locations and existing and proposed land grades;
      (6)   A letter from a licensed professional surveyor or engineering
noting that an elevation reference benchmark has been established or confirmed
for those projects requiring elevations to be met;
      (7)   Verification that connection to either a public sewer system or to
an approved on-site septic system is available and approved by the respective
regulatory agency for proposed structures to be equipped with a restroom,
kitchen or other facilities requiring disposal of waste water;
      (8)   Plans showing elevation of the top of the planned lowest floor
(including basement) of all proposed structures in Zones A, AE. Elevation
should be in NAVD 88;
      (9)   Plans showing elevation (in NAVD 88) to which any non-residential
structure will be floodproofed;
      (10)   Plans showing location and specifications for flood openings for
any proposed structure with enclosed areas below the flood protection grade;
      (11)   Plans showing materials to be used below the flood protection
grade for any proposed structure are flood resistant;
      (12)   Plans showing how any proposed structure will be anchored to
resist flotation or collapse;
      (13)   Plans showing how any electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing,
air conditioning equipment and other service facilities are designed and/or
located. Elevation should be in NAVD 88;
      (14)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development. A hydrologic and hydraulic
engineering analysis is required, and any watercourse changes submitted to DNR
for approval. Once DNR approval is obtained, a FEMA conditional letter of map
revision must be obtained prior to construction. (See §§ 155.32(B)(8) and
155.34 for additional information.)
      (15)   Any additional information, as requested by the Floodplain
Administrator, which may be necessary to determine the disposition of a
proposed development or structure with respect to the requirements of this
chapter.
   (B)   Construction stage. Upon establishment of the lowest floor of an
elevated structure or structure constructed on fill, it shall be the duty of
the applicant to submit to the Floodplain Administrator an elevation
certificate for the building under construction. The Floodplain Administrator
shall review the elevation certificate. Any deficiencies detected during the
review shall be corrected by the applicant before work is allowed to continue.
Failure to submit the survey or failure to make said corrections required
hereby shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the project.
   (C)   Finished construction.
      (1)   Upon completion of construction of any structure requiring
certification of elevation, an elevation certificate which depicts the “as-
built” lowest floor elevation and other applicable elevation data is required
to be submitted by the applicant to the Floodplain Administrator. The elevation
certificate shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
registered land surveyor and certified by the same.
      (2)   Upon completion of construction of an elevated structure
constructed on fill, a fill report is required to be submitted to the
Floodplain Administrator to verify the required standards were met, including
compaction.
      (3)   Upon completion of construction of a floodproofing measure, a
floodproofing certificate is required to be submitted by the applicant to the
Floodplain Administrator. The floodproofing certificate shall be prepared by or
under the direct supervision of a registered professional engineer or architect
and certified by same.
(Ord. 30, 2014, passed 10-27-2014; Am. Ord. 27, 2023, passed 10-23-2023)
§ 155.32 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator and/or designated staff is hereby
authorized and directed to enforce the provisions of this chapter. The
Administrator is further authorized to render interpretations of this chapter,
which are consistent with its spirit and purpose.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Enforce the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Evaluate application for permits to develop in special flood hazard
areas to assure that the permit requirements of this chapter have been
satisfied.
      (3)   Interpret floodplain boundaries and provide flood hazard and flood
protection elevation information.
      (4)   Issue permits to develop in special flood hazard areas when the
provisions of these regulations have been met or refuse to issue the same in
the event of noncompliance.
      (5)   Advise permittee that additional federal, state and/or local
permits may be required. If specific federal, state and/or local permits are
known, require that copies of such permits be provided and maintained on file
with the floodplain development permit.
      (6)   Conduct substantial damage determinations to determine whether
existing structures, damaged from any source and in special flood hazard areas
identified by FEMA, must meet the development standards of these regulations.
      (7)   For applications to improve structures, including alterations,
movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, change of occupancy, additions,
rehabilitations, renovations, substantial improvements, repairs of substantial
damage, and any other improvement of or work on such buildings and structures,
the Floodplain Administrator shall:
         (a)   Verify and document the market value of the pre-damaged or pre-
improved structure;
         (b)   Compare the cost to perform the improvement; or the cost to
repair a damaged building to its pre-damaged condition; or, the combined costs
of improvements and repair, if applicable, to the market value of the pre-
damaged or pre-improved structure. The cost of all work must be included in the
project costs, including work that might otherwise be considered routine
maintenance. Items/activities that must be included in the cost shall be in
keeping with guidance published by FEMA to ensure compliance with the NFIP and
to avoid any conflict with future flood insurance claims of policyholders
within the community;
         (c)   Determine and document whether the proposed work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage; the determination
requires evaluation of previous permits issued for improvements and repairs as
specified in the definition of “substantial improvement” for proposed work to
repair damage caused by flood, the determination requires evaluation of
previous permits issued to repair flood-related damage as specified in the
definition of substantial damage; and
         (d)   Notify the applicant if it is determined that the work
constitutes substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage and that
compliance with the applicable general and specific standards in §§
155.46 and
155.47are required.
      (8)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Floodplain Coordinator
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse and submit copies of
such notifications to FEMA.
      (9)   Ensure that construction authorization has been granted by the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources for all development projects subject to
§§
155.45(A), (C)(1) and (D). Maintain a record of such authorization (either copy
of actual permit/authorization or floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment).
      (10)   Verify the upstream drainage area of any proposed development site
near any watercourse not identified on a FEMA map to determine if §
155.32(B)(9) is applicable.
      (11)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is
not diminished.
      (12)   Verify and record the actual elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new or substantially improved structures, in
accordance with §
155.31.
      (13)   Verify and record the actual elevation to which any new or
substantially improved structures have been floodproofed in accordance with §
155.31.
      (14)   Make on-site inspections of projects in accordance with §
155.33.
      (15)   Coordinate with insurance adjusters prior to permitting any
proposed work to bring any flood damaged structure covered by a standard flood
insurance policy into compliance (either a substantially damaged structure or a
repetitive loss structure) to ensure eligibility for ICC funds.
      (16)   Ensure that an approved connection to a public sewer system or an
approved on-site septic system is planned for any structures (residential or
non-residential) to be equipped with a restroom, kitchen or other facilities
requiring disposal of wastewater.
      (17)   Provide information, testimony, or other evidence as needed during
variance hearings.
      (18)   Serve notices of violations, issue stop-work orders, revoke
permits and take corrective actions in accordance with §
155.33.
      (19)   Maintain for public inspection and furnish upon request local
permit documents, damaged structure inventories, substantial damage
determinations, regulatory flood data, SFHA maps, letters of map change (LOMC),
copies of DNR permits, letters of authorization, and floodplain analysis and
regulatory assessments (letters of recommendation), federal permit documents,
and “as-built” elevation and floodproofing data for all buildings constructed
subject to this chapter in accordance with §
155.33.
      (20)   Coordinate map maintenance activities and associated FEMA follow-
up in accordance with §
155.34.
      (21)   Utilize and enforce all letters of map change (LOMC) or physical
map revisions (PMR) issued by FEMA for the currently effective SFHA maps of the
community.
      (22)   Request any additional information which may be necessary to
determine the disposition of a proposed development or structure with respect
to the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 30, 2014, passed 10-27-2014; Am. Ord. 27, 2023, passed 10-23-2023)
§ 155.33 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant to a permit
progresses, the Floodplain Administrator shall make as many inspections of the
work as may be necessary to ensure that the work is being done according to the
provisions of the local ordinance and terms of the permit. In exercising this
power, the Administrator has a right, upon presentation of proper credential,
to enter on any premises within the territorial jurisdiction at any reasonable
hour for the purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
   (B)   Stop work orders.
      (1)   Upon notice from the Floodplain Administrator, work on any
building, structure or premises that is being done contrary to the provisions
of this chapter shall immediately cease.
      (2)   Such notice shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner of
the property, or to his or her agent, or to the person doing the work, and
shall state the conditions under which work may be resumed.
   (C)   Revocation of permits.
      (1)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit or approval,
issued under the provisions of the chapter, in cases where there has been any
false statement or misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application
or plans on which the permit or approval was based.
      (2)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit upon determination
by the Floodplain Administrator that the construction, erection, alteration,
repair, moving, demolition, installation, or replacement of the structure for
which the permit was issued is in violation of, or not in conformity with, the
provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Floodplain management records.
      (1)   Regardless of any limitation on the period required for retention
of public records, records of actions associated with the administration of
this chapter shall be kept on file and maintained under the direction of the
Floodplain Administrator in perpetuity. These records include permit
applications, plans, certifications, flood insurance rate maps; letter of map
change; records of issuance of permits and denial of permits; determinations of
whether proposed work constitutes substantial improvement or repair of
substantial damage; required design certifications and documentation of
elevations required by this chapter; notifications to adjacent communities,
FEMA, and the state related to alterations of watercourses; assurances that the
flood carrying capacity of altered watercourses will be maintained;
documentation related to appeals and variances, including justification for
issuance or denial; and records of enforcement actions taken pursuant to this
chapter.
      (2)   These records shall be available for public inspection at the
Department of Planning and Zoning at 301 North Chestnut Street, Seymour, IN
47274.
   (E)   Periodic inspection. Once a project is completed, periodic inspections
may be conducted by the Floodplain Administrator to ensure compliance. The
Floodplain Administrator shall have a right, upon presentation of proper
credential, to enter on any premises within the territorial jurisdiction of the
department at any reasonable hour for the purposes of inspection or other
enforcement action.
(Ord. 27, 2023, passed 10-23-2023)
§ 155.34 MAP MAINTENANCE ACTIVITIES.
   To meet NFIP minimum requirements to have flood data reviewed and approved
by FEMA, and to ensure that the city flood maps, studies and other data
identified in §
155.07 accurately represent flooding conditions so appropriate floodplain
management criteria are based on current data, the following map maintenance
activities are identified:
   (A)   Requirement to submit new technical data.
      (1)   For all development proposals that impact floodway delineations or
base flood elevations, the community shall ensure that technical data
reflecting such changes be submitted to FEMA within six months of the date such
information becomes available. These development proposals include:
         (a)   Floodway encroachments that increase or decrease base flood
elevations or alter floodway boundaries;
         (b)   Fill sites to be used for the placement of proposed structures
where the applicant desires to remove the site from the special flood hazard
area;
         (c)   Alteration of watercourses that result in a relocation or
elimination of the special flood hazard area, including the placement of
culverts;
and subdivision or large-scale development proposals requiring the
establishment of base flood elevations.
      (2)   It is the responsibility of the applicant to have required
technical data for a conditional letter of map revision or letter of map
revision and submitted to FEMA. The Indiana Department of Natural Resources
will review the submittals as part of a partnership with FEMA. The submittal
should be mailed to the Indiana Department of Natural Resources at the address
provided on the FEMA form (MT-2) or submitted through the online letter of map
change website. Submittal and processing fees for these map revisions shall be
the responsibility of the applicant.
      (3)   The Floodplain Administrator shall require a conditional letter of
map revision prior to the issuance of a floodplain development permit for
proposed floodway encroachments that increase the base flood elevation.
      (4)   Floodplain development permits issued by the Floodplain
Administrator shall be conditioned upon the applicant obtaining a letter of map
revision from FEMA for any development proposal subject to this section.
   (B)   Right to submit new technical data. The Floodplain Administrator may
request changes to any of the information shown on an effective map that does
not impact floodplain or floodway delineations or base flood elevations, such
as labeling or planimetric details. Such a submission shall include appropriate
supporting documentation made in writing by the Mayor and may be submitted to
FEMA at any time.
   (C)   Annexation/detachment. Upon occurrence, the Floodplain Administrator
shall notify FEMA in writing whenever the boundaries of the city have been
modified by annexation or the community has assumed authority over an area, or
no longer has authority to adopt and enforce floodplain management regulations
for a particular area. In order that the Jackson County, Indiana and
Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance Rate Map accurately represent the city
boundaries, include within such notification a copy of a map of the city
suitable for reproduction, clearly showing the new corporate limits or the new
area for which the city has assumed or relinquished floodplain management
regulatory authority.
(Ord. 27, 2023, passed 10-23-2023)
§ 155.35 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Board of Zoning Appeals (the “Board”) as established by the Common
Council of the city shall hear and decide appeals and requests for variances
from requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The Board shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged an error in
any requirement, decision, or determination is made by the Floodplain
Administrator in the enforcement or administration of this chapter. Any person
aggrieved by the decision of the Board may appeal such decision to the Jackson
County Circuit Court.
   (C)   In considering such applications, the Board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (2)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (6)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (7)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use
which arc not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
      (8)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (9)   The expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment
of transport of the floodwaters at the site; and
      (10)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   (D)   A written report addressing each of the above factors shall be
submitted with the application for a variance.
   (E)   Variances from the provisions of this chapter shall only be granted
when the Board can make positive findings of fact based on evidence submitted
at the hearing for the following:
      (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause.
      (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship as defined in §
155.05.
      (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud or victimization of the public,
or conflict with existing laws or ordinances.
   (F)   No variance for a residential use within a floodway subject to §§
155.45(A), (C)(1) or (D) may be granted.
   (G)   Any variance granted in a floodway subject to §§
155.45(A), (C)(1) or (D) will require a permit from the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources.
Variances shall not be issued within any designated regulatory floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   (H)   Variances to the provisions for flood hazard reduction of §§
155.45 through
155.48 may be granted only when a new structure is to be located on a lot of
one-half acre or less in size, contiguous to and surrounded by lots with
existing structures constructed below the flood protection grade.
   (I)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of “historic
structures” upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation
will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as an “historic
structure” and the variance is the minimum to preserve the historic character
and design of the structure.
   (J)   Variances may be issued for new construction, substantial
improvements, and other development necessary for the conduct of a functionally
dependent use.
   (K)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (L)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of
this chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of this chapter.
   (M)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the flood protection grade and the
elevation to which the lowest floor is to be built and stating that the cost of
the flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from
the reduced lowest floor elevation.
   (N)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency or
the Indiana Department of Natural Resources upon request.
(Ord. 30, 2014, passed 10-27-2014; Am. Ord. 27, 2023, passed 10-23-2023)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD
HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 155.45 FLOODPLAIN STATUS STANDARDS.
   (A)   Floodways (riverine). Located within SFHAs, established in §
155.07, are areas designated as floodways. The floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters, which carry debris,
potential projectiles, and has erosion potential. Under the provisions of the
Flood Control Act (I.C. 14-28-1) a permit for construction in a floodway from
the Indiana Department of Natural Resources is required prior to the issuance
of a local building permit for any excavation, deposit, construction, or
obstruction activity located in the floodway. This includes land preparation
activities such as filling, grading, clearing, and paving undertaken before the
actual start of construction of the structure. General licenses and exemptions
to the requirements of the Flood Control Act (I.C. 14-28-1 and 312 IAC 10) may
apply to qualified additions/improvemcnts to existing lawful residential
structures, rural bridges, logjam removals, wetland restoration, utility line
crossings, outfall projects, creek rock removal, and prospecting.
      (1)   If the site is in a regulatory floodway as established in §
155.07, the Floodplain Administrator shall require the applicant to forward the
application, along with all pertinent plans and specifications, to the Indiana
Department of Natural Resources and apply for approval for construction in a
floodway, provided the activity does not qualify for a general license or
exemption (I.C. 14-28-1 or 312 IAC 10).
      (2)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
approval has been granted by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources for
construction in the floodway, or evidence provided by an applicant that the
development meets specified criteria to qualify for a general license or
exemption to the requirement of the Flood Control Act. The floodplain
development permit shall meet the provisions contained in this subchapter.
      (3)   The floodplain development permit cannot be less restrictive than
an approval issued for construction in a floodway issued by the Indiana
Department of Natural Resources, or the specified criteria used to qualify for
a general license or exemption to the Flood Control Act for a specific site/
project. However, a community’s more restrictive regulations (if any) shall
take precedence.
      (4)   In floodway areas identified on the FIRM, development shall cause
no increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood discharge
without first obtaining a conditional letter of map revision and meeting
requirements of §
155.34(A). A conditional letter of map revision cannot be issued for
development that would cause an increase in flood levels affecting a structure
and such development should not be permitted.
      (5)   In floodway areas identified by the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources through detailed or approximate studies but not yet identified on the
effective FIRM as floodway areas, the total cumulative effect of the proposed
development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated development,
shall not adversely affect the efficiency of, or unduly restrict the capacity
of the floodway. This adverse effect is defined as an increase in the elevation
of the regulatory flood of at least fifteen-hundredths of a foot as determined
by comparing the regulatory flood elevation under the project condition to that
under the natural or pre-floodway condition as proven with hydraulic analyses.
      (6)   For all projects involving channel modifications or fill (including
levees) the city shall submit the data and request that the Federal Emergency
Management Agency revise the regulatory flood data per mapping standard
regulations found at 44 CFR §
65.12.
   (B)   Fringe (riverine). If the site is in the fringe (either identified on
the FIRM or identified by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources through
detailed or approximate studies and not identified on a FIRM), the Floodplain
Administrator may issue the local floodplain development permit provided the
provisions contained in this subchapter have been met.
   (C)   SFHAs without established base flood elevation and/or floodways/
fringes (riverine).
      (1)   Drainage area upstream of the site is greater than one square mile.
         (a)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of
the floodway and fringe have not yet been determined, and the drainage area
upstream of the site is greater than one square mile, the Floodplain
Administrator shall require the applicant to forward the application, along
with all pertinent plans and specifications, to the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources for review and comment.
         (b)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
written approval from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources (approval for
construction in a floodway, letter of authorization, or evidence of general
license qualification) or a floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment citing
the 1% annual chance flood elevation and the recommended flood protection grade
has been received from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources.
         (c)   Once the Floodplain Administrator has received the proper
written approval, evidence of general license qualification, or floodplain
analysis/regulatory assessment approving the proposed development from the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources, a floodplain development permit may be
issued, provided the conditions of the floodplain development permit are not
less restrictive than the conditions received from the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources and the provisions contained in this section have been met.
      (2)   Drainage area upstream of the site is less than one square mile.
         (a)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of
the floodway and fringe have not yet been determined and the drainage area
upstream of the site is less than one square mile, the Floodplain Administrator
shall require the applicant to provide an engineering analysis showing the
limits of the floodplain and 1% annual chance flood elevation for the site.
         (b)   Upon receipt, the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local
floodplain development permit, provided the provisions contained in this
subchapter have been met.
   (D)   SFHAs not identified on a map.
      (1)   If a proposed development site is near a waterway with no SFHA
identified on a map, the Floodplain Administrator shall verify the drainage
area upstream of the site. If the drainage area upstream of the site is
verified as being greater than one square mile, the Floodplain Administrator
shall require the applicant to forward the application, along with all
pertinent plans and specifications, to the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources for review and comment.
      (2)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
written approval from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources (approval for
construction in a flood way, letter of authorization, or evidence of general
license qualification) or a floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment citing
the 1% percent annual chance flood elevation and the recommended flood
protection grade has been received from the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources.
      (3)   Once the Floodplain Administrator has received the proper written
approval, evidence of general license qualification, or floodplain analysis/
regulatory assessment approving the proposed development from the Indiana
Department of Natural Resources, a floodplain development permit may be issued,
provided the conditions of the floodplain development permit are not less
restrictive than the conditions received from the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources and the provisions contained in this subchapter have been met.
(Ord. 30, 2014, passed 10-27-2014; Am. Ord. 27, 2023, passed 10-23-2023)
§ 155.46 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazard, the following provisions are required:
   (A)   All new construction, and substantial improvements shall be anchored
to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure;
   (B)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage below the FPG;
   (C)   New construction and substantial improvements must incorporate methods
and practices that minimize flood damage;
   (D)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, and other service facilities shall be located at/above the FPG for
residential structures. Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air
conditioning equipment, and other service facilities shall be located at/above
the FPG or designed so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within
the components below the FPG for non-residential structures. Water and sewer
pipes, electrical and telephone lines, submersible pumps, and other
waterproofed service facilities may be located below the FPG;
   (E)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
   (F)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding;
   (H)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a structure
that is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall meet the
requirements of “new construction” as contained in this chapter;
   (I)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development (including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions), which is greater than the lesser of 50 lots or five acres;
   (J)   Where an existing or proposed structure or other development is
affected by multiple flood zones, by multiple base flood elevations, or both,
the development activity must comply with the provisions of this chapter
applicable to the most restrictive flood zone and the highest base flood
elevation affecting any part of the existing or proposed structure; or for
other developments, affecting any part of the area of the development.
   (K)   Fill projects that do not involve a structure must be protected
against erosion and scour during flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or bulk
heading. If vegetative cover is used, the slopes shall be no steeper than three
feet horizontal to one foot vertical.
(Ord. 30, 2014, passed 10-27-2014; Am. Ord. 27, 2023, passed 10-23-2023)
§ 155.47 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data or
flood depths have been provided, as set forth in §
155.07, the following provisions are required;
   (A)   Building protection requirement. In addition to the general standards
described in §
155.07, structures to be located in the SFHA shall be protected from flood
damage below the FPG. This building protection requirement applies to the
following situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of a residential structure;
      (2)   Construction or placement of a non-residential structure;
      (3)   Addition or improvement made to an existing structure where the
cost of the addition or improvement equals or exceeds 50% of the value of the
existing structure (excluding the value of the land). An addition and/or
improvement project that is continuous in scope or time is considered as one
project for permitting purposes;
      (4)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a damaged structure where the
costs of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure (excluding the value of the
land) before damage occurred (the costs of any proposed additions or
improvements beyond restoring the damaged structure to its before damaged
condition must be included in the cost);
      (5)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site;
      (6)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than 180 days;
   (B)   Residential construction.
      (1)   New construction or substantial improvement of any residential
structures shall meet provisions described in §
155.45 and applicable general standards described in §
155.46.
      (2)   In Zone A and Zone AE, new construction or substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor; including basement,
at or above the FPG. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate
a structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of
floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of division (B)
(3) below. Should fill be used to elevate a structure, the standards of
division (B)(4) below must be met.
      (3)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior walls
below the flood protection grade shall meet the following requirement:
         (a)   Designed to preclude finished living space and designed to allow
for the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters to equalize hydrostatic flood
forces on exterior walls. Flood openings must be designed and installed in
compliance with criteria set out in FEMA Technical Bulletin 1. Engineered flood
openings must be designed and certified by a registered design professional
(requires supporting engineering certification or make/model specific ICC-ES
Report), or meet the following criteria for non-engineered flood openings:
            1.   Provide a minimum of two openings on different sides of an
enclosure. If there are multiple enclosed areas, each is required to meet the
requirements for enclosures, including the requirement for flood openings in
exterior walls (having a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area);
            2.   The bottom of all openings shall be no more than one foot
above the higher of the final interior grade (or floor) and the finished
exterior grade immediately under each opening;
            3.   If the floor of the enclosure is below the BFE, the openings
must be located wholly below the BFE.
            4.   If the floor of the enclosure is at or above the BFE, but
below the FPG, the openings must be located wholly below the FPG;
            5.   Doors and windows do not qualify as openings;
            6.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or
other coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of
floodwaters in both directions;
         (b)   The floor of such enclosed area must be at or above grade on at
least one side.
      (4)   A residential structure may be constructed on a fill in accordance
with the following:
         (a)   Fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot deep
before compacting to 95% of the maximum density obtainable with either the
Standard or Modified Proctor Test method. The results of the test showing
compliance shall be retained in the permit file;
         (b)   Fill shall extend ten feet beyond the foundation of the
structure before sloping below the BFE;
         (c)   Fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or bulk heading. If vegetative cover is
used, the slopes shall be no steeper than three feet horizontal to one foot
vertical;
         (d)   Fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties;
         (e)   Fill shall be composed of clean granular or earthen material.
      (5)   A residential structure may be constructed using a stem wall
foundation (also called chain wall, raised-slab-on-grade, and slab-on-stem-
wall-with-fill). Any backfilled stem wall foundation (also called chain wall,
raised-slab-on-grade, and slab-on-stem-wall-with-fill) must be backfilled with
compacted structural fill, concrete, or gravel that supports the floor slab. No
flood openings are required for this type of construction.
   (C)   Non-residential construction.
      (1)   New construction or substantial improvement of any non-residential
structures (excludes accessory structures) shall meet provisions described in §
155.45, and applicable general standards described in §
155.46.
      (2)   In Zone A and Zone AE, new construction, or substantial improvement
of any commercial, industrial, or non-residential structure (excludes accessory
structures) shall either have the lowest floor, including basement and,
elevated to or above the FPG or be floodproofed to or above the FPG. Should
solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a structure, openings
sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of floodwaters shall be
provided in accordance with the standards of division (C)(3) below. Should fill
be used to elevate a structure, the standards of division (C)(4) below must be
met.
      (3)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior walls
below the flood protection grade shall meet the following requirement:
         (a)   Designed to preclude finished living space and designed to allow
for the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters to equalize hydrostatic flood
forces on exterior walls. Flood openings must be designed and installed in
compliance with criteria set out in FEMA Technical Bulletin 1. Engineered flood
openings must be designed and certified by a registered design professional
(requires supporting engineering certification or make/model specific ICC-ES
Report), or meet the following criteria for non-engineered flood openings:
            1.   Provide a minimum of two openings on different sides of an
enclosure. If more than one enclosed area is present, each must have openings
on exterior walls (having a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area);
            2.   The bottom of all openings shall be no more than one foot
above the higher of the final interior grade (or floor) and the finished
exterior grade immediately under each opening;
            3.   If the floor of the enclosure is below the BFE, the openings
must be located wholly below the BFE;
            4.   If the floor of the enclosure is at or above the BFE, but
below the FPG, the openings must be located wholly below the FPG;
            5.   Doors and windows do not qualify as openings;
            6.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or
other coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of
floodwaters in both directions;
         (b)   The floor of such enclosed area must be at or above grade on at
least one side.
      (4)   A non-residential structure may be constructed on fill in
accordance with the following:
         (a)   Shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot deep before
compacting to 95% of the maximum density obtainable with either the Standard or
Modified Proctor Test method. The results of the test showing compliance shall
be retained in the permit file;
         (b)   Shall extend ten feet beyond the foundation of the structure
before sloping below the BFE;
         (c)   Shall be protected against erosion and scour during flooding by
vegetative cover, riprap, or bulk heading. If vegetative cover is used, the
slopes shall be no steeper than three feet horizontal to one foot vertical;
         (d)   Shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage from or
onto neighboring properties;
         (e)   Shall be composed of clean granular or earthen material.
      (5)   A non-residential structure may be floodproofed in accordance with
the following:
         (a)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify
that the structure has been designed so that below the FPG, the structure and
attendant utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the
effects of the regulatory flood. The structure design shall take into account
flood velocities, duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic pressures, and impacts
from debris or ice. Such certification shall be provided to the Floodplain
Administrator.
         (b)   Floodproofing measures shall be operable without human
intervention and without an outside source of electricity.
      (6)   A non-residential structure may be constructed using a stem wall
foundation (also called chain wall, raised-slab-on-grade, and slab-on-stem-
wall-with-fill). Any backfilled stem wall foundation must be backfilled with
compacted structural fill, concrete, or gravel that supports the floor slab. No
flood openings are required for this type of construction.
   (D)   Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
      (1)   These requirements apply to all manufactured homes to be placed on
a site in the SFHA:
         (a)   The manufactured home shall be elevated on a permanent
foundation such that the lowest floor shall be at or above the FPG and securely
anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement.
         (b)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior
walls below the FPG shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required for elevated
structures in division (B)(3) above.
      (2)   Recreational vehicles placed on a site in the SFHA shall either:
         (a)   Be on site for less than 180 days and be fully licensed and
READY FOR USE ON A PUBLIC HIGHWAY (defined as being on its wheels or jacking
system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and
security devices, and has no permanently attached additions), or
         (b)   Meet the requirements for “manufactured homes” as stated earlier
in this section.
   (E)   Accessory structures. Within SFHAs, new construction or placement of
an accessory structure must meet the following standards:
      (1)   Shall have a floor area of 400 square feet or less;
      (2)   Use shall be limited to parking of vehicles and limited storage;
      (3)   Shall not be used for human habitation;
      (4)   Shall be constructed of flood resistant materials;
      (5)   Shall be constructed and placed on the lot to offer the minimum
resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
      (6)   Shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation;
      (7)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment shall
be elevated or floodproofed to or above the FPG;
      (8)   Shall be designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required
for elevated structures in division (C)(3); and
      (9)   Shall not have subsequent additions or improvements that would
preclude the structure from its continued designation as an accessory
structure.
   (F)   Free-standing pavilions, gazebos, decks, carports, and similar
development. Within SFHAs, new construction or placement of free-standing
pavilions, gazebos, decks, carports, and similar development must meet the
following standards:
      (1)   Shall have open sides (having not more than one rigid wall);
      (2)   Shall be anchored to prevent flotation or lateral movement;
      (3)   Shall be constructed of flood resistant materials below the FPG;
      (4)   Any electrical, heating, plumbing and other service facilities
shall be located at/above the FPG;
      (5)   Shall not have subsequent additions or improvements that would
preclude the development from its continued designation as a free-standing
pavilion, gazebo, carport, or similar open-sided development.
   (G)   Above ground gas or liquid storage tanks. Within SFHAs, all newly
placed aboveground gas or liquid storage tanks shall meet the requirements for
a non-residential structure as required in division (C) above.
(Ord. 30, 2014, passed 10-27-2014; Am. Ord. 27, 2023, passed 10-23-2023)
§ 155.48 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION AND OTHER NEW DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals and all other proposed new development shall
be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals and all other proposed new development shall
have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water
systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals and all other proposed new development shall
have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (D)   In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data
are not available, the applicant shall provide a hydrologic and hydraulic
engineering analysis that generates base flood elevations for all subdivision
proposals and all other proposed new development (including manufactured home
parks and subdivisions), which is greater than the lesser of 50 lots or five
acres, whichever is less.
   (E)   All subdivision proposals shall minimize development in the SFHA and/
or limit density of development permitted in the SFHA.
   (F)   All subdivision proposals shall ensure safe access into/out of SFHA
for pedestrians and vehicles (especially emergency responders).
   (G)   Streets, blocks lots, parks and other public grounds shall be located
and laid out in such a manner as to preserve and utilize natural streams and
channels. Wherever possible the floodplains shall be included within parks or
other public grounds.
(Ord. 30, 2014, passed 10-27-2014; Am. Ord. 27, 2023, passed 10-23-2023)
§ 155.99 PENALTY.
   Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit in the SFHA or failure to
comply with the requirements of a floodplain development permit or conditions
of a variance shall be deemed to be a violation of this chapter. All violations
shall be considered a common nuisance and be treated as such in accordance with
the provisions of the Zoning Code for the city.
   (A)   A separate offense shall be deemed to occur for each day the violation
continues to exist.
   (B)   The Floodplain Administrator shall inform the owner that any such
violation is considered a willful act to increase flood damages and therefore
may cause coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
   (C)   Nothing herein shall prevent the city from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 30, 2014, passed 10-27-2014; Am. Ord. 27, 2023, passed 10-23-2023)
CHAPTER 156: SUBDIVISION CONTROL
Section
General Provisions
   
156.01   Title
   
156.02   Authority
   
156.03   Policy
   
156.04   General purpose
   
156.05   Applicability; jurisdiction
   
156.06   Conflict or consistency with other laws, covenants, or deed
restrictions
   
156.07   Compliance
   
156.08   Severability
   
156.09   Effective date; transitional provisions
Definitions; Interpretation
   
156.15   Meaning; intent
   
156.16   Text controls
   
156.17   Lists; examples
   
156.18   Computation of time
   
156.19   References to other regulations, publications and documents
   
156.20   Public officials and agencies
   
156.21   Delegation of authority
   
156.22   Technical and non-technical words
   
156.23   Mandatory and discretionary terms
   
156.24   Conjunctions
   
156.25   Terms; usage
   
156.26   Gender
   
156.27   Definitions
Administration
   
156.35   Administrative and decision-making bodies
   
156.36   Amendments
   
156.37   Modifications
   
156.38   Exempt subdivisions
   
156.39   Minor subdivisions
   
156.40   Major subdivisions
   
156.41   Validity of approval
   
156.42   Improvements; financial guarantees
Development and Design Standards
   
156.50   Minor subdivisions
   
156.51   Major subdivisions
Conservation Subdivisions
   
156.60   Purpose; intent
   
156.61   General provisions
   
156.62   Criteria
   
156.63   Other bonuses
Enforcement; Penalties
   
156.70   Complaint
   
156.71   Nuisance declared
   
156.72   Injunction
   
156.73   Other remedies
 
   
156.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Certificates and Notations
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as, referred to, and cited as the “Subdivision
Control Ordinance of Seymour, Indiana,” and is hereinafter referred to as “this
chapter.”
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 156.02 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   This chapter is adopted under the authority granted by the I.C. 36-7-
4 et seq. and amendments thereto.
   (B)   Regulation of the subdivision of land and the attachment of reasonable
conditions to land subdivision is an exercise of valid police power delegated
by the State of Indiana to the City of Seymour.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 156.03 POLICY.
   (A)   It is declared to be the policy of the City of Seymour to consider the
subdivision of land and subsequent development of the land as subject to
control of the city pursuant to the Comprehensive Plan for the orderly,
planned, efficient, and economical development of the city.
   (B)   Land to be subdivided shall be of such character that it can be used
safely for building purposes without danger to health or peril from fire,
flood, or other menace, and land shall not be subdivided until adequate
infrastructure and services exist or are guaranteed in accordance with §
156.42, and proper provision has been made for drainage, water, sewerage, and
public facilities such as parks, recreational facilities, streets, and
sidewalks.
   (C)   All modifications of existing and proposed improvements shall conform
with and be properly related to the Comprehensive Plan and the standards
contained in other applicable ordinances and regulations.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 156.04 GENERAL PURPOSE.
   This chapter is adopted for the following purposes:
   (A)   To promote the public health, safety and general welfare;
   (B)   To guide the future growth and development of the city in accordance
with the Comprehensive Plan;
   (C)   To ensure that necessary facilities are available concurrent with
development, in an amount and size commensurate with the size of the
subdivision and the land uses to which the land will be allocated;
   (D)   To ensure that the community will bear no more than its fair share of
the cost of providing facilities and services by requiring the developer to pay
fees, furnish land, provide infrastructure, and establish mitigation measures
to ensure that the development provides its fair share of capital facilities
needs generated by the development;
   (E)   To provide pedestrian and vehicular connectivity among subdivisions;
   (F)   To secure suitable sites for building purposes and protect the
property values thereof;
   (G)   To provide assurance that future plats, subdivisions and dedications
will be improved in accordance with an established public policy;
   (H)   To provide for open spaces through the most efficient design and
layout of the subdivision;
   (I)   To preserve the natural beauty and topography of the city and to
ensure appropriate development with regard to these features;
   (J)   To prevent the pollution of air and water, safeguard surface and
groundwater, conserve and stabilize topsoil, and to otherwise encourage the
wise use of resources throughout the city;
   (K)   To supply proper land records for the convenience of the public and
for appropriate identification and permanent location of real estate
boundaries.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 156.05 APPLICABILITY; JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all lands within the
incorporated portions of the City of Seymour, and its extraterritorial
jurisdictional area, including land owned by local, county, state, or federal
agencies, to the extent allowed by law.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006; Am. Ord. 5, 2015, passed 2-9-2015)
§ 156.06 CONFLICT OR CONSISTENCY WITH OTHER LAWS, COVENANTS, OR DEED
RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Conflicts and relationship with other regulations.
      (1)   When the provisions of this chapter are inconsistent with one
another, or when the provisions of this chapter conflict with provisions found
in other ordinances, codes, or regulations adopted by the City of Seymour, the
more restrictive provision shall govern unless the terms of the provisions
specify otherwise.
      (2)   It shall be the developer or applicant’s responsibility to
determine and comply with all other applicable city, county, state, or federal
codes or regulations governing development and land use activities.
   (B)   Relationship with private-party easements, covenants, or agreements.
This chapter is not intended to interfere with or abrogate any easements,
covenants, or agreements between parties, provided that wherever this chapter
proposes a greater restriction upon the use of buildings or land, upon the
location or height of buildings or structures, or upon requirements for open
areas than those that are imposed or required by such easements, covenants, or
agreements between parties, the provision of this chapter shall govern. In no
case shall the city be obligated to enforce the provisions of any easements,
covenants, or agreements between parties.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 156.07 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   No lot other than a legal lot of record shall be sold nor advertised
for sale; no permit to erect any building upon land in a subdivision shall be
issued; and no building shall be erected in a subdivision, unless and until a
final major subdivision plat or minor plat has been approved and recorded.
   (B)   For subdivisions recorded after a financial guarantee is posted for
the improvements, no occupancy permit shall be issued for any building unless
in addition to all requirements of the building code, the following
improvements are in place to provide for safe access to the building(s) for the
occupants and for emergency vehicles:
      (1)   Streets having a compacted subgrade and a binder course.
      (2)   Traffic control signs and street name signs.
   (C)   Minimum requirements. The provisions of this chapter shall be held to
be minimum requirements necessary for the promotion of the public health,
safety, and general welfare, and shall be liberally construed in favor of the
city and shall not be construed to be a limitation or repeal of any other power
now possessed by the City of Seymour.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 156.08 SEVERABILITY.
   If any court of competent jurisdiction rules any provision of this chapter
invalid, that ruling shall not affect any provision not specifically included
in the judgment. If any court of competent jurisdiction rules invalid the
application of any provision of this chapter to a particular property,
building, or other structure, or use, that ruling shall not affect the
application of the chapter provisions to any property, building, other
structure, or use not specifically included in the judgment.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 156.09 EFFECTIVE DATE; TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Effective date. This chapter shall take effect after publication of
the notice of adoption as provided by I.C. 36-7-4-701.
   (B)   Violations continue. Any violation under previous ordinances repealed
by Ord. 17, 2006 shall continue to be a violation under this chapter and be
subject to penalties and enforcement under §§
156.70 through 156.74 and §
156.99, unless the use, development, construction, or other activity complies
with the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Approved projects.
      (1)   Any Commission approval of a preliminary plat granted before the
effective date of Ord. 17, 2006 shall remain valid, provided that the final
plat is approved within 120 days after such effective date.
      (2)   Any Commission approval of a final plat granted before the
effective date of Ord. 17, 2006 shall remain valid, provided that the final
plat is recorded in the office of the County Recorder within 180 days after
such effective date.
   (D)   Complete applications.
      (1)   Any project for which a complete application was submitted and
accepted by the city or county prior to the effective date of Ord. 17, 2006
may, at the applicant’s option, be reviewed wholly under the terms of the
previous Subdivision Control Ordinance. If approved, these projects may be
carried out in accordance with the standards in effect at the time of
application. Any re-application for an expired permit shall meet the standards
in effect at the time of re-application.
      (2)   Projects for which no application has been submitted and accepted
as complete prior to the effective date of Ord. 17, 2006 shall be subject to
all requirements and standards of that ordinance.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
DEFINITIONS; INTERPRETATION
§ 156.15 MEANING; INTENT.
   All provisions, terms, phrases, and expressions contained in this chapter
shall be construed according to this chapter’s stated purpose and intent.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 156.16 TEXT CONTROLS.
   In case of any difference of meaning or implication between the text of this
chapter and any heading, drawing, table, or figure, the text shall control.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 156.17 LISTS; EXAMPLES.
   Unless otherwise specifically indicated, lists of items or examples that use
terms such as “including,” “such as,” or similar language are intended to
provide examples, not to be exhaustive lists of all possibilities.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 156.18 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   Unless the terms of a specific provision state otherwise (e.g., some
provisions specify “business days”), periods of time defined by a number of
days shall mean a number of consecutive calendar days, including all weekend
days, holidays, and other non-business/working days; however, if the last day
is a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, that day shall be excluded.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 156.19 REFERENCES TO OTHER REGULATIONS, PUBLICATIONS AND DOCUMENTS.
   Whenever reference is made to a resolution, ordinance, statute, regulation,
or document, that reference shall be construed as referring to the most recent
edition of such regulation (as amended), resolution, ordinance, statute,
regulation, or document or to the relevant successor document, unless otherwise
expressly stated.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 156.20 PUBLIC OFFICIALS AND AGENCIES.
   All public officials, bodies, and agencies to which references are made are
those of Seymour or Jackson County, unless otherwise expressly stated. Whenever
reference is made to a public official’s ordinance or name of a public agency,
that reference shall be construed as referring to the most up-to-date ordinance
or agency name, or to the relevant successor official or agency.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 156.21 DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY.
   Whenever a provision appears requiring the head of a department or another
officer or employee of the city to perform an act or duty, that provision shall
be construed as authorizing the department head or officer to delegate the
responsibility to subordinates, unless the terms of the provision specify
otherwise.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 156.22 TECHNICAL AND NON-TECHNICAL WORDS.
   Words and phrases not otherwise defined in this chapter shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases not otherwise defined in this chapter that may have acquired a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and understood
according to such meaning.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 156.23 MANDATORY AND DISCRETIONARY TERMS.
   The word “shall” is always mandatory, and the words “may” or “should” are
always permissive.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 156.24 CONJUNCTIONS.
   Unless the context clearly suggests the contrary, conjunctions shall be
interpreted as follows:
   (A)   “And” indicates that all connected items, conditions, provisions, or
events shall apply; and
   (B)   “Or” indicates that one or more of the connected items, conditions,
provisions, or events shall apply.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 156.25 TERMS; USAGE.
   Words used in one tense (past, present, or future) include all other tenses,
unless the context clearly indicates the contrary. The singular shall include
the plural, and the plural shall include the singular.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 156.26 GENDER.
   The masculine shall include the feminine, and vice versa.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 156.27 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AASHTO. The American Association of State Highway and Transportation
Officials.
   ACCESS EASEMENT. A private way meeting the standards of this chapter that
provides access to lots, tracts or parcels of land.
   ACCESSORY LOT. A parcel that is not intended to contain a principal use and
is permanently tied to another lot that contains or may contain a principal
use. An ACCESSORY LOT must be contiguous to the lot with which it is associated
or separated only by a right-of-way.
   ALLEY. A minor way that provides vehicular access to the back side of
property that abuts a street.
   APPLICANT. The owner or authorized representative thereof of land proposed
for subdivision.
   AS-BUILT PLANS. A drawing or drawings accurately indicating the location and
design details of all improvements installed in relation to the subdivision.
   BOARD OF WORKS. The City of Seymour Board of Public Works and Safety.
   BLOCK. Property abutting on one side of a street, and lying between the two
nearest intersecting or intercepting streets, or between the nearest
intersection of an intercepting street and railroad right-of-way, waterway or
other definite barrier. For purposes of this definition, a cul-de-sac less than
100 feet in length does not constitute an intersecting or intercepting street.
   BUILDING LINE. A line parallel to the street line touching that part of a
building closest to the street.
   BUILDING SITE. The three-dimensional space within which a structure is
permitted to be built on a lot and that is defined by maximum height
regulations, and minimum yard setbacks and is large enough to accommodate the
principal structure, any on-site sewage disposal system, and customary
accessory structures such as garages, decks, and patios.
   CLUSTER PRIVATE SANITARY WASTE DISPOSAL TREATMENT SYSTEM. A waste disposal
system serving more than one lot and in which solids and grease are removed in
one or more septic tanks and the effluent discharged to a common drainage
field.
   COMMISSION. The Seymour Plan Commission.
   COMMUNITY SEWER SYSTEM. A package wastewater treatment plant or a cluster
private sanitary waste disposal treatment system.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The complete plan or any of its parts for the
development of Seymour adopted in accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-500 et seq., as
is now or may hereafter be in effect.
   CONSTRUCTION PLANS. Any maps or drawing accompanying a subdivision plat
showing the location and design details of improvements to be installed for the
subdivision in accordance with the requirements of this chapter.
   COUNTY COMMISSIONERS. The Board of County Commissioners of Jackson County,
Indiana.
   COVENANT. A restriction placed on the development or use of land through a
written, recorded instrument.
   DEVELOPER. Any individual subdivider, firm, association syndicate,
partnership, corporation, trust or any other legal entity commencing
proceedings under these regulations to effect a subdivision of land. (See
SUBDIVIDER.)
   DRAINAGE SWALE. A natural or constructed waterway, usually broad and
shallow, covered with erosion-resistant grasses, used to conduct surface water
from a field, diversion or other site feature.
   DRAINAGE SYSTEM. Any combination of surface and/or subsurface drainage
components fulfilling the drainage requirements of this chapter.
   EASEMENT. A grant by the property owner of the use of part of the owner’s
land by another for a specified purpose.
   EROSION. The wearing away of the land surface by the action of wind, water
or gravity.
   EXEMPT SUBDIVISION. A subdivision meeting the criteria in §
156.38.
   FLOODWAY. That area designated as floodway on the Seymour Flood Boundary and
Floodway Maps of current adoption promulgated by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency and the Indiana Department of Natural Resources.
   FLOODWAY FRINGE. That area designated as floodway fringe on the Seymour
Flood Boundary Maps of current adoption promulgated by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency and the Indiana Department of Natural Resources.
   FLOOD HAZARD AREA. Any floodplain, floodway, floodway fringe district or any
combination thereof as illustrated on the flood boundary and floodway map
prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). This is the area
immediately affected by floodwater during a “one-hundred-year flood.”
   FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE. 
      (1)   For residential buildings, the elevation of the lowest floor of a
building or structure. If a building contains a basement, the basement is
considered the lowest floor.
      (2)   For commercial and industrial buildings, the water surface
elevation for which the building is protected according to standards and
specifications established by the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOODPLAIN. The floodway and the floodway fringe and any other areas
indicated on the Flood Boundary maps as “flood prone areas” for which no data
are available. The REGULATORY FLOODPLAIN is the area shown as Zone A on the
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM). This area includes both the floodway and the
fringe portions of the floodplain.
   IDEM. The Indiana Department of Environmental Management.
   IDNR. The Indiana Department of Natural Resources.
   IMPROVEMENT PLANS OR DRAWINGS. The maps, drawings and text accompanying a
subdivision plat and showing the specific location and design of improvements
to be installed in the subdivision in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter as a condition of the approval of the plat.
   ISDH. The Indiana State Department of Health.
   LANDSCAPE SCREEN. Any combination of fences, walls, hedges, shrubs, trees
and other landscape materials which effectively provide a solid, dense and
opaque mass, to prohibit view, absorb sound and provide site delineation. Such
screen shall provide total opacity throughout the year.
   LEGAL DESCRIPTION. A property description recognized by law that defines
boundaries by reference to government surveys, coordinate systems, or recorded
maps and is sufficient to locate property with oral testimony.
   LEGAL LOT OF RECORD. A lot created in accordance with applicable regulations
that and shown  or described on a plat or deed in the office of the County
Recorder.
   LOT. A parcel of land of sufficient size to meet minimum zoning requirements
for use, coverage and area, and to provide such yards and other open spaces as
are herein required. Such lot shall have frontage on a dedicated, maintained
public street, approved private street, or access easement.
   LOT, DOUBLE-FRONTAGE. A lot having frontage on two parallel streets or that
fronts upon two streets that do not intersect at the boundaries of the lot.
   LOT FRONTAGE. The linear distance of a lot measured at and along the front
lot line where the lot abuts a street or other approved access.
   LOT WIDTH. The distance between side lot lines as measured at and along the
front setback line.
   MAJOR SUBDIVISION. means all subdivisions other than those subdivisions
meeting the applicability requirements set forth in § 156.39 (minor plat
applicability) or the definition of EXEMPT SUBDIVISION.
   MANUAL ON UNIFORM TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES. The book by that title prepared
by the Joint Committee on Traffic Control Devices, U.S. Department of Commerce,
Bureau of Public Roads, as amended.
   MINOR SUBDIVISION. A division of land fronting an existing public right-of-
way, not requiring any new streets, alleys, roads or opening of a new public
right-of-way and which complies in all other respects with this chapter and
Chapter 157.
   NRCS. The Natural Resources Conservation Service.
   OPEN SPACE. Any parcel or area of land or water set aside, dedicated,
designated, or reserved for public or private use or enjoyment. OPEN SPACE
includes but is not limited to unimproved land, nature preserves, trail
systems, and outdoor recreational facilities.
   OPEN SPACE, COMMON. Land within or related to a development, not
individually owned or dedicated for public use, that is designed and intended
for the common use or enjoyment of the residents and their guests of the
development and may include such complementary structures and improvements as
are necessary and appropriate.
   OWNER (LEGAL TITLE). The person(s) listed in the most recent official
records of the Township or County Assessor.
   PACKAGE WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT. A prefabricated mechanical treatment
facility installed to treat the sewage generated from the lots in a
subdivision.
   PARENT TRACT OR PROPERTY. The land from which the new lot or tract of land
is being taken, as recorded in the Recorder’s Office at the time of adoption of
this chapter. No lot created after the effective date of Ord. 17, 2006 shall be
considered to be a PARENT TRACT.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization or any other unit or legal entity.
   PETITIONER. The owner(s) of land proposed to be subdivided or his or her
representative.
   PLAT. A map indicating the subdivision or resubdivision of land, and
intended to be recorded in the Jackson County Recorder’s plat books.
   PLAT COMMITTEE. A committee appointed by the Commission to review and act
upon minor plats.
   PLAT, FINAL. A drawing prepared in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter, submitted for secondary approval and intended for recording.
   PLAT, MINOR. (See MINOR SUBDIVISION.)
   PLAT, PRELIMINARY. A drawing prepared in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter, submitted for primary approval.
   PRIMARY APPROVAL. Approval granted by the Commission to a preliminary plat.
The PRIMARY APPROVAL shall include all conditions needed to bring the plat into
conformance with this chapter.
   PRINCIPAL BUILDING. A building in which the principal use of the lot on
which it is located is conducted, including a building that is attached to such
a building in a substantial way, such as by a roof (with respect to residential
uses, it means the main dwelling).
   RESUBDIVISION or REPLAT. Any change in a map of a recorded subdivision plat
affecting any street layout, easement, area reserved for public use, lot line,
or affecting any map or plan legally recorded prior to the adoption of any
regulations controlling subdivision. A REPLAT shall be considered a minor plat,
provided, that no new streets or roads or utility extensions are required. If
streets or utility extensions are required, then the plat shall be considered a
major subdivision of land.
   SECONDARY APPROVAL. The final approval granted to a subdivision by the
Commission or a designated representative. This approval authorizes the owner
or agent to record the plat.
   SETBACK. The distance between a building and any lot line.
   SETBACK LINE. The line that is the required minimum distance from any lot
line and that establishes the area within which the building or structure must
be erected or placed.
   SKETCH PLAN. A drawing and any accompanying material that shows the general
concept of a proposed major subdivision, including street  layout, lot
configuration, and such other information as may be required by the Plan
Commission’s Rules of Procedure.
   STREET. A right-of-way dedicated or otherwise legally established for public
use, which affords the principal means of access to abutting property. A STREET
may be designated as a highway, thoroughfare, parkway, boulevard, road, avenue,
lane, drive or other appropriate name. A STREET may also be classified
according to function as follows:
      (1)   EXPRESSWAYS. Limited-access highways that carry large volumes of
traffic and are of more importance regionally than locally. They provide
continuous, high-speed traffic flow.
      (2)   ARTERIAL STREETS. High-capacity, high-volume streets that provide
access to and through the city. The primary function of these streets is
traffic movement, not access to property.
      (3)   COLLECTOR STREETS. Medium-volume roads that collect and distribute
traffic from lower-classification streets to arterials and expressways or
activity centers. Traffic movement on these roads is a higher priority than
access to property.
      (4)   LOCAL STREETS. Low- to-medium volume streets that have the primary
function of providing direct access to property. These streets also distribute
traffic to and from arterial and collector streets.
      (5)   CUL-DE-SAC STREETS. Streets with only one outlet and having a
paved, usually circular, turn-around at one end.
   STREET, DEAD-END. Any street with only one outlet but having no paved turn-
around at the closed end.
   STREET, HALF. A street for which only half the required right-of-way is
dedicated or improved.
   STREET, STUB. A street that is extended to the property line for purposes of
future extension onto neighboring property.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person who:
      (1)   Having an interest in land, causes it, directly or indirectly, to
be subdivided as defined herein;
      (2)   Directly or indirectly, sells, leases or develops or offers to
sell, lease or develop, or advertises to sell, lease, or develop, any interest,
lot, parcel, site, or unit in a subdivision;
      (3)   Engages directly or through an agent in the business of selling,
leasing, developing, or offering for sale, lease, or development a subdivision
or any interest, lot, parcel, site, or unit in a subdivision; or
      (4)   Is directly or indirectly controlled by or under direct or indirect
common control with any of the foregoing. (See DEVELOPER.)
   SUBDIVISION. The division of a parcel of land into two or more lots,
parcels, sites, units, plats or interests for the purpose of offer, sale,
lease, or development. It also includes resubdivision or the grant of a right-
of-way or access easement.
   SUBDIVISION, MAJOR. (See MAJOR SUBDIVISION.)
   SUBDIVISION, MINOR. (See MINOR SUBDIVISION.)
   SUBSURFACE DRAINAGE. A system of pipes, tile, conduit or tubing installed
beneath the ground surface used to collect ground water from individual
parcels, lots or building footings.
   SURFACE DRAINAGE. A system by which the stormwater runoff is conducted to an
outlet. This would include the proper grading of parking lots, streets,
driveways, yards, and the like, so that the stormwater runoff is removed
without ponding and flows to a drainage swale, open ditch or a storm sewer.
   THOROUGHFARE PLAN (OFFICIAL). The part of the comprehensive plan, now or
hereafter adopted which includes a major street and highway plan and sets the
location, alignment, identification, and classification of existing and
proposed public streets, highways and other thoroughfares.
   WETLAND. Those areas where water is at, near, or above the land surface long
enough to be capable of supporting aquatic or hydrophytic vegetation and which
have soils indicative of wet conditions. The Indiana Wetlands Inventory Maps
produced by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources Division of Water will
be used as references in determining the size and location of wetlands.
   ZONE A. The floodplain.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 156.35 ADMINISTRATIVE AND DECISION- MAKING BODIES.
   Table 1 below summarizes the roles and responsibilities of the
administrative and decision- making bodies with regard to subdivision control.
TABLE 1
Administrative and Decision-Making Authority
S = Staff Review   R = Review and Recommend    D = Final Decision   A = Appeal
Subdivision                                                      Board of Works
Action         Staff Plat Committee Plan Commission City Council or County
                                                                 Commissioners
Text           S                    R               D
amendments
Exempt         D                    A
subdivisions
Minor
subdivision
Primary        S     D              A
approval
Secondary      D     A              A
approval
Major
Subdivision
Sketch plan    S     R              D
Primary        S     R              D
approval
Secondary      D                    A
approval
Modifications  S     R              D
Interpretation D     A              A
Acceptance of
public         R                                                 D
improvements
Acceptance and
release of     R                                                 D
financial
guarantees
 
   (A)   City Council.
      (1)   In accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-701, the City Council shall, in the
zoning ordinance, designate the districts in which subdivision of land may
occur.
      (2)   The City Council shall adopt this chapter and any amendments
thereto.
   (B)   Plan Commission.
      (1)   In accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-701, after this chapter is adopted,
the Seymour Plan Commission has exclusive authority over the approval of
subdivisions.
      (2)   In accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-704, the Plan Commission shall adopt
uniform fees proportioned to the cost of checking and verifying proposed plats.
      (3)   The Commission shall, in accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-705, establish
uniform rules with regard to investigations and hearings and shall maintain
accurate records of proceedings before the Commission.
      (4)   The Plan Commission shall appoint the members of the Plat
Committee, as provided by I.C. 36-7-4-701 and the Commission’s Rules of
Procedure.
      (5)   The Plan Commission shall conduct public hearings and make written
findings as to whether the proposed subdivision complies with the standards of
this chapter. If the subdivision complies, the Plan Commission shall grant
primary approval to the subdivision. In granting primary approval, the Plan
Commission shall attach such conditions as are necessary to ensure that the
subdivision complies with the standards of this chapter.
      (6)   If the applicant chooses to submit a sketch plan, the Plan
Commission shall review the plan and offer guidance to the applicant as to the
acceptability of the plan and its conformity to the standards of this chapter.
The Plan Commission may approve the sketch plan with or without conditions, or
it may reject the sketch plan, and provide the applicant with the reasons for
the rejection.
   (C)   Plat Committee.
      (1)   A Plat Committee is hereby established in accordance with I.C. 36-
7-4-701. The membership shall be as described in the Plan Commission Rules of
Procedure.
      (2)   The Plat Committee is authorized to grant primary approval, without
notice or hearing, of a minor subdivision that complies in all respects with
the standards of this chapter, subject to the right to appeal to the Plan
Commission.
      (3)   The Plat Committee shall keep accurate records of its proceedings
and shall operate in accordance with the Plan Commission Rules of Procedure.
   (D)   Board of Public Works and Safety.
      (1)   The Board of Works shall accept appropriate performance guarantees,
and maintenance guarantees, and shall take such actions as necessary to enforce
the terms of those guarantees.
      (2)   The Board of Works shall accept dedications of rights-of-way or
public improvements on behalf of the city.
   (E)   Board of County Commissioners. The Board of County Commissioners shall
accept dedications of rights-of-way or public improvements on behalf of the
county.
   (F)   Staff.
      (1)   The staff is hereby designated to administer and interpret this
chapter. Any staff interpretation of this chapter may be appealed to the Plan
Commission.
      (2)   The staff shall accept applications and filing fees for
subdivisions.
      (3)   In accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-705, the staff shall review proposed
subdivisions for technical conformity with the standards set forth in this
chapter and shall set a date for a public hearing on each proposed subdivision.
      (4)   The staff is hereby authorized to grant secondary approval to minor
and major subdivisions, provided that the staff finds that all conditions of
primary approval have been met.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 156.36 AMENDMENTS.
   In accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-701, this chapter may be amended in the same
manner as
Chapter 157 .
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 156.37 MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The Commission may grant such modifications to the requirements and
standards of this chapter as will not be contrary to the public interest, where
owing to extraordinary conditions, fully demonstrated by the applicant on the
basis of facts presented, strict compliance with the provisions of this chapter
will result in practical difficulties or misuse of property. It is the intent
of this chapter that this authority will be used sparingly and only when the
applicant has clearly demonstrated that all criteria in division (B) below are
met. The burden of proof is on the applicant.
   (B)   In the exercise of its authority under this section, the Commission
shall grant modifications only upon finding that all of the following criteria
are met:
      (1)   The modification will not be detrimental to the public health,
safety, or general welfare;
      (2)   The modification will not adversely affect adjacent property;
      (3)   The modification is justified because of exceptional topographic or
other physical conditions unique to the property involved and is not to correct
mere inconvenience or financial disadvantage;
      (4)   The conditions upon which the modification request is based are
unique to the property for which the relief is sought and are not applicable
generally to other property;
      (5)   The modification is consistent with the intent and purposes of this
chapter and with the Comprehensive Plan;
      (6)   The condition necessitating the modification was not created by the
owner or applicant;
      (7)   The relief sought will not in any manner vary the provisions of
Chapter 157 .
   (C)   In granting modifications, the Commission may require such conditions
as will, in its judgment secure substantially the purposes of this chapter.
   (D)   A request for a modification from the terms of this chapter shall be
submitted in writing at the time when the subdivision is filed with the
Commission for consideration for primary approval. The request shall state
fully the grounds for the application and all facts relied upon by the
applicant.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 156.38 EXEMPT SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Purpose; intent. It is the intent of this section to provide a
streamlined procedure for simple subdivisions or changes in lot lines. Those
divisions of land or resubdivisions that do not substantially affect the
Comprehensive Plan, do not require extensions of streets or utilities, and have
minimal impact on the development pattern of the City of Seymour are exempt
from the requirements for Plan Commission or Plat Committee approval.
   (B)   Applicability. The provisions of this section apply to the following
divisions which are classified as exempt for the purposes of this chapter:
      (1)   The division of land into parcels, sites or lots of more than five
acres, not involving and new streets or access easements, provided that each
parcel created complies with the minimum lot size for meets all zoning
ordinance requirements;
      (2)   A resubdivision which involves only the removal of interior lot
lines, with the outside perimeter of the property remaining unchanged,
resulting in fewer parcels than were contained in the original parcel;
      (3)   A resubdivision which involves only the changing of notations
written on the plat or correction of errors thereon;
      (4)   A division of land pursuant to an allocation of land by court
decree;
      (5)   The division of land into cemetery plots;
      (6)   A resubdivision to correct errors in an existing legal description,
provided that no additional building lots are created;
      (7)   A division of land for the sale or exchange of tracts between
adjoining land owners, provided that no additional building sites are created;
      (8)   A division or resubdivision of land for the acquisition by the
public or by a utility for street right-of-way or easement.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 156.39 MINOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Purpose; intent. The purpose of a minor subdivision is to provide a
simplified review and approval procedure for certain land divisions. Minor
subdivisions require primary and secondary approval, in accordance with the
procedures set forth in the Seymour Plan Commission Rules of Procedure.
   (B)   Applicability. A proposed subdivision may be processed under the
provisions of this section if there will be no opening of new public ways and
the subdivision complies in all respects with the provisions of this chapter.
The minor subdivision procedure may be used to create no more than four lots
from a single parent tract over any period of time. Additional lots will
require submission of a major subdivision.
   (C)   Filing.
      (1)   An application for approval of a minor subdivision shall be filed
with the office of the Building Commissioner on forms specified by that office.
      (2)   Applications for minor subdivisions shall contain all required
materials as specified in the Plan Commission Rules of Procedure.
   (D)   Amendment. If the applicant desires to make changes to a minor
subdivision that has received primary approval from the Plat Committee, the
applicant shall follow the same procedure as for the initial approval.
   (E)   Appeal. A final decision of the Plan Committee may be appealed to the
Plan Commission in accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-4-700 et seq. or
other applicable law or statute. In accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-708, any appeal
must be filed in writing within 10 days after the notice of Plat Committee
action is mailed to interested parties.
   (F)   Recording. The approved drawing of the minor plat must be recorded in
the office of the Jackson County Recorder within the time limit established in
§
156.41, or the approval will be null and void.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 156.40 MAJOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Purpose; intent. The purpose of the major subdivision procedure is to
ensure that new development is consistent with the Comprehensive Plan and with
the standards of this chapter, to ensure that new developments will have
adequate streets, utilities and other infrastructure elements, and to ensure
satisfactory completion of all required improvements. Major subdivisions
require a public hearing, and primary and secondary approval in accordance with
the procedures set forth in the Seymour Plan Commission Rules of Procedure.
   (B)   Applicability. Any subdivision that does not meet the requirements to
be considered as an exempt or a minor subdivision shall be subject to the
requirements applicable to major subdivisions.
   (C)   Filing.
      (1)   If the applicant chooses to submit a sketch plan, it shall be filed
with the Department on forms specified by the Department.
      (2)   An application for primary approval of a major subdivision shall be
filed with the Department on forms specified by the Department.
      (3)   Applications for major subdivisions shall contain all required
materials as specified in the Plan Commission Rules of Procedure.
   (D)   Recording. The approval drawing of the major plat must be recorded in
the office of the Jackson County Recorder within the time frame established in
§
156.41, or the approval will be null and void.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 156.41 VALIDITY OF APPROVAL.
   (A)   Time periods. Approvals granted under the terms of this chapter shall
be valid for the time periods indicated on Table 1 below.
TABLE 1
 
Validity of Approval
Type of Approval            Action Required           Deadline for Action
Primary approval of minor   Application for secondary 6 months from the date of
subdivision                 approval                  primary approval
Secondary approval of minor Recording of plat         3 months from date of
subdivision                                           secondary approval
Sketch plan approval for    Application for primary   6 months from date of
major subdivision           approval                  sketch plan approval
Primary approval of major   Application for secondary 18 months from date of
subdivision                 approval                  primary approval
Secondary approval of major Recording of plat         18 months from date of
subdivision                                           secondary approval
 
   (B)   Expiration. In the event that the required action is not taken within
the specified time period, the approval shall be null and void.
   (C)   Extensions. The Board of Works may grant a maximum of three extensions
of time, with each extension not to exceed 18 months, only if the applicant
demonstrates to the of the Board of Works that there are extenuating
circumstances that necessitate or justify the extension. The applicant must
request such extension before the expiration of the approval period.
   (D)   Phasing. The Commission in consultation with the Board of Works may
allow a subdivision to be developed in phases. The applicant shall request
phasing and provide a phasing schedule at the time of filing for primary
approval. The applicant shall demonstrate that each phase has utilities,
drainage, streets, and other improvements meeting the standards of this
chapter. In no case shall the Commission approve a phasing plan in which any
phase is dependent upon improvements proposed to be made in a future phase. If
the Commission approves the development to be completed in phases, secondary
approval of each phase shall automatically extend the deadline for secondary
approval of subsequent phases for an additional 18 months.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006; Am. Ord. 24, 2013, passed 10-28-2013)
§ 156.42 IMPROVEMENTS; FINANCIAL GUARANTEES.
   (A)   Completion of improvements. All improvements required by the
Commission shall be shown on the improvement plans and must be completed within
two years from the date of approval, with the following exceptions:
      (1)   If sidewalks are to be installed as lots are developed, the Board
of Works may approve time extensions for sidewalk completion with the
submission of an appropriate financial guarantee. Each extension shall be for a
maximum of two years, and no more than three such extensions may be granted. In
deciding whether to grant the extension, the Board of Works shall consider the
degree of completion of construction in the subdivision, the effect of the
extension on property owners in the subdivision, and weather or other
conditions affecting construction.
      (2)   The City Engineer may approve a time extension for installing the
final paving course (surface coat) with the submission of an appropriate
financial guarantee. The time extension shall be for a maximum of two years,
and only one such extension may be granted. In deciding whether to grant the
extension, the engineer shall consider the degree of the completion of the
subdivision, the effect of the extension on property owners in the subdivision,
and weather or other conditions affecting the construction. The engineer’s
decision to deny an extension may be appealed to the Board of Works.
      (3)   Other extensions of time may be approved by the Board of Works in
accordance with §
156.41 with the submission of an appropriate financial guarantee if unusual
conditions exist that impede timely completion. In deciding whether to grant
the extension, the Board of Works shall consider the degree of the completion
of the subdivision, the effect of the extension on property owners in the
subdivision, and weather or other conditions affecting the construction.
      (4)   No sewer tap permits or building permits shall be issued in the
newly developed area of the subdivision until the sanitary sewer system in the
subdivision has been satisfactorily completed in accordance with the approved
plans and either:
         (a)   Accepted for perpetual maintenance by the Board of Works; or
         (b)   The Board of Works has approved accepted the developer’s
maintenance bond as posted for the three year maintenance period for the
sanitary sewer improvements.
   (B)   Secondary approval and performance guarantees. A subdivision plat may
be recorded only after secondary approval has been given as specified in this
chapter. Secondary approval shall not be given until one of the following has
been accomplished:
      (1)   The Board of Works has accepted for perpetual maintenance of
required public improvements and all improvements have been satisfactorily
completed in accordance with the approved plans.
      (2)   The applicant has posted financial guarantees in an amount equal to
100% of the cost of the improvements. Engineer’s estimates shall be provided by
the developer that separately estimate the costs of street improvements and
sewer and/or drainage improvements. The form and length of the guarantees must
be acceptable to the City Attorney. If time extensions are granted under
division (A)(3) above, the cost estimate must be reviewed and the amount of the
guarantee increased if necessary.
   (C)   Maintenance guarantees. As a condition of the acceptance of completed
improvements and/or release of financial guarantees posted under the terms of
this section, the subdivider shall post with the Board of Works financial
guarantees ensuring maintenance of the improvements in good repair. These
guarantees shall be in an amount equal to 25% of the estimated cost of all
improvements and shall be in effect for a period of three years.
   (D)   Release of financial guarantees.
      (1)   After completion of all public improvements and prior to the
release of the performance guarantee on the improvements, the subdivider shall
provide drawings showing the actual location of all installed street
improvements, sanitary and storm sewer improvements, water mains, fire
hydrants, improvements, valves and stubs, monuments and markers, drainage
facilities and other installed permanent improvements. This map shall be
certified by a registered engineer or land surveyor. One copy of these plans
shall be submitted to the City Engineer and one copy shall be submitted to the
office of the Building Commissioner.
      (2)   The Board of Works may grant a partial release from a financial
guarantee for portions of the improvements which are complete and accepted by
said Board, provided that the maintenance guarantee as specified in division
(C) above is posted for such portion of the improvements.
      (3)   The financial guarantee shall not be released until the subdivider
has provided acceptable evidence that an entity has been established to
maintain any common facilities, including but not limited to open space,
recreational facilities, pedestrian systems, and drainage facilities.
   (E)   Inspection.
      (1)   Preconstruction. Before beginning any work within the subdivision,
the developer shall meet on the site with the City Engineer.
      (2)   Construction. The appropriate city officials shall inspect and
require that the installation of all improvements take place in accordance with
plans approved by the Commission. The city shall have authority over the
schedule of construction, materials used, methods of construction, and
workmanship to ensure compliance with the approved plans.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006; Am. Ord. 24, 2013, passed 10-28-2013)
DEVELOPMENT AND DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 156.50 MINOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   General requirements. Applications for primary or secondary approval
of minor subdivisions shall be made in accordance with the Commission’s Rules
of Procedure.
   (B)   Lots. The requirements of this section do not apply to parcels that
are designated as common open space or to parcels that are owned by a land
trust or other organization designated to hold and manage open space lands as
described in §
156.51(Q).
      (1)   All lots shall have suitable building sites, properly related to
topography and other natural or man-made features. A suitable building site is
an area not containing wetlands, floodway areas, soils with severe limitations
for foundations, environmental hazards, or other similar conditions that are
adverse to construction, and is large enough to accommodate the principal
structure, on-site sewage disposal system (if applicable), and customary
accessory structures such as garages, decks, and patios.
      (2)   All lots shall have the minimum frontage required by
Chapter 157 on a public street or approved private access easement.
      (3)   Whenever possible, residential lots shall be designed to have
access from subdivision streets, not from streets of higher classification.
Where access must be gained from a street of higher classification, the city
engineer may require that multiple lots be served by a single jointly used
access drive in order to limit the points of traffic conflict on the street.
When such a combined drive is required, the plat shall include an easement
providing for joint use and maintenance.
   (C)   Streets and access.
      (1)   Access. All parcels in the subdivision and adjacent land shall have
adequate ingress and egress without the construction of any new streets or
substantial improvement to existing streets.
         (a)   All lots shall have legal access to a platted private access
easement, an approved private street, or to a public street that has been
accepted for maintenance by, or has been continuously maintained for a period
of ten years immediately preceding the filing of the subdivision, by a pubic
agency regularly having responsibility for such maintenance. Such public street
also shall have a hard surface, suitable for vehicular traffic, that is at
least 20 feet in width, is in good repair, and has a geometry suitable for the
traffic that it will carry after the proposed subdivision.
         (b)   Frontage on limited access streets on which driveways cannot
open shall not constitute legal access.
         (c)   If by reason of topography, natural or man-made features, or
other conditions relating to the property requested for subdivision, better
access can be provided through construction of a new street, the petition shall
be considered as a major subdivision.
         (d)   All lots shall have driveway locations that will provide
adequate sight distance and will be properly spaced according to the standards
of the City Engineer.
      (2)   Land adjacent to the property involved in the subdivision shall
have adequate access according to the criteria contained in this section. New
subdivisions shall not be permitted to landlock or to continue the landlocking
of adjacent property.
      (3)   Access easements shall comply with the following criteria:
         (a)   Easements providing legal access to land shall be at least 50
feet in width.
         (b)   Access easements shall be so located as to be suitable as future
public streets meeting the standards of this chapter.
         (c)   No more than two lots, parcels or tracts shall gain access from
an access easement.
         (d)   When such easements are permitted, the plat shall contain a
notation clearly stating that the easement is private and that the city will
provide no maintenance or services relating to such easement.
   (D)   Water supply.
      (1)    When a public water supply is available within 500 feet of any
point on the boundary of the property to be subdivided, the subdivider shall
extend such system to serve the lots in the minor subdivision. For purposes of
this section, an available system is one with sufficient capacity that can be
utilized via existing rights-of-way or easements.
      (2)   When a public water supply is not available, the Commission may
approve the use of individual wells. Wells and cisterns shall be located and/or
constructed in accordance with the regulations of the ISDH. Any well serving an
individual lot shall be located on such lot.
   (E)   Sewage disposal.
      (1)   When a sanitary sewer system approved by the state is available
within 300 feet of any point on the boundary of the property proposed for
subdivision, the subdivider shall extend such sewer system to serve the lots in
the minor subdivision. Such system shall meet the standards of the state. If
the service provider imposes a higher standard, the higher standard shall
apply. For purposes of this section, an available system is one with sufficient
capacity that can be utilized via existing rights-of-way or easements.
      (2)   When a public sewer system is not available as specified in
division (E)(1) above, private sanitary waste system may be used. Such system
shall be designed and installed in accordance with the regulations of the
Health Department. Any such system serving only an individual lot shall be
entirely located on such lot. Two filter field locations approved by the Health
Department shall be required. The waste disposal system and both filter fields
shall be protected from damage or disturbance during construction.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 156.51 MAJOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   Applications for primary or secondary approval of major
subdivisions shall be made in accordance with the Commission’s Rules of
Procedure.
      (2)   The developer shall complete all improvements and installations
required by this chapter within the time limits established in §
156.42.
      (3)   If the major subdivision is to have a lot owners association that
is responsible for ongoing compliance of the development with this chapter, the
association shall meet the following requirements:
         (a)   Membership shall be automatic for all owners of lots in the
subdivision.
         (b)   The association shall be incorporated.
         (c)   The association shall be organized by the developer and shall be
financed by the developer until a sufficient number of lots have been sold to
enable the association to be financially solvent without a subsidy from the
developer.
      (4)   Major subdivisions may be accompanied by covenants. When necessary
to ensure compliance with a provision of this chapter or a condition of
subdivision approval imposed by the Commission, the Commission may require that
the city be a party to or have enforcement authority over specified covenants
or restrictions. The covenants must be filed in the office of the Jackson
County Recorder.
      (5)   All materials and construction procedures required by this chapter
shall conform to the most recent editions of The Indiana Department of
Transportation Standard (INDOT) Specifications; and the following AASHTO
publications: Road Design Manual, Bridge Design Manual, A Policy on Geometric
Design of Highways and Streets.
   (B)   Lots.
      (1)   All lots shall have satisfactory building sites properly related to
topography and other features.
      (2)   All lots shall be capable of containing driveways having sight
distance that complies with the standards set forth in
Chapter 157.
      (3)   Lot sizes and dimensions shall comply with the minimum standards of
Chapter 157.
      (4)   Each lot shall have the full required frontage on a public or
private street. To the fullest extent practical, residential lots shall front
on residential subdivision streets in such a manner as to provide neighborhood
cohesiveness. Lots laid out in lines along and with direct access to arterial,
or collector shall not be permitted.
      (5)   Residential double-frontage lots shall be permitted only where
necessary to provide separation of residential development from street traffic
or due to conditions peculiar to the property. Non-residential double-frontage
lots are acceptable; however, the Commission shall require a landscape buffer
along any frontage that constitutes a rear or side yard. Such buffer shall
comply with the standard in
Chapter 157.
      (6)   Corner lots shall be of sufficient size to allow for two front
yards, as required by
Chapter 157.
      (7)   Residential lots shall be designed to have access from subdivision
streets, not from streets of higher classification. Where no alternative exists
to access from a street other than a subdivision or marginal access street, the
Commission may require that multiple lots be served by a single jointly used
access drive in order to limit the points of traffic conflict on the street.
When such a combined drive is required, the plat shall include an easement
providing for joint use and maintenance.
      (8)   The depth to width ratio of any single-family residential lot shall
not be greater than 3:1 unless the Commission finds that such lot configuration
is needed to provide for wise use of the land.
      (9)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, side lines of lots
shall be at approximately right angles to straight streets and on radial lines
on curved streets.
      (10)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, irregular lot shapes
are not permitted.
   (C)   Blocks.
      (1)   Blocks shall have sufficient width to provide for two tiers of lots
of appropriate depth. The Commission may waive this requirement if the block is
adjacent to a major street or railroad or if topography or other natural
features preclude this arrangement.
      (2)   The lengths, widths, and shapes of blocks shall be appropriate for
the location and the type of development permitted. Block lengths in
residential areas shall not exceed 1,000 feet nor be less than 300 feet in
length. Cul-de-sacs shall not exceed 600 feet in length. For purposes of this
section, a series of cul-de-sacs with only one point of access shall be
considered to be a single cul-de-sac.
   (D)   Driveways.
      (1)   Driveway separations shall be provided in accordance with Table 1
below.
      (2)   Driveway locations shall have sight distances consistent with the
requirements of Table 1 below.
TABLE 1
Minimum Driveway Separation Distance
            Residential      Nonresidential or
Street Type Drive            Multi-Family Drive
            (1- or 2-Family)
Arterial    200 feet1        200 feet
Collector   150 feet1        150 feet
Local       100 feet2        100 feet
Subdivision 1 per lot3       100 feet
1   It is the intent of this chapter that residential driveways should not open
onto arterial or collector streets and should be avoided on local streets.
Where such driveways are necessary, the number of access points shall be kept
to a minimum, and in such cases, accesses should be combined whenever possible.
2   In zoning districts where the minimum footage is less than 100 feet and
driveways must open onto local streets, the maximum number of driveways shall
be one per lot. Driveways shall be combined wherever possible to achieve the
100-foot separation wherever possible.
3   A circular driveway with two points of entry on a single lot is permitted
provided the sight distance standards set forth in
Chapter 157 are met.
   (E)   Streets.
      (1)   The Commission shall not approve any major subdivision unless the
area to be subdivided has access to an existing public or approved private
street. Such access shall be wide enough to permit the construction of new
intersecting streets meeting the minimum standards of this chapter. If the
Commission finds that existing streets that will provide access to the
subdivision are not adequate to provide safe ingress and egress for the
increased traffic resulting from the subdivision, the Commission shall deny the
subdivision. Streets that by reason of pavement condition, topography, sight
distance, width, or other conditions are not suitable for the increased traffic
shall be considered inadequate, and subdivision shall be permitted only if the
developer formulates methods acceptable to the Commission of mitigating the
unsuitable conditions.
      (2)   The owners of property to be subdivided on existing streets shall
dedicate to the city or county any additional right-of-way needed to comply
with the minimum right-of-way widths for those streets as indicated in the
Thoroughfare Plan. Where topography or design features necessitate additional
right-of-way or easements to permit construction of a street to the established
pavement width for such street, the Commission shall require the owner to
dedicate to the city such additional right-of-way or provide such easement.
      (3)   The subdivision plat shall indicate proposed street names. Street
names shall not duplicate existing street names, and may not be confusing to
emergency personnel or others needing to locate addresses.
      (4)   Streets shall be laid out with due regard to topography, soil
conditions, natural features, function, clarity of movement, and economy of
street length. All streets shall be properly integrated with existing and
proposed streets.
      (5)   New streets shall be extended to the boundary lines of the tract to
be subdivided, unless topography or other physical conditions preclude such
extension. Whenever practicable, the Commission shall require that streets be
designed to provide connections to existing and future subdivisions.
      (6)   Subdivision streets shall be designed to discourage use by through
traffic. Traffic calming measures shall be utilized within subdivisions. Such
measures include but are not limited to traffic circles, frequent
intersections, traffic control signs and markings, and medians.
      (7)   Permanent dead-end streets shall not be permitted. Stub streets
shall be permitted only when such streets are to be extended as part of street
pattern approved by the Commission. Where temporary dead-end streets extend
along more than one lot, a temporary turn-around with a minimum radius of 50
feet and a minimum six-inch stone surface shall be provided.
      (8)   Half-streets shall not be permitted.
      (9)   Private streets shall meet the same standards and specifications as
public streets.
      (10)   The Commission shall not approve any subdivision street
intersecting with a state highway unless the developer provides written
approval from INDOT for such intersection.
      (11)   The minimum right-of-way and pavement widths for streets shall be
in accordance with the Thoroughfare Plan.
         (a)   Within the city limits, the determination of the particular
typical roadway cross section shall be made in coordination with the Plan
Commission, the Board of Public Works and Safety and the developer prior to
submittal of the preliminary plat. When the Thoroughfare Plan indicates rights-
of-way in excess of 60 feet in width with roadways in excess of 33 feet in
width, including curb and gutter, the applicant may request in advance of the
Plan Commission hearing that the Board of Public Works and Safety on behalf of
the City of Seymour agree that the cost of the excess roadway (but not the cost
of the excess right-of-way) shall be borne by the City of Seymour.
         (b)   Outside the city limits but within the extraterritorial
jurisdiction, where primary, arterial and collector streets are located within
subdivision the subdivider shall construct such street pavement in accordance
with the requirements in the Jackson County Subdivision Control Ordinance.
Where arterial or collector streets are shown within or abutting the
subdivision, the applicant may request the Board of County Commissioners County
to participate with the subdivider in the cost of street construction.
      (12)   The center lines of streets shall intersect as nearly at right
angles as possible, but in no case at an angle less than 70 degrees.
      (13)   At intersections of streets and alleys or at intersections of
streets, property line corners shall be rounded by arcs of at least 20-foot
radii or by chords of such arcs.
      (14)   Intersections of more than two streets are not permitted.
      (15)   Horizontal visibility on curved streets and vertical visibility on
all streets shall comply with Table 2 below.
TABLE 2
 
MINIMUM VISIBILITY STANDARDS
Street Classification Design Speed Passing Sight Distance Stopping Sight
                      (m.p.h.)     (ft.)                  Distance (ft.)
Arterial              50           1,800                  425
Collector             40           1,500                  300
Local                 30           1,100                  200
 
      (16)   Curvature measured along the centerline shall comply with Table 3
below.
TABLE 3
 
MAXIMUM CURVATURE
Street         Design Speed Maximum Degree of Maximum Rate of Maximum Radius
Classification (m.p.h.)     Curve             Superelevation  (ft.)
                                              (ft./ft.)
Arterial       50           6.00              0.04            955
Collector      40           10                0.04            573
Local          30           19                0.04            302
 
      (17)   The tangent distance between reversed curves and the maximum
grades shall comply with Table 4 below.
TABLE 4
 
TANGENT DISTANCES, MAXIMUM GRADES
Street         Design Speed                   Minimum Tangent Maximum Radii
Classification (m.p.h.)     Maximum Grade (%) Between Reverse Ratio for
                                              Curves          Compound Curve
Arterial       50           6                 200             1.5:1
Collector      40           7                 170             2:1
Local          30           8                 135             2:1
 
      (18)   Minimum sight distances for vehicles from access points on
driveways or at intersections onto adjacent roads shall be as shown on Table 5.
TABLE 5
 
INTERSECTION SIGHT DISTANCES
20 m.p.h. 30 m.p.h. 40 m.p.h.         50 m.p.h.         60 m.p.h.
2-lane    2-lane    2-lane  4 or more 2-lane  4 or more 2-lane  4 or more
300 ft.   300 ft.   350 ft. 390 ft.   520 ft. 550 ft.   700 ft. 750 ft.
 
      (19)   Streets shall be constructed in accordance with the standards of
this section.
         (a)   Streets and alleys shall be completed to grades shown on plans,
profiles and cross-sections prepared by the subdivider and approved by the
Commission.
         (b)   The streets shall be graded, surfaced and improved to the
dimensions required by the cross-sections and the work shall be performed in
the manner prescribed by current INDOT standard specifications.
         (c)   Street pavement shall comply with Table 6 below.
TABLE 6
 
PAVEMENT REQUIREMENTS
                      Rigid Pavement     Flexible
Street Classification Thickness (inches) Pavement Thickness  Base Thickness
                                         (inches)            (inches)
Arterial1             See note
Collector             10                 4                   10
Local or Alley        8                  3                   8
1 Pavement thickness shall comply with INDOT standards.
 
         (d)   For streets where the groundwater level is within five feet of
the pavement surface, the subdivider shall install underdrains.
      (20)   Alleys are permitted for loading, unloading, and secondary access
to property. The minimum alley width is 20 feet.
   (F)   Curbs and gutters.
      (1)   The developer shall install curbs and gutters in all subdivisions
within the city, in all subdivisions within the extraterritorial jurisdiction
having a gross density higher than two lots per gross acre, and in all
subdivisions having streets that are extensions of streets having curb and
gutter.
      (2)   The curbs and gutters may be of the following types:
         (a)   Roll type and curb and gutter;
         (b)   Six-inch vertical curb and gutter.
      (3)   Curb and gutter shall conform to the Indiana Department of
Transportation Standard Specifications, or equivalent standards as determined
by the City Engineer.
      (4)   The minimum grade of any gutter shall be .3%.
   (G)   Other installations. The subdivider shall be responsible for
installing street name signs, traffic control devices, subdivision
identification signs, and any other similar features shown on the subdivision
plat.
   (H)   Landscaping. When a subdivision is designed so that rear lot lines
abut a street, a landscape screen shall be provided along such street frontage.
A landscape easement, at least ten feet in width shall be included on the plat.
   (I)   Easements.
      (1)   Each subdivision shall include appropriate easements for drainage
and utilities. When located along streets, such easements shall have a minimum
width of ten feet. When located along side or rear property lines or interior
to any lot, such easements shall have a minimum width of 16 feet or eight feet
on each side of the lot line. The Commission shall require larger easements
when necessary for carrying out the purposes of this chapter.
      (2)   Easements shall have multiple functions wherever possible.
      (3)   Easements shall provide reasonable continuity from block to block.
      (4)   The Commission shall require easements for the maintenance of dams
or other features when such easements are necessary to provide access for
personnel and/or equipment to perform such maintenance.
   (J)   Intersections.
      (1)   Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly as possible
at right angles. In no case shall two new streets intersect at an angle less
than 70 degrees. An oblique street shall be curved approaching an intersection
and shall be approximately at right angles for at least 100 feet therefrom. No
more than two streets (four approaches) shall intersect at any one point.
      (2)   Proposed new intersections with an existing street shall, wherever
practicable, coincide with any existing intersections on the other side of such
street. Centerline offsets of less than 150 feet shall not be permitted, except
where the intersected street has separated dual drive lanes with no median
breaks at either intersection. Where new streets intersect collector or
arterial streets, their alignment shall be continuous.
      (3)   Intersections shall be designed with a flat grade wherever
practical. For intersections in areas with steep slopes, the developer shall
provide a leveling area having a rate no greater than 2% at a distance of 60
feet, measured from the nearest right-of-way line of the intersecting street.
      (4)   Intersections shall be separated in accordance with Table 7 below.
TABLE 7
MINIMUM INTERSECTION DESIGN STANDARDS
Design Criterion          Standard
Maximum Approach Speed    25 m.p.h.
Minimum Curb Radius
Subdivision - Subdivision 25 feet
Local - Subdivision       25 feet
Local - Local             25 feet
Local - Collector         30 feet
Collector - Collector     40 feet
Minimum Centerline Offset
Subdivision - Subdivision 100 feet
Local - Subdivision       150 feet
Local - Local             200 feet
Local - Collector         250 feet
Collector - Collector     400 feet
Collector - Arterial      600 feet
 
   (K)   Drainage and stormwater.
      (1)   Natural drainage patterns and natural stream channels shall be
maintained wherever possible. Stream channels subject to the jurisdiction of
IDNR shall not be altered without IDNR approval.
      (2)   The subdivider shall design and construct a drainage system to
handle surface water from the entire subdivision and the drainage area of which
it is a part. The system shall meet the minimum standards contained in this
section.
      (3)   The subdivider shall prepare a drainage report addressing the
existing and proposed drainage conditions and shall evaluate the ability of the
proposed watercourse, channels, drainage tiles, farm tiles, storm sewers,
culverts, and other improvements to handle the runoff. A registered
professional engineer or land surveyor shall prepare this report, which shall
contain the following:
         (a)   Estimates of the water entering the subdivision. Estimates shall
assume that the upper watershed will be fully developed according to the
current zoning ordinance (
Chapter 157).
         (b)   Conditions of the watershed that may affect runoff, such as
subsoil type, positive drainage channels, or obstructions.
         (c)   Quantities of flow at each pickup point or culvert.
         (d)   Description of major and minor drainage systems. The minor
system will usually consist of but not be limited to storm sewers, drainage
ditches, drainage swales, storm inlets or infiltration structures. The minor
system shall be designed to handle a ten-year storm. The major system will
usually consist of but not be limited to roadways, culverts, bridges, or
overflow drainage ways. The major system shall be designed to handle a 50-year
storm.
         (e)   The location of existing subsurface drainage tiles and a plan to
preserve or relocate the tiles.
         (f)   Proposed facilities which may include holding lagoons,
stormwater ponds, or infiltration facilities shall be prepared by a registered
professional engineer and shall include data coordinating field tests with
design assumptions and estimates of expected annual maintenance costs.
      (4)   The storm drainage system shall be separate and independent of any
sanitary sewer system. The storm water drainage system shall be designed by the
rational method or other method approved by the City Engineer, and a copy of
the design computations shall be submitted with the plans. Inlets shall be
provided so that surface water is not carried across or around any
intersection, or for a distance of more than 600 feet in a gutter, or when the
encroachment of stormwater into the street disrupts traffic. When calculations
indicate that the curb capacities are exceeded at a point, no further allowance
shall be made for flow beyond that point, and catch basins or inlets shall be
used to intercept flow at that point. Surface water drainage patterns shall be
shown for each lot and block.
      (5)   Drainage systems shall be designed so that there is no increase in
the rate of runoff leaving the property in the subdivision after development.
The City Engineer shall review the proposed drainage facilities and provide the
Commission an evaluation as to whether the system is of sufficient size, based
upon the provisions of the required construction standards and specifications,
assuming conditions of maximum potential watershed development permitted by the
zoning ordinance (
Chapter 157).
      (6)   The applicant shall provide information regarding the effect of
each proposed subdivision on existing drainage facilities outside the
subdivision. Where it is anticipated that the additional runoff related to the
development of the subdivision will overload an existing downstream drainage
facility, the Commission shall not approve the subdivision until provision has
been made for mitigating the drainage problem.
      (7)   The Commission may approve for subdivision areas that are not in
designated floodway or floodway fringe areas but contain soils that are subject
to flooding only if the subdivider fills the affected areas to an elevation
sufficient to place building sites and streets two feet above ponding levels.
      (8)   Each block shall be adequately drained, whether through the streets
or by use of a ditch, culvert, or other approved method.
      (9)   All roads abutting or included within property to be subdivided
shall be provided with drainage systems in accordance with the standards
contained in this chapter.
      (10)   Any disturbed or graded area shall be protected from erosion.
      (11)   The Commission may require retention ponds to regulate the flow at
the outfall. If retention ponds are required, they shall meet the following
criteria:
         (a)   The maximum volume of water stored and subsequently released at
the design release rate by a proposed detention facility shall not result in a
storage duration in excess of 48 hours from the start of the storm unless
additional storms occur within the period.
         (b)   Emergency overflow facilities such as a weir or spillway shall
be provided for the release of exceptional storm runoff or in emergency
conditions should the normal discharge devices become totally or partially
inoperative. The overflow facility shall be of such design that its operation
is automatic and does not require manual attention.
         (c)   Proposed facilities designed with permanent pools shall have a
water area of at least one-half acre. If fish are to be used to keep the pond
clean, a minimum depth of approximately ten feet shall be maintained over at
least 25% of the pond area. The remaining lake area shall have no extensive
shallow areas, except as required by subsections below.
         (d)   Provisions shall be incorporated into facilities for complete
interior drainage of dry bottom facilities, including the provisions of natural
grades to outlet structures, longitudinal and transverse grades to perimeter
drainage facility, paved/stone gutters, or the installation of subsurface
drains.
         (e)   The side slopes of all detention basins shall be as level as
practicable to prevent accidental falls into the basin and for stability and
ease of maintenance. Side slopes of all detention basins and open channels
shall not be steeper than 3:1.
         (f)   A safety ledge six feet in width is required and shall be
installed in all lakes approximately 30 to 36 inches below the permanent water
level. In addition, a similar maintenance ledge six feet in width and 12 to 18
inches above the permanent water line shall be provided. The slope between the
two ledges shall be stable and of a material such as stone or riprap which will
prevent erosion due to wave action.
         (g)   Danger signs shall be mounted at appropriate locations to warn
of deep water, possible flood conditions during storm periods and other dangers
that may exist. The location, installation, and maintenance of these signs
shall be the responsibility of the land developer/owner unless responsibility
is formally accepted by a public body.
         (h)   The Plan Commission may, upon recommendation of the City
Engineer, require the developer to provide fencing if and of the following
conditions are present:
            1.   The proposed facility cannot achieve the slope requirements as
specified in item division (K)(11)(d) above or the safety ledge requirements
specified in division (K)(11)(d) above due to restrictions in the depth of the
existing outfall.
            2.   Adverse conditions are present (such as significant velocities
or depths.
            3.   The pond would be installed in a location that poses a safety
risk to children, elderly or disabled persons. This provision is not intended
as a blanket requirement to install fences around all detention ponds in
traditional subdivisions.
         (i)   If safety/security fencing is required, the fence shall be a
minimum of six feet high and constructed of a chain link material or an
approved equivalent. The fence shall be designed so as to allow access for
maintenance and so as not to restrict stormwater flow into or out of the
detention/retention basin.
         (j)   Maintenance of detention/retention facilities during
construction and thereafter, shall be the responsibility of the land developer/
owner. Assignment of responsibility for maintaining facilities serving one or
more lot(s) or holding(s) shall be documented by appropriate covenants to
property deeds and documented in sales agreements, unless responsibility is
formally accepted by a public body.
         (k)   Provision shall be made to guarantee periodic maintenance to
control weed and larval growth. Additionally, appropriate native aquatic
vegetation shall be planted around the perimeter of the wet basin and the side
slopes of the wet basin. The facility shall also be designed to provide for the
easy removal of sediment that will accumulate during periods of reservoir
operation. A means of maintaining the designed water level of the lake during
prolonged periods of dry weather may also be required.
      (12)   Off-road drainage shall be extended to a watercourse or ditch of
adequate size to receive the stormwater.
      (13)   Connection to a state drainage system is allowed only with written
approval from INDOT. Connection to a county regulated drain is allowed only
with written approval in accordance with the Indiana Code requirements for such
drains. Connection to a county road ditch is allowed only with written approval
from the county engineer.
      (14)   The Commission shall not approve any subdivision for which there
is not adequate provision for maintenance of drainage systems. Such provision
may include but is not limited to acceptance of the system by the Board of
Public Works and Safety or County Commissioners or establishment of a lot
owners association with responsibility to set and collect fees for drainage
system maintenance. Roadside ditches shall not be filled without written
approval of the City Engineer.
   (L)   Water supply.
      (1)   Where a public water system is available within 500 feet of any
point on the boundary of the proposed subdivision, the developer shall install
a public water system to serve the project. The system shall comply with the
Great Lakes Upper Mississippi River Board of State Public Health and
Environmental Managers Recommended Standards for Water Works. If the service
provider requires a higher standard, the subdivider shall comply with such
standard. Such system shall include fire hydrants and water lines of adequate
capacity to serve such hydrants.
      (2)   The subdivider shall install fire hydrants with a maximum spacing
of 500 feet from any residence and a maximum separation of 1,000 feet
throughout the subdivision.
      (3)   The location of all fire hydrants and all water supply improvements
shall be shown on the improvement plans, and all such improvements shall be
installed at the cost of the developer.
   (M)   Sewage disposal.
      (1)   When a sanitary sewer system approved by the state is available
within 300 feet of any point on the boundary of the property proposed for
subdivision, the developer shall extend such sewer system to serve the entire
subdivision. Such system shall meet the standards of the State. If the service
provider imposes a higher standard, the higher standard shall apply. For
purposes of this section, an available system is one with sufficient capacity
that can be utilized via existing rights-of-way or easements and employing
gravity flow or lift stations.
      (2)   The location of all sewer system improvements shall be shown on the
improvement plans, and all such improvements shall be installed at the cost of
the developer.
      (3)   When a sanitary sewer system is not available as specified in
division (M)(1) above, the Commission may approve the use of private sanitary
waste disposal systems. Such system shall be designed and installed in
accordance with the regulations of the ISDH. Any septic system serving only an
individual lot shall be entirely located on such lot. Two filter field
locations approved by the Health Department shall be required. The septic
system and both filter fields shall be protected from damage or disturbance
during construction.
      (4)   Developers proposing to use private sanitary waste disposal systems
shall provide a map showing the soil types within the subdivision.
      (5)   Alternative systems such as drip systems and constructed wetlands
are permitted with proper approval from ISDH and are permitted only where an
approved public sanitary sewer system is not available. Mixed systems are not
permitted. When alternative systems are used, the developer shall include in
the covenants a requirement that the lot owners association maintain the
system. Such covenant shall be substantially similar to that contained in
division (A)(4) above.
      (6)   The Commission shall approve a cluster or package system only in
cases where no other sanitary sewer system is available and only after making a
specific finding that a management arrangement is in place to ensure the
continued effective operation and maintenance of the system. The developer
shall provide to the Commission the following:
         (a)   Assurance that fees will be collected sufficient to cover the
cost of operating and maintaining the system.
         (b)   Assurance that a person or firm of suitable qualifications will
be employed to ensure continued proper operation of they system.
         (c)   Assurance that there will be continuous operation of the system
in the event of a power outage or natural disaster.
         (d)   Assurance that all inspections and reports required by the ISDH
or IDEM will be completed and that copies of all such reports will be provided
to the staff.
         (e)   Provisions authorizing the city to collect fees and levy fines
against the property owners singly and collectively in the event that the
management arrangement is not strictly adhered to.
   (N)   Pedestrian system.
      (1)   For any subdivision with a density of three lots per acre or
higher, the developer shall provide sidewalks on both sides of all new
subdivision streets.
      (2)   When proposed subdivisions, as provided in division (N)(1) above,
abut existing streets that do not have sidewalks, the developer shall install
such sidewalks. If the property to be subdivided abuts only one side of the
existing street, the developer shall be responsible for sidewalks only on that
side.
      (3)   Sidewalks shall be separated from the curb by a grassed or
landscaped area at least two and one-half feet in width.
      (4)   The sidewalks shall be constructed of Portland cement concrete
pavement with a minimum depth of four inches and shall be in accordance with
the requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act and the Indiana
Accessibility Code.
      (5)   Sidewalks shall have a minimum width of five feet.
      (6)   The Commission may permit alternative locations for sidewalks where
such alternative design is justified because of topography, to preserve
existing trees, or other similar conditions.
   (O)   Monuments and markers.
      (1)   Monuments and markers shall be placed so that the scored or marked
point shall coincide exactly with the intersection of lines to be marked, and
shall be set so that the top of the monument or marker is level with the
surface of the surrounding ground. The developer shall install monuments and
markers as required by this section.
         (a)   Monuments shall be set at the following locations:
            1.   At the intersections of all lines forming angles in the
boundary of the subdivision;
            2.   At the intersection of street property lines.
         (b)   Markers shall be set at the following locations:
            1.   At the beginning and ending of all curves along street
property lines;
            2.   At all points where lot lines intersect curves, either front
or rear;
            3.   At all angles in property lines of lots;
            4.   At all other lot corners.
      (2)   Monuments shall be of concrete or stone with a minimum size of four
inches by 36 inches, and shall be marked on top with an iron or copper dowel
set flush with the top of the monument.
      (3)   Markers shall consist of iron pipes or steel bars at least 36
inches long and not less than five-eighths inch in diameter.
      (4)   The locations and types of monuments and markers shall be shown on
the improvement plans. Such monuments and markers shall be maintained in the
required locations during the development of the subdivision. Financial
guarantees for such monuments and markers shall not be released until all other
subdivision improvements have been completed and accepted by the City or County
and shall be released only if the monuments and markers are in place at that
time.
   (P)   Construction practices.
      (1)   All lots and other land included within a subdivision shall be
graded in accordance with the approved construction plans. Except for land
covered by buildings, included in streets, or where the grade has not been
changed and natural vegetation not seriously disturbed, the land shall be
covered with topsoil having an average finish depth of at least four inches. If
the existing topsoil does not meet this depth requirement, the developer shall
add a sufficient amount of topsoil to meet that standard. Topsoil shall not be
removed from residential lots nor used as spoil but shall be redistributed so
as to provide at least four inches of cover between sidewalks and curbs and
between shoulders and right-of-way lines and shall be stabilized by seeding or
planting.
      (2)   Seeding and planting shall be completed in accordance with standard
nursery practices.
      (3)   When necessary to protect existing development, the Commission
shall designate a construction entrance for the new subdivision. Construction
signs and barricades shall comply with the Indiana Department of Transportation
Standard Specifications.
      (4)   The developer shall employ best management practices as identified
by the IDNR Rule 5 and shall adhere to the erosion control plan during
construction and shall protect installations within the subdivision, such as
catch basins and other drainage structures, from damage during construction.
   (Q)   Maintenance and ownership of common facilities and open space.
      (1)   Any common facilities or open space areas designated in
subdivisions shall remain undivided. Ownership of open space may be by an
undivided interest of each lot owner, by the lot owners association, or by a
recognized land trust or conservancy, such as but not limited to the Nature
Conservancy or the Trust for Public Land. If ownership is by a lot owners
association, a conservation or open space easement in favor of the city or an
established land trust or conservancy shall be established. Open space or
recreation areas may be dedicated to the city only if the affected city agency
agrees to accept such dedication. Common recreational facilities such as a
clubhouse, swimming pool, or tennis courts shall be owned by the lot owners
association.
      (2)   Any lot owners association that will have ownership of common
facilities or open space shall meet the following criteria:
         (a)   The association shall be responsible for insurance and taxes on
the facilities or open space. The association shall have the authority to place
liens on the property of any of its members who fail to pay their association
dues in a timely manner.
         (b)   The association shall have adequate staff to manage the common
facilities, maintain its property in good condition, and handle the financial
and business affairs of the association.
         (c)   The association shall prepare an annual report and provide a
copy of the report together with a list of association officers to the
Department.
      (3)   Any land trust owning such property shall be an incorporated non-
profit organization having as a primary purpose the conservation of open space,
natural areas, and/or agricultural land.
   (R)   Survey and plat preparation standards.
      (1)   All surveys shall be conducted and plats prepared in accordance
with Rule 12 of the Indiana Administrative Code and any amendments thereto. In
the event of any difference between those standards and this chapter, the
stricter requirement shall apply.
      (2)   All plats shall be neat, legible, reproducible, and reducible.
      (3)   All plats shall contain a legend using standard symbols.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
CONSERVATION SUBDIVISIONS
§ 156.60 PURPOSE; INTENT.
   Conservation subdivisions are permitted for the purpose of encouraging
provision of open space and recreational areas, to promote creative, attractive
subdivision design, and to conserve land.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 156.61 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   At least 30% of the land in a conservation subdivision shall be
designated as permanent open space.
   (B)   No more than 10% of the open space may be used for playgrounds, court
games (such as tennis, basketball, or volleyball), or similar activities.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 156.62 CRITERIA.
   Subdivisions containing open space and/or amenities meeting the criteria of
this section shall be entitled to density bonuses. Open space and amenities may
be combined to achieve the percentage required for the density bonus.
   (A)   Open space.
      (1)   Land designated as permanent open space shall be protected from
further subdivision and from development inconsistent with the approved plan
through an open space easement held by the city or by an easement to or
ownership of the open space by an approved land trust or conservancy.
      (2)   No more than 50% of the open space may consist of the following:
         (a)   Wetlands;
         (b)   Floodplains;
         (c)   Land with slopes of more than 16%.
      (3)   At least 25% of the required open space shall be suitable for
active recreation purposes. The plan shall indicate the purposes for which the
open space is suitable.
      (4)   The required open space may be used for drainage, including
underground fields, ponds, and basins; for agriculture or community gardens;
for bird or wildlife sanctuaries, for natural woodlands, or for approved sewage
systems consistent with the purposes of maintaining open space areas. Mound
systems and aerated sewage treatment ponds shall not occupy more than 10% of
the required open space. The Commission may approve other open space uses
consistent with the intent and purposes of this chapter.
      (5)   Open space lands shall be located in a manner consistent with the
purposes of such open space. Lands designated for active recreation shall be in
a location convenient to the residents of the subdivision. Lots should abut
open space areas to the maximum extent possible. Safe and convenient pedestrian
access shall be provided to open space areas from all lots not abutting the
open space.
      (6)   If open space meeting the standards of this section is provided,
the Commission shall allow density bonuses. The amount of increased density
shall be in accordance with the table in §
157.070(A)(2).
   (B)   Amenities. Amenities qualifying for density bonuses include the
following:
      (1)   Golf course;
      (2)   Lake or pond at least five acres in area;
      (3)   Fields designed and equipped for athletic contests such as football
or soccer;
      (4)   Stables and bridle trails;
      (5)   Bird or wildlife sanctuaries;
      (6)   Other amenities the Commission deems equivalent to those listed
above.
   (C)   Development criteria. The Commission shall approve a conservation
subdivision with a density greater than permitted in a conventional subdivision
only if the following criteria are met:
      (1)   Environmentally sensitive areas including but not limited to
floodplains, wetlands, and slopes greater than 16% shall be protected from
clearing, grading, or filling. Construction shall be permitted only to the
extent necessary for providing recreational opportunities or for maintaining
the open space.
      (2)   Woodlands and healthy mature trees shall be preserved to the
maximum extent possible. This preservation and protection shall include the
root system of the tree.
      (3)   Appropriate buffers be installed and maintained between the
subdivision and neighboring land uses, including buffering from adjacent
agricultural operations. These buffers are intended to reduce conflicts between
adjacent uses, such as but not limited to, subdivision residents and/or pets
trespassing on farmland or other adjacent use, noise, vibration, dust, glare,
odor, and/or effects of herbicides or pesticides.
      (4)   Scenic views or vistas shall be provided to the open space or
amenities from the houses or from public streets.
      (5)   The natural topography shall be preserved to the maximum extent
possible and practical.
      (6)   Habitats of desirable wildlife, particularly endangered species,
shall be preserved.
      (7)   Sites of historical or archeological significance shall be
preserved. These sites include any property included on the National Registry
of Historic Places, any sites declared by a state, city or county historical
society to be of historic significance, and any site determined by the state
archeologist to be of archeological significance.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 156.63 OTHER BONUSES.
   For conservation subdivisions, the Plan Commission may waive or alter such
requirements of this chapter as necessary to achieve the purposes of this
section. In granting such waivers, the Commission must make a specific finding
for each waiver that describes how the waiver contributes to achieving the
goals of the Comprehensive Plan and of this section. Such waivers include but
are not limited to the following:
   (A)   Pavement width for subdivision streets may be reduced to 24 feet if
provisions are made for convenient alternatives to on-street parallel parking.
   (B)   Lot shapes may be varied upon a showing that the variation is integral
to the conservation purposes of this section.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
ENFORCEMENT; PENALTIES
§ 156.70 COMPLAINT.
   Whenever a violation of this chapter occurs or is alleged to have occurred,
any person may file a written complaint. Such complaint stating fully the
causes and basis thereof shall be filed with the staff. The staff shall
properly record such complaint and immediately investigate. If acts elicited by
such investigation are sufficient to establish a reasonable belief that a
violation has occurred on the part of the party investigated, such official
shall issue a citation in accordance with this section and/or file with the
City Attorney a complaint against such person requesting action thereon as
provided by this chapter and in accordance with law.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 156.71 NUISANCE DECLARED.
   Any buildings erected, raised or converted, or land or premises used in
violation of any section of this chapter or regulation thereof is hereby
declared to be a common nuisance and the owner thereof shall be liable for
maintaining a common nuisance, which may be restrained or enjoined or abated in
any appropriate action or proceeding.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 156.72 INJUNCTION.
   The Commission or any designated administrative official may institute a
suit or injunction in the Circuit or Superior Court of Jackson County to
restrain any person from violating the sections of this chapter. The Commission
may institute a suit for mandatory injunction directing a person to remove a
structure erected in violation of the sections of this chapter or to make the
same comply with its terms. If such Commission is successful in its suit, the
respondent shall bear the costs of the action including reasonable attorney’s
fees.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 156.73 OTHER REMEDIES.
   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city from taking such other
lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 156.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any section of this chapter or regulation thereof or
fails to comply with any of its requirements, including violations of
conditions and safeguards established in connection with this chapter, shall be
guilty of an ordinance violation and upon conviction, shall be fined in a sum
not less than $25 nor more than $500 for each day’s violation, plus court costs
and attorney fees. The owner of any premises or part thereof, and any
architect, builder, contractor, realtor, agent or other person who commits,
participates in, assists in or maintains such violation may each be found
guilty of a separate offense and suffer the penalties herein provided.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
APPENDIX A: CERTIFICATES AND NOTATIONS
 
   1.   Surveyor Certificate. The following certificate shall appear on all
plats:
I,  (name) , hereby certify that I am a professional land surveyor, licensed in
compliance with the laws of the State of Indiana; that, to the best of my
knowledge, this plat correctly represents a survey completed by me, or under my
direct supervision, on  (date) ; that any changes from the description
appearing on the last record transfer of the land contained in the final plat
are so indicated; that all monuments shown thereon actually exist or will be
installed (before the release of the financial guarantees) and their position
is correctly shown, and, that all dimensional and geodetic data are correct.
                                                      
      (Signature)            (Date)
   2.   Owner Certificate. The applicable portions of this certificate shall
appear on all plats.
We, the undersigned  (names) , owners of the real estate shown and described
herein, do hereby certify that we plat and subdivide said real estate in
accordance with this plat.
The subdivision shall be known as designated as                               
consisting of            lots and               blocks and containing
               acres.
All rights-of-way and public lands shown and not heretofore dedicated or deeded
to the public are hereby reserved for public use.
Clear title to the land contained in this plat is guaranteed. Any encumbrances
and special assessments are explained as follows:
The setback lines shall be determined by the regulations of the Seymour,
Indiana Zoning Ordinance of current adoption.
There are strips of ground shown on this plat and marked easement, reserved for
the use of public utilities and subject to the paramount right of the utility
or city to install, repair, maintain or replace its installation.
All drainage easements identified on the plat are specifically authorized to be
used for drainage purposes. All grades shall be maintained as constructed.
Additional cut and fill work within drainage easement areas is prohibited
unless authorized by the Seymour Plan Commission.
WITNESS OUR HANDS AND SEALS this       day of               , 20    .
Before me, the undersigned Notary Public, in and for the County and State,
personally appeared                             and each separately and
severally acknowledged the execution of the foregoing instrument as his or her
voluntary act and deed, for the purposes therein expressed.
Witness my hand and Notarial Seal this       day of
                           , 20    .
                                               
      Notary Public      (Seal)
   3.   Primary Approval Certificate. Plan Commission Primary Approval
Certificate (for all plats which are approved by the full Plan Commission).
   PRIMARY APPROVAL
Under authority provided by I.C. 36-7-4-700, Subdivision Control, and any
amendments thereto, this plat was given PRIMARY APPROVAL by Seymour, Indiana as
follows:
   Approved by the City Plan Commission at a meeting held
                               , 20     .
                                               
      President
                                               
      Secretary
Void unless Secondary Approval is received by
                                    , 20     .
   4.   Secondary Approval Certificate.
   SECONDARY APPROVAL
All conditions of Primary Approval have been met and this plat is granted
SECONDARY APPROVAL.
      Approved by the Building Commissioner
                                      , 20     .
                                              
      Building Commissioner
      Void unless recorded by                                 , 20     .
   5.   Plat Committee Minor Plat Approval.
   PRIMARY APPROVAL
Under authority provided by I.C. 36-7-4-700, Subdivision Control, and any
amendments thereto, this plat was given PRIMARY APPROVAL by Seymour, Indiana,
as follows:
Approved by the Plat Committee at a meeting held
                                                             .
                                        
      Chairman
                                        
      Secretary
Void unless Secondary Approval is received by                                 ,
        .
   6.   Improvement Plans Certificate.
   IMPROVEMENT PLANS
This document contains or is a part of the approved improvement plans for the
following subdivision:                               . The improvements to be
installed in this subdivision will not be accepted for maintenance by the Board
of Public Works and Safety unless and until all improvements shown hereon have
been installed and are in substantial compliance with these plans.
                                        
      City Engineer
                                              
      Date
   7.   Dedication Certificate.
   BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS AND SAFETY DEDICATION ACCEPTANCE
Be it resolved by the Board of Public Works and Safety, City of Seymour,
Indiana, that the dedications shown on this plat are hereby approved and
accepted this     day of                 .
                                              
      Chairman
                                              
      Attest:
   8.   Tax Certificate. The following certificate shall appear on all plats:
   TAX CERTIFICATE
The real property has been duly entered for taxation and transferred on the
records of the Auditor of Jackson County.
      This         day of                         ,        .
                                              
      Jackson County Auditor
   9.   Flood Hazard Notation. All plats located within or partially within the
flood hazard area shall add the following notation to the owner’s certificate:
Minimum flood protection. The minimum flood protection grade in
                     is set at or above          feet, M.S.L., which is two (2)
feet above the 100-year frequency flood.
The above certificate is not required for administrative and agricultural plats
in Zone A (elevation undetermined); however, the extent of the floodplain as
shown on the FIRM or FBFM must still be shown on the plat.
   10.   Private Access Easement or Street Notation. Those plats containing
private access easements or private streets shall add the following notation to
the owner’s certificate:
This plat contains property shown as private [access easements] [streets]. The
responsibility for maintenance and snow removal shall be assumed by the
property owners and not by the City.
   11.   Recording Notations.
      (a)   Recording is hereby authorized by the owners:
                                           .
      (b)   Entered for taxation this         day of
                                ,         .
      (c)   Recorded in Plat Book      , page number      , this the       day
of             ,         , at        o’clock. Instrument No.                Fee
Paid.
                                                     , Recorder, Jackson
County.
      (d)   Copy of plat received by
                                                 , Auditor.
   12.   Replat Notation. Replats and plat amendments shall contain the
following as part of the recording notation:
Notation made on the original plat of                                 , Plat
Book         , Page         .
   13.   Sewage System Covenant. As required in Article III, Section B.13.e of
the Subdivision Control Ordinance if Seymour, Indiana, the covenants applying
to any major subdivision utilizing an alternative sewage disposal system shall
include the following:
The  (Name of Subdivision)  Lot Owners Association shall be responsible for the
repair, maintenance, improvement, and replacement of the sewage disposal system
installed within  (Name of Subdivision)  pursuant to the provisions of Article
III, Section B.13 of the Subdivision Control Ordinance of Seymour, Indiana.
CHAPTER 157: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
157.001   Title
   
157.002   Authority
   
157.003   Purpose
   
157.004   Applicability and jurisdiction
   
157.005   Compliance
   
157.006   Conflict
   
157.007   Zoning map
   
157.008   Severability
   
157.009   Transitional rules
   
157.010   Subdivisions of land
   
157.011   Zoning of annexed areas
   
157.012   Rules of interpretation
   
157.013   Definitions
Administration
   
157.025   Administrative and decision making bodies
   
157.026   Common review procedures
   
157.027   Specific review criteria
   
157.028   Conditional uses
   
157.029   Criteria
   
157.030   Administrative appeals
   
157.031   Planned unit developments
   
157.032   Development plans
Zone Districts
   
157.045   General
   
157.046   Residential districts
   
157.047   Commercial districts
   
157.048   Industrial districts
   
157.049   Overlay districts
   
157.050   Permitted uses
   
157.051   Standards applicable to all districts
   
157.052   Standards for conduct of uses in residential districts
   
157.053   Standards for conduct of uses in business districts
   
157.054   Standards for conduct of uses in industrial districts
   
157.055   Accessory uses
   
157.056   Temporary uses
   
157.057   Storefront first-floor residencies
Density, Intensity and Dimensional Standards
   
157.070   Dimensional standards tables
   
157.071   Measurements
Development Standards
   
157.085   Setbacks
   
157.086   Parking and loading
   
157.087   Manufactured housing
   
157.088   Campgrounds and recreational vehicle parks
   
157.089   US 50 Corridor overlay district (O-1)
   
157.090   Traditional neighborhood overlay district (O-2)
   
157.091   Historic overlay district (O-3)
   
157.092   Landscaping standards
   
157.093   Exterior lighting standards
   
157.094   Development plans
   
157.095   Signs
   
157.096   Home-based businesses
   
157.097   Standards applicable to Burkart Boulevard
Special Provisions
   
157.115   Wireless communication facilities
   
157.116   Sexually oriented businesses
Noncomformities
   
157.130   General
   
157.131   Noncomforming uses
   
157.132   Noncomforming structures
   
157.133   Noncomforming lots
   
157.134   Noncomforming signs
Enforcement and Remedies
   
157.150   Authority to enforce
   
157.151   Violations
 
   
157.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 157.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as, referred to, and cited as the "Zoning
Ordinance of Seymour, Indiana," and is hereinafter referred to as "this
Ordinance."
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 157.002 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is adopted under the authority granted by the 600 Series of §
36-7-4 of the Indiana Code and amendments thereto.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 157.003 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is adopted for the following purposes:
   (A)   Securing adequate light, air, convenience of access, and safety from
fire, flood, and other danger;
   (B)   Lessening or avoiding congestion in public ways;
   (C)   Promoting the public health, safety, comfort, morals, convenience, and
general welfare;
   (D)   Implementing the Comprehensive Plan; and
   (E)   Otherwise accomplishing the purposes I.C. 36-7-4.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 157.004 APPLICABILITY AND JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all structures, lands, water,
and air within the city and its extraterritorial jurisdictional area, including
property owned by city, county, state, or federal agencies, to the extent
allowed by law.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 157.005 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Compliance required. No structure or part thereof shall hereafter be
located, erected, moved, reconstructed, extended, enlarged, converted,
structurally altered, used, or occupied without full compliance with the
provisions of this chapter and all other applicable city, county, and state
regulations. An improvement location permit is required for any of the
following:
      (1)   Occupancy or use of any structure hereafter created, erected,
changed, converted, or wholly or partly altered or enlarged;
      (2)   Occupancy or use of vacant land, except for the raising of crops;
      (3)   Change in the use of an existing structure to a different use;
      (4)   Change in the use of land to a different use, except for the
raising of crops; or
      (5)   Change in the use or character of a nonconforming use.
   (B)   Minimum requirements. The provisions of this chapter shall be held to
be minimum requirements necessary for the promotion of the public health,
safety, and general welfare, and shall be liberally construed in favor of the
city and shall not be construed to be a limitation or repeal of any other power
now possessed by the city.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 157.006 CONFLICT.
   (A)   Conflicts and relationship with other regulations.
      (1)   When the provisions of this chapter are inconsistent with one
another, or when the provisions of this chapter conflict with provisions found
in other ordinances, codes, or regulations adopted by the city, the more
restrictive provision shall govern unless the terms of the provisions specify
otherwise.
      (2)   It shall be the developer's or applicant's responsibility to
determine and comply with all other applicable city, county, state, or federal
codes or regulations governing development and land use activities.
   (B)   Relationship with private-party easements, covenants, or agreements.
This chapter is not intended to interfere with or abrogate any easements,
covenants, or agreements between parties, provided that wherever this chapter
proposes a greater restriction upon the use of buildings or land, upon the
location or height of buildings or structures, or upon requirements for open
areas than those that are imposed or required by such easements, covenants, or
agreements between parties, the provision of this chapter shall govern. In no
case shall the city be obligated to enforce the provisions of any easements,
covenants, or agreements between parties.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 157.007 ZONING MAP.
   (A)   Districts.  The city and its jurisdictional area are divided into
zones or districts as shown on the official zoning map. This map is hereby
adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter. The map is on
file in the Seymour City Hall and is available for public inspection during
regular business hours. The map may consist of one or more sheets as necessary
to accurately depict the boundaries. In the case of overlay districts, a
district may be limited to the boundaries of a property containing a single
building, structure, or site. The map may divide the overlay district into
primary and secondary areas as follows:
      (1)   Primary area. The principal area of significance.
      (2)   Secondary area. An area adjacent to a primary area which has a
visual relationship to the primary area and could affect the preservation of
the primary area. The purpose of designating a secondary area is to assure its
compatibility and harmony with any adjacent primary area.
   (B)   Official copy. The official zoning map shall be identified by the
signature of the Mayor and attested to by the Clerk-Treasurer, and bearing the
seal of the city under the following words: "This is to certify that this is
the Official Zoning Map referred to in Ordinance Number Ordinance No. 5,
Council Bill 38, 1977 of the City of Seymour, Indiana," adopted May 23, 1977.
   (C)   Amendments. The zoning map may be amended from time to time as set
forth in this chapter.
   (D)   Damage. In the event the official zoning map becomes damaged,
destroyed, lost, or difficult to interpret because of the nature or number of
changes and additions, the City Council may direct the Plan Commission to
prepare a new official zoning map which when adopted shall supersede the prior
map. The new official zoning map may correct drafting or other errors or
omissions in the prior map, but no such correction shall have the effect of
amending the previous official zoning map. The new official zoning map shall be
identified by the signature of the chair of the Mayor, attested to by the
Clerk-Treasurer and bearing the seal of the city under the following words:
"This is to certify that this Official Zoning Map supersedes and replaces on
this day (date) the Official Zoning Map adopted May 23, 1977, as part of
Ordinance Number Ordinance No. 5, Council Bill 38, 1977 of the City of Seymour,
Indiana."
   (E)   Preservation. Unless the prior official zoning map has been lost or
destroyed, the prior map or any significant part thereof remaining shall be
preserved, together with all available records pertaining to its adoption or
amendment.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 157.008 SEVERABILITY.
   If any court of competent jurisdiction rules any provision of this chapter
invalid, that ruling shall not affect any provision not specifically included
in the judgment. If any court of competent jurisdiction rules invalid the
application of any provision of this chapter to a particular property,
building, or other structure, or use, that ruling shall not affect the
application of the chapter provisions to any property, building, other
structure, or use not specifically included in the judgment.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 157.009 TRANSITIONAL RULES.
   (A)   Effective date. This chapter shall take effect after publication of
the Notice of Adoption as provided by I.C. 36-7-4-610.
   (B)   Violations continue. Any violation under previous ordinances repealed
by this chapter shall continue to be a violation under this chapter and be
subject to penalties and enforcement under §
157.999, unless the use, development, construction, or other activity complies
with the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Nonconformities continue. Any legal nonconformity under any previous
ordinances repealed by this chapter is also a legal nonconformity under this
chapter, as long as the situation that resulted in the nonconforming status
under the previous ordinances continues to exist. If a nonconformity under the
previous ordinances becomes conforming because of the adoption of this chapter,
then the situation will no longer be a nonconformity.
   (E)   Approved projects.
      (1)   Any building, structure, or development for which a permit was
issued prior to the effective date of this chapter may, at the applicant's
option, be completed in conformance with the issued permit and any other
applicable permits and conditions, even if such building, structure, or
development does not fully comply with provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   If the building or structure is not completed within the time
allowed under the original permit or any extension granted, then the building,
structure, or development may be constructed, completed, or occupied only in
compliance with this chapter.
      (3)   If construction is not commenced or completed according to the
applicable permit terms, the building commissioner may, for good cause shown,
grant an extension of up to one year for such construction under the terms of
the previously applicable ordinance(s).
      (4)   Any re-application for an expired project approval shall meet the
standards in effect at the time of re-application.
   (F)   Complete applications.
      (1)   Any project for which a complete application was submitted and
accepted by the city prior to the effective date of this chapter may, at the
applicant's option, be reviewed wholly under the terms of the previous Zoning
Ordinance. If approved, these projects may be carried out in accordance with
the development standards in effect at the time of application. Any re-
application for an expired permit shall meet the standards in effect at the
time of re-application.
      (2)   A project for which no application has been submitted and accepted
as complete prior to the effective date of this chapter shall be subject to all
requirements and standards of this chapter.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 157.010 SUBDIVISION OF LAND.
   Subdivision of land is permitted in all zoning districts, in accordance with
the provisions of the Subdivision Control Ordinance.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 157.011 ZONING OF ANNEXED AREAS.
   (A)   Zoning designation. Any ordinance annexing into the city property that
does not have zoning designation under this chapter shall be accompanied by an
ordinance designating the zoning district for said property.
   (B)   Rights-of-way. Whenever an annexed area abuts a public right-of-way,
including a street, alley, or other right-of-way, the entire abutting right-of-
way shall be included within the property to be annexed.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 157.012 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Meanings and intent. All provisions, terms, phrases, and expressions
contained in this chapter shall be construed according to this chapter's stated
purpose and intent.
   (B)   Headings, illustrations, and text. In case of any difference of
meaning or implication between the text of this chapter and any heading,
drawing, table, or figure, the text shall control.
   (C)   Lists and examples. Unless otherwise specifically indicated, lists of
items or examples that use terms such as "including," "such as," or similar
language are intended to provide examples, not to be exhaustive lists of all
possibilities.
   (D)   Computation of time. Unless the terms of a specific provision state
otherwise (e.g., some provisions specify "business days"), periods of time
defined by a number of days shall mean a number of consecutive calendar days,
including all weekend days, holidays, and other non-business/working days;
however, if the last day is a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, that day
shall be excluded.
   (E)   References to other regulations and publications. Whenever reference
is made to a resolution, ordinance, statute, regulation, or document, that
reference shall be construed as referring to the most recent edition of such
regulation (as amended), resolution, ordinance, statute, regulation, or
document or to the relevant successor document, unless otherwise expressly
stated.
   (F)   Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or another officer or employee of the city to perform an
act or duty, that provision shall be construed as authorizing the department
head or officer to delegate the responsibility to subordinates, unless the
terms of the provision specify otherwise.
   (G)   Technical and nontechnical terms. Words and phrases not otherwise
defined in this chapter shall be construed according to the common and approved
usage of the language, but technical words and phrases not otherwise defined in
this chapter that may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law
shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
   (H)   Public officials and agencies. All public officials, bodies, and
agencies to which references are made are those of the city, Jackson County, or
the State of Indiana, unless otherwise expressly stated. Whenever reference is
made to a public official chapter or name of a public agency, that reference
shall be construed as referring to the most up-to-date chapter or agency name,
or to the relevant successor official or agency.
   (I)   Mandatory and discretionary terms. The word "shall" is always
mandatory, and the words "may" or "should" are always permissive.
   (J)   Conjunctions. Unless the context clearly suggests the contrary,
conjunctions shall be interpreted as follows:
      (1)   And indicates that all connected items, conditions, provisions, or
events shall apply; and
      (2)   Or indicates that one or more of the connected items, conditions,
provisions, or events shall apply.
   (K)   Tenses and plurals. Words used in one tense (past, present, or future)
include all other tenses, unless the context clearly indicates the contrary.
The singular shall include the plural, and the plural shall include the
singular.
   (L)   Gender. The masculine shall include the feminine, and vice versa.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 157.013 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. Any temporary or permanent structure located on the
same lot with the principal use and customarily incidental and subordinate to
the principal building or use.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use of land or of a building or portion thereof customarily
incidental and subordinate to the principal use of the land or building and
located on the same lot with the principal use.
   ALLEY. A minor way that provides vehicular access to the back side of
property that abuts a street.
   ANIMAL SERVICE, MAJOR. A boarding kennel or other animal care use that
includes outdoor runs or facilities, animal hospital or veterinary clinic, pet
daycare, or similar use.
   ANIMAL SERVICE, MINOR. A pet shop, pet grooming salon, pet supply store, or
similar use.
   ANTENNA. A device used to transmit and/or receive radio or electromagnetic
waves between terrestrially and/or orbitally based structures.
   ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY. Residences for the frail elderly or other persons
in need of care that provide rooms, meals, personal care, and supervision of
self-administered medications. Other services may be provided, including
recreational activities, financial services, and transportation.
   AUTOMOTIVE SERVICE, MAJOR. Any operation for servicing of automobiles that
includes an outdoor area, yard or compound for parking vehicles over night;
general repair, rebuilding or reconditioning of engines, motor vehicles, or
trailers, including body work, frame work, welding and painting service;
keeping or storing one or more unlicensed vehicles, or the remains thereof, for
the purpose of dismantling, wrecking, crushing, repairing, rebuilding, sale of
parts, sale of scrap, storage or abandonment; or any similar use.
   AUTOMOTIVE SERVICE, MINOR. Sale or dispensing of fuel; washing, detailing,
or upholstering; replacement of any part or repair of any part that does not
require the removal of the engine head or pan, engine, transmission or
differential, incidental body and fender work, or minor painting applied to
passenger automobiles, motorcycles, snowmobiles, small engines and trucks not
exceeding 9,000 pounds rated capacity.
   BED AND BREAKFAST USE. A single-family dwelling in which overnight
accommodations and a morning meal are provided to transients for compensation.
   BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls and
intended for the shelter, housing, or enclosure of any individual, animal
process, equipment, goods or materials of any kind.
   BUILDING LINE. A line parallel to the street line touching that part of a
building closest to the street.
   BUILDING SCALE. The relationship between the mass of a building and its
surroundings, including the width of street, open space, and mass of
surrounding buildings. Mass is determined by the three-dimensional bulk of a
structure: height, width, and depth.
   BUSINESS SERVICE. An establishment primarily engaged in rendering financial
or contractual services to businesses or individuals. These uses include but
are not limited to financial institutions; insurance services, printing,
mailing and packaging, photo finishing, billing services, employment services,
protective services, and office equipment rental and leasing.
   CAMPGROUND or RV PARK. A lot or parcel on which two or more tents, cabins,
lean-tos, recreational vehicle or other similar object is established or
maintained as temporary living quarters for recreation, education, or vacation
purposes.
   CLUB. An establishment operated for social, recreational or educational
purposes that is open only to members and not to the general public.
   CLINIC. An establishment in which patients are admitted on an outpatient
basis by one or more physicians, dentists, other medical personnel,
psychologists, or social workers and where patients are not usually lodged
overnight.
   COMMERCIAL CENTER. A group of four or more separately operated commercial
establishments, planned, developed, owned, and managed as a unit, with common
off-street parking provided on the property.
   COMMERCIAL RECREATION. An establishment primarily engaged in providing
recreational services to the general public, including auditorium, theater,
bowling alley, billiard room, dance studio and amusement facility.
   CONVENIENCE STORE. Any retail establishment not exceeding 3,500 square feet
in area offering for sale prepackaged food products, household items,
newspapers and magazines, along with other convenience items such as
sandwiches, donuts, salads, coffee, and fountain drinks.
   CONVENTIONAL SUBDIVISION. A subdivision in which all the land is divided
into house lots and streets, with the only open space being undevelopable land
such as wetlands, steep slopes, floodplains and stormwater management areas.
Such subdivisions are laid out according to design principles that include but
are not limited to blocks accommodating two tiers of lots, curvilinear or grid
streets, and little or no common or public open space.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A street with only one outlet and having a paved, usually
circular, turn-around at one end.
   DEVELOPMENT PLAN. A specific plan required by §
157.094 and in accordance with I.C. 36-7-4, the 1400 Series, showing the
development details as required by §
157.094.
   DISCONTINUANCE OF USE or ABANDONMENT. The relinquishment of property or a
discontinuance of the use of the property by the owner or lessee for a
continuous period of one year or more.
   DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT. A food service establishment where food is consumed on
the premises outside of fully enclosed buildings or structures.
   DRIVE-THROUGH ESTABLISHMENT. Any portion of a building or structure from
which business is transacted, or is capable of being transacted, directly with
customers located in a motor vehicle, which is usually left running, during
such business transactions.
   DWELLING. A structure or portion thereof that is used exclusively for human
habitation.
      (1)   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A building that contains one dwelling unit
and is not attached to any other dwelling unit.
      (2)   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY.  A building that contains two dwelling units
totally separated from each other by an unpierced wall extending from ground to
roof.
      (3)   DWELLING, MULTIFAMILY. A building containing three or more dwelling
units, including units that are located one over the other.
   FAMILY. A group of individuals not necessarily related by blood, marriage,
adoption, or guardianship living together in a dwelling unit as a single
housekeeping unit under a common management plan based on an intentionally
structured relationship providing organization and stability. This definition
does not including a group occupying a hotel, motel, club, nurses' home,
dormitory, or fraternity or sorority house.
   FENCE. An upright, freestanding structure made of wood, masonry, vinyl, or
similar material and designed to enclose, screen, or separate areas. Fences may
not be made from trash, inoperable or junk vehicles, barrels, or any other
material not designed to be used as fencing.
   FRONTAGE. The distance for which a lot line of a zone lot adjoins a public
street, from one lot line intersecting such street to the farthest distant lot
line intersecting the same street.
   GARDEN SUPPLY CENTER. A premises used for the sale of plants and trees,
fertilizer, bagged mulch, lawn ornaments and similar items.
   GREENHOUSE. A building with a roof and sides made largely of a transparent
or translucent material and in which the temperature and humidity can be
regulated for the cultivation of delicate or out-of-season plants for
subsequent sale or personal use or enjoyment.
   GUESTHOUSE. Living quarters within an accessory building for temporary use
by guests of the occupants of the premises. Such quarters shall have no kitchen
facilities and shall not be rented or otherwise used as a separate dwelling.
   HEALTH SERVICE, MAJOR. An institution providing inpatient and outpatient
primary health and wellness services and medical or surgical care to persons,
primarily inpatients, suffering from illness, disease, injury, and other
abnormal physical or mental conditions and including, as an integral part of
the institution, related facilities, such as laboratories, outpatient
facilities, training facilities, medical offices, and staff residence.
   HEALTH SERVICE, MINOR. An establishment providing outpatient health and
wellness services. These uses include but are not limited to urgent care
clinics, chiropractic services, medical and dental offices.
   HEIGHT, BUILDING. The vertical distance from the average grade adjoining the
walls of the structure to the average of the highest points of the roof surface
of a flat roof; or to the deck line of a mansard roof; or the mean height level
between eaves and ridge for a gable, hip or gambrel roof.
   HEIGHT, SIGN. The distance measured in a vertical plane from grade at the
edge of pavement of the adjacent street from which the property has immediate
access to the highest point of the sign.
   HOME-BASED BUSINESS. A business or profession that is clearly subordinate to
a residential use, operated by occupants of the residence on the premises.
   INDUSTRIAL PARK. A tract of land that is planned, developed, and operated as
an integrated facility for several individual industrial uses, with
consideration to transportation facilities, circulation, parking, utilities,
aesthetics, and compatibility.
   INFILL DEVELOPMENT. The construction of new buildings on scattered sites in
built-up areas.
   JUNK. Any scrap, waste, reclaimable material, or debris, that for sale, or
in the process of being dismantled, destroyed, processed, salvaged, stored,
baled, disposed, or other use or disposition.
   JUNKYARD.  Any area, lot, or other parcel of land used for the storage,
collection, processing, purchase, sale, salvage, or disposal of junk.
   KENNEL. A facility in which four or more dogs or other domesticated animals
more than six months of age are housed, groomed, bred, boarded, trained, or
sold.
   LEGAL LOT OF RECORD. Lot created in accordance with applicable regulations
that and shown or described on a plat or deed in the office of the County
Recorder.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A factory-built, single-family structure that meets the
National Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards Act (42 U.S.C.
Section 5401), commonly known as the HUD (U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development) Code.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. A parcel of land containing 20 or more spaces, with
required improvements and utilities, leased for the long-term placement of
manufactured homes.
   MANUFACTURING. The mechanical or chemical transformation of materials or
substances into new products, including the assembling of component parts, the
creation of products, and the blending of materials, such a lubricating oils,
plastics, resins, or liquors.
   MOBILE HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections manufactured
prior to June 15, 1976, which is the effective date of the Manufactured Home
Construction and Safety Act of 1974. In the traveling mode, it is eight body
feet or more in width at its narrowest dimension. When erected on site, it
contains 320 or more square feet, is anchored in accordance with Rule 410 IAC
6-6-11 or anchored to a permanent foundation and is connected to the required
utilities.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. A parcel of land containing two or more spaces, with
required improvements and utilities, leased for the long-term placement of
mobile homes.
   MOBILE or MANUFACTURED HOME SITE. A parcel of land intended to accommodate
one mobile or manufactured home.
   NURSING HOME. A facility licensed for the long-term inpatient care of the
aged or infirm.
   OUTDOOR SALES. The display and sale of products and services primarily
outside of a building or structure. Outdoor retail sales uses include but are
not limited to boat sales, farm equipment sales, flea markets, auctions, lumber
yards, and landscaping materials sales.
   PERSONAL CARE SERVICES. Facilities that offer supervision, assistance, and
activities for special populations. Uses include but are not limited to day
care centers for children or adults, children's homes, nursing homes, senior
centers, and neighborhood social centers.
   PERSONAL SERVICES. Establishments primarily engaged in providing services
involving the care of a person or his or her personal goods or apparel. These
uses include but are not limited to laundry, dry cleaning, beauty or barber
ships, diaper service, and shoe repair.
   PRINCIPAL BUILDING. A building in which the principal use of the lot on
which it is located is conducted, including a building that is attached to such
a building in a substantial way, such as by a roof (with respect to residential
uses, it means the main dwelling).
   PROCESSING. An operation or series of operations, usually in a continuous
and regular action or succession of actions in which there is a chemical
transformation of materials or substances into new products.
   PROCESSING AND WAREHOUSING. A place where materials are stored, combined,
broken down, or aggregated for transport, shipment or storage and where the
original material is not chemically or physically changed.
   RECREATIONAL FACILITY. A place designed and equipped for the conduct of
sports and leisure-time activities.
   RECREATIONAL FACILITY, PRIVATE. A recreational facility operated by a
commercial enterprise or by a nonprofit organization.
   RECREATIONAL FACILITY, PUBLIC. A recreational facility owned or operated by
a unit of government, a recreational facility included in a subdivision
approved by the Plan Commission and operated for the benefit of all of the lot
owners in the subdivision.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicular-type portable structure without permanent
foundation that can be towed, hauled, or driven. It may be designed as
temporary living accommodations and used for recreational, camping, and travel
use. Recreational vehicles include, but are not limited to truck trailers,
truck campers, pop-up tents, boats, jet skis, personal watercraft, snowmobiles,
camping trailers, and self propelled campers.
   RELIGIOUS FACILITY. A structure or place in which worship, ceremonies,
rituals, and education pertaining to a particular system of beliefs are held.
This definition includes a parochial school.
   RETAIL SERVICES. Establishments primarily engaged in the sale of everyday
household and consumer goods, including but not limited to drugstores, variety
stores, book and stationery stores, newsstands, candy and ice cream stores,
grocery stores, florist, gift, antique, art, music, toy and hobby shops,
package liquor stores, paint and wallpaper stores, jewelry stores.
   RETAIL SALES, OUTDOOR. The display and sale of products and services outside
of a building or structure commensurate with indoor sales activities. Outdoor
retail sales uses include but are not limited to automobile sales, lawn and
garden equipment sales, and home improvement materials sales.
   RETAIL USE, BIG BOX. A single retail establishment containing 75,000 square
feet or more.
   RETAIL USE, GENERAL. An establishment primarily engaged in the sale of goods
or provision of services to the general public, including but not limited to
department stores, furniture, carpet, interior decorating, upholstering,
furrier, and office supply stores; restaurants and catering establishments;
hotels, taverns and nightclubs; and storage, processing and/or conditioning
when incidental to any of these uses.
   ROOMING HOUSE. A dwelling or part thereof in which, for compensation,
lodging or lodging and meals are provided to at least three and not more than
ten non-transient persons.
   SELF-STORAGE FACILITY. A structure containing separate, individual, and
private storage spaces of varying sizes leased or rented to individuals for
varying periods of time.
   SETBACK. The distance between a building and any lot line.
   SETBACK LINE. The line that is the required minimum distance from any lot
line and that establishes the area within which the building or structure must
be erected or placed.
   STORAGE, MAJOR. A distribution facility or a warehouse operated primarily
for a specific commercial establishment or group of establishments in a
particular industry or field. It also means any outdoor storage area associated
with a business, industry, or institution.
   STORAGE, MINOR. The keeping of goods or materials associated with a
principal use, incidental and subordinate to the principal use, and on the same
premises with the principal use; or a self-storage facility.
   STREET. A right-of-way dedicated or otherwise legally established for public
use, which affords the principal means of access to abutting property. A street
may be designated as a highway, thoroughfare, parkway, boulevard, road, avenue,
lane, drive or other appropriate name. A street may also be classified
according to function as follows:
      (1)   Expressways are limited-access highways that carry large volumes of
traffic and are of more importance regionally than locally. They provide
continuous, high-speed traffic flow.
      (2)   Arterial streets are high-capacity, high-volume streets that
provide access to and through the county. The primary function of these streets
is traffic movement, not access to property.
      (3)   Collector streets are medium-volume roads that collect and
distribute traffic from lower-classification streets to arterials and
expressways or activity centers. Traffic movement on these roads is a higher
priority than access to property.
      (4)   Local streets are medium-volume roads that form the majority of the
county road network. Often they are part of the numbered county road system and
are typically longer than subdivision streets. While in some cases these
streets may provide direct access to property, their primary function is
traffic movement.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected on the ground or having a fixed
location on the ground or attached to something having a fixed location on the
ground, including but not limited to buildings, factories, sheds, detached
garages, cabins, mobile homes, manufactured homes, freestanding signs, and
other similar items.
   TOWNHOUSE. A one-family dwelling in a row of at least three such units in
which each unit has its own front and rear access to the outside, not unit is
located over another unit, and each unit is separated from any other unit by
one or more vertical common fire-resistant walls.
   TRAVEL-ORIENTED BUSINESS. An establishment catering to the traveling public,
such as a hotel, motel, restaurant, fast-food restaurant, automobile service
station or similar use.
   WAREHOUSE. A building used primarily for the storage of goods and materials.
   WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY. A tract of land that is used to store or process
materials that are discarded by households, businesses, industries, or other
entities. Waste includes both recyclable and non-recyclable materials.
   YARD. An open space that lies between the principal building or buildings
and the nearest lot line. The minimum required yard as set forth in the
ordinance is unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground upward except as
specifically provided in this chapter.
      (1)   Front yard means a space extending the full width of the lot
between any building and the front lot line and measured perpendicular to the
building at the closest point to the front lot line.
      (2)   Rear yard means a space extending across the full width of the lot
between the principal building and the rear lot line and measured perpendicular
to the building to the closest point of the rear lot line.
      (3)   Required yard means the open space between a lot line and the yard
line within which no structure shall be located except as provided in this
chapter.
      (4)   Side yard means a space extending from the front yard to the rear
yard between the principal building and the side lot line and measured
perpendicular from the side lot line to the closest point of the principal
building.
   ZONE LOT. A parcel of land in single ownership that is of sufficient size to
meet minimum zoning requirements for area, coverage, and use, and that can
provide such yards and other open spaces as required by this chapter.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006; Am. Ord. 17, 2023, passed 8-28-2023)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 157.025 ADMINISTRATIVE AND DECISION MAKING BODIES.
   The City Council, the Plan Commission, the Board of Zoning Appeals, and the
staff have administrative and decision-making responsibilities with regard to
this chapter as set forth in this section. The following table summarizes their
roles.
   Review and Decision-Making Authority
   S= Staff review, R=Review and recommend, D= Final decision, A= Appeal
Process               Staff Plan Commission      Board of Zoning City Council
                                                 Appeals
Map amendment
(rezoning), including S     R                                    D
overlay zone
Text amendment        S     R                                    D
Preliminary planned   S     R                                    D
unit development
Final planned unit    S     D
development
Development plan      S     D
Variance              S     R-Use Variances ONLY D
Conditional use       S                          D
Administrative        D
adjustment
Improvement location  D     A                    A
permit
Interpretation        D                          A
 
   (A)   City Council.
      (1)   General authority. As provided in I.C. 36-4-6-2, the City Council
serves as the legislative body of Seymour.
      (2)   Powers and duties.
         (a)   In accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-207 the City Council shall
appoint one of its members to serve as a member of the Plan Commission.
         (b)   In accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-902, the City Council shall
appoint one person residing within the city or its extraterritorial
jurisdictional area to serve as a member of the Board of Zoning Appeals.
         (c)   The City Council shall, after report and recommendation from the
Plan Commission, approve or deny any proposed amendment to the text of this
chapter or to the zoning map.
         (d)   If the Council rejects or amends a proposal to amend the
ordinance text recommended favorably by the Plan Commission, the Council shall
return the proposal to the Plan Commission with the written reasons for the
rejection or amendment, as provided in (B)(1) and in I.C. 36-7-4-607.
         (e)   As provided in I.C. 36-7-4-607 and 36-7-4-608, if the Council
fails to act on a recommendation from the Plan Commission within the time limit
prescribed by the Indiana Code, the Plan Commission recommendation stands as if
the Council had acted upon it.
   (B)   Plan Commission.
      (1)   Powers and duties.
         (a)   The Plan Commission shall adopt rules for the conduct of its
hearings and shall adopt by rule a schedule of reasonable fees for the
following:
            1.   Processing and hearing administrative appeals and petitions
for rezoning, conditional uses, and variances;
            2.   Issuing permits; and
            3.   Other official actions taken in accordance with I.C. 36-7-4.
         (b)   The Plan Commission shall provide for notice and conduct public
hearings on amendments to the map or text of this chapter, use variances, final
planned unit developments, and development plans.
         (c)   The Plan Commission shall forward proposals to amend the zoning
map or the text of this chapter to the City Council with a favorable,
unfavorable, or no recommendation in accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-607 and 36-7-
4-608 and the Plan Commission's Rules of Procedure.
         (d)   The Plan Commission shall hear and approve, approve with
conditions, or deny final planned unit developments and development plans as
provided in §§
157.031, and
157.094.
      (2)   Membership. The members of the Seymour Plan Commission shall be
appointed In accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-208 and 36-7-4-214.
   (C)   Board of Zoning Appeals.
      (1)   Powers and duties.
         (a)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall hear and decide all
applications for variances and conditional uses and all appeals from
administrative decisions made under the provisions of this chapter.
         (b)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall provide for public notice to
interested parties of hearings before the Board in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1-
2 and I.C. 5-3-1-4 at least ten days before the date set for the hearing. The
Board shall, by rule, determine who are interested parties, how notice is to be
given to them, and who is required to give that notice. The party taking the
appeal or applying for the exception, use, or variance, may be required to
assume the cost of public notice and due notice to interested parties.
         (c)   The staff may appear before the Board at the hearing and present
evidence relevant to the effect on the Comprehensive Plan or Zoning Ordinance
of the granting of a variance or the determination of any other matter.
         (d)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall make a decision on any matter
that it is required to hear either at the meeting at which the matter is first
presented, or at the conclusion of the hearing on that matter, if it is
continued. Within five days of making a decision, the Board shall file a
written copy of its decision in the office of the Board.
         (e)   The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, keep records of
its examinations and other official actions, prepare findings, and record the
specifics of each vote on all actions taken. All minutes and records shall be
filed in the offices of the Board and shall be a public record.
         (f)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall adopt rules of procedure
concerning the filing of appeals, applications for variances, and conditional
uses, giving of notice, conduct of hearings and other such matters as may be
necessary to carry out its duties under this chapter. At the first meeting of
each year, the Board shall elect a Chair and Vice-Chair from among its members.
      (2)   Membership. The members of the Board of Zoning Appeals shall be
appointed In accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-902.
      (3)   Alternates.
         (a)   The Mayor, City Council, and Plan Commission each may appoint
alternate members to the Board of Zoning Appeals.
         (b)   Alternate members shall have all of the rights and privileges of
members of the Board of Zoning Appeals and may participate in the discussion
and evaluation of petitions before the Board.
         (c)   An alternate member shall serve as a voting member of the Board
of Zoning Appeals and may be entitled to vote when the regular member for whom
the person is an alternate is absent or abstains from participating in
consideration of a matter before the Board.
         (d)   The alternate members shall have the same qualifications as the
regular members as specified in (C)(2).
      (4)   Removal of members. The appointing authority (Mayor, City Council,
or Plan Commission) may remove a member from the Board of Zoning Appeals for
cause. The appointing authority shall mail notice of the removal, along with
written reason for the removal, to the member at his residence address. A
member who is removed may, within 30 days after receiving notice of the
removal, appeal the removal to the Circuit or Superior Court of the county.
      (5)   Limitation on re-filing. Any petition approved by the Board of
Zoning Appeals, unless otherwise stipulated, shall expire and become void one
year after the date of its granting unless the petitioner or his agent has
substantially put into effect the use on the property for which the petition
was approved. Within 90 days of approval of a petition, the petitioner shall
apply for an improvement location permit, or building permit as appropriate.
      (6)   Majority vote required. An affirmative vote by a majority of the
Board of Zoning Appeals shall be required to approve or deny a petition before
the Board.
   (D)   Staff.
      (1)   Authority. The staff shall have the authority to take those lawful
actions necessary to enforce the terms of this chapter on behalf of the Plan
Commission and Board of Zoning Appeals.
      (2)   Powers and duties. The authority to perform inspections, review
applications, issue permits, and grant administrative adjustments is hereby
delegated to the staff.
         (a)   The staff is authorized to issue improvement location permits as
described in §
157.002.
         (b)   The staff is authorized to make inspections of all lands located
within the jurisdiction of the Plan Commission in order to enforce this
chapter. In order to execute inspections, the staff shall have the right to
enter upon any premises at any reasonable time for the purpose of carrying out
their duties in the enforcement of these regulations. If the owner or occupant
of the premises refuses to permit entry, the staff may make application to any
judge of the Circuit or Superior Courts of Jackson County, Indiana, for the
issuance of an administrative search warrant. Such application shall identify
the premises upon which entry is sought and the purpose for which entry is
desired. The application shall state the facts giving rise to the belief that a
violation of these regulations exists on such premises.
         (c)   The staff is authorized to approve administrative adjustments of
no more than 10% to any numerical dimensional or intensity standard in
accordance with the following criteria:
            1.   The adjustment is requested because it eliminates an
unnecessary inconvenience to the applicant and will have no significant adverse
impact on the health, safety or general welfare of surrounding property owners
or the general public;
            2.   The requested administrative modification is of a technical
nature and is required to compensate for some unusual aspect of the site or the
proposed development that is not shared by landowners in general;
            3.   The adjustment does not alter access to property nor on-site
circulation; and
            4.   The adjustment does not decrease the amount of off-street
parking to an amount not adequate for the use. In determining the amount of
parking that is adequate, the staff shall consider the amount otherwise
required by the zoning ordinance for this use, the information available from
the Institute of Traffic Engineers, empirical studies of the parking needs for
the use.
      (3)   Interpretation. The Building Commissioner is hereby authorized to
interpret the various provisions of this chapter. The Building Commissioner's
interpretation may be appealed to the Board of Zoning Appeals. The Building
Commissioner shall follow the rules of interpretation contained in §
157.012.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006; Am. Ord. 14, 2008, passed 6-9-2008)
§ 157.026 COMMON REVIEW PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Authority to file applications. Applications under this chapter may be
initiated by one of the following:
      (1)   The requisite percentage of the owners of the property that is the
subject of the application;
      (2)   The owners' authorized agents;
      (3)   City staff on behalf of the city; and
      (4)   Any review or decision-making body.
   (B)   Application contents. The Plan Commission shall prescribe in its rules
the form and content of all applications. Only applications filed in compliance
with these rules shall be considered to be valid applications.
   (C)   Fees. Each application shall be accompanied by the appropriate filing
fee as prescribed in the Plan Commission Rules of Procedure. Such fees are non-
refundable.
   (D)   Pre-application conference.
      (1)   The purposes of the pre-application conference are to provide an
opportunity for the applicant and the staff to discuss the review process
schedule and submittal requirements, the scope of the project, and compliance
with this chapter. Staff opinions presented during pre-petition meetings are
informational only and do not represent a commitment on behalf of the city
regarding the acceptability of the development proposal.
      (2)   An applicant for any matter requiring Plan Commission approval may
schedule and hold a pre-application conference with the staff before filing
such application. Attendees may include representatives from other city
agencies or other persons the staff deems appropriate to a meaningful
discussion.
   (E)   Determination of completeness. All applications shall be filed in
accordance with the Plan Commission's rules. The staff shall review the
application for completeness within the time limit established in the Plan
Commission's rules. An application shall be deemed complete if it is submitted
in the prescribed form and contains all mandatory materials and the requisite
number of copies.
   (F)   Simultaneous processing of applications. Whenever two or more forms of
review and approval are required under this chapter (e.g., a rezoning and a
conditional use permit), the applications for those development approvals may,
at the option of the applicant and with the concurrence of the staff be
processed simultaneously, so long as all applicable state and local
requirements are satisfied for all applications.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 157.027 SPECIFIC REVIEW CRITERIA.
   (A)   Amendments.
      (1)   Zoning map (rezoning).
         (a)   Initiation. Map amendments may be initiated by the owners of 50%
or more of the area involved in the petition, by the Plan Commission, or by the
City Council.
         (b)   Criteria. In preparing and considering proposals to amend the
zoning ordinance, the Plan Commission and City Council shall pay reasonable
regard to the following matters in accordance with state law (I.C. 36-7-4-603):
            1.   The comprehensive plan;
            2.   Current conditions and the character of current structures and
uses in each district;
            3.   The most desirable use for which the land in each district is
adapted;
            4.   The conservation of property values throughout the
jurisdiction;
            5.   Responsible development and growth.
         (c)   Procedure.
            1.   The Plan Commission shall give notice and hold a public
hearing on each proposed amendment. Notice shall be given in a manner
prescribed in the Commission Rules of Procedure to interested parties as
defined in those rules. After the hearing, the Plan Commission may make a
favorable, unfavorable, or no recommendation to the City Council.
            2.   The City Council shall consider the recommendation, if any, of
the Plan Commission before acting on a proposal to amend the zoning map. The
City Council shall approve or deny the request as provided by Indiana law.
      (2)   Text amendments.
         (a)   Initiation. Text amendments may be initiated by the Plan
Commission or by the City Council.
         (b)   Criteria. The criteria for text amendments shall be the same as
those set forth in (A)(1)(b).
         (c)   Procedure.
            1.   The Plan Commission shall give notice and hold a public
hearing on each proposed amendment as set forth in I.C. 5-3-1. After the
hearing, the Plan Commission may make a favorable, unfavorable, or no
recommendation to the City Council.
            2.   The City Council shall consider the recommendation, if any, of
the Plan Commission before acting on a proposal to amend the text of the zoning
ordinance. The City Council shall approve, reject, or amend the proposal as
provided by Indiana law. (See (B)(1)).
      (3)   Written commitments. When considering an amendment to the zoning
map, the Plan Commission shall require the petitioner to submit written
commitments, as specified in I.C. 36-7-4-615, which restrict the use(s) and/or
developmental standards of the proposed zoning district. If the applicant
seeking the rezoning proposes any improvements to the real estate, then the
written commitments shall specify a timeline for installation of any such
improvements that are being proposed. In the event that the improvements are
not installed as specified, the ordinance shall not take effect and shall be
considered null and void. As a condition of approval, the Plan Commission or
the City Council may also require appropriate financial guarantees to insure
the timely completion of any proposed public improvements related to the
proposed zoning district.
         (a)   Initial rezoning. Written commitments in addition to those
submitted by the petitioner may also be initiated by the Plan Commission, or by
the City Council.
         (b)   In approving written commitments, the City Council shall include
a requirement that such commitments may not be modified by the Plan Commission
without the City Council’s consent.
         (c)   Modifications or termination of commitments after initial
zoning. The Plan Commission may modify or terminate written commitments
relating to the development standards after notice is provided in accordance
with the Plan Commission rules of procedure. The modification may be initiated
by the owner of the property, by the commission, or by the City Council. The
modification must be forwarded to the City Council for final action.
         (d)   Modifications or termination of commitments involving permitted
uses may be allowed only through the same procedure as the initial rezoning. In
approving, modifying, or terminating commitments, the Plan Commission shall
consider the factors listed in (B).
         (e)   The written commitments shall be recorded in accordance with the
I.C. 36-7-4-615. Recorded commitments are binding on the owner of the parcel, a
subsequent owner of a parcel, and any person who acquires an interest in the
parcel. An ordinance amending the zoning map that includes written commitments
shall not be effective until the commitments are recorded. After the ordinance
is adopted and the commitments are recorded, the zoning map shall be amended to
indicate the new district designation with the letter "C" appended to indicate
that commitments accompany the district designation.
The commitments must be recorded within 90 days after the City Council adopts
the amendment, unless the Plan Commission grants an extension. In the event the
commitments are not recorded within the specified time, the ordinance shall not
take effect and shall be considered null and void.
         (f)   An improvement location permit shall not be issued for any
property subject to written commitments unless the use and development on the
property comply with the recorded written commitments.
         (g)   Any violations associated with written commitments are subject
to the penalties in §
157.999.
   (B)   Overlay zones.
      (1)   General.
         (a)   Overlay zones may be established by the Seymour City Council in
the same manner as an amendment to the Zoning Map. In addition to the rezoning
criteria contained in §
157.049, the City Council shall determine that the overlay district
accomplishes the following:
            1.   Protects resources of community value that have been
established by the Seymour Comprehensive Plan;
            2.   Retains and does not repeal or in any respect alter the
provisions and requirements of any other applicable local, state or federal
regulations.
         (b)   In order to establish the boundaries of an overlay district, the
Plan Commission shall conduct a survey that identifies the features the
district is intended to protect and recommends the boundaries of the area to be
included in order to accomplish the purposes of the district.
         (c)   In the event that the overlay district no longer meets the
purpose, intent and criteria of this chapter, the City Council may remove the
overlay district in the same manner as an amendment to the Zoning Map.
      (2)   U.S. 50 Highway corridor overlay zone.
      (3)   Traditional neighborhood overlay zone.
      (4)   Historic overlay zones.
   (C)   Variances.
      (1)   General.
         (a)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall grant a variance from the
terms of this chapter only if all applicable criteria are met.
         (b)   Variance applications shall be filed in accordance with the BZA
Rules of Procedure.
         (c)   Whenever the decision of the Board is conditioned upon the
petitioners compliance with a requirement imposed by the Board concerning
construction or site development (e.g., installation of landscaping, fencing,
paving, curb stops or any comparable requirement) and such condition is recited
in the notice to the petitioner of the Board's decision, petitioner shall be
required to notify the staff in writing of the timely fulfillment of such
requirement. If the time for fulfillment of the condition is stated in the
Board's decision, the written notification must be received within 90 days
after the commencement of the use or completion of construction authorized by
the Board's decision, whichever is earlier.
         (d)   Failure to comply with any conditions imposed by the Board of
Zoning Appeals shall constitute a violation enforceable by governmental
authority pursuant to the provisions of §
157.999.
         (e)   If it deems advisable, the Board may require or permit the
petitioner to make written commitments concerning the use or development of
the subject property. The commitments shall be reduced to writing in recordable
form and signed by the owner(s) of the real estate. The commitments shall
authorize their recording by the Administrative Official in the office of the
Recorder of Jackson County, Indiana.
         (f)   The Board may require in such commitment the designation of any
specially affected persons or categories of specially affected persons, who
shall be entitled to enforcement thereof pursuant to §
157.999.
         (g)   The commitments may be modified or terminated by a decision of
the Board of Zoning Appeals made at public hearing after proper notice has been
given. Any modification or termination of the commitments approved by the Board
shall not be in full force and effect until reduced to writing by the present
owner(s) of the real estate, endorsed by the Board, and recorded in the office
of the Recorder of Jackson County, Indiana.
      (2)   Use variance. The BZA may grant a request for a use variance only
if all of the following criteria are met:
         (a)   The approval will not be injurious to the public health, safety,
and general welfare of the community;
         (b)   The use and value of the area adjacent to the property included
in the variance will not be affected in a substantially adverse manner;
         (c)   The need for the variance arises from some condition peculiar to
the property involved;
         (d)   The strict application of the terms of the zoning ordinance will
constitute an unnecessary hardship if applied to the property for which the
variance is sought; and
         (e)   The approval does not interfere substantially with the
Comprehensive Plan.
      (3)   Development standards variance. The BZA may grant a request for a
development standards variance only if all of the following criteria are met:
         (a)   The approval will not be injurious to the public health, safety,
and general welfare of the community;
         (b)   The use and value of the area adjacent to the property included
in the variance will not be affected in a substantially adverse manner;
         (c)   The strict application of the terms of the zoning ordinance will
result in practical difficulties in the use of the property; and
         (d)   The variance granted is the minimum necessary and does not
correct a hardship caused by an owner, previous or present, of the property.
      (4)   Conditions and commitments. The Board may require all such
conditions and commitments as it deems necessary in the public interest. Such
conditions and commitments shall be subject to the requirements of §
157.027.
      (5)   Notice and hearing. The BZA shall give notice and hold a public
hearing as required by Indiana law and in accordance with the Board's Rules of
Procedure.
      (6)   Findings of fact. The Board shall make written findings of fact on
all applicable criteria and shall provide the applicant with a copy of the
findings.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006; Am. Ord. 11, 2010, passed 8-23-2010)
Editor’s note:
   I.C. 36-7-4-615 was repealed by P.L. 126-2011, Sec. 68.
§ 157.028 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall hear and decide only such
conditional uses as are specifically authorized by this chapter. The Board
shall approve only those conditional uses that are found to meet the criteria
in this subchapter and shall deny any conditional use that is inconsistent with
the purposes and intent of this chapter.
   (B)   The Board shall impose such safeguards and conditions on the granting
of a conditional use that the Board finds necessary to ensure that the purposes
of this chapter are met.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 157.029 CRITERIA.
   The Board shall not grant a conditional use unless it finds that the
following criteria are met, as applicable:
   (A)   There will be adequate ingress and egress to property and proposed
structures thereon with particular reference to automotive and pedestrian
safety and convenience, traffic flow and control and access in case of fire or
other catastrophe.
   (B)   Off-street parking and loading areas, will be adequate for the use.
   (C)   Adequate utilities are available to serve the use.
   (D)   Adequate landscaping and buffering will be provided.
   (E)   Signs and proposed exterior lighting will be adequate and will not be
a nuisance.
   (F)   The use will meet required setback distances, yards and other open
space provisions of this chapter.
   (G)   The use will not constitute an unfair advantage or create special
privilege to an individual.
   (H)   The conditional use is appropriate to the property and is not granted
solely for the convenience of the owner or occupant of the property.
   (I)   The proposed use will be compatible with adjoining properties, with
reference to site development standards designed for their mutual protection
and the environmental harmony of the district.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 157.030 ADMINISTRATIVE APPEALS.
   (A)   Authority. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall hear and decide appeals
where it is alleged there is error in any of the requirements, decision or
determination made by an administrative official or body charged with the
administration and enforcement of this chapter.
   (B)   Application.
      (1)   Any person aggrieved by any decision of an authorized official
concerning interpretation, administration or enforcement may file an appeal
with the BZA.
      (2)   An appeal shall specify the ground thereof and shall be filed
within 30 days of the decision alleged to be in error. The administrative
official or body from whom the appeal is taken shall forthwith transmit to the
Board all documents, plans and papers constituting the record of the action
from which the appeal is taken.
   (C)   Decision. The Board of Zoning Appeals may, so long as such action is
in conformity with this chapter, reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may
modify the order, requirements, decision or determination appealed from and may
make such order, requirements, decision or determination as in its opinion
ought to be made, and to that end shall have the powers of the administrative
official or body from whom the appeal is taken.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 157.031 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   Initiation. A petition to rezone property to PUD or to modify an
approved PUD may be filed by any of the following:
      (1)   The owners of all lots or parcels within the area proposed for
rezoning;
      (2)   In the case of a single lot or parcel with multiple owners, all
those having ownership interest in the lot or parcel.
   (B)   Hearing and decision.
      (1)   The Plan Commission shall hold a public hearing and make a
recommendation to the City Council on the proposed PUD ordinance and PUD zoning
in the same manner as for a map amendment. The Plan Commission may recommend
approval or disapproval of the rezoning request. The Commission may impose
conditions on a favorable recommendation and/or request written commitments in
accordance with §
157.027.
      (2)   The City Council may impose reasonable conditions on a proposed PUD
and allow or require the owner of the real property to make written commitments
in accordance with §
157.027.
      (3)   Adoption of the PUD ordinance by the city council constitutes final
approval of the preliminary PUD plan. After the PUD ordinance is adopted, the
Plan Commission shall exercise continuing jurisdiction. The Plan Commission is
hereby authorized to conduct secondary reviews, grant approvals, and make
modifications to approved detailed PUD plans. The Commission shall not modify
the preliminary PUD plan or any condition or commitment allowed or required by
the City Council.
   (C)   Modification procedure.
      (1)   In the exercise of its continuing jurisdiction, the Plan Commission
may from time to time allow the petitioner to modify the approved detailed PUD
in a manner consistent with the approved preliminary PUD plan to allow for
changed circumstances and conditions unforeseen at the time of original
approval. Except as provided below, such modifications shall be considered in
the same manner as the secondary review, and notice shall be given and a
hearing held in accordance with the Commission's Rules of Procedure.
      (2)   The staff is authorized to approve administrative adjustments as
specified in §
157.026.
   (D)   Review procedure.
      (1)   An application for rezoning to PUD shall include or incorporate by
reference those materials specified in the Plan Commission Rules of Procedure.
      (2)   The Plan Commission shall conduct secondary review as specified in
Indiana law and further described in this section.
      (3)   The Commission may approve a detailed PUD plan only after a public
hearing. Notice shall be given to interested parties and the hearing conducted
in accordance with the Commission's Rules of Procedure.
      (4)   No development shall take place until the Commission has approved a
detailed PUD plan. If a subdivision plat is filed in conjunction with the
detailed PUD plan, appropriate plans and details listed below may be included
on the subdivision plat rather than on the PUD plan. The detailed PUD plan or
subdivision plat shall include such information and materials as are required
by the Plan Commission Rules of Procedure.
      (5)   Approval of the detailed PUD plan shall be granted only upon a
finding by the Commission that the plan is consistent with the approved
preliminary PUD plan.
      (6)   The approved detailed PUD plan shall be marked, "Approved Detailed
Planned Unit Development," be signed by the president and secretary of the
Commission, and bear the Commission's seal. One copy shall be permanently
retained in the offices of the Plan Commission. No permits shall be issued
until the detailed plan and all accompanying documents have been recorded in
the Office of the Jackson County Recorder.
      (7)   Any decision of the Plan Commission to approve or deny approval of
a detailed PUD plan hereunder is a final decision that may be appealed to the
City Council, provided that any refusal by the Commission to approve a detailed
PUD plan shall not limit the right of the petitioner to continue to seek
approval, nor shall it impair the right of the petitioner to request an
extension of time for approval, if no appeal is filed.
      (8)   The Plan Commission may allow the petitioner to develop the
property involved in phases. If such phasing is permitted, the petitioner shall
submit detailed PUD plans that correspond to the phases involved, and the
phases shall be developed in the order approved by the Commission. Such
detailed PUD plans for phases, when approved, shall be treated in the same
manner as the approved detailed PUD plan for an entire PUD.
      (9)   Where platting, or replatting of streets within all or a portion of
the land involved is contemplated, the Plan Commission shall handle such
matters in accordance with its regular procedures in accordance with law.
      (10)   No construction or installation work shall be done on any public
improvement until satisfactory plans and specifications therefore have been
approved by the Plan Commission as part of the approved detailed PUD plan or as
part of a subdivision in accordance with the Subdivision Control Ordinance.
   (E)   Administrative adjustments.
      (1)   Administrative adjustments are permitted for changes that do not do
any of the following:
         (a)   Alter the basic relationship of the proposed development to
adjacent property.
         (b)   Change the uses permitted.
         (c)   Increase any of the following by more than 15% (this total is
cumulative for all modifications to the PUD):
            1.   The maximum density;
            2.   The maximum floor area;
            3.   The maximum height;
            4.   Decrease the amount of off-street parking to an amount not
adequate for the use. In determining the amount of parking that is adequate,
the staff shall consider the amount otherwise required by the zoning ordinance
for this use, the information available from the Institute of Traffic Engineers
and empirical studies of the parking needs for the use;
            5.   Reduce the approved yards or setbacks by more than 15%; and
            6.   Alter site ingress or egress in any way or create a
substantial change to on-site circulation, as determined by the appropriate
engineering or highway department.
      (2)   Upon receiving a request for an administrative adjustment the staff
shall have ten working days to respond to the petitioner, by either approving
or rejecting the request. An applicant may appeal the decision of the staff to
the Plan Commission.
   (F)   Abandonment or expiration.
      (1)   The City Council's approval of the preliminary PUD plan shall be
valid for two years after the date the City Council adopts the PUD ordinance.
Within this two-year period the PUD shall receive approval of the final
detailed PUD plan for the first section or the entire development. Should the
planned development not receive approval of the detailed PUD plan for at least
one section or the entire development within the two years, the City Council,
Plan Commission, or property owner may initiate a rezoning of the property. The
Plan Commission may extend the approval period, not to exceed five successive
periods of no more than two years each. The approval of the detailed PUD plan
for each section of the Preliminary PUD Plan shall extend the approval length
of the Preliminary PUD Plan for two years.
      (2)   Commission approval of a detailed PUD plan shall expire if the plan
is not recorded within six months after the approval date. Commission approval
of a detailed PUD plan shall expire after a period of five years from the
approval of a detailed PUD unless the development in any phase has been
substantially begun and pursued with due diligence. The Commission may grant
extensions of time not to exceed five successive periods of no more than two
years each. If the detailed PUD plan expires as provided in this section, the
Commission may require the plan to be resubmitted for approval, and it shall
conduct a secondary review as if the plan were a new filing. Alternatively, the
Commission may opt to initiate a rezoning of the property to a classification
other than PUD.
       (3)   A development approved under this chapter shall be deemed to be
abandoned or discontinued if it has expired under (F) above or when no
improvements have been made pursuant to the detailed PUD plan for a period of
24 consecutive months. When a PUD has been abandoned or discontinued, the
detailed PUD plan shall no longer be valid, and no development shall be
permitted until the plan is re-approved, and/or the property is rezoned.
   (G)   Permits and enforcement.
      (1)   The staff shall not issue any permit for development or
improvements in a PUD district unless all recording required by this chapter
has been effected. No certificate of completion or occupancy shall be issued
for a PUD district unless the development complies with the approved detailed
PUD.
      (2)   All development shall be in conformity with the approved detailed
PUD. In the exercise of its continuing jurisdiction, the Plan Commission shall
take cognizance of any material deviations from the approved detailed PUD and
take appropriate enforcement action. Only those uses shown on the approved
detailed PUD Plan shall be permitted; all other uses are prohibited.
   (H)   Covenants and maintenance; financial guarantees.
      (1)   Covenants may be required by the Commission as an ingredient for
stability and longevity of the PUD. If submitted, the covenants shall set forth
in detail provisions for the ownership, administration, and maintenance of
facilities held in common so as to ensure their continuity and conservation.
Such covenant provisions shall include specific remedies in the event
facilities held in common are permitted to deteriorate or are not maintained in
a condition consistent with the best interests of the city, and in such event
the city, may take those remedial steps provided for such provision. The
covenants shall be recorded with the detailed PUD plan.
      (2)   The Commission may require the recording of covenants for any
reasonable public or semipublic purpose, including but not limited to the
allocation of land by the petitioner for public thoroughfares, parks, schools,
recreational facilities and other public and semipublic purposes wherever
necessary in conformity with the land use plan of current adoption. Such
covenants may provide that if a governmental unit or agency thereof does not
proceed with acquisition of the allocated land within the specified period of
time, the applicable elements of the covenants shall automatically terminate.
If such termination occurs, the petitioner shall then submit for approval by
the Commission a modified detailed PUD plan for such land consistent with the
approved preliminary PUD plan. Such modified detailed PUD plans, when approved,
shall be treated in the same manner as approved detailed PUD plans for an
entire PUD.
      (3)   The Commission may require the recording of covenants for any other
reasonable purpose, including but not limited to imposing standards for
development of property in a PUD. Such development standards may include, but
are not limited to, requirements as to the following:
         (a)   Lot area;
         (b)   Floor area;
         (c)   Ratios of floor space to land area;
         (d)   Buildable area or the area in which structures may be built;
         (e)   Open space;
         (f)   Setback lines and minimum yards;
         (g)   Building separations;
         (h)   Height of structures;
         (i)   Signs;
         (j)   Off-street parking and loading space;
         (k)   Design standards; and
         (l)   Phasing of development.
      (4)   Enforcement of the covenants shall be the responsibility of the
property owners, unless the city is, with its consent, specifically made a
party to one or more covenants. Public enforcement shall apply only to those
covenants to which a public entity is a party.
      (5)   The petitioner shall provide financial assurance for the
satisfactory installation of all public facilities in the form of bonds or such
other assurances as are required in the normal procedures of platting pursuant
to the provisions of the Subdivision Control Ordinance.
      (6)   Adequate provision shall be made for a private organization with
direct responsibility to and control by the property owners involved to provide
for the operation and maintenance of all common facilities, including private
streets. Assurances or guarantees, satisfactory to the Plan Commission shall be
provided to demonstrate that the private organization is self-perpetuating and
adequately funded to accomplish its purposes.
      (7)   Common facilities that are not dedicated to the public shall be
maintained to standards assuring continuous and adequate maintenance at a
reasonable and nondiscriminatory rate of charge to the beneficiaries thereof.
Common facilities not dedicated to the public shall be operated and maintained
at no expense to any governmental unit.
      (8)   All private streets shall be maintained by the responsible private
organization in such a manner that adequate access is provided at all times to
vehicular traffic, so that fire, police, health, sanitation and public utility
vehicles can serve the properties contiguous or adjacent thereto, and so that
such vehicles will have adequate maneuvering area. Such private streets shall
be developed in accordance with the Subdivision Control Ordinance.
      (9)   As a condition of approval, the Plan Commission and/or City Council
shall require any appropriate financial guarantees to insure the timely
completion of any improvement related to the PUD as required by the Subdivision
Control Ordinance.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 157.032 DEVELOPMENT PLANS.
   (A)   Primary approval.
      (1)   An applicant for development plan approval shall submit an
application accompanied by all information, materials and fees required by the
Plan Commission Rules of Procedure.
      (2)   The Plan Commission shall determine if the development plan is
consistent with the comprehensive plan; and satisfies the development
requirements specified in this chapter.
      (3)   The Plan Commission may do the following:
         (a)   Impose conditions on the approval of a development plan if the
conditions are reasonably necessary to satisfy the development requirements
specified in the zoning ordinance for approval of the development plan.
         (b)   Provide that approval of a development plan is conditioned on
the furnishing to the Plan Commission of a bond or written assurance that:
            1.   Guarantees the timely completion of a proposed public
improvement in the proposed development; and
            2.   Is satisfactory to the Plan Commission.
         (c)   Permit or require the owner of real property to make a written
commitment as provided in §
157.027(A)(3).
      (4)   The Plan Commission shall make written findings concerning each
decision to approve or disapprove a development plan. The Plan Commission
president is hereby designated as the official authorized to sign the written
findings.
   (B)   Secondary approval. The staff is hereby authorized to grant secondary
approval of Development Plans. After meeting all conditions of primary
approval, the applicant may submit the development plan for secondary approval.
The staff shall review the application and if all conditions have been met, the
staff shall grant secondary approval. Any refusal to grant secondary approval
may be appealed to the Plan Commission.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
ZONE DISTRICTS
§ 157.045 GENERAL.
   (A)   Districts established. The city is hereby divided into zoning
districts as detailed in this subchapter to carry out the purposes of this
chapter. These districts are described in this subchapter. The boundaries are
as shown on the official zoning map.
   (B)   Overlay districts. In addition to all requirements of the underlying
zoning district, overlay districts are subject to any additional regulations
superimposed by the terms of this chapter.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 157.046 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Purpose. The residential districts in this section are created for the
following purposes:
      (1)   Provide appropriately located areas for a variety of types of
residential development that are consistent with the Seymour Comprehensive Plan
and with standards of public health and safety established by this chapter and
any other appropriate governmental body;
      (2)   Ensure adequate light, air, privacy and open space for each
dwelling;
      (3)   Insulate residents from the harmful effects of excessive noise,
population density, traffic congestion, and other significant adverse
environmental effects;
      (4)   Protect residential areas from fires, explosions, toxic fumes and
substances, and other public safety hazards;
      (5)   Provide sites for public and semipublic land uses needed to
complement residential development or requiring a residential environment; and
      (6)   Ensure the provision of public services and facilities needed to
accommodate planned population densities.
   (B)   Districts. The residential districts listed below are hereby created
in the city and its jurisdictional area, for the purposes stated.
      (1)   RS, suburban residential district. The purpose of the RS district
is to accommodate residential subdivisions on relatively large parcels in
developing areas of the community. For areas not served by public sewers, the
lot sizes will be increased to properly accommodate septic systems.
      (2)   RS-1, suburban residential district. The purpose of the RS -
1 district is to accommodate existing and new residential subdivisions served
by approved infrastructure. This district is intended for single-family
development on relatively large parcels.
      (3)   R-1, urban residential district. The purpose of the R-1 district is
to accommodate existing
high-density residential development and infill development in urban areas
served by approved infrastructure.
      (4)   R-2, multifamily residential district. The purpose of the R-
2 district is to accommodate multifamily dwellings in appropriate locations
served by approved infrastructure.
      (5)   R-3, neighborhood residential district.  The purpose of the R-
3 district is to protect and enhance older neighborhoods in Seymour. These
neighborhoods often contain a mixture of housing types on relatively small
lots.
      (6)   R-4, manufactured home district. The purpose R-4 district is to
provide suitable locations for manufactured housing developments in areas
served by approved infrastructure.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 157.047 COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Purpose. The commercial districts are established for the following
purposes:
      (1)   To provide appropriately located areas for a full range of office
and commercial uses for Seymour residents, visitors, businesses, and workers;
      (2)   To strengthen Seymour's economic base, and to provide employment
opportunities; and
      (3)   To create suitable environments for various types of commercial
uses, and protect them from the adverse effects of incompatible uses.
   (B)   Districts. The commercial districts listed below are hereby created in
the city and its jurisdictional area, for the purposes stated.
      (1)   C-1, Neighborhood commercial district. The C-1, neighborhood
commercial district, is intended to provide suitable locations for businesses
provided goods and services needed on a day-to-day basis by nearby residents.
      (2)   C-2, general commercial district. The C-2, general commercial
district, is intended to provide suitable locations for establishments offering
a full range of goods and services to the public.
      (3)   C-3, highway commercial district. The C-3, highway commercial
district, is intended to provide suitable locations for establishments offering
goods and services to the traveling public and to accommodate those businesses
that require highway locations and large traffic volumes.
      (4)   C-4, central business district.  The C-4, central business
district, is intended as the traditional center of commerce for the city. This
district is characterized by traditional downtown development patterns and
uses, including buildings located close to the street, pedestrian orientation,
financial and government centers, retail and entertainment uses.
      (5)   C-5, commercial industrial district. The C-5, commercial industrial
district, is intended to provide suitable locations for uses that have
characteristics of both commercial and industrial uses, such as office/
warehouse development, light manufacturing with a retail component, or storage
uses with showrooms.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 157.048 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS.
   The industrial districts listed are hereby created in the city and its
jurisdictional area, for the purposes stated.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The industrial districts are established for the
following purposes:
      (1)   To provide appropriately located areas consistent with the Seymour
Comprehensive Plan for a variety of industrial uses;
      (2)   To strengthen the city's economic base, and provide employment
opportunities close to home for residents of the city and surrounding
communities;
      (3)   To create suitable environments for various types of and industrial
uses, and protect them from the adverse effects of incompatible uses;
   (B)   Districts.
      (1)   I-1, enclosed industrial district. The I-1, enclosed industrial
district, is intended to provide suitable locations for manufacturing or
research operations that are conducted entirely within enclosed buildings and
do not emit nuisance factors such as noise, air pollution, heat or glare
outside of the buildings.
      (2)   I-2, general industrial district. The I-2, general industrial
district, is intended to provide suitable locations for industrial operations
that require outside storage of materials or goods and which may have nuisance
factors that make them incompatible in other areas.
      (3)   I-3, Industrial park district. The I-3, industrial park district,
is intended to provide for development of new industrial areas, planned as a
unit and providing a campus-like environment for new economic enterprises.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 157.049 OVERLAY DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The purpose of the overlay districts is to
accommodate special situations that are not generally appropriate to a zoning
district. Overlay districts are areas representing a significant community
resource. The overlay zones may encompass one or more underlying zoning
districts, and the provisions of the overlay district are superimposed upon the
property included in the district. An overlay district is shown on the zoning
district map and constitutes a second level of development standards in
addition to those specified by the underlying zoning district.
   (B)   Districts.  
      (1)   O-1, US 50 corridor overlay district.  The O-1, US 50 corridor
overlay district, is intended to provide an attractive business corridor
through Seymour, with appropriate traffic access control, landscaping, and
other features.
      (2)   O-2, traditional neighborhood overlay district. The O-2,
traditional neighborhood overlay district is intended to preserve traditional
neighborhood patterns (including building size, mass, placement, etc.) and uses
(including mixed use) and to encourage compatible infill development.
      (3)   O-3, historic overlay district. The O-3, historic overlay district,
is intended to protect and conserve existing buildings and areas of historic
significance.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 157.050 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Residential districts. The following shows the uses permitted in
residential districts. These uses are subject to the standards set forth in §
157.046.
Residential Districts
P= Permitted, C= Conditional
Use RS RS-1 R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4
Use                               RS RS-1 R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4
Agricultural uses
   Farm buildings              P
   Paddocks                    C
   Keeping and raising of animaCs
   Raising of crops            P
Residential uses
   Single-family dwelling      P  P    P       P   C
   Two-family dwelling                 C       P
   Multi-family dwelling                   P   P
   Townhouse                               P   P
   Manufactured home           C  C    C       C   P
   Manufactured home park                          P
   Manufactured home subdivision                   P
Commercial uses
   Bed and breakfast use       C  C    C       P
   Rooming house               C  C    C       P
Use RS RS-1 R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4
Use                                             RS      RS-1 R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4
   Plant nursery                             C       C
   Boat storage                              C       C    C   C       C
   Marina                                    C       C    C   C       C
   Pet kennel                                C       C
   Riding stable or equine                   C       C
   Boarding facility
   Campground or RV park                     C       C
   Home business                             See §
                                                157.096
Institutional or recreational uses
   Nursing home or assisted living facility  C       C    C   C   C   C
   Public building                           C       C    C   C   C   C
   Public or semipublic park or recreational P       P    P   P   P   P
facility
   Private park or recreational facility     C       C    C   C   C   C
   Private club or lodge                     C       C    C   C   C   C
   Public or private school                  P       P    P   P   P   P
   Boarding school                           C       C    C   C   C   C
   Religious facility                        P       P    P   P   P   P
   Cemetery                                  C       C    C   C   C   C
   Waste disposal facility                   C       C
   Jail or person                            C       C
 
   (B)   Commercial uses.
Commercial Districts
P=Permitted, C= Conditional uses
Use C-1 C-2 C-3 C-4 C-5
Use                                   C-1 C-2 C-3 C-4 C-5
Residential uses
   Single-family dwelling          P         P1   
   Two-family dwelling             C             
   Multi-family dwelling           C         P1   
   Rooming house                   C             
Commercial uses
   Animal service, major              P   P      P
   Animal service, minor           C   P   P   P   P
   Automotive service, major          C   P      P
   Automotive service, minor       C   P          
   Business service                P   P   P   P   P
   Commercial center               P   P   P   C   P
   Commercial recreation, indoor   C   P   P   C   P
   Commercial recreation, use outdo   C   P   C   C
   Enclosed mall                      P   P   C    
   Health service, major              P   P   C   C
   Health service, minor           P   P   P   P   P
   Outdoor sales                               P
   Outdoor retail sales               C   P   C   P
   Parking lot or garage           C   C   C   C   C
   Personal service                P   P   P   P   P
   Professional office             P   P   P   P   P
   Retail, big box                    C   P       
   Retail, general                    P   P   P   P
Use C-1 C-2 C-3 C-4 C-5
Use                                                   C-1 C-2 C-3 C-4 C-5
   Retail service                                  P   P   P   P   P
   Storage, major                                     C   P      P
   Storage, minor                                  C   P   P   C   P
   Theater or similar entertainment                C   P   P   P   C
   Travel-oriented business                        C   P   P   C   P
Industrial uses
   Research and development                           P   P   C   P
   Other industrial                                C   C   C   C   C
Institutional uses
   Personal care                                      P   P   P    
   Public building                                 P   P   P   P   P
   Public or semipublic park or recreational faciliPy  P   P   P   P
   Private club or lodge                           C   P   P   P   P
   Public or private school                        P   P   P   P    
   Boarding school                                    C   C   C    
   Religious facility                              P   P   P   P   P
   Cemetery                                        C   C   C   C   C
 
1 Residences are not permitted on the ground floor
   (C)   Industrial uses.
Industrial Districts
P = Permitted, C = Conditional use
Use I-1 I-2 I-3
Use                                 I-1 I-2 I-3
Commercial uses
   Automotive service, major     C   P   P
   Business service              P   P   P
   Health service, minor         P   P   P
   Office                        P   P   P
   Retail service                P   P   P
Industrial uses
   Manufacturing                 P   P   P
   Mass transit terminals           C   P
   Processing                    C   P   P
   Processing and warehousing    C   P   P
   Junkyard                         P    
   Research and development      P   P   P
   Storage, major                P   P   P
   Other industrial              C   P   P
Institutional uses
   Public building               P   P   P
   Religious facility            P   C   P
   Semipublic recreational faciliCy  C   P
 
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006; Am. Ord. 17, 2023, passed 8-28-2023)
§ 157.051 STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO ALL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Performance standards.
   (1)   Noise.
         (a)   No uses or activities shall create noise levels for more than
five minutes in any hour that exceed those shown on the following table.
Maximum Noise Levels
                                                         Maximum nighttime
                      Maximum Noise Level (dBA)          noise level (dBA) 9:00
Zoning classification                                    p.m. to 7:00 a.m.
                      At property line At residential    At residential
                                       district boundary district boundary
RS, RS-1              65               65                50
R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4    50
C-, C-2, C-3, C-4  65               60                50
C-5, I-1, I-2, I-3    70               60                50
Mixed use             65               60                50
Public/institutional  65               60                50
 
         (b)   Noise that is produced for no more than a cumulative period of
five minutes in any hour may exceed the above standards by a maximum of five
dBA, except between the hours of 9:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.
         (c)   Noise that is produced for no more than a cumulative period of
one minute in any hour may exceed the above standard by ten dBA, except between
the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m..
         (d)   Mechanical and electrical equipment shall provide adequate
shielding and baffling so that noise levels from such equipment will not exceed
the above noise levels.
         (e)   Noise shall be measured with a sound level meter that meets the
standards of the American National Standards Institute. Noise levels shall be
measured in decibels on a sound level meter using the A-weighted filter network
(dBA). Calibration checks of the instrument shall be made at the time any noise
measurement is made.
         (f)   Occasional sounds generated by public safety vehicles, tornado
warning systems, railroad equipment, agricultural equipment, and similar
activities are exempt from these standards.
      (2)   Odor. Except in the RS District, no continuous, frequent, or
repetitive odors that are perceptible on or beyond adjacent property lines are
prohibited. An odor detected no more than a total of 15 minutes in any one day
shall not be deemed to be continuous, frequent, or repetitive.
      (3)   Sewage disposal. Plans and specifications for proposed sewage
disposal facilities shall be submitted to and a written approval obtained from
the Indiana Department of Environmental Management or other agency having
jurisdiction over such system.
      (4)   Storm drainage.  For all development other than a one- or two-
family dwelling, plans and specifications for proposed storm drainage
facilities shall be certified by a registered engineer and submitted to and
written approval obtained from the Board of Public Works and Safety.
   (B)   Use of lots. In any district, no more than one primary structure and
its customary accessory uses shall be located on a single lot; except that
primary structures designed and platted as a single unit under single ownership
and control, such as a multifamily residential project or commercial center are
permitted on a single lot.
   (C)   Access and frontage. Every building hereafter erected or moved shall
be located on a lot with frontage and access on a public street, or with
frontage and access to an approved private street or access easement, and all
buildings shall be so located on lots as to provide for safe and convenient
access, on-site circulation, fire protection, and required off-street parking.
   (D)   Storage. No portion of any required yard shall be used for the
permanent storage of motor vehicles, trailers, airplanes, boats or parts
thereof or of any rubbish, garbage, junk, tent or building materials, except
during construction and in accordance with the terms of this chapter. Permanent
storage for purpose of this section shall be construed as the presence of such
storage for a period of 48 consecutive hours in any one-week period.
   (E)   Intersection visibility.  
      (1)   A clear line of sight between a height of 2.5 feet and eight feet
above the centerline grades shall be maintained within 15 feet of all rights-
of-way.
      (2)   At intersecting streets and drives nothing shall be erected,
placed, planted or allowed to grow in such a manner as to impede vision within
the "visibility triangle" (See figure on following page). The "visibility
triangle" is hereby established as follows:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dbbc9b9e11c1086bd5e62848c5bbdaa09aab0120/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2443.jpg]
Sight Distance Restrictions at Intersections
         (a)   For corner lots, the triangle is defined as the area formed by
connecting a point 20 feet from the intersection of the right-of-way lines.
         (b)   When a driveway or alley intersects with a local or collector
street, the visibility triangle is formed by the center lines of the driveway
or alley and the street and a line connecting points 18 feet for driveways and
alleys and 75 feet for local and collector streets.
         (c)   When a driveway or alley intersects with an arterial street, the
visibility triangle is formed by the center lines of driveways, alleys and
streets and a line connecting points 18 feet for driveways and alleys and 160
feet for arterial streets. (See figure on following page.)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dbbc9b9e11c1086bd5e62848c5bbdaa09aab0120/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2446.jpg]
Sight Triangle for Driveway for Alley
      (3)   Notwithstanding (E)(1), above, plantings, structures and other
improvements may be permitted within the visibility triangle if the city
engineer makes a determination that such improvement will not impede
visibility.
      (4)   Plantings, structures and other improvements within the visibility
triangle shall be reviewed and approved by the City Engineer where road
intersections or driveway/alley access points occur at angles other than 90o or
where the slope of the cross street exceeds 3%.
      (5)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to official warning
signs or signals necessary to the public safety.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 157.052 STANDARDS FOR CONDUCT OF USES IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Residential uses.
      (1)   Dwelling units.
         (a)   Residential dwelling units shall be used only as living quarters
and shall not be used for business purposes except for home-based businesses
meeting the standards of this chapter.
         (b)   Every dwelling unit shall be set on a permanent ground-set
foundation which shall include an exterior wall of stone, concrete, brick, or
masonry product.
         (c)   Each single-family dwelling shall comply with the following
standards:
            1.   The dwelling shall be at least 24 feet wide at its narrowest
dimension.
            2.   The primary entrance to a dwelling shall be facing the street,
unless otherwise required for handicap access.
            3.   The roof pitch shall not be less than 5:12.
            4.   The dwelling unit shall be set on a permanent ground set
foundation which shall include an exterior wall of stone, concrete, brick, or
other masonry product, or any material complying with the Indiana Building
Code.
            5.   The dwelling shall include a minimum of three of the
following:
               a.   Covered porch;
               b.   Deck;
               c.   Use of more than one exterior material or color along the
front of the home;
               d.   Covered front doorway;
               e.   Recesses, projections or significant offsets in wall plane;
               f.   Bay window or dormer;
               g.   Shutters; and
               h.   Change in roof plane.
         (d)   Any manufactured home that does not comply with the criteria in
§
157.087 shall be permitted only in manufactured home parks or manufactured home
subdivisions as specified in this section.
      (2)   Rooming house.
         (a)   The property owner shall reside on the premises.
         (b)   No separate structures, garages, or outbuildings shall be used
as boarding rooms.
         (c)   Bathroom(s) and kitchen shall be accessible without exiting the
dwelling and reentering through another door.
         (d)   Parking shall comply with §
157.086.
   (B)   Business uses.
      (1)   Bed and breakfast use.
         (a)   There shall be a maximum of five guest rooms in a bed and
breakfast use.
         (b)   In RS districts, there shall be one off-street parking space for
each guest room plus two off-street parking spaces for the owners or operators
of the bed and breakfast use.
         (c)   The operator of the bed and breakfast use shall reside within
the dwelling containing it.
         (d)   Breakfast shall be served only to guests staying on the
premises, not to the general public.
         (e)   Bed and breakfast uses may offer occasional special events only
if the Board of Zoning Appeals grants a conditional use permit for such uses.
The permit shall state the limitations and requirements relating to the use.
      (2)   Home-based business. See §
157.096.
      (3)   Campground or recreational vehicle park.
         (a)   See §
157.055, Kennel.
         (b)   Outdoor runs or any other facility not within an enclosed
building shall be set back at least 200 feet from each property line abutting a
residential district or an institutional use, and, at least 50 feet from any
other property line.
   (C)   Institutional uses.
      (1)   Religious facility. Religious facilities shall comply with all
development standards of this chapter, including but not limited to lot size,
setbacks, and off-street parking.
      (2)   Park or recreational facility. A park or recreational facility that
is approved as part of a subdivision plat does not require Board of Zoning
Appeals approval but instead is subject to any conditions imposed by the Plan
Commission as part of the subdivision approval.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 157.053 STANDARDS FOR CONDUCT OF USES IN BUSINESS DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Development plans. All development of commercial centers or structures
larger than 20,000 square feet in business districts is subject to development
plan approval, as provided in §
157.032.
   (B)   Residential uses.  In the C-1 and C-4 districts, single-family
residences are permitted only in the same building with one or more commercial
uses. In the C-2, C-3, and C-5 districts, detached single-family residences are
allowed only as accessory uses to commercial uses, such housing for on-site
managers or security personnel (§
157.055, Accessory uses).
   (C)   Establishment size. In the C-1 district, no individual establishment
may exceed 8,000 square feet of gross floor area.
   (D)   Manufactured homes. Structures designed as manufactured homes shall
not be used as commercial structures unless they are located within
manufactured home parks or manufactured home subdivisions.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 157.054 STANDARDS FOR CONDUCT OF USES IN INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Environmental compliance. All uses shall comply with all federal and
state environmental standards and regulations.
   (B)   Development plan. Industrial development in the I-3 district or any
industrial building larger than 40,000 sq. ft. in the I-1 or I-2 district is
permitted only in accordance with a development plan approved pursuant to §
157.032.
   (C)   Storage. All materials shall be stored within buildings or screened
from view.
      (1)   Outdoor storage is permitted provided that the storage area is
screened with an opaque fence or landscaping. Opaque fencing shall be composed
of wood, masonry, or an equivalent synthetic material. Chain link fences with
opaque slats are not permitted. No materials or objects shall be stored outside
of the fence, and no materials or objects shall extend above the fence.
      (2)   Outdoor display of and sale of products is permitted, provided that
the display and sales area is approved as part of the development plan required
under §
157.032.
      (3)   Junkyards shall be screened from view from all streets and all
neighboring properties. Screening shall include an opaque fence that is at
least six feet and not more than nine feet high. No materials or objects shall
be displayed or stored outside of the fence, and no materials or objects shall
extend above the fence.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 157.055 ACCESSORY USES.
   Accessory uses shall be permitted in all zone districts in accordance with
the sections of this chapter. In order to further the objectives of the
Comprehensive Plan, to promote public safety and general welfare, and to
encourage the development and maintenance of attractive residential,
commercial, industrial, and open space areas, limitations are placed on the
nature, bulk, height, extent, and placement of accessory uses.
   (A)   General requirements. Accessory uses shall meet the following
criteria:
      (1)   The use shall be incidental and subordinate to and commonly
associated with the operation of the primary use of the lot.
      (2)   An accessory use shall be operated and maintained under the same
ownership or control and on the same lot as the primary use. When a platted lot
or other lot described by deed as a single parcel is interrupted by a right-of-
way, the principal building and accessory building may be on noncontiguous
parcels, provided that the parcels would be contiguous if the right-of-way were
disregarded. Such parcels may not be sold separately but shall in perpetuity be
considered as single lots, unless they are subdivided through the platting
process in accordance with the Seymour Subdivision Control Ordinance.
      (3)   Accessory uses shall be clearly subordinate in height, area, bulk,
extent and purpose to the primary use served.
      (4)   All accessory uses shall comply with the setback requirements of
this chapter, unless the accessory use is listed as exempt.
      (5)   Accessory uses shall not be established prior to the primary use,
unless a temporary permit is obtained in accordance with §
157.056.
      (6)   The accessory uses shown on the following tables are permitted as
indicated, subject to the additional provisions and limitations contained in
this section. This list is not all-inclusive, and uses the staff deems similar
or equivalent are to be treated in like manner to those listed. A staff
decision under this section may be appealed to the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   (B)   Permitted accessory uses.
       (1)   Residential districts.
   Permitted Accessory Uses Residential Districts
   P = Permitted, C = Conditional use
 
Use                                        RS, RS-1 R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4
Accessory apartment                        C        C       P
Garage, carport                            P        P   P   P   P
Clubhouse or community building            P        P   C   P
Convenience store                                           C   P
Patio, canopy, deck, porch                 P        P   P   P   P
Parking space for RV or commercial vehicle P        P   P   P   P
Use RS, RS-1 R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4
Use                              RS, RS-1 R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4
Cabana, bathhouse, playhouse     P        P   P   P   P
Storage shed                     P        P   P   P   P
Greenhouse                       P        P       P
Guesthouse                       C        C       C
Play equipment, gazebo, doghouse P        P   P   P   P
Swimming pool, tennis court      P        P   P   P   P
Amateur radio antenna            P        P       P
Stable or riding facility        C
Pet kennel                       C
Management office, laundry       C            P   C   P
 
      (2)   Commercial districts.
 
Use                    C-1 C-2 C-3 C-4 C-5
Antenna                P   P   P   P   P
Caretaker dwelling         P   P       P
Drive-through window   P   P   P   P   P
Enclosed storage       C   P   P   C   P
Outdoor retail sales       P   P   C   P
Wireless communication C   C   C   C   C
 
Use                                                        C-1 C-2 C-3 C-4 C-5
Tower
Other use customarily associated with and subordinate to a P   P   P   P   P
permitted use
 
      (3)   Industrial districts.
Use I-1 I-2 I-3
Use                                                        I-1 I-2 I-3
Antenna                                                    P   P   P
Caretaker dwelling                                         P   P   P
Child care facility for company employees                  P   P   P
Enclosed storage                                           P   P   P
Outdoor storage                                            C   P   P
Office                                                     P   P   P
Retail sales of company products                           P   P   P
Wireless communication tower                               C   C   C
Other use customarily associated with and subordinate to a P   P   P
permitted use
 
   (C)   Accessory use standards. 
      (1)   General.
         (a)   Fences and walls.
            1.   Ornamental fences, walls and structural screens may be
permitted in any required side or rear yard or setback distance; in accordance
with the accessory structure height requirements of the respective zone
district. Ornamental fences, walls and structural screens may be permitted in
any required front yard in accordance with the accessory structure height
requirements of the respective zone district; provided, that no fence, wall, or
structural screen in a front yard toward which a structure is oriented may be
allowed to exceed 42 inches in height. The height shall be determined by
measurement perpendicular from the nearest ground level.
            2.   Nothing contained in this section shall be deemed to prohibit
the erection or maintenance of an open fence in connection with agricultural
uses, recreation use or the public safety or a security fence in nonresidential
districts.
            3.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to retaining
walls.
      (2)   Residential districts.
         (a)   Garages and carports shall be used only for the storage of
vehicles and equipment that are clearly incidental and subordinate to the
residential use. In these districts, open off-street motor vehicle parking and
loading areas are permitted, provided, that not more than one such space shall
be provided for a commercial vehicle of more than three-ton manufacturer's
rating.
         (b)   Clubhouses or community buildings shall be for use by residents
of the neighborhood or subdivision in which they are located and not available
to the general public.
         (c)   Convenience stores shall be for use only by residents of the
multifamily dwelling development or manufactured home park in which they the
store is located. Such stores shall be oriented to the interior of the
development and shall not be so located or designed as to draw the attention of
non-residents.
         (d)   No more than two recreational vehicles may be stored in the
open. In districts allowing residences, recreational vehicles stored in the
open must be placed in a side or rear yard.
         (e)   In the R-1 and R-3 districts, greenhouses shall not be larger
than 200 square feet in area and shall not be used for commercial purposes.
         (f)   Amateur radio sending and receiving antennae, including masts,
shall not exceed 100 feet measured from finished lot grade.
         (g)   Signs shall comply with the requirements of §
157.055.
         (h)   Swimming pools shall comply with all Indiana safety regulations.
         (i)   Apartment management offices and other facilities normally
associated with tenants' convenience shall be only for the use of residents of
the multifamily complex. There shall be no exterior display, and the facilities
shall not be available to the general public.
         (j)   Unless otherwise stated in this chapter, standards for accessory
uses allowed only as conditional uses shall be subject to those standards
deemed appropriate by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
      (3)   Commercial districts.
         (a)   Antennas associated with the operation of the business are
permitted. Antennas for other businesses, such as wireless communication
towers, shall be permitted only in accordance with §
157.115. Wireless communication towers as accessory uses must be one of the
following:
            1.   An alternative tower structure as defined in §
157.115;
            2.   Co-located with an already existing telecommunications
facility.
            3.   Located on the roof of an associated principal building
provided the telecommunications facilities do not exceed the maximum height in
the zone district by a more than 20 feet.
         (b)   Caretaker dwellings are restricted to occupancy by a person
employed on the premises.
         (c)   Storage and display.
            1.   All materials shall be stored within buildings or screened
from view.
            2.   In the C-1 and C-4 districts, there shall be no outdoor
storage of equipment or goods. Outside display of items for sale is permitted,
provided that such display does not block public sidewalks and does not occupy
an area greater than 5% of the floor area of the building.
            3.   In the C-2, C-3, and C-5 districts, outdoor storage is
permitted provided that the storage area is screened with an opaque fence or
landscaping. Opaque fencing shall be composed of wood, masonry, or an
equivalent synthetic material. Chain link fences with opaque slats are not
permitted.
         (d)   Drive-through windows.
            1.   Drive-through windows shall comply with the standards for
stacking spaces in §
157.085(H)(1) and the on-site traffic circulation shall be approved by the city
engineer.
            2.   In the C-1 and C-3 Districts, drive-through windows are
permitted in business districts only if the drive-through arrangement is
approved as part of the Development Plan required under §
157.054.
      (4)   Industrial districts.
         (a)   Antennas associated with the operation of the business are
permitted. Antennas for other businesses, such as wireless communication
towers, shall be permitted only in accordance with §
157.115.
         (b)   Caretaker dwellings are restricted to occupancy by a person
employed on the premises.
         (c)   Child care is restricted to family members of persons employed
on the premises and shall not be available to the general public.
         (d)   All materials shall be stored within buildings or screened from
view with an opaque fence or landscaping. Opaque fencing shall be composed of
wood, masonry, or an equivalent synthetic material. Chain link fences with
opaque slats are not permitted. The height of stored materials shall not exceed
the height of the opaque screen. Company products may be displayed outdoors
provided that such display does not occupy an area greater than 1,000 square
feet.
         (e)   Offices are permitted only as accessory to the principal use on
the premises, and not as separate uses.
(Ord. 17-2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 157.056 TEMPORARY USES.
   (A)   Permitted uses. Temporary uses are permitted, subject to the time
limits and regulations contained in this section. Permitted temporary uses
include those listed below.
      (1)   Manufactured home as a temporary residence to house a person in
need of care on the same lot with another dwelling. The manufactured home must
be located in the side or rear yard, and it must be used either as a residence
for a person acting as a care-provider for someone living in the other dwelling
unit, or by a person who is being cared for by someone living in the other
dwelling unit on the parcel. At least one of the occupants must be over the age
of 65, or in ill health or at a level of dependency where on-site care is
necessary, as certified by a physician. After a two-year period, the petitioner
must update documentation of the continuing medical condition to staff. The
manufactured home must be removed as soon as it is no longer needed for the
care arrangement. Such manufactured home shall have an approved sewage disposal
system and be provided with perimeter skirting.
      (2)   Manufactured home as temporary housing while a permanent dwelling
is being constructed, reconstructed, or undergoing a major renovation, for a
maximum of two years.
      (3)   Temporary office, model home or model apartment and incidental
signs thereof, both incidental and necessary for the sale, rental or lease of
real property in the zone district for a maximum of 18 months.
      (4)   Construction of an accessory structure prior to the primary use,
only if a building permit has been issued for the principal use. The maximum
time the accessory structure may be used prior to issuance of a certificate of
occupancy for the principal use is six months.
      (5)   Noncommercial concrete batching plant incidental and necessary to
construction, for a maximum of 18 months.
      (6)   Temporary building or yard for construction materials and
equipment, both incidental and necessary to construction for a maximum of 18
months.
      (7)   Special event (such as a festival or carnival) for a maximum of 30
days.
      (8)   Bazaars, carnivals, rummage or garage sales and similar temporary
uses, for a maximum of ten days in any calendar year.
      (9)   Sale of Christmas trees or other seasonal items for a maximum of 60
days.
      (10)   Parking of recreational vehicles in agricultural or residential
areas for visitation for a maximum of 15 days. Parking of such vehicles for
short-term occupancy in non-residential districts is prohibited.
      (11)   Construction trailers as a temporary office during the period of
construction and development.
      (12)   A recreational vehicle may be used for the following temporary
purposes:
         (a)   A public health program sponsored by a public health department.
         (b)   A program sponsored by any unit of government.
         (c)   A carnival or other public affair or function authorized by
proper authority.
      (13)   Other similar uses deemed temporary by the staff and attached with
such time period, conditions and safeguards as the staff may deem necessary.
   (B)   Standards, prohibitions and restrictions.
      (1)   Adequate access and off-street parking facilities shall be
provided, and the use shall not interfere with traffic movement on adjacent
streets.
      (2)   No public address systems or other noise producing devices shall be
permitted in a residential district. These systems are permitted for auctions
in any district where auctions are permitted.
      (3)   Any floodlights or other lighting shall be directed upon the
premises and shall not be detrimental to adjacent properties.
      (4)   The lot shall be put in clean condition, devoid of temporary use
remnants upon termination of the temporary period
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 157.057 STOREFRONT FIRST-FLOOR RESIDENCIES.
   (A)   Purpose. To prohibit use of the storefront portion of the first-floor
of any structure in the Downtown Business District from use and occupancy as a
residence or living area.  
   (B)   Definitions.  
      DOWNTOWN BUSINESS DISTRICT.  Restricted areas shall include the
geographic area bounded by Fourth Street on the North, Ewing Street on the
East, Bruce Street on the South, and Pine Street on the West.
   (C)   Use in Downtown Business District prohibited.  No person shall use the
storefront portion of the first-floor of any structure in the Downtown Business
District, commonly designated C-4, Central Business District, as a residence or
living area.
      (1)   The Zoning Code provides that the Central Business District is
intended as a traditional center of commerce for the city. This district is
characterized by traditional downtown developmental patterns and uses,
including buildings located close to the street, pedestrian orientation,
financial and governmental centers, retail and entertainment uses.
      (2)   Use of the storefront portion of the any such structure as a
residence or living area, within C-4, Central Business District, is hereby
prohibited.
      (3)   The Board of Zoning Appeals of the city is specifically prohibited
from granting variances from this section, nor shall it grant a conditional
use.
   (D)   Enforcement. This section shall be enforced by the authorized
Ordinance Administrator.
(Ord. 5, 2007, passed 3-26-2007) Penalty, see §
157.999
DENSITY, INTENSITY AND DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS
§ 157.070 DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS TABLES.
   (A)   Residential districts.
      (1)   Minimum standards for conventional subdivisions and infill
development. Development in residential districts shall comply with the
standards set forth on the following table.
Residential Dimensional and Intensity Standards Permitted Uses
District Use Maximum Minimum  Minimum lot Front Side Rear Maximum Maximum lot
             density lot area width                       height  coverage
                       Maximum Minimum Minimum                    Maximum Maximum
District Use           density lot     lot     Front   Side  Rear height  lot
                               area    width                              coverage
                                       100     See §  10%   20
All R    Institutional NA      10,000  feet    157.085 of    feet 35 feet 50%%
                                                       width
RS       Rasing of     NA      3 acres 150     NA      NA    NA   NA      NA
         crops                         feet
                                       150     See §  10%   50
         Farm building NA      3 acres feet    157.085 of    feet 50 feet 30%
                                                       width
         One-family
         dwelling
                       3       15,000                  10%
         With sewers   unites  square  100     See §  of    20   35 feet 50%
                       per     feet    feet    157.085 width feet
                       acre
         Without       1 unit  1       150     See §  10%   20
         sewers        per     square  feet    157.085 of    feet 35 feet 50%
                       acre    acre                    width
         One-family    4 units 10,000          See §  10%   20
RS-1     dwelling      per     square  80 feet 157.085 of    feet 35 feet 50%
                       acre    feet                    width
         One-family            6,000           See §  10%   20
R-1      dwelling      NA      square  50 feet 157.085 of    feet 35 feet 60%
                               feet                    width
 
 
                                    Maximum Minimum Minimum                    Maximum Maximum
District Use                        density lot     lot     Front   Side  Rear height  lot
                                            area    width                              coverage
                                                                    10%
                                    15                              of
                                    units   10,000  100     See §  width 10
R-2      Multi-family dwelling      per     square  feet    157.085 (5    feet 35 feet 50%
                                    acre    feet                    feet
                                                                    mini
                                                                    mum)
                                            5,000           See §        10
R-3      One-family dwelling        NA      square  40 feet 157.085 10%   feet 35 feet 60%
                                            feet
                                    2,500
                                    square  5,000           See §  10%   10
         Two-family dwelling        feet    square  50 feet 157.085 of    feet 35 feet 60%
                                    per     feet                    width
                                    unit
                                    20      10,000
         Multi-family dwelling or   units   square  75 feet See §  10    20   35 feet 60%
         townhouse                  per     feet            157.085 feet  feet
                                    acre
                                    9 units         300     30 feet 25
R-4      Manufactured home (See §  per     5 acres feet    for     feet  25   15 feet 50%
         157.087)                   acre            for     park    for   feet
                                                    park            park
                                    9 units         75 feet 10 feet 5
                                    per     5 acres for     for     feet  25   15 feet 50%
                                    acre            unit    unit    for   feet
                                                                    unit
 
      (2)   Bonuses. For subdivisions meeting the requirements of §§
156.60 through
156.63, the Plan Commission may, as part of the subdivision approval, permit
reduced lot sizes and setbacks as indicated on the following table (Minimum
area width bonus for qualifying), provided that the overall density does not
exceed the amount shown on the previous table (Residential dimensional and
intensity standards permitted uses).
Minimum Area Width Bonus for Qualifying
 
District Use            Front setback Side setback Minimum lot area Minimum lot
                                                                    width
RS       One-family     15 feet       20 feet      8,000 square     75 feet
         dwelling                                  feet
         One-family                                20,000 square
         dwelling       No change     No change    feet1            100 feet
         without sewers
RS -1    One-family     15 feet       15 feet      6,000 square     60 feet
         dwelling                                  feet
         One-family
R-2      dwelling,      12 feet       2 feet       No change        No change
         townhouse
         One-family
R-3      dwelling.      12 feet       2 feet       No change        No change
         townhouse
 
1 The reduced lot size available only for subdivisions with qualifying sewage
disposal systems, such as constructed wetlands or community subsurface disposal
systems.
2 One side only
   (B)   Commercial districts.
Commercial Dimensional and Intensity Standards
 
         Minimum lot               Maximum Minimum  Minimum side Minimum rear
District area (square Minimum lot  height  front    setback      setback
         feet)        width (feet) (feet)  setback  (feet)       (feet)
                                           (feet)
C-1      10,000       100          35      See §   0            5
                                           157.085
C-2      10,000       100          45 *    See §   0            5
                                           157.085
C-3      10,000       100          45 *    See §   10           5
                                           157.085
C-4      4,000        50           100     0        0            5
C-5      15,000       150          45 *    See §   20           10
                                           157.085
 
* Unless within 200 feet of a residential zone 3.
   (C)   Industrial districts.
Industrial Dimensional and Intensity Standards
 
         Minimum lot               Maximum Minimum  Minimum side Minimum rear
District area (square Minimum lot  height  front    setback      setback
         feet)        width (feet) (feet)  setback  (feet)       (feet)
                                           (feet)
I-1      20000        200          35      75       30           30
I-2      40000        400          50      75       30           30
I-31     10 acres for 400 for park 50      50       30           30
         park
 
1 Within the industrial park, lot sizes and widths shall be those approved by
the Plan Commission as part of the development plan required under §
157.054.
(Ord. 17-2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 157.071 MEASUREMENTS.
   (A)   Percentages and fractions. When a measurement results in a fractional
number or percentage, any fraction of 1/2 or less shall be rounded down to the
next lower whole number and any fraction of more than 1/2 shall be rounded up
to the next higher whole number. Any percentage of .5 or greater shall be
rounded up to the next higher whole number and any percentage less than .5
shall be rounded down to the next lower whole number.
   (B)   Distances.
      (1)   When a minimum distance between buildings or uses is specified,
such distance shall be measured in a straight line without regard to
intervening structures or objects, between the two closest lot lines of the
properties in question.
      (2)   The distance between signs is measured between signs on the along
the centerline of the road to which the sign is oriented.
   (C)   Lot area. The lot area is the total area within the lot lines of a
lot, excluding any street right-of-way but including any water features such as
lakes, ponds, or streams.
   (D)   Sign area.
      (1)   For individual signs, the area of a sign face shall be measured by
the smallest square, circle, rectangle, or combination thereof that will
encompass the entire sign area.
      (2)   For multi-faced signs, the area shall be computed by adding
together the area of all sign faces visible from any one point at the same
time. When two identical sign faces are placed back-to-back so that only one
face is visible from an point at any time, and when such sign faces are part of
the same sign structure and are not more than 42 inches apart, only one of the
faces shall be counted toward the sign area.
      (3)   The total area of signs permitted on a lot shall be determined as
specified in §
157.095.
Sign Measurements
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dbbc9b9e11c1086bd5e62848c5bbdaa09aab0120/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2486.jpg]
 
   (E)   Height.
      (1)   Measurement.
         (a)   Building height. The height of a structure shall be measured
from the average grade
adjoining the walls of the structure to the average of the highest points of
the roof surface of a flat roof; or to the deck line of a mansard roof; or the
mean height level between eaves and ridge for a gable, hip or gambrel roof.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dbbc9b9e11c1086bd5e62848c5bbdaa09aab0120/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2489.jpg]
Building Height Measurements
         (b)   Sign height.  
            1.   The height of a sign shall be measured in a vertical plane
from the base of the sign at normal grade to the top of the highest attached
component of the sign. Normal grade shall be construed to be the lower of
               a.   Existing grade prior to construction; or
               b.   The newly established grade after construction, exclusive
of any fill, berming, mounding or excavating solely for the purpose of locating
the sign.
            2.   In cases where the normal grade cannot reasonably be
determined, sign height shall be measured from the grade at the edge of
pavement of the street to which the sign is oriented to the highest point of
the sign.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dbbc9b9e11c1086bd5e62848c5bbdaa09aab0120/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2492.jpg]
Freestanding Sign Height Measurement
      (2)   Exceptions.   The following uses and structures are exempt from the
height limitations of this chapter:
         (a)   Architectural projections, including but not limited to spires,
steeples, belfries, parapet walls, cupolas, domes, flues, and chimneys;
         (b)   Special structures such as silos, windmills, elevator
penthouses, gas tanks, grain elevators, observation towers, scenery lofts,
heating and air conditioning equipment and necessary mechanical appurtenances,
cooling towers, fire towers, ornamental towers, substations, and smoke stacks;
         (c)   Towers and utility structures including but not limited to water
towers, electric power and communication transmission lines. Wireless
communication towers are regulated by §
157.115.
   (F)   Setback.
      (1)   Lot lines. Building setback shall be measured from a line drawn
parallel to a lot line at a distance equal to the depth of the required yard
setback. The distance shall be measured along a straight line drawn
perpendicular to the lot line and the setback line (See the following figure).
For front yards, setbacks are measured from the centerline of the adjacent
street, as established by the thoroughfare plan. Lots having more than one
street frontage are considered to have a front yard for each such frontage.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dbbc9b9e11c1086bd5e62848c5bbdaa09aab0120/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2495.jpg]
Yard Definitions
      (2)   Cul-de-sacs. The required setback on cul-de-sacs and curved streets
shall be determined by measuring the required setback from the radius of the
cult-de-sac resulting in a setback line that is parallel to the arc of the
street right-of-way.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dbbc9b9e11c1086bd5e62848c5bbdaa09aab0120/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2498.jpg]
Cul-De-Sacs
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
§ 157.085 SETBACKS.
   (A)   Minimum requirements. Unless otherwise provided in this chapter,
minimum front building setback lines shall be in accordance with the following
table.
Minimum Front Setback Requirements
 
                        Minimum front setback (feet)
Street classification   One- or two-family Multifamily, commercial, Industrial
                        residential        institutional
Expressway              40                 40                       40
Arterial                40                 40                       40
Collector               30                 30                       30
Local                   25                 30                       25
Marginal access or cul- 25                 25                       25
de-sac
 
   (B)   Transitional setbacks. Where commercial or industrial uses abut
property zoned for residential use, transitional setbacks shall be provided in
accordance with the following table.
Transitional Setbacks
 
Use        Front (feet) Side (feet) Rear (feet)
Commercial 30           20          20
Industrial 100          150         150
 
   (C)   Setbacks in improved areas.
      (1)   For the purpose of this section an improved area shall be defined
as any block that contains at least three lots or parcels, each containing a
legally established building. For the purposes of this section, a block
consists of one side of the street, not interrupted by any streets. In any case
where a proposed building site has no buildings within 500 feet in either
direction on the same side of the street, the property shall be considered to
be in an unimproved area.
      (2)   Front setback lines for improved areas shall be in accordance with
the setback distance already established. In any improved area, the minimum
required building setback line for any new building or structure shall be the
average of such established setback line, provided that such structure does not
encroach into the right-of-way as established by the thoroughfare plan.
      (3)   Such setback lines shall be as required in this section with the
following exceptions:
         (a)   Those encroachments listed in (E) are permitted.
         (b)   Where another section of this chapter requires a larger setback,
the higher or most restrictive requirement shall govern.
   (D)   Undesignated streets. Any street not designated on the thoroughfare
plan of current adoption shall be assumed to be a local street designation for
the purpose of determining the building setback line, unless the City Engineer
determines that a higher classification applies. Private streets shall be
considered to be local streets for the purposes of this section.
   (E)   Exceptions. The following are permitted within the setback area:
      (1)   Incidental features such as birdbaths, lawn balls, and yard
sculptures. Doghouses are permitted in the side or rear yard only.
      (2)   Uncovered stairs, decks sized for entry purposes only, porches,
landings, fire escapes, gutters, decks and awnings may project into any yard
but not to exceed six feet and not closer than five feet to any lot line.
      (3)   Architectural projections including, wing walls, belt courses, and
bay windows may project into any yard, but such projection shall not exceed
three feet.
      (4)   Ornamental fences, walls and structural screens may be permitted in
any required side or rear yard or setback distance, in accordance with the
accessory structure height requirements of the respective zone district.
Ornamental fences, walls and structural screens may be permitted in any
required front yard in accordance with the accessory structure height
requirements of the respective zone district; provided, that no fence, wall, or
structural screen in a front yard toward which a structure is oriented may be
allowed to exceed 48 inches in height. The height shall be determined by
measurement perpendicular from the nearest ground level.
      (5)   Nothing contained in this section shall be deemed to prohibit the
erection or maintenance of an open fence in connection with agricultural uses,
recreation use or the public safety or a security fence in nonresidential
districts.
      (6)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to retaining walls.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 157.086 PARKING AND LOADING.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. Accessory off-street parking and loading
facilities shall be provided and maintained for all buildings, structures or
premises used in whole or in part for purposes permitted by this chapter. These
regulations are designed to alleviate or prevent congestion of the public
streets by establishing minimum requirements for on-site storage of motor
vehicles in accordance with the use to which the property is occupied.
   (B)   Existing uses.  
      (1)   No use lawfully established prior to the effective date of this
chapter shall be required to provide and maintain the parking and loading
requirements of this chapter;
      (2)   For any nonconforming use which is hereafter damaged or partially
destroyed, and which is lawfully reconstructed, reestablished or repaired, off-
street parking and loading facilities equivalent to those maintained at the
time of such damage or partial destruction shall be restored and continued in
operation; provided, that in no case shall it be necessary to restore or
maintain parking or loading facilities in excess of those required by this
chapter for equivalent new uses.
      (3)   When the intensity of use of any building, structure or premises
shall be increased through the addition of dwelling units, floor area, beds,
seating capacity or other unit of measurement, parking and loading facilities
as required in this chapter shall be provided for such increase in intensity of
use.
      (4)   Whenever the existing use of a building, structure or premises
shall hereafter be changed or converted to a new use permitted by this chapter,
parking and loading facilities shall be provided as required for such new use.
      (5)   Accessory off-street parking or loading facilities in existence on
the effective date of this chapter shall not hereafter be reduced below, or if
already less than shall not be further reduced below, the requirements for a
similar new use under the sections of this chapter.
   (C)   Location.
      (1)   Accessory off-street parking and loading spaces shall be provided
on the same lot as the use served, except as otherwise provided in this
chapter, and may be situated as one or more individual areas.
      (2)   Residential parking shall meet the following standards:
         (a)   Front yards.
            1.   Parking for single-family residential uses shall be prohibited
within the setback between the street and the building except on a single
driveway not exceeding the width of an attached garage facing the street or 22
feet in width where there is no attached garage facing the street. Parking on
any other portion of the setback between the street and the building or on a
lawn shall be prohibited. Parking shall not be permitted in driveways serving
parking lots.
            2.   Parking for multifamily residential uses shall be prohibited
within the required street setback as set forth in §
157.085. Parking shall not be permitted in driveways serving parking lots.
Parking shall be prohibited on lawns.
         (b)   Side and rear yards.
            1.   Parking areas for single-family uses may occupy a maximum of
50% of the area extending from the rear of the principal structure to the rear
lot line between side lot lines.
            2.   The side and rear parking setback requirement for multifamily
uses shall be 1/2 the building setback for the district or five feet, whichever
is greater.
   (D)   Parking standards.
      (1)   Off-street parking spaces shall comply with the minimum dimensions
shown on the following table.
Parking Space Dimensions
 
Vehicle, space type        Minimum width Minimum length
Automobile, parallel       9             22
Automobile, angled or 90° 9             20
Compact car, parallel      9             20
Compact car, angled or 90°9             18
Bus, parallel              10            48
Bus, angled                12            42
 
      (2)   Aisle widths for off-street parking shall comply with the following
table.
Parking Aisle Widths*
 
Parking angle  Aisle width
45°             14 feet
60°             18 feet
90°             24 feet
 
*The parking angle shall be measured between the centerline of the parking
space and the centerline of the aisle.
      (3)   All off-street parking or loading facilities shall be designed with
appropriate means of vehicular access to a street or alley in a manner that
least interferes with traffic movement.
   (E)   Minimum off-street parking space requirements.
      (1)   Accessory off-street parking facilities for separate uses may be
provided collectively if the total number of spaces so provided is not less
than the sum of the separate requirements for each such use; provided, that all
regulations governing location of accessory parking spaces, in relation to the
use served, are adhered to; provided further, that no parking space or portion
thereof shall serve as a required space for more than one use unless otherwise
authorized by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
      (2)   The minimum required number of off-street parking or loading spaces
shall be calculated as follows:
         (a)   If the unit of measurement is any fraction of the unit specified
in relation to the number of spaces to be provided, such fraction shall be
considered as being the next unit and shall be counted as requiring one space.
         (b)   In sports arenas, churches and other places of assembly in which
patrons occupy benches, pews or other similar seating facilities, each 20
inches of such seating shall be counted as one seat for the purpose of
determining requirements hereunder.
         (c)   In the case of open floor areas used for temporary seating
purposes, an area of 16 square feet usable for seating shall be counted as one
seat for the purpose of determining requirements hereunder.
         (d)   For uses involving more than one activity (i.e., manufacturing
and office, office and retail, automobile service and convenience store), the
requirements for each use shall be calculated separately and then aggregated.
      (3)   A maximum of 25% of the required parking spaces may be designated
as compact car spaces.
      (4)   The minimum number of required off-street parking spaces shall be
as indicated on the following table.
Parking Space Requirements
Use Minimum number of required spaces
Use                                                             Minimum number of required spaces
                                                                No requirement, except for
                                                                roadside stands and other
Agricultural uses                                               commercial or similar uses, when
                                                                there shall be an adequate number
                                                                of spaces to serve the public.
Amusement uses, including skating rinks video arcades, pool and One space for each 500 square feet
billiard rooms, and similar facilities                          of gross floor area
Automobile repair uses, including muffler shops, tireshops,     2.5 spaces for each service bay.
quick lubricating, and other similar uses
Bowling alleys                                                  Four spaces for each lane
Child care uses, including children's homes, day carecenters,   One space for each five children
nurseries and kindergartens and similar uses   
Commercial centers
   Less than 50,000 square feet                              One space for each 200 square feet
                                                                of gross floor area
   50,000 square feet or larger                              One space for each 250 square feet
                                                                of gross floor area
Community center uses, including clubs, lodges, community       One space for each 100 square feet
centers, libraries, museums and similar places of assembly      of assembly area
                                                                One space for each 400 square feet
Drive-through uses (other than restaurants), including banks,   of gross floor area, plus stacking
dry cleaners, and similar uses                                  spaces as required in §
                                                                157.086(H)(1)
Funeral service                                                 One space for each 35 square feet
                                                                of seating area
                                                                One space for each two beds,
Group housing, including rooming and boarding houses,           sleeping units, rooming units or
dormitories, fraternities and sororities, elderly housing,      dwelling units plus one space for
halfway houses, nursing homes and similar group quarters        each 100 square feet of assembly
                                                                or common area
Health club uses, including athletic clubs and spas             One space for each 400 square feet
                                                                of gross floor area
Use Minimum number of required spaces
Use                                   Minimum number of required spaces
Health uses, including hospitals, in- One space for each patient bed
patient clinics, and similar uses
Hotel uses, including hotels, motels,
apartment hotels and other facilities One space for each guest room
for the transient public
                                      0.8 spaces for each student, based upon
Higher education uses, including      the maximum number of students attending
colleges, universities, professional  classes on the premises during any 24-
schools, junior colleges, and         hour period. If the school provides on-
vocational schools                    site housing, this requirement may be
                                      reduced to 0.5 spaces for each student
Industrial uses, including manufacturing and similar uses, not catering to the
retail trade
   Less than 3,000 square feet     One space for each two employees
   3,000 to 5,000 square feet      One space for each two employees
   5,001 to 10,000 square feet     One space for each two employees
Open air business uses                One space for each 1,000 square feet of
                                      outdoor storage or display area
Professional office uses
   Medical and dental              One space for each 200 square feet of
                                      gross floor area
   Other                           One space for each 300 square feet of
                                      gross floor area
Religious facility
   Place of worship                One space for each three seats in the
                                      sanctuary
Residential uses
   Single-family or two-family     Two spaces per dwelling unit
                                      1.5 spaces for each one-bedroom or
   Multifamily                     efficiency unit; two spaces for each
                                      two-bedroom unit, plus 0.25 guest spaces
                                      per unit
Restaurant uses
                                      One space for each 75 square feet of
   Drive-through or fast-food      gross floor area plus stacking spaces as
                                      required by §
                                      157.086(H)(1)
Use Minimum number of required spaces
Use                                                 Minimum number of required
                                                    spaces
                                                    One space for each 100
   General                                       square feet of gross floor
                                                    area
Retail uses
   Furniture, appliances or other large consumer One space for each 500
goods                                               square feet of gross floor
                                                    area
                                                    One space for each 200
   Convenience stores                            square feet of gross floor
                                                    area
                                                    One space for each 250
   Other retail                                  square feet of gross floor
                                                    area
Schools
   Elementary or middle school                   Three spaces for each
                                                    classroom
   High school                                   Eight spaces for each
                                                    classroom
Theater uses, including auditoriums, movie          One space for each four
theaters, performing arts facilities, and sports    seats
arenas
Warehouse
   Mini-warehouse                                One space for each two
                                                    employees
   General                                       One space for each two
                                                    employees
 
      (5)   Uses not specified.  For uses not specified in this section or in
such instance when the requirement for an adequate number of spaces is unclear,
the number of parking spaces shall be determined by the staff on the basis of
similar requirements, the number of persons served or employed and the
capability of adequately serving the visiting public. Such determination may be
appealed to the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   (F)   Off-site parking facilities.
      (1)   Required off-street parking facilities shall be provided on site,
except as provided in this section.
      (2)   In the C-4 district any or all of the parking may be off-site,
provided that there are public parking lots available within 900 feet of the
use to be served. On-street parking may be counted toward the parking
requirements in this district.
   (G)   Loading requirements.
      (1)   Uses and buildings with a gross floor area of less than 5,000
square feet shall provide adequate receiving facilities, so as not to obstruct
the free movement of pedestrians and vehicles over a sidewalk, street or alley.
      (2)   Loading spaces shall have a minimum length of 55 feet, a minimum
width of 12 feet, and a minimum height clearance of 15 feet.
      (3)   Uses and buildings with a gross floor area of 5,000 square feet or
more shall provide off-street loading spaces in accordance with the following
table.
Loading Space Requirement
 
Use                      Floor area (square feet) Minimum number of loading
                                                  spaces
25,001-60,000            2
60,0001-100,000          3
                         Each additional 50,000   1
Office buildings hotels, 5,000-60,000             1
retail sales, commercial 60,001-100,000           2
centers, hospitals, and  Each additional 1000,000 1
similar uses.
 
   (H)   Vehicle stacking areas.
      (1)   Number of spaces. Vehicle stacking spaces shall be provided as
specified on the following table.
Stacking Spaces
 
Activity type            Minimum stacking spaces Measured from
Bank teller lane         4                       Teller or window
Automated teller machine 3                       Teller
Restaurant drive-through 6                       Order box
Restaurant drive-through 4                       Order box to Pick-up window
 
Activity type                Minimum stacking spaces Measured from
Car wash stall, automatic    6                       Entrance
Car wash stall, self-service 3                       Entrance
Gasoline pump island         2                       Pump island
Other                        Minimum of 2 per window
 
      (2)   Stacking space specifications.
         (a)   Size. Stacking spaces must be a minimum of eight feet by 20 feet
in size.
         (b)   Location. Stacking spaces may not impede on or off-site traffic
movements or movements into or out of off-street parking spaces.
   (I)   Accessible parking for physically challenged persons.
      (1)   A portion of the total number of required off-street parking spaces
in each off-street parking area shall be specifically designated, located and
reserved for use by persons with physical challenges.
      (2)   The minimum number of accessible spaces to be provided shall be a
portion of the total number of off-street parking spaces required, as
determined by table located at §
157.086(E)(4). Parking spaces reserved for persons with physical challenges
shall be counted toward fulfilling off-street parking standards. Spaces shall
be provided in accordance with the following table.
Accessible Parking
Total parking spaces Minimum number of Minimum number of     Minimum number of
provided             accessible spaces van-accessible spaces car- accessible
                                                             spaces
Total parking spaces Minimum number of  Minimum number of Minimum number of
provided             accessible spaces  van-accessible    car- accessible
                                        spaces            spaces
1-25                 1                  1                 0
26-50                2                  1                 1
51-75                3                  1                 2
76-100               4                  1                 3
101-150              5                  1                 4
151-200              6                  1                 5
201-300              7                  1                 6
301-400              8                  1                 7
401-500              9                  2                 7
                                        One out of every  Seven out of every
501-1,000            2% of total spaces eight accessible  eight accessible
                                        spaces            spaces
                     20 + one per each
Over 1,000           100 spaces over
                     1,000
 
      (3)   Minimum dimensions. All parking spaces reserved for persons with
physical challenges shall comply with the parking space dimension standards of
this section, provided that access aisles shall be provided immediately
abutting such spaces, as follows:
         (a)   Car-accessible spaces. Car-accessible spaces shall have at least
a five-foot wide access aisle located abutting the designated parking space.
         (b)   Van-accessible spaces. Van- accessible spaces shall have at
least an eight-foot wide access aisle located abutting the designated parking
space.
      (4)   Location of spaces. Required spaces for persons with physical
challenges shall be located in close proximity to building entrances and shall
be designed to permit occupants of vehicles to reach the building entrance on
an unobstructed path.
      (5)   Signs and marking. Required spaces for persons with physical
challenges shall be identified with signs and pavement markings identifying
them as reserved for persons with physical challenges. Signs shall be posted
directly in front of the parking space at a height of no less than 42 inches
and no more than 72 inches above pavement level.
   (J)   Parking and loading space specifications.
      (1)   All loading areas and all off-street parking areas for four or more
vehicles shall be developed in accordance with the standards of this section,
except for one- and two- family dwellings, agricultural and rural uses and
storage of vehicular merchandise not counting toward the minimum requirements
of this chapter.
      (2)   Required off-street parking spaces shall be so designed, arranged
and regulated as to have individual spaces marked, be unobstructed and have
access to an aisle or driveway so that any automobile may be moved without
moving another, and so that no maneuvering directly incidental to entering or
leaving a parking space shall be on any public right-of-way or walkway.
      (3)   Off-street parking spaces may be open to the sky or enclosed in a
building. In any instance when a building is constructed or used by parking
facilities on the zone lot, such building shall be treated as any major
structure and subject to all requirements thereof.
      (4)   No repair work, sales or service of any kind shall be permitted in
association with accessory off-street parking facilities unless such facilities
are enclosed in a building and otherwise permitted in the zone district.
      (5)   All open off-street parking and loading areas, including driveways
and other circulation areas, shall be surfaced with an all-weather paving
material capable of carrying a wheel load of 4,000 pounds, or improved with
concrete or a compacted macadam base and surfaced with an asphalted pavement,
to adequately provide a durable and dust-free surface which shall be maintained
in good condition and free of weeds, dirt, trash and debris. Parking spaces
associated with a one- or two-family dwelling are exempt from the paving
requirements but shall be maintained with a dust-free surface.
      (6)   Driveway entrances or exits shall be no closer than 25 feet to an
adjoining residential property line or ten feet to an adjoining nonresidential
property line or designed in such a manner as to least interfere with traffic
movement. No driveway across public property at the right-of-way line shall
exceed a width of 30 feet; provided, that two driveways not exceeding 30 feet
in width each may constitute a single entrance-exit divider designed driveway;
provided further, that such driveways shall conform to the requirements of
engineering departments having jurisdiction thereof.
      (7)   Any lighting facilities used to illuminate off-street parking areas
shall be so located, shielded and directed upon the parking area in such a
manner that they do not reflect or cause glare onto adjacent properties or
interfere with street traffic. In no instance shall bare un-shaded bulbs be
used for such illumination. Lighting shall comply with §
157.093.
      (8)   Parking areas shall be graded and properly drained in such a manner
that there will be no free flow of water onto either adjacent property or
public sidewalks.
      (9)   Parking areas shall be so lined or designated as to insure the most
efficient use of the parking spaces and shall be provided with bumper guards or
wheel guards so located that no part of the parked vehicle will extend beyond
the boundary of the established parking area into any minimum required yard or
onto any adjoining property
   (K)   Parking alternatives.  
      (1)   The Board of Zoning Appeals may, as a conditional use, waive any
requirement of this section to the extent that the applicant can demonstrate
that the regulation is unnecessarily stringent for the following reasons:
         (a)   Unique times of day of use;
         (b)   Shared or dual use;
         (c)   Availability and projected use of alternative transportation
modes; and
         (d)   Anticipated reduction in vehicle use or ownership in connection
with a specified use.
      (2)   A site development plan for an off-site or shared parking facility
shall be filed with the Board as a required exhibit accompanying the
conditional use petition and shall be made part of the conditions of any
approval therefore. Such site development plan shall demonstrate compliance
with all applicable standards of this chapter and shall indicate:
         (a)   Adjacent streets, alleys and lots;
         (b)   All individual primary uses to be served, including the
location, use and number of parking spaces for each such use;
         (c)   A layout drawn to scale of aisles and driveways, entrances,
exits and turnoff lanes, parking spaces, setbacks, drainage facilities and
landscaping; and
         (d)   Off-site or shared parking facilities shall be encumbered by an
instrument duly executed and acknowledged which subject such accessory off-
street parking facilities to parking uses in connection with the primary use
served. Such instrument shall specify the time period. Such instrument shall be
recorded in the applicable zoning compliance permit files of the Plan
Commission, and placed of public record in the office of the County Recorder.
   (L)   Use of required off-street parking areas.
      (1)   Accessory off-street parking facilities required in this section
shall be utilized solely for the parking of passenger automobiles or light
trucks of less than one-ton capacity, of patrons, occupants or employees of
specified uses. Such parking facilities shall not be used for the storage,
display, sales, repair, dismantling or wrecking of any vehicle, equipment or
material.
      (2)   Parking areas may be used for permitted temporary uses in
accordance with §
157.085, upon a finding by staff that such temporary use will not create on-
site parking shortages or traffic congestion.
(Ord. 17-2006, passed 11-27-2006; Am. Ord. 2, 2007, passed 2-12-2007)
§ 157.087 MANUFACTURED HOUSING.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. This section is intended to establish reasonable
standards for the development of manufactured housing neighborhoods as an
affordable housing alternative in the city.
   (B)   Applicability. The standards in this section apply to all manufactured
home parks and manufactured home subdivisions hereinafter established or
developed in the city or its extraterritorial jurisdiction.
   (C)   General requirements. Manufactured home parks and manufactured home
subdivisions require Development Plan Approval in accordance with §
157.086.
   (D)   Specific standards.  
      (1)   Manufactured home parks.
         (a)   Manufactured home parks shall be in accordance with I.C. 16-41-
27-1 et seq., Title 410 IAC 6-6 and subsequent amendments, the State Board of
Health Regulations, and the requirements of this chapter.
         (b)   Access to the park shall be from street designated and built as
a collector street or higher. In no case shall access be permitted through
local residential streets in RS, RS-1 or R-1 districts.
         (c)   Each manufactured home park shall have at least two entrances.
         (d)   Uses other than dwellings shall be subordinate to the
residential character of the park.
         (e)   Uses shall be located, designed and intended to serve only the
needs of persons living in the park.
      (2)   Manufactured home subdivisions.
         (a)   Manufactured home subdivisions shall comply with the Subdivision
Control Ordinance.
         (b)   There shall be a notation on the recorded plat stating that the
development is exclusively for manufactured housing.
         (c)   Manufactured home subdivisions shall meet all applicable
standards of this chapter. In addition, the following development standards
shall apply:
            1.   The development shall contain at least ten acres and 20 lots.
            2.   Each dwelling unit shall meet the standards contained in §§
157.070 and
157.071.
            3.   Each parcel shall meet the dimensional requirements contained
in §§
157.070 and
157.071.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-1006)
§ 157.088 CAMPGROUNDS AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Campsites for recreational vehicles, tents, cabins, lean-to's, or
similar temporary abodes;
      (2)   Community activities building;
      (3)   Recreational areas and facilities, such as swimming pools, tennis
courts, sports fields, hiking or walking trails, and picnic areas;
      (4)   Laundry facilities;
      (5)   Restroom and shower facilities;
      (6)   Convenience store;
      (7)   Management office;
      (8)   Manager housing;
      (9)   Off-season storage of recreational vehicles; and
      (10)   Sales and rental of recreational vehicles.
   (B)   Occupancy standards.
      (1)   Each recreational vehicle, other than those that are for sale,
shall display a current, valid license plate.
      (2)   Campsites shall be for seasonal, temporary occupancy only, limited
to the time periods shown on the table below.
Occupancy Limits
Campground and RV parks
 
Type of camping unit          Maximum occupancy time
Recreational vehicle          90 days/calendar year
Cabin                         90 days/calendar year
Tent or other temporary abode 30 days/calendar year
 
   (C)   Dimensional requirements.
Dimensional Requirements
Campgrounds and RV parks
 
Use                  Minimum area      Minimum setbacks           Minimum width
                                       Front   Side    Rear
Campground or RV     5 acres           75 feet 25 feet 25 feet    None
park
RV or cabin campsite 1,500 square feet 20 feet minimum separation 35 feet
Other campsite       800 square feet   20 feet minimum separation 35 feet
 
   (D)   Development standards.
      (1)   All campgrounds and RV parks shall meet all state and local
standards and shall have adequate sewage disposal, rubbish disposal, and water
supply. The health and safety standards contained in Section 410 of the Indiana
Administrative Code apply to all campgrounds regardless of size.
      (2)   At least 10% of the gross land area in the park shall be maintained
as usable open space or recreation areas.
      (3)   The park shall have perimeter landscaping in accordance with §
157.092.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 157.089 U.S. 50 CORRIDOR OVERLAY DISTRICT (O-1).
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 157.090 TRADITIONAL NEIGHBORHOOD OVERLAY DISTRICT (O-2).
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 157.091 HISTORIC OVERLAY DISTRICT (O-3).
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27, 2006)
§ 157.092 LANDSCAPING STANDARDS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. It is the intent of the city to promote the
health, safety and welfare of its existing and future residents by establishing
minimum standards to:
      (1)   Protect, preserve and promote the aesthetic character of the
roadway network and surrounding neighborhoods;
      (2)   Improve environmental quality through reduction of visual
pollution, improved air quality, and reduction of storm water runoff;
      (3)   Mitigate impacts created between incompatible land uses; and
      (4)   Enhance the community's natural resources through tree preservation
and increased green space.
   (B)   Applicability. The provisions of this section shall apply to the
following activities:
      (1)   Any new building, structure, or impervious surface (including
gravel) used for vehicles;
      (2)   Expansion or reconstruction of an existing building footprint,
structure or impervious surface used for vehicles by 20% or greater;
      (3)   Any subdivision of land resulting in the creation of three or more
lots from a single parent tract over any period of time.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      LANDSCAPE BUFFER AREA (LBA).  An area set aside to accommodate the
required landscape and screening materials. No buildings, accessory structures
or parking shall occur within the LBA.
      LANDSCAPE ISLAND. A curbed planting area located in or immediately
adjacent to a vehicular use area used to mitigate the environmental and visual
impacts of the impervious surface.
      TREE PROTECTION AREA (TPA). An existing tree area to be preserved and
counted towards the tree requirements.
      TREE PROTECTION FENCE. A durable, highly visible barrier, at least four
feet in height, used to demark trees or tree masses to be protected during the
construction process. Typically a plastic mesh fence, commonly known as "snow
fence" is used.
      VEHICULAR USE AREA (VUA). An impervious surface used for vehicular
movements such as a parking lot, loading area or drive lane. Surfaces include:
asphalt, concrete, clay pavers and compacted gravel.
   (D)   Materials standards.  The following standards shall apply to all plant
material used to satisfy the requirements of this chapter:
      (1)   Trees and shrubs shall meet the minimum requirements of the
American Standard for Nursery Stock (ANSI Z60.1, Latest Edition) as published
by The American Nursery and Landscape Association. Trees roots are preferred to
be balled and burlapped. The planting minimum for trees is one growing season
in a five-gallon container. Shrubs shall be well-rooted in a three-gallon
container or greater.
      (2)   Deciduous trees at the time of planting shall be a minimum of 1.5
inches in diameter measured four feet from the ground. Evergreen trees shall be
a minimum of six feet tall at the time of planting.
      (3)   Shrubs shall be a minimum of 12 to 24 inches tall at the time of
planting.
      (4)   Trees used to meet Street Tree requirements shall be reviewed and
approved by the Seymour City Engineer.
      (5)   Up to one third of the trees selected to meet VUA landscape
requirements may be of a variety considered to be ornamental (such as Flowering
Dogwood). No trees used to meet VUA landscape requirements may be fruit
producing (such as apple trees).
      (6)   Plants used to meet code requirements that are lost, damaged, or
die shall be permanently maintained and replaced with a similar species at the
landowner's expense.
   (E)   Technical standards. The technical standards contained in this chapter
represent the minimum requirements for buffer areas and plant material. Plant
material provided for any development proposal beyond the minimum standards
listed below is encouraged and is not subject to the review and approval
process.
      (1)   Landscape buffer areas (LBAs) shall be provided for all common
property boundaries as indicated in the table below. LBAs shall not be required
within the CBD Zoning District.
      (2)   Street trees are required for any new subdivision or new
development site where adjacent to an existing or proposed right-of-way. Street
trees shall be planted at a rate of one tree for every linear 75 feet for non-
residential zones and at a rate of one tree for every 50 feet for residential
zones. Trees may be grouped or staggered but shall not be planted closer than
25 feet apart. (See the following figures.)
      (3)   One tree per 400 square feet of vehicular use area (VUA) shall be
provided within landscape islands or immediately adjacent to VUAs. Trees shall
be generally distributed throughout the VUA and not concentrated in just a few
small areas. Landscape islands shall be a minimum of 150 square feet in area
and nine feet in width.
Minimum Required Plant Material
 
                                                         Required plant
Proposed use/zone  Adjoining use/zone Minimum LBA        material (along common
                                                         boundary
                                                         Trees per technical
Office/retail      Residential        10 feet            standards plus a six
                                                         feet continuous
                                                         screen1
Any                Street             5 feet             Trees per technical
                                      (Zero feet in CBD) standards
Multi-family       Single-family      10 feet            Trees per technical
                                                         standards
                                                         Trees per technical
Industrial/utility Residential        15 feet            standards plus a six
facility                                                 feet continuous
                                                         screen1
                                                         Trees per technical
Industrial         Office/retail      10 feet            standards plus a six
                                                         feet continuous
                                                         screen1
 
1 Continuous screen shall consist of a hedae, fence, wall, earth mound, or
combination thereof that creates a visually continuous barrier. Evergreen trees
may be used to satisfy both the tree and screen requirements.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dbbc9b9e11c1086bd5e62848c5bbdaa09aab0120/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2501.jpg]
Non-Residential Requirements
      (4)   Trees for the property perimeter may be planted in the right-of-way
as a street tree with the permission of the Seymour Board of Public Works and
Safety.
      (5)   Existing trees in good health greater than four inches in diameter
can be counted toward the total trees required for a site. Every four inches of
diameter may be applied toward one required tree (i.e., an existing tree in
good health with a 12 inch diameter measured four feet from the ground would
equal three required new trees).
      (6)   Shrubs that will reach a minimum height of three feet shall be
planted adjacent to all VUAs where parking is visible from a public/private
street or a residential use or zone. Shrubs used to meet this requirement shall
be planted a maximum of five feet apart and shall create a visually continuous
screen at maturity.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dbbc9b9e11c1086bd5e62848c5bbdaa09aab0120/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2504.jpg]
Residential Landscape Requirements
      (7)   Plants shall be kept three feet from edge of any VUA as protection
from vehicle overhang.
      (8)   Plants greater than three feet in height shall not to be planted
with in the sight distance triangle (measured from the edge of the drive lanes)
at intersections and access points.
      (9)   Dumpsters shall be screened on at least three sides with either
wood fencing or masonry walls to establish a visually opaque screen so as not
to be visible from the street or adjacent properties. Screening shall be
constructed a height of six feet or 12 feet above the height of the dumpster,
which ever is greater. The dumpster enclosure materials shall be consistent
with or complementary to the building materials of the primary structure.
      (10)   Loading/unloading areas shall be screened from adjacent properties
with either evergreen plantings (six feet in height or greater at
installation), wood fencing, a masonry wall, or some combination thereof.
      (11)   Utility pedestals/transformers, air conditioning units or similar
equipment shall be screened to establish a visually opaque screen so as not to
be visible from the street or adjacent properties.
Where plantings are used to satisfy this requirement, they must be able to
achieve a mature height at least equal to the height of the item being
screened.
   (F)   Tree protection. Existing trees used to meet tree requirements shall
meet the following criteria:
      (1)   Shall be healthy (less than 15% dead branches, no visible wounds or
girdling roots, and free from obvious signs of disease.)
      (2)   Shall be four inches in diameter or greater, measured four feet
from ground level. Trees smaller than four inches may still be preserved, but
will not count toward the required tree plantings.
      (3)   Tree protection fence shall be erected three feet beyond the canopy
to form a tree protection area (TPA) prior to any construction activity.
      (4)   No material storage, parking, grading, fill or other construction
activity shall take place inside of the TPA.
      (5)   The tree protection fence may be removed only after all
construction is completed.
      (6)   Removal understory plants, weeds and groundcovers inside the TPA
may take place after the tree protection fencing is removed. Care shall be
taken to minimize damage to surface roots. Replanting of the TPA with sod,
annuals, perennials or mulch is permitted.
      (7)   Should a preserved tree that was used to meet these tree planting
requirements die, the tree shall be re-planted with a similar tree species. If
the size of the existing tree allowed for that tree to count as more than one
required tree, a comparable number of replacement trees shall be installed.
   (G)   Timing of installation. All plant material used to meet these
requirements shall be planted prior to occupancy or, when no structure is
involved, prior to use. When weather conditions preclude the timely
installation of the landscape materials, planting may be delayed for a period
not to exceed six months, provided that a financial guarantee in an amount
equal to 110% of the installed cost of the materials is posted with the city
prior to occupancy or use of the site.
   (H)   Maintenance. All landscaping shall be properly maintained. Dead plant
materials shall be replaced in a timely manner, and landscaped areas shall be
kept free of weeds and debris. Failure to maintain landscaping properly shall
constitute a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-17-2006; Am. Ord. 12, 2024, passed 3-11-2024)
§ 157.093 EXTERIOR LIGHTING STANDARDS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. It is the intent of the city to promote the
health, safety and welfare of its residents by establishing exterior lighting
standards that:
      (1)   Reduce glare and light trespass;
      (2)   Guide exterior lighting to compliment the city's character; and
      (3)   Provide a secure nighttime environment.
   (B)   Applicability.
      (1)   The standards in this section shall apply to exterior lighting in
any of the following:
         (a)   All new private development;
         (b)   Existing development where the number of existing fixtures is
being increased by 50% or more; and
         (c)   Existing private development where 50% or more of the exterior
lighting is being replaced.
      (2)   The following activities shall be exempt from this regulation:
         (a)   Airport, tower, or structure lighting required by federal or
state agencies (such as tall communications towers, water towers or tall
chimneys where lighting is required to prevent airplane collisions).
         (b)   Seasonal decorations using typical unshielded low-wattage
incandescent lamps.
         (c)   Street lights authorized by government agencies.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ACCENT LIGHTING. The type of outdoor lighting used to illuminate
landscaping areas (flower beds, trees, vegetation) and other aesthetic features
on a parcel (flag poles, etc.).
      AMBIENT LIGHT. Existing, non-directional light present in the
environment.
      DIRECT LIGHT. Light emitted directly from the lamp, the reflector, the
reflector diffuser, the refractor or the diffuser lens of a luminaire.
      FOOT-CANDLE. Unit of illuminance measured on a surface where all points
are at a distance of one foot from a directionally uniform point source of one
candle and equal to one lumen per square foot.
      FULLY-SHIELDED. Light emitted by the fixture, either directly or
indirectly, is projected below a horizontal plane established at the lowest
light emitting part of the luminaire. FULLY-SHIELDED luminaires are also known
as a full-cutoff, cutoff or down lighting luminaires.
      GLARE. means light emitting from a luminaire with an intensity that can
reduce a viewer's ability to see.
      ILLUMINANCE. The quantity of light arriving at a surface, measured in
foot-candles, divided by the area of the illuminated surface.
      LIGHT TRESPASS. Direct light produced by an artificial light source that
shines beyond the boundaries of the property on which it is located.
      LUMINAIRE. Complete lighting system consisting of a lamp or lamps and a
fixture.
      UP-LIGHTING.  Any light source that distributes illumination above a 90°
horizontal plane.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dbbc9b9e11c1086bd5e62848c5bbdaa09aab0120/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2507.jpg]
Direct Light
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dbbc9b9e11c1086bd5e62848c5bbdaa09aab0120/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2510.jpg]
Examples of Full-Cutoff Fixtures
   (D)   Design standards.
      (1)   Glare. All luminaires shall be aimed in such a way that direct
light will not cause glare toward adjacent properties, public open spaces or
parks, or public right-of-way.
      (2)   Shielding. All luminaires other than those listed below shall be
fully-shielded:
         (a)   Internally lighted freestanding signs; and
         (b)   Recreational facilities lighting at least 500 feet from any
residential use, provided that the Plan Commission has approved a lighting plan
for the facility. The plan shall document the effect of lighting on adjacent
residential areas. The Plan Commission may require modification of the lighting
plan or impose conditions on its approval as necessary to mitigate the impacts
of the lighting.
      (3)   Freestanding signs.
         (a)   Lighting fixtures used to illuminate a freestanding business
sign shall be mounted on the top of the sign structure and directed towards the
ground. Freestanding business signs with bottom-mounted lighting shall only be
used if the fixtures are pointed directly at the sign.
         (b)   Freestanding business signs of the type constructed of
translucent materials and wholly illuminated from within do not require
shielding
      (4)   Development lighting.
         (a)   Lighting within a development shall have consistent luminaires
in style, design, height, size and color for each lighting type (e.g.; wall
mounted security light, pole mounting parking lot light, path light).
         (b)   Searchlights or aerial laser displays directed into the sky for
purposes of advertising are prohibited as specified in §
157.095.
      (5)   Accent lighting.
           (a)   Landscape lighting used to illuminate building facades, walls,
landscaping, flags, fountains, statues, or other architectural or design items
shall be carefully located and aimed so that up-lighting is directed only onto
the surface of the item it is intended to illuminate.
         (b)   Accent lighting used to illuminate building facades, walls,
landscaping, flags, fountains, statues, or other architectural or design items
shall not create glare for traffic on streets or roads.
      (6)   Lighting height. Pole-mounted lighting shall be no more than 30
feet in height.
      (7)   Lighting levels.
         (a)   Light levels shall be measured with an illuminance meter at eye
height on a plane perpendicular to the line of sight.
         (b)   The level of lighting shall not exceed 50 foot-candles at any
point beneath a canopy, pavilion, or drive-through bay.
         (c)   The level of lighting in parking facilities shall not exceed 2.5
foot-candles.
      (8)   Light trespass.
         (a)   The lighting level along any property line shall not exceed 0.5
foot-candles when adjacent to residential zones and 1.0 foot-candles when
adjacent to all other zones or right-of-way.
         (b)   If the ambient light level prior to the development is 0.5 foot-
candles or greater at the property line, then the development shall not add
more than 0.5 foot-candles of light along any property line.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 157.094 DEVELOPMENT PLANS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. Development plans are intended to ensure that
districts and uses with special needs for compatibility are developed in a
responsible manner, consistent with the Comprehensive Plan and with the spirit
and intent of this chapter. They are intended to provide an opportunity for
public and staff input into the specific design of new developments.
   (B)   Authority. In accordance with I.C. 36-7-4, the 1400 Series, the Plan
Commission is hereby authorized to approve or disapprove Development Plans.
   (C)   Criteria. The Plan Commission shall approve a Development Plan only if
the following criteria are met:
      (1)   The development is compatible with surrounding land uses.
      (2)   The development will have adequate sewage disposal, water supply,
drainage, and other utilities.
      (3)   Traffic will be managed in a manner that creates conditions
favorable to health, safety, convenience, and the harmonious development of the
community as described below:
      (4)   The design and location of proposed street and highway access
points minimize safety hazards and congestion.
      (5)   The capacity of adjacent streets and highways is sufficient to
safely and efficiently accept traffic that will be generated by the new
development.
      (6)   The entrances, streets, and internal traffic circulation facilities
in the development plan are compatible with existing and planned streets and
adjacent developments and are safe for pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
   (D)   Applicability. Development Plans are required for certain uses and/or
zoning districts as specified in this chapter.
   (E)   Development plan design standards. In order to carry out the purposes
and intent of this section, along with the goals, objectives, and policies of
the City Comprehensive Plan, all development plans shall be designed, reviewed
and approved in accordance with the following design standards.
      (1)   Building separation. As part of its review of a proposed
development plan, the Plan Commission shall determine that all proposed
structures are located to allow for: adequate light and air; ease of access and
entry for vehicles, occupants and pedestrians; and safety from fire, flood and
other safety hazards.
      (2)   Yard and setback requirements and height limitations. All minimum
yard and setback requirements and height limitations required by this chapter
shall be maintained, unless specifically waived or modified by the Plan
Commission as part of the development plan approval.
      (3)   Sanitary sewer.  Complete sanitary sewer facilities shall be
installed to serve the proposed development. The design, layout, and
construction of the proposed facilities shall comply with all applicable
policies, standards, and specifications of the Seymour Engineering Department
or other appropriate regulatory agency.
      (4)   Water. Complete water supply facilities shall be installed to serve
the proposed development. The design, layout, and construction of the proposed
facilities shall comply with all applicable policies, standards, and
specifications of the Seymour Engineering Department, or other appropriate
regulatory agency.
      (5)   Storm water drainage. Complete storm water drainage facilities
shall be installed to serve the proposed development. The design, layout, and
construction of the proposed facilities shall comply with all applicable
policies, standards, and specifications the Seymour Engineering Department or
other appropriate regulatory agency.
      (6)   Street and outdoor site lighting. Street lighting facilities shall
be installed by the developer as necessary to serve the proposed development.
Additional outdoor site lighting may also be provided as needed.
      (7)   Streets. Adequate street facilities shall be installed as necessary
to serve the proposed development. Proposed streets shall be constructed and
maintained as private streets, unless otherwise required or permitted by the
Board of Public Works and the Plan Commission. The design, layout,
construction, dedication, and acceptance of any proposed public street shall
comply with all applicable policies, standards, and specifications of the Board
of Public Works and Safety and the Seymour Engineering Department, or other
appropriate regulatory agency.
      (8)   Access and traffic management. The design, layout, and construction
of all access facilities, roadway improvements, internal traffic and
circulation facilities, and other traffic management facilities shall comply
with all applicable policies, standards, and specifications of the Board of
Public Works, the Seymour Engineering Department, or other appropriate
regulatory agency. As part of its review of a proposed development plan, the
Commission shall consider and determine if the development's access and traffic
management proposals manage traffic in a manner that creates conditions
favorable to health, safety, convenience, and the harmonious development of the
community, and accomplishes the following:
         (a)   That the design and location of proposed street and highway
access points minimizes safety hazards and congestion;
         (b)   That the capacity of adjacent streets and highways is sufficient
to safely and efficiently accept traffic that will be generated by the new
development; and
         (c)   That the entrances, streets, and internal traffic circulation
facilities in the development plan are compatible with existing and planned
streets and adjacent developments.
      (9)   Natural features and landscaping.
         (a)   Natural features. As part of its review of a proposed
development plan, the Plan Commission shall consider whether the development is
compatible with surrounding zoning and land uses. To help achieve compatibility
and appropriate site design and development, the applicant or developer is
encouraged to preserve as many existing trees and other natural site features
as is practical. The location and nature of these site features shall be
considered by the applicant or developer in the planning and design of the site
development.
         (b)   Landscaping. To help achieve compatibility and appropriate site
design and development, landscaping shall be provided in accordance with the
parking area landscaping requirements unless specifically waived or modified by
the Commission or its designated representative as part of the development plan
approval.
         (c)   Shade trees. Existing shade trees shall be retained or new trees
planted along all public streets in accordance with the standards and
specifications of the city.
      (10)   Pedestrian circulation.
         (a)   Pedestrian walkways and circulation paths shall be provided to
serve the proposed development. Sidewalks or other circulation paths shall be
designed to allow for:
            1.   Access from parking areas to individual buildings;
            2.   Access between individual buildings and/or uses within the
development; and
            3.   Coordination with and connection to existing or proposed
sidewalks or uses.
         (b)   Public sidewalks shall be provided on both sides of any new
public street(s) or existing public streets proposed to serve the development,
unless specifically waived or modified by the Plan Commission as part of the
development plan approval. The Commission may also require replacement of
existing sidewalks along existing streets which abut the proposed development.
         (c)   The Plan Commission may require the provision of sidewalks along
any existing or proposed private streets within the proposed development.
         (d)   The design and construction of all sidewalks shall comply with
the applicable requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA).
      (11)   Signs. All proposed signs shall comply with the applicable
provisions and requirements of this chapter. As part of its review and approval
of a proposed development plan, the Plan Commission may grant waivers to those
signage provisions and requirements.
      (12)   Parking. Adequate off-street parking facilities shall be provided
to serve the proposed development according to the provisions and requirements
of this chapter. The minimum number of parking spaces shall be provided, unless
specifically waived as part of the development plan approval.
      (13)   Easements. Easements shall be provided as necessary for utility
lines, storm water drainage facilities, and other similar facilities and uses.
Easements shall be designed and laid out so that adequate utility service and
storm drainage can be provided, and proper continuity exists between areas,
uses, structures, parcels, and developments. Easement widths and locations
shall comply with all applicable policies, standards, and specifications of the
Board of Public Works, City Utilities, or other applicable utility or
regulatory agency.
      (14)   Traffic. As part of its review of any proposed primary development
plan, the Commission may require the preparation and submission of a traffic
impact study and/or any other studies or information the Commission determines
is necessary for proper consideration and review of the request.
   (F)   Waivers. The Plan Commission may waive or modify certain development
plan design standards as part of its approval of a primary or secondary
development plan. Such a waiver or modification may be granted provided that
the following criteria are met:
      (1)   The waiver or modification is in conformance with the purposes and
intent of this chapter along with the goals, objectives, and policies of the
Comprehensive Plan.
      (2)   The Commission determines the applicant has submitted adequate
evidence in support of the requested waiver or modification;
      (3)   The requested waiver or modification will be compatible with the
immediate area, and will not be unduly detrimental to the use and value of the
area adjacent to the property included in the request, and;
      (4)   The failure to grant the requested waiver would result in practical
difficulties in the use of the property for the proposed development.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006 ; Am. Ord. 5, 2010, passed 4-26-2010 )
§ 157.095 SIGNS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The purposes of this section are as follows:
      (1)   To encourage effective use of signs as a means of communication;
      (2)   To maintain and enhance the aesthetic quality of the city and
thereby make the city more attractive to sources of economic development and
growth;
      (3)   To improved pedestrian and vehicular traffic safety;
      (4)   To minimize the possible adverse effect of signs on nearby public
and private property; and
      (5)   To enable the fair and consistent enforcement of the sign
regulations.
   (B)   Applicability. A sign may be erected, place, established, painted,
created or maintained in the jurisdiction of the City of Seymour Plan
Commission only in conformance with these regulations. In order to accomplish
the purposes set forth in does the following:
      (1)   Allows certain signs to be displayed without permits;
      (2)   Prohibits certain signs; and
      (3)   Requires permits for all signs not specifically exempted.
   (C)   Definitions.  For the purpose of this section the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ANIMATED SIGN. Any sign which moves or which appears to move by any mean,
including fluttering or rotating. ANIMATED SIGNS shall include but are not
limited to pennants, flags, balloons, ribbons, streamers, inflatable devices or
propellers. For purposes of this section, this term does not refer to flashing
or changing signs, all of which are separately defined.
      BANNER.  Any sign of lightweight fabric or similar material that contains
a message or any kind. National flags, state or municipal flags, or the
official flag on any institution or business shall not be considered BANNERS.
      BEACON. Any light with one or more beams directed into the atmosphere or
directed at one or more pints not on the same zone lot as the light source;
also, any light with one or more beams that rotate or move.
      BILLBOARD. A sign that advertises products or services not sold or
distributed on the premises on which the sign is located.
      BUILDING MARKER. Any sign indicating the name of a building and the date
and incidental information about its construction, which sign is cut into a
masonry surface or made of bronze or other permanent material.
      BUILDING SIGN. Any sign attached to any part of a building, as contrasted
to a freestanding sign.
      CANOPY SIGN. Any sign that is part of or attached to an awning, canopy,
or other fabric, plastic, or structural protective cover over a door, entrance,
window, or outdoor service area. A marquee is not a canopy.
      CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN (AUTOMATIC). A sign such as an electronically or
electrically controlled display sign or reader board where different copy
changes are shown on the same lamp bank. A sign on which the message changes
more than eight times per day shall be considered an ELECTRONIC MESSAGE CENTER
SIGN and not a CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN.
      CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN (MANUAL). A sign on which copy is changed manually
and the area of which shall be included within the allotted face of sign square
footage.
      COMMERCIAL MESSAGE. Any sign wording. Logo, or other representation that,
directly or indirectly, names, advertises, or calls attention to a business
product, service, or other commercial activity.
      ELECTRONIC MESSAGE CENTER SIGN. A sign capable of displaying words,
symbols, figures or images that can be electronically or mechanically changed
by remote or automatic means.
      FLAG. Any fabric, banner, or bunting containing distinctive colors,
patterns, or symbols, used as a symbol of a government, political subdivision,
or other entity.
      FREESTANDING SIGN. Any sign supported by structures or supports that are
placed on or anchored in the ground and that are independent from any building
or other structure.
      INCIDENTAL SIGN. A sign, generally informational, that has a purpose
secondary to the zone lot on which it is located, such as "no parking,"
"loading only," and other similar directives. No sign with a commercial message
legible from a position off the zone lot on which the sign is located shall be
considered incidental.
      MARQUEE. Any permanent roof-like structure projecting beyond a building
or extending along and projecting beyond the wall of the building, generally
designed and constructed to provide protection from the weather.
      MARQUEE SIGN.  Any sign attached in any manner to or made part of a
marquee.
      NAMEPLATE. A sign containing the name of the occupant or building and/or
the address of the site.
      NONCONFORMING SIGN.  Any sign that does not conform to the requirements
of this chapter.
      PENNANT.  Any lightweight plastic, fabric, or other material, whether or
not containing a message of any kind, suspended from a rope, wire, or string,
usually in series, designed to move in the wind.
      PROJECTING SIGN. Any sign affixed to a building or wall in such a manner
that its leading edge extends more than six inches beyond the surface of such
building or wall, but not more than 18 inches from the building.
      RESIDENTIAL SIGN. Any sign located in a district zoned for residential
use, provided such sign contains no commercial message except where advertising
for goods or services legally offered on the premises is permitted, and only if
offering such service at such location conforms to all requirements of this
chapter.
      ROOF SIGN. Any sign erected and constructed wholly on and over the roof
of a building, supported by the roof structure, and extending vertically above
the highest portion of the roof.
      ROOF SIGN, INTEGRAL.  Any sign erected or constructed as an integral or
essentially integral part of a normal roof structure of any design, such that
no part of the sign extends vertically above the highest portion of the roof
and such that no part of the sign is separated from the rest of the roof by a
space of more than six inches.
      SIGN. Any device, fixture, placard, or structure that uses any color,
form, graphic, illumination, or writing to advertise, announce the purpose of a
person or entity, or to communication information of any kind to the public.
      SUSPENDED SIGN. A sign that is suspended from the under side of a
horizontal plane surface and is supported by such surface.
      TEMPORARY SIGN. Any sign that is used or designed or intended to be used
only temporarily and is not permanently mounted.
      WALL SIGN. Any sign attached parallel to, but within 18 inches of a wall,
painted on the wall surface, or erected and confined within the limits of an
outside wall of any building or structure, which is supported by such wall or
building, and which displays only one sign surface.
       WINDOW SIGN. Any sign, picture, symbol, or combination thereof, designed
to communicate information about an activity, business, commodity, event, sale,
or service, that is placed inside a window or upon the window panes or glass
and is visible from the exterior of the window.
   (D)   General requirements.
      (1)   Computations. (See §
157.094)
      (2)   Permits.  Unless specifically exempted by this chapter, each sign
placed, constructed, erected, or modified on a zone lot requires a permit. The
form and content of sign permit applications shall be in conformance with the
Plan Commission Rules of Procedure.
      (3)   Exemptions.  The following types of signs are exempt from
regulation:
         (a)   Any public notice or warning required by a valid and applicable
federal, state, or local law or regulation;
         (b)   Any sign inside a building, not attached to a window or door
within the lot line of the zone lot or parcel and not designed or intended to
be read from a public right-of-way;
         (c)   Works of art that do not include a commercial message;
         (d)   Holiday lights and decorations with no commercial message, but
only between November 15 and January 15;
         (e)   Traffic control devices on private property, such as stop,
yield, one-way, no parking, and similar signs, the face of which meet Indiana
Department of Transportation standards and which do not contain any commercial
message;
         (f)   Directional or informational signs of a public or quasi-public
nature, not exceeding 8 square feet in area containing no commercial message
for any of the following purposes:
            1.   Indicating the name and/or location of a place such as a town,
village, hospital, community center, private school, college, religious
facility, or official civic body; and
            2.   Indicating the name and/or location of a special event, such
as a state or county fair, community festival, or concert;
         (g)   Real estate signs no larger than six square feet; and
         (h)   Political signs.
      (4)   Removal.  Signs on any building or zone lot that is vacant or
abandoned as defined in this chapter shall be removed. The owner of the
property on which such sign is located shall be responsible for the removal.
   (E)   Specific standards.
      (1)   Signs shall comply with the standards set forth on the following
tables within this subchapter.
Signs by Type and Zoning District
   P = Allowed without permit S = Allowed with permit N = Not allowed district
          RS                                                    Institutional
Sign type RS-1 R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4 C-1, C-2 C-3 C-4 C-5 I-1 I-2 I-3 park, open
                                                                space
               RS                   C-1,                         Institutional
Sign type      RS-1 R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4 C-2  C-3 C-4 C-5 I-1 I-2 I-3 park, open
                                                                 space
Freestanding
Residential    S    S   S   S   S   N    N   N   N   N   N   N   N
Business       N    N   N   N   N   S    S   S   S   S   S   N   N
Incidental     N    N   N   N   N   N    N   N   N   N   N   N   N
Temporary      N    N   N   N   N   S    S   S   S   N   N   N   N
Building
Banner         N    N   N   N   N   S2   S2  S2  S2  S2  S2  N   S2
Building       P    P   P   P   P   P    P   P   P   P   P   N   P
marker
Canopy         N    N   N   N   N   S    S   S   S   S   S   N   N
Identification P    P   P   P   P   S    S   S   S   S   S   N   N
Incidental 1   P    P   P   P   P   P    P   P   P   P   P   N   P
Marquee        N    N   N   N   N   N    N   N   N   N   N   N   N
Protection     N    N   N   N   N   S    S   S   S   S   S   N   S
Residential    N    N   N   N   N   N    N   N   N   N   N   N   N
Roof           N    N   N   N   N   N    N   N   N   N   N   N   N
Roof integral  N    N   N   N   N   S    S   S   S   S   S   N   N
Flush mount    N    N   N   N   N   S    S   S   S   S   S   N   S
Suspended      N    N   N   N   N   S    S   S   S   S   S   N   S
Temporary      N    N   N   N   N   N    N   N   N   N   N   N   N
Wall           N    N   N   N   N   S    S   S   S   S   S   N   S
Window         N    N   N   N   N   S    S   S   S   S   S   N   S
Miscellaneous
Banner         N    N   N   N   N   S    S   S   S   S   S   N   S
Portable       N    N   N   N   N   N    N   N   N   N   N   N   N
Billboard      N    N   N   N   N   N    N   N   N   S3  S3  N   N
Electronic     N    N   N   N   N   S    S   S   S   S   S   S   N
message center
 
1 Permanently mounted
2 Permit required if larger than two square feet
3 Permited only along interstate highways, provided they are at least 1,500
feet apart
Maximum Sign Area Per Zone Lot (square feet)1
 
                   RS   R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4 C-1 C-2 C-3 C-4     C-5 I-1, I-2
                   RS-1                                         I-3
Maximum each sign2 NA   NA  100 100 100 100 100 100 See §  100 100  100
                                                    157.085
Maximum total area NA   NA  50  50  50  200 200 200 100     200 200  200
 
1 Building markers incidental and identification signs and flags are not
included in the total square footage.
2 Window signs may not exceed 25% of the window area.
3 The maximum area (each sign and total area) shall be increased to 280 square
feet for a billboard.
Number, Height, and Setback of Signs by Zoning District
 
                    Zoning districts
                    RS-1, RS-2 R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4 C-1 C-2 C-3 C-4 C-5 I-1, I-3 I-2
Maximum height      NA         8   8   8   8   35  35  35  35  35  35       35
(feet)
Mininimu m setback1 NA         6   6   6   6   6   6   6   6   6   6        6
Maximum number per  0          1   1   1   NA  NA  NA  NA  NA  NA  NA       NA
zone lot
 
1 Sign height shall not exceed the sign setback from any adjacent lot zoning
and/or used for residential purposes. Signs shall not interfere with
intersection visibility and shall comply with the standards of §
157.093. In the C-4 district, awning, projecting and suspended signs may be
within the public right-of-way provided that they do not interfere with
pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
Number and Dimension of Signs by Type
 Number allowed Maximum sign area Minimum vertical clearance
                                  From sidewalk private From public street
                                  drive parking
                  Number allowed  Maximum sign area Minimum vertical clearance
                                                    From sidewalk From public
                                                    private drive street
                                                    parking
Freestanding
Residential,      See previous table                NA            NA
other, incidental
Building
Banner            NA              NA                9 feet        12 feet
Building marker   1/building      4 square feet     NA            NA
Canopy            1/building      25% of vertical   9 feet        12 feet
                                  surface
Identification    1/building      NA                NA            NA
Incidental        NA              NA                NA            NA
Marquee           1/building      NA                9 feet        12 feet
Projecting        1/building      NA                9 feet        12 feet
Residential       1/Zone Lot      40 square feet    NA            NA
Roof              1/principal     NA                NA            NA
                  building
Roof, integral    1/principal     NA                NA            NA
                  building
Suspended         1/entrance      NA                9 feet        12 feet
Temporary         See §          NA                NA            NA
                  157.056
Wall              NA              NA                NA            NA
Window            NA              25% of window     NA            NA
Miscellaneous
Banner            NA              NA                9 feet        12 feet
Flag                              60 square feet    9 feet        12 feet
Portable          1 where allowed 20 square feet    NA            NA
Temporary         See §
                  157.056
 
Permitted Sign Types by Zoning District
S = Allowed w/ permit N = Not allowed
 
                   RS-1, RS-2 R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4 C-1 C-2 C-3 C-4 C-5 I-1, I-3 I-2
Animated           N          N   N   N   N   N   N   N   N   N   N        N
Changeable copy    N          N   N   N   N   S   S   S   S   S   S        S
Illumination,      N          N   N   N   N   S1  S1  S1  S1  S1  S        S
general
Illumination       N          S   S   S   S   S1  S1  S1  S1  S1  S        S
external
Illumination,
exposed bulbs or   N          N   N   N   N   S   S   S   S   S   S        S
neon
Electronic message N          N   N   N   N   S   S   S   S   S   S        S
center
 
1 No direct light or significant glare from the sign shall be cast onto any
adjacent zone lot that is zoned or used for residential purposes.
      (2)   In the C-4 district, the following standards apply:
         (a)   The maximum area of all signs shall not exceed 75 square feet or
one square feet of sign area for each two linear feet of building façade,
whichever is smaller.
         (b)   No building sign shall exceed three feet in height.
      (3)   Location requirements for electronic message center signs:
         (a)   Setback from residential. The leading edge of an electronic
message center sign shall be a minimum distance of 100 feet from an abutting
residential use or residential zone boundary.
         (b)   Setback from other electronic message center signs. Electronic
message center signs shall be separated from other electronic message center
signs by a minimum of 100 feet.
         (c)   Orientation. When located within 500 feet of a residential use
or a residentially-zoned parcel, the electronic message center sign shall be
oriented so that no portion of the sign face is visible from an existing or
permitted principal structure on that parcel.
         (d)   Location. The electronic message center sign shall be located on
the parcel or lot of the use identified or advertised by the sign.
         (e)   No more than 50% of the facing surface of the sign may be
comprised of a changeable electronic or digital display.
      (4)   Operational requirements for electronic message center signs:
         (a)   Dimmer control. All electronic message center signs shall be
equipped with an automatic dimming photo-sensor control that automatically
adjusts the sign’s brightness in correlation with real-time ambient light
conditions.
         (b)   No electronic message center sign shall exceed an illumination
level of 0.3 foot candles above ambient light as measured using a foot candle
meter at a distance of 100 feet from the sign. This provision shall apply to
both new and existing electronic message center signs within the jurisdictional
limits of the city. As a prerequisite to the issuance of a permit for a new or
replacement electronic message center sign, the manufacturer of the new or
replacement sign shall certify in writing to the Building Commissioner that
said sign meets or exceeds the operational requirements of this section. If an
existing electronic message center sign is not capable of meeting this
requirement, such sign shall be turned off between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and
6:00 a.m. regardless of the parcel’s zoning classification.
         (c)   Audio and pyrotechnics. Audio speakers or any form of
pyrotechnics are prohibited in association with electronic message center
signs.
         (d)   If an electronic message center sign is located within 100 feet
of a residential use or zone, it shall be turned off between the hours of 10:00
p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
         (e)   Timing of display changes. Electronic message center signs shall
be restricted to a maximum of 30 display changes per minute between the hours
of 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. and restricted to a maximum of 15 display changes
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
         (f)   Electronic message center signs that were in place and
operational prior to July 31, 2010 may continue in use provided that if the
sign face is replaced or upgraded, the replacement or upgrade shall meet the
operational standards of this section. Any change in use of the parcel on which
an electronic message center sign existed prior to July 31, 2010 shall require
that the sign shall meet the operational standards of this section.
   (F)   Temporary signs.
      (1)   Temporary sign permits shall allow the use of a temporary sign for
a specified 30-day period.
      (2)   Permits for temporary private signs in the public right-of-way
shall be for a maximum of ten days. No more than one permit for such temporary
signs shall be issued to any applicant in any six-month period. Such permits
are allowed only for signs containing no commercial message that are no larger
than two square feet in area and are needed to indicate the time and/or
location of an event of public interest.
   (G)   Design, construction, and maintenance.  
      (1)   All signs shall comply with applicable provisions of the Indiana
Building Code and the electrical code of the city at all times. Except for
banners, flags, temporary signs, and window signs conforming in all respects
with the requirements of this chapter, all signs shall be constructed of
permanent materials and shall be permanently attached to the ground, a building
or another structure by direct attachment to a rigid wall, frame, or structure.
      (2)   All signs shall be maintained in good structural condition, in
compliance with all building and electrical codes and in conformance with this
chapter at all times.
   (H)   Prohibited signs. In addition to signs shown on the tables as
prohibited in certain districts, the following signs are prohibited within the
jurisdiction of the Seymour Plan Commission:
      (1)   Signs that interfere with visibility for drivers or pedestrians or
in any other way endanger public health or safety;
      (2)   Signs attached to public light poles, street signs, traffic control
signs, or other public standards, utility poles, or trees, or other signs
located in the public right-of-way, other than those specifically permitted by
this chapter.
   (I)   Nonconforming signs. Signs that are nonconforming shall be subject to
the provisions of §
157.134.
   (J)   Violations. Any of the following shall be considered violations of
this chapter and shall be subject to all enforcement, remedies, and penalties
contained in §§
157.150,
157.151 and
157.999.
      (1)   Installing, creating, erecting, maintaining, or altering a sign
without obtaining a required permit;
      (2)   Installing, creating, erecting, maintaining, or altering a sign in
a way that is inconsistent with any plan or permit governing such sign; and
      (3)   Failing to remove any sign that is installed, created, erected,
altered, or maintained in violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006; Am. Ord. 20, 2010, passed 11-8-2010)
§ 157.096 HOME-BASED BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. It is the intent of this section to allow
businesses to be operated in residences, provided that where residences are the
principal uses of land, the residential interests shall take precedence over
business interests to ensure the continued residential character of the
property. Home-based businesses are permitted only as accessory uses.
   (B)   Businesses allowed without permits. Home-based businesses meeting the
criteria below are permitted in any residential dwelling and do not require a
permit:
      (1)   The primary use of the property is residential, and the operator of
the home-based business resides in the dwelling unit.
      (2)   The operator of the home-based business does not employ solely for
the business anyone not residing on the premises.
      (3)   There are no structural additions, enlargements or exterior
alterations to accommodate the home-based business or which change the
residential appearance to a business appearance.
      (4)   The business is conducted entirely within the residence and not in
any accessory building.
      (5)   There is no additional and separate entrance incongruent with the
residential structural design for the purpose of conducting the home-based
business.
      (6)   There is no display of goods, signs, or other external evidence of
the home occupation.
      (7)   There are no clients or customers who come to the premises for the
purpose of patronizing the home-based business.
   (C)   Businesses requiring a permit. Home-based businesses meeting the
criteria below are permitted but require an improvement location permit.
Examples of such businesses include but are not limited to music instruction,
tax preparation, financial planning, insurance sales, sewing and tailoring, and
repairs of small items.
      (1)   There shall be no more than one nonresident person engaged on the
premises in the operation of the business at any one time.
      (2)   There shall be no more than four clients, customers, or students at
the premises at any one time for a purpose associated with the home-based
business.
      (3)   If the home-based business is located in an accessory building,
such building shall be of a type and size consistent with other accessory
buildings in the neighborhood. No accessory building shall be constructed for
the purpose of housing a home-based business.
      (4)   The business shall be conducted entirely within enclosed buildings,
with the exception of seasonal outdoor instruction such as tennis or swimming
lessons for no more than four students at any one time.
      (5)   Any sign associated with the home-based business shall be
consistent with other signs permitted in residential districts and shall be no
larger than two square feet in area.
   (D)   Prohibited businesses. The following are not permitted as home-based
businesses:
      (1)   Any business utilizing hazardous or flammable materials;
      (2)   Any business that produces noise levels beyond those normally
present in residential areas;
      (3)   Any business that produces odors, heat, glare vibration, or other
similar effect at levels beyond those normally presents in residential areas;
and
      (4)   Any business that requires approval from the State Board of Health,
including but not limited to food service, beauty salons, and barber shops.
   (E)   Home-based businesses as conditional uses. The Board of Zoning Appeals
may grant a conditional use permit to operate any home-based business not
specifically prohibited herein, provided the Board makes findings that such
business meets all the criteria for a conditional use contained in §
157.094.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 157.097 STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO BURKART BOULEVARD.
   Driveway separation distance on Burkart Boulevard from State Road 11 to
Airport Road and US 50 on the West Side. From State Road 11 around to Airport
Road and US 50 on the west side, all new driveways installed along Burkart
Boulevard shall be a minimum of 900 feet apart from adjacent driveways or
street intersections on the same side of the street. See other areas of the
code for additional requirements.
(Ord. 2, 2021, passed 1-25-2021
SPECIAL PROVISIONS
§ 157.115 WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITIES.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The purpose of this section is to establish
reasonable standards for the installation of wireless communication facilities,
balancing the need for the facilities with the protection of neighborhoods, and
the appearance and safety of the community. These standards shall be
interpreted and enforced in a manner consistent with the Telecommunications Act
of 1996. Towers installed by a unit of government are exempt from the
provisions of this section. Specifically, this section is intended to further
the Comprehensive Plan by doing the following:
      (1)   Permitting the location of towers in non-residential areas;
      (2)   Avoiding damage to the adjacent properties from tower failure by
requiring structural standards and setback distances;
      (3)   Minimizing the adverse visual effects of towers through careful
design and siting standards;
      (4)   Maintaining and enhancing the aesthetic environment of the city and
its jurisdiction;
      (5)   Reducing the proliferation of towers through tower-share
requirements for all new construction and those existing towers that are
physically capable of sharing;
      (6)   Encouraging the use of already existing structures, whether
publicly or privately owned, such as water towers, silos, steeples and other
tall structures as prime sites for new antenna sites;
      (7)   Discouraging the siting of telecommunication facilities in
residential and agricultural areas;
      (8)   Providing for the siting of telecommunication facilities which may
deviate from the regulations of this chapter upon approval of the Plan
Commission or Board of Zoning Appeals, as appropriate.
   (B)   Definitions. For purposes of this section, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ACT.  The Communications Act of 1934, as amended from time to time,
including the Telecommunications Act of 1996, as amended from time to time.
      ALTERNATIVE TOWER STRUCTURE.  Man-made structures such as clock towers,
steeples, light poles, roof tops, or antennas integrated into existing
architecture or similar alternative designed mounting structures or methods
that camouflage or conceal the presence of antennas or towers.
      ANTENNA. Any exterior apparatus designed to send and/or receive
electromagnetic waves for the purpose of telephonic, radio or television
communications.
      CELLULAR TELECOMMUNICATIONS. A commercial wireless radio service licensed
by the Federal Communications Commissions which provides telecommunications
service permitting customers to use wireless telephone technology such as, but
not limited to, portable phones, pagers, faxes and computers.
      CO-LOCATION. Locating telecommunication facilities from more than one
provider on a single site or structure.
      FCC. The Federal Communications Commission or any successor thereto.
      LATTICE TOWER. A self supported three or four sided, open, steel frame
structure, which is intended for receiving or transmitting any form of
electronic communication.
      MONOPOLE TOWER. A communication tower consisting of a single pole,
constructed without guy wires and ground anchors, which is intended for
receiving or transmitting any form of electronic communication.
      STEALTH FACILITY. Any telecommunications facility which is designed to
blend into the surrounding environment; including, but not limited to,
architecturally screened roof-mounted antennas, building-mounted antennas
painted to match the existing structure or integrated into existing
architectural elements, towers designed to look like trees or designed to look
like light poles, silos or other man made structure.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITY.  A cellular TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITY
consisting of the any of the equipment and structures involved in transmitting
signals for cellular telecommunications.
      TOWER HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from grade level to the
highest point of the structure.
   (C)   Conditional use permit criteria.
      (1)   The Board shall not grant a conditional use unless it finds that
the following criteria are met, as applicable:
         (a)   The telecommunications facility shall be designed, constructed
and placed to minimize the visual impact by:
            1.   Use of an alternative tower structure;
            2.   Co-location;
            3.   Use of a stealth facility;
            4.   If new construction, structurally designed and capable of
allowing other carriers to co-locate on the tower structure;
            5.   The use of color or camouflaging architectural treatment, or
            6.   The telecommunications facility is located on public land or
in the public right of way as set forth in §
157.115.
         (b)   If the property is being leased, the provider shall enter into a
written easement agreement with the owner of the property, which shall include
a platted area for the location of the telecommunications facility, which shall
be duly recorded. If the property is owned or leased by the provider, unless
the telecommunications facility is attached to an already existing structure,
the platted area for the tower shall be the only use permitted on the platted
easement or property.
      (2)   Alternative tower structures shall be designed and placed to
minimize the visual impact of the structure, or if placed on existing
structures do not exceed the height of the existing structure by more than 20
feet. In all cases, such structures shall meet all other zoning requirements.
      (3)   Telecommunication facilities shall be permitted in all districts if
located on public land or in the public right of way as set forth provided the
public entity having jurisdiction over the property gives written authorization
for location of the tower.
   (D)   Design and location standards.
      (1)   The tower color shall be galvanized metal or similarly gray tone.
      (2)   Guyed and self supporting lattice towers shall not be permitted,
unless the applicant provides a written report from a registered professional
engineer, with a specialization in geotechnical engineering, that the cost of
such a tower at such site is at least twice the normal cost of constructing a
monopole tower due to specific conditions present at the site.
      (3)   Stealth technology shall be used wherever possible.
      (4)    Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the tower
height for a stand-alone tower shall not exceed 60 feet if it is designed to
accommodate only one service provider; 100 feet if it is designed to
accommodate only two service providers: and 300 feet if it is designed to
accommodate more than two providers.
      (5)   Telecommunication facilities attached to other structures shall not
exceed the greater of
         (a)   The   height requirement in the zoning district which they are
located by more than ten feet; or
            (b)   The height of the structure on which such facilities are
attached by more than 20 feet, unless the Board of Zoning Appeals grants a
conditional use permit for the tower.
      (6)   Self-supporting towers (without guy wires) more than 100 feet and
less than 180 feet tall shall be situated on the site to self-contain all
debris resulting from tower failure. In all cases, the tower shall be located
no closer to the lot line than 25% of the tower height or the setback
requirement in §
157.085, whichever is greater. In the event that the self-supporting tower is
located contiguous to a residential parcel, the tower shall be set back from
the lot line a distance equal to the height of the tower.
      (7)   All guy mast towers and self-supporting towers greater than 180
feet shall be situated on the site to self contain all debris resulting from
tower failure. In all cases, the tower shall be located no closer to the lot
line than 66% of the tower height plus 25 feet. Also, in all cases, the guy
wire anchors shall be located a minimum of 25 feet from the lot line or the
prevailing yard requirement, whichever is greater.
      (8)   To protect from falling ice or parts, guyed towers shall be located
a minimum of 1.25 feet for every foot of height from any public road right-of-
way, residentially used parcel or home, occupied building, recreational field
or playground. The Plan Commission may apply the criteria in this subsection to
other structures or land if determined necessary to safeguard human life.
      (9)   Towers greater than 180 feet in height shall be located a minimum
distance of 1,500 feet from any residential subdivision.
      (10)   The height of tower apparatus shall not be utilized in determining
the setbacks required by this section. All tower apparatus shall be securely
fastened to minimize noise emissions or damages from falling. Towers of 180
feet or less shall not exceed a total height of 200 feet, including attached
tower apparatus.
   (E)   Maintenance and removal.
      (1)   All towers and sites shall be properly maintained and shall be kept
in a condition as not to become a public nuisance or eyesore. Proper
maintenance shall include but not be limited to regular lawn and landscaping
care, painting of an accessory building, fences, and tower. Additionally, the
site shall be kept free of junk and trash.
      (2)   Any abandoned or unused telecommunications facility shall be
removed (including the tower, support structure, and buildings) within 180 days
of the cessation of use, and the site shall be restored to its original
condition.
      (3)   Any tower declared to be a public nuisance due to abandonment,
disuse, poor maintenance, noise emissions, or other situation shall be a
violation of this chapter.
   (F)   Co-location, use, and documentation.
      (1)   An application for a permit to erect a tower must include
documentation showing that there is a need for tower space in the area of the
proposed tower. New towers shall not be constructed except upon a showing of
significant need.
      (2)   The applicant shall have the burden of proving significant need by
a preponderance of the evidence showing that the following criteria are met:
         (a)   The proposed tower will replace an existing similar (i.e.,
height and other characteristics) tower that has been or will be removed.
         (b)   The proposed additional antennas cannot be placed on existing
towers.
         (c)   Existing towers cannot be re-engineered to accommodate
additional antennas.
         (d)   Existing towers cannot be extended to accommodate additional
antennas.
         (e)   Another communication technology in lieu of towers with antennas
is not available.
         (f)   A site containing an existing tower cannot accommodate an
additional tower.
      (3)   A new tower application shall demonstrate need for a minimum of two
antenna arrays, which shall be included in the tower application.
   (G)   Towers as conditional uses.  The Board of Zoning Appeals may grant a
conditional use permit for a wireless communication tower only if the applicant
provides a report from a registered professional engineer with a specialization
in cellular telecommunications as to the minimum tower height needed by the
applicant, evidence that there are no other suitable structures for co-location
that meet the applicant's requirements. Each application for a conditional use
shall include the following:
      (1)   Evidence demonstrating that no existing tower or structure can
accommodate the applicant's proposed antenna. Evidence shall consist of at
least one of the following:
      (2)   Evidence that there are no existing towers or structures meeting
the applicant's engineering requirements within the geographic area that the
antenna is intended to serve;
      (3)   If there are towers or structures in the geographic area, evidence
that such towers or structures do not have sufficient height or structural
strength to meet the applicant's engineering requirements;
      (4)   Evidence that the applicant's proposed antenna would cause
electromagnetic (EMF) interference with the antenna of existing towers or
structures, or vice versa;
      (5)   A financial analysis that the fees, costs or contractual provisions
required by the owner of the property in order to co-locate, or to adapt an
existing tower or structure to make it suitable for co-location, exceeds the
cost of new tower development. Such analysis shall include written lease/cost
estimates from the owner of the tower or structure;
      (6)   Evidence as to the minimum height of tower needed by the applicant,
taking into account the need for a higher tower for co-location purposes;
      (7)   Evidence that there are other factors that render existing towers
unusable.
      (8)   In the case of a new tower development or the use of an existing
structure as a telecommunications tower for the first time, a notarized letter
of intent committing the owner and any lessee, on behalf of themselves and
their successors in interest, that the tower structure shall be shared with
additional users;
      (9)   Certification by a qualified and licensed professional engineer
that the design of the antenna support tower conforms to the latest structural
standards and wind loading requirements of the Uniform Building Code and the
Electronics Industry Association, including, but not limited to, certification
that such tower is designed and will be constructed in such a manner that in
the case of tower failure, such tower will either fold upon itself or collapse
upon itself. Such certification shall take into account the proposed users of,
and possible future co-locators on, the antenna structure.
      (10)   Documentation that the proposed telecommunication facilities
comply, or will on completion comply, with the latest applicable federal and
state environmental, health and safety standards and regulations, including,
but not limited to, those established by the Federal Communications Commission
on Radio Frequency Emissions (REF).
      (11)   In the case of a new tower, or when an existing tower structure is
being enlarged in size, a visual impact analysis shall be prepared and
certified by a qualified licensed professional engineer or architect, which
analysis shall include the following information:
         (a)   A site plan prepared by a registered land surveyor licensed in
the State of Indiana;
         (b)   Identification of significant existing natural and manmade
features adjacent to the proposed tower location, indicating those features
that will buffer the proposed tower from adjacent property and rights of way;
         (c)   Identification of at least three specific points, which are
reasonably equidistant, within a three-mile radius of the proposed tower from
which the line of sight analysis is presented. The exact number and location of
these line of sight points shall be determined after consultation with staff
prior to the preparation and completion of the analysis. The applicant shall
then prepare a graphic illustration of the visual impact of the proposed tower.
Such graphic illustration shall be a computer enhanced photograph with the
computer-generated image of the tower depicted to an accurate scale. Each
photograph shall be accompanied by text describing the point where the
photograph was taken and how many feet it is from the proposed tower;
         (d)   A description of the visual and aesthetic impact of the proposed
tower on all adjacent properties and properties within a 2,000 foot radius of
the tower. The applicant shall also provide a specific explanation of the
feasibility of camouflage given the needed height of the tower;
         (e)   A site plan showing all proposed landscaping and buffering. All
such plans shall provide that the lowest six feet of the tower or facility be
fenced by a chain link fence and screened with a landscaping or fencing. Any
building that is not enclosed within such fenced area and;
         (f)   Any additional information requested by the Board in order to
fully review and evaluate the impact.
   (H)   Nonconforming towers. Lawfully existing telecommunication facilities
that do not conform to the requirements of this section shall be considered
legal nonconforming uses, subject to §
157.132. However, placing additional antennas on a nonconforming structure in
accordance with this chapter shall not be considered an expansion of the
nonconforming use, nor shall it be considered to be an increase in the degree
of nonconformity.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 157.116 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. It is recognized that there are some sexually
oriented business uses which by their very nature have serious objectionable
operational characteristics, particularly when they are located in close
proximity to residential neighborhoods, parks, religious facilities, and
schools, and thereby have a deleterious impact upon property values and the
quality of life in such surrounding areas. It has been acknowledged by
communities across the nation that state and local governmental entities have a
special concern in regulation the operation of such businesses under their
jurisdiction to ensure that these adverse secondary effects will not contribute
to the blighting or downgrading of adjacent neighborhoods nor endanger the
well-being of the youth in their communities. The special regulations deemed
necessary to control the undesirable externalities arising from these
enterprises are set forth in this section. The primary purpose of these
controls and regulations is to preserve the integrity and character of
residential neighborhoods, to deter the spread of urban blight, and to protect
minors from the objectionable operational characteristics of these sexually
oriented businesses by restricting their close proximity to religious
facilities, parks, schools and residential areas.
   (B)   For purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ADULT CABARET. Any business, building, or portion thereof that features
dancing or other live entertainment that is distinguished or characterized by
the exhibition of "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas"
for observation by customers or patrons.
      SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. Any business establishment where all or part
of the business is devoted to the offer for sale or view of material, sexually
oriented toys or novelties, or performances that show "specified anatomical
areas" or "specified sexual activities."
      SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Less than completely and opaquely covered
human genitals, pubic region, buttocks, anus or female breasts below a point
immediately above the top of the areolae; or human male genitals in a
discernibly turgid state, even if completely and opaquely covered.
      SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Any of the following: human genitals in a
state of sexual stimulation or arousal; acts of human masturbation, sexual
intercourse or sodomy; fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals,
pubic regions, buttocks or female breasts; flagellation or torture in the
context of a sexual relationship; masochism, erotic or sexually oriented
torture, beating or the infliction of pain; erotic touching, fondling or other
such contact with an animal or latent object by a human being; or human
excretion, urination, menstruation, vaginal or anal irrigation as part of or in
connection with any of the activities set forth herein.
      SEXUALLY ORIENTED TOYS or NOVELTIES.  Any instruments, devices, or
paraphernalia either designed as representations of human genital organs or
female breasts, or designed or marketed primarily for use to stimulate human
genital organs, or devices used to perform sadomasochistic acts.
      VIDEO VIEWING BOOTH OR ARCADE BOOTH. Any business or building, or portion
thereof that contains any booth, cubicle, stall, or compartment that is
designed, constructed, or used to hold or seat patrons and is used for
presenting motion pictures or viewing publication by any photographic,
magnetic, digital or other medium including but not limited to film, video or
magnetic tape, laser disc, CD ROM, magazines or periodicals) for observation by
patrons therein of performances or images that show "Specified Anatomical
Areas" or "Specified Sexual Activities." A video viewing booth or arcade booth
shall not mean a movie theater or a room or enclosure that contains more than
600 square feet.
   (C)   Specific standards.
      (1)   The establishment, enlargement, reconstruction, resumption or
structural alteration of any sexually oriented business shall be prohibited if
such business is within 1000 feet of another such business or within 1000 feet
of any existing religious facility, school, park, or residential district (RS,
RS-1, R-1, R-2, R-3 or R-4) within the jurisdiction of the Seymour Plan
Commission.
      (2)   No sexually oriented business shall be established, enlarged,
reconstructed, resumed or structurally altered unless the site or proposed site
is located in an industrial district (I-1, I-2, or I-3).
      (3)   Adult cabarets, video viewing booths or arcade booths, as defined
herein, are prohibited in all sexually oriented businesses in all zoning
districts within the jurisdiction of the Seymour Plan Commission.
      (4)   Measurement.
         (a)   The distance between one sexually oriented business and another
shall be measured in a straight line, without regard to intervening structures
or objects, from the closest exterior structural wall of each business.
         (b)   The distance between a sexually oriented business and any
religious facility, school, park, or residential zoning district shall be
measured in a straight line, without regard to intervening structures or
objects, from the closest exterior structural wall of the sexually oriented
business to the nearest property line of the religious facility, school, park,
or residential zoning district.
      (5)   Exterior display.
         (a)   No sexually oriented business shall be conducted in any manner
that permits the observation of any material depicting, describing or relating
to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas by display,
decoration, sign, show window, or other opening from public view.
         (b)   Sexually oriented businesses shall strictly comply with all
regulations governing signs under §
157.116.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
NONCONFORMITIES
§ 157.130 GENERAL.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. Nonconforming uses are declared by this chapter to
be incompatible with permitted uses in the districts involved. It is the
general policy of the city to allow legally existing uses and structures to
continue in productive use, but also to bring these uses as nearly into
compliance with existing regulations as is reasonably possible. In furtherance
of that policy, these regulations are intended to do the following:
      (1)   Recognize the interests of property owners in continuing to use
their property;
      (2)   Promote reuse and rehabilitation of existing buildings; and
      (3)   Place reasonable limits on the expansion and alteration of
nonconformities that have the potential to adversely affect surrounding
properties or the community as a whole.
   (B)   Applicability. This chapter applies to nonconformities created by
initial adoption or amendments to this chapter. It also applies to
nonconformities that were legal nonconformities under previously applicable
ordinances, even if the type or extent of nonconformity is different.
   (C)   Authority to continue. Any nonconformity that legally exists on the
effective date of this chapter or that becomes nonconforming upon the adoption
of any amendment to this chapter may be continued in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Determination of nonconformity status.
      (1)   The burden of establishing that any nonconformity is a legal
nonconformity shall in all cases be solely upon the owner of such
nonconformity.
      (2)   An illegal nonconforming use shall not be validated by the adoption
of this chapter.
      (3)   The casual, intermittent, temporary or illegal use of land,
buildings or premises shall not be sufficient to establish the existence of a
nonconforming use and the existence of a nonconforming use on part of a lot or
tract shall not be construed to establish a nonconforming use on the entire lot
or tract.
   (E)   Minor repairs and maintenance. Incidental repairs and normal
maintenance of nonconformities shall be permitted unless such repairs increase
the extent of nonconformity or are otherwise expressly prohibited by this
chapter. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent structures from
being structurally strengthened or restored to a safe condition, in accordance
with an order of a public official.
   (F)   Change of tenancy or ownership.  Change of tenancy or ownership shall
not affect the nonconforming status of a property or use, provided that there
is no change in or expansion of the use or nonconformity.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 157.131 NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Existing nonconforming use. The lawful nonconforming use of a
structure, land, or water existing at the time of the adoption or amendment of
this chapter may be continued although the use does not conform to the
provisions of this chapter. However, only the portion of the land or water in
actual use may be so continued, and the structure or area within which the use
is contained may not be extended, enlarged, reconstructed, substituted, moved,
or structurally altered except when required to do so by law or official order,
so as to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Total lifetime structural repairs. Total lifetime structural repairs
or structural alterations to a structure with a nonconforming use shall not
exceed 50% of the assessed value of the structure at the time it became a
nonconforming structure and use unless it is permanently changed to conform to
the use provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Change of use.
      (1)   Change to conforming use. A nonconforming use may be changed to any
use that is allowed in the zoning district in which it is located, subject to
all standards and requirements applicable to the new use. Once a nonconforming
use is converted to a conforming use it may not be changed back to a
nonconforming use.
      (2)   Change to other nonconforming use. The Board of Zoning Appeals may
approve as a conditional use a change of use to a use not otherwise allowed in
the underlying zoning districts if it finds that the new proposed use will be
no more injurious than the previous use or will decrease the extent of the
nonconformity. If the Board approves such a change of use, it shall be
authorized to impose conditions it deems necessary to reduce or minimize any
potentially adverse effect upon other property in the neighborhood, and to
carry out the general purpose and intent of this chapter.
      (3)   Substitution of new equipment. The Board of Zoning Appeals may
permit the substitution of new equipment (e.g., fencing, mechanical equipment)
if such equipment will reduce the incompatibility of the nonconforming use with
neighboring uses.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 157.132 NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Continuance. The conforming use of a nonconforming structure existing
at the time of adoption or amendment of this chapter may be continued.
Additions or enlargements of such structures are permitted provided that the
structure with such addition or enlargement complies with the setback, height,
parking and loading requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Damage or destruction
      (1)   Limitation on reconstruction. Existing nonconforming structures
with a conforming use that are damaged or destroyed by fire, explosion, flood,
or other calamity, to the extent that the cost of repairs exceeds 50% of its
equalized assessed value at the time it became nonconforming, may be
reconstructed and shall conform with the established building setback lines
along streets and the yard, height, parking, loading, and access provisions of
this chapter
      (2)   Residential use exception. Notwithstanding division (B)(1) above, a
single-family residential structure that is damaged or destroyed as specified
above may be reconstruction using the same building footprint as the damaged or
destroyed structure.
   (C)   Abandonment or discontinuance. If a nonconforming use other than a
single-family residential use is discontinued or terminated for a period of 12
months, any future use of the structure, land, or water shall conform to the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 157.133 NONCONFORMING LOTS.
   (A)   Legal lots of record.
      (1)   In any district in which a principal use is permitted, a principal
use and customary accessory uses may be erected on any single lot of record at
the effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter, notwithstanding
limitations imposed by other provisions of this chapter; provided, that such
lot must be in separate ownership and not of continuous frontage with other
lots in the same ownership.
      (2)   The provision of (A)(1) of this section shall apply even though
such lot fails to meet the requirements for area or width, or both, that are
generally applicable in the district; provided that setback dimensions and
requirements other than those applying to area or width, or both, of the lot
shall conform to the regulations for the district in which such lot is located.
Variance of setback requirements shall be obtained only through action of the
Board of Zoning Appeals.
      (3)   No division of land shall be made after the effective date of this
chapter which creates a lot with width or area below the requirements stated in
this chapter.
   (B)   Nonconforming sites. The provisions of this section apply to
properties containing permitted uses but which do not comply with development
standards of this chapter, such as landscaping, parking, loading, or signs.
Whenever a nonconforming use of a structure or a nonconforming structure is
expanded or changed in such a manner as to require landscaping, such
landscaping shall be installed before a certificate of occupancy is issued,
unless a financial guarantee is posted under the terms of §
157.094.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 157.134 NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)   Continuance. Any legal nonconforming sign existing at the time of
adoption or amendment of this chapter may be continued. Such sign shall not be
relocated, moved, damaged and reconstructed, extended, enlarged, changed
(including changing the sign face), altered, or modified unless it is brought
into conformance with the provisions of §
157.095.
   (B)   Signs in the right-of-way. No sign located in a public right-of-way
shall be considered to be a legal nonconforming sign.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
ENFORCEMENT AND REMEDIES
§ 157.150 AUTHORITY TO ENFORCE.
   The staff shall have the authority to take those lawful actions necessary to
enforce the terms of this chapter on behalf of the Plan Commission and Board of
Zoning Appeals. The Building Commissioner of the city is hereby designated as
the official responsible for administration of this chapter. The staff is
hereby authorized to perform those duties specified by I.C. 36-7-4-800 et seq.
and such other duties as may be assigned to it from time to time by the
Commission, Board, or Council.
   (A)   Inspections. The authority to perform inspections, review applications
and issue permits and citations is hereby delegated to the staff. The staff is
authorized to make inspections of all lands located within the jurisdiction of
the Commission in order to enforce this chapter. In order to execute
inspections, the staff shall have the right to enter upon any premises at any
reasonable time for the purpose of carrying out their duties in the enforcement
of these regulations. If the owner or occupant of the premises refuses to
permit entry, the staff may make application to any judge of the Circuit or
Superior Courts of Jackson County, Indiana, for the issuance of an
administrative search warrant. Such application shall identify the premises
upon which entry is sought and the purpose for which entry is desired. The
application shall state the facts giving rise to the belief that a violation of
these regulations exists on such premises.
   (B)   Stop-work orders. The staff is hereby granted the authority to issue a
stop work order for any activity that is commenced without a permit required by
this chapter or for any activity that is being carried out in a manner that
violates this chapter.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 157.151 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Complaint. Whenever a violation of this chapter occurs or is alleged
to have occurred, any person may file a written complaint. Such complaint
stating fully the causes and basis thereof shall be filed with the staff. The
staff shall properly record such complaint and investigate in a timely manner.
If acts elicited by such investigation are sufficient to establish a reasonable
belief that a violation has occurred on the part of the party investigated,
such official shall issue a citation in accordance with this section and/or
file with the City Attorney a complaint against such person requesting action
thereon as provided by this chapter and in accordance with law.
   (B)   Nuisance declared. Any buildings erected, raised or converted, or land
or premises used in violation of any section of this chapter or regulation
thereof is hereby declared to be a common nuisance and the owner thereof shall
be liable for maintaining a common nuisance, which may be restrained or
enjoined or abated in any appropriate action or proceeding.
   (C)   Injunction.
      (1)   The Commission, the Board or any designated administrative official
may institute a suit or injunction in the Circuit or Superior Court of Jackson
County to restrain any person from violating the sections of this chapter.
      (2)   The Commission or the Board may institute a suit for mandatory
injunction directing a person to remove a structure erected in violation of the
sections of this chapter or to make the same comply with its terms. If such
Commission or Board is successful in its suit, the respondent shall bear the
costs of the action including reasonable attorney's fees.
   (D)   Other remedies. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city from
taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any
violation.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 157.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any section of this chapter or regulation
thereof or fails to comply with any of its requirements, including violations
of conditions and safeguards established in connection with this chapter, shall
be guilty of an ordinance violation and upon conviction, shall be fined in a
sum not less than $25 nor more than $500 for each day's violation.
   (B)   The owner or tenant of any building, structure, premises or part
thereof, and any architect, builder, contractor, realtor, agent or other person
who commits, participates in, assists in or maintains such violation may each
be found guilty of a separate offence and suffer the penalties herein provided.
      (1)   Penalty for violations of §
157.057.
         (a)   First offense:      Written warning
         (b)   Second offense:   $100 fine
         (c)   Third offense:      $250 fine
         (d)   Fourth offense:   $500 fine
      (2)   All fines collected under §
157.057 shall accrue to the General Fund of the city. If not paid within 30
days, the offender is subject to court summons, with a maximum fine of up to
$2,500, attorney’s fees, and court costs.
(Ord. 17, 2006, passed 11-27-2006; Am. Ord. 5, 2007, passed 3-26-2007)
CHAPTER 158: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT AND CONSTRUCTION SITE REGULATIONS
Section
   
158.01   Purpose and intent
   
158.02   Legal authority
   
158.03   Definitions
   
158.04   Responsibility for administration
   
158.05   Ultimate responsibility
   
158.06   Disclaimer of liability
   
158.07   Applicability and exemptions
   
158.08   Variance
   
158.09   Stormwater quantity purpose
   
158.10   Stormwater quantity applicability and exemptions
   
158.11   Stormwater quantity control requirements
   
158.12   Grading for building pads and minimum floor elevations
   
158.13   Adjoining property impacts policy
   
158.14   Calculations, design standards and specification
   
158.15   Placement of utilities
   
158.16   Easement requirements
   
158.17   Requirement to prevent, control, and reduce stormwater pollutants by
using best management practices.
   
158.18   Stormwater quality control requirements
   
158.19   Stormwater quality design requirements
   
158.20   Construction stormwater control general requirements
   
158.21   City construction permit application
   
158.22   City review and approval
   
158.23   Project site owner responsibilities
   
158.24   Requirements for individual building lots
   
158.25   Inspection authority
   
158.26   City inspections
   
158.27   Monitoring of discharges
   
158.28   Reserved.
   
158.29   Enforcement
   
158.30   Injunctive relief
   
158.31   Violations deemed a public nuisance
   
158.32   Remedies not exclusive
   
158.33   Suggested references for compliance
   
158.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A: FEMA/SFHA and floodplains with drainage areas greater than one
square mile
   
Appendix B: Areas adjacent to regulated drains or detention facilities
   
Appendix C: Areas adjacent to rear yard swales
   
Appendix D: Areas adjacent to drainage system overflow
§ 158.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish qualitative and quantitative
requirements for stormwater discharges from land-disturbing activities of one
acre or more so that public health, protection of property, existing water
uses, and aquatic biota are protected. This chapter establishes methods for
controlling the introduction of pollutants into the municipal separate storm
sewer system (MS4) to comply with the requirements of the National Pollutant
Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit process. The objectives of this
chapter are:
   (A)   To regulate earth moving activities disturbing more than one acre of
land as governed by the construction stormwater general permit (CSGP).
   (B)   To require construction site operators to apply for a city stormwater
permit by developing and implementing a Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan
(SWPPP).
   (C)   To promote planning procedures meeting post-construction requirements
of the CSGP and this chapter.
(Ord. 20, 2006, passed 12-11-2006; Am. Ord. 28, 2024, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 158.02 LEGAL AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is adopted per statutory authority granted under code
authorizing jurisdiction over the storm system and is required by the NPDES
program (FR Doc. 99-29181) authorized by the 1972 amendments to the Clean Water
Act and the Indiana Department of Environmental Management's (DEM) CSGP and
municipal separate storm sewer system (MS4) general permit (MS4GP). Based on
this authority and these requirements, this chapter regulates:
   (A)   Stormwater drainage improvements related to the development of lands
located within the city boundaries;
   (B)   Drainage control systems installed during construction and grading of
lots and other parcels of land;
   (C)   Erosion and sediment control measures installed during construction
and grading of lots and other parcels of land;
   (D)   Stormwater pollution prevention planning for land-disturbing
activities;
   (E)   The design, construction, and maintenance of stormwater drainage
facilities and systems; and
   (F)   The design, construction, and maintenance of stormwater quality
facilities and systems.
(Ord. 28, 2024, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 158.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the context
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AEP or ANNUAL EXCEEDENCE PROBABILITY. Having a stated probability of being
exceeded in any given year.
   AGRICULTURAL CONSERVATION PRACTICES. Practices that are constructed on
agricultural land to control soil erosion and sedimentation. These practices
include, but are not limited to grass waterways, sediment basins, terraces, and
grade stabilization structures.
   AGRICULTURAL LAND-DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Tillage, planting, cultivation, or
harvesting operations to produce agricultural or nursery vegetative crops. The
term also includes pasture renovation and establishment, the construction of
agricultural conservation practices, and the installation and maintenance of
agricultural subsurface drainage tiles.
   BORROW AREA. Areas where materials are excavated for use as fill.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION. The water surface elevation, corresponding to a flood
having a 1% probability of being equaled or exceeded in a given year.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs). Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, general good housekeeping practices, pollution prevention and
educational practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices
to prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants directly or indirectly to
stormwater, receiving waters, or stormwater conveyance systems. BMPs also
include treatment practices, operating procedures, and practices to control
site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or water disposal, or drainage from raw
materials storage.
   CITY. Seymour Board of Public Works of Seymour, Indiana through its District
Administrator, employees, or designees.
   CLEAN WATER ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. § 1251
et seq.), and any subsequent amendments thereto.
   CLEARING. Any activity that removes the vegetative surface cover.
   CONCRETE WASHOUT. The rinsing of chutes, pumps, curb and paving machines,
hoppers, wheelbarrows, hand tools, and any other equipment that are used to
handle concrete, mortar, stucco, grout, or other mixtures of cement. Concrete
washout water is a wastewater slurry containing cementitious materials, metals
and is corrosive having a high pH.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. Land-disturbing activities associated with the
construction of infrastructure and structures, including land clearing,
grading, excavating, and filling. The term does not include routine ditch or
road maintenance or minor landscaping projects.
   CONSTRUCTION SITE ACCESS. A stabilized stone surface at all points of
ingress or egress to a project site for the purpose of capturing and detaining
sediment carried by tires of vehicles or other equipment entering or exiting
the project site.
   CONSTRUCTION STORMWATER GENERAL PERMIT (CSGP). Indiana Department of
Environmental Management's construction stormwater general permit (CSGP)
regulating erosion and sediment control practices on construction projects
disturbing greater than one acre of land.
   CONSTRUCTION SUPPORT ACTIVITY. An activity that specifically supports the
project and involves land disturbance and/or activities that may result in
pollutant-generating activities on their own. These activities include but are
not limited to concrete or asphalt batch plants, staging areas, material
storage areas, disposal sites, and soil stockpile areas.
   CONTRACTOR or SUBCONTRACTOR. An individual or company hired by the project
site or individual lot owner, their agent, or the individual lot operator to
perform services on the project site.
   CONVEYANCE. A combination of drainage components that are used to convey
stormwater discharge, either within or downstream of the land-disturbing
activity including:
      (1)   MANMADE STORMWATER CONVEYANCE SYSTEM. A pipe, ditch, vegetated
swale, or other stormwater conveyance system constructed by man except for
restored stormwater conveyance systems;
      (2)   NATURAL STORMWATER CONVEYANCE SYSTEM. The main channel of a natural
stream and the flood-prone area adjacent to the main channel; or
      (3)   RESTORED STORMWATER CONVEYANCE SYSTEM. A stormwater conveyance
system that has been designed and constructed using natural channel design
concepts. Restored stormwater conveyance systems include the main channel and
the flood-prone area adjacent to the main channel.
   DEVELOPER. Means any person financially responsible for construction
activity; or an owner of property who sells or leases, or offers for sale or
lease, any lots in a multiple-lot project.
   DEWATERING. The act of draining rainwater and/or groundwater from
excavations, stormwater measures, building foundations, vaults, and trenches.
   DITCH MAINTENANCE. To restore a conveyance system to its originally
constructed channel capacity and to perform the function for which ii was
originally constructed as defined in I.C. 36-9-27. Maintenance includes:
      (1)   Cleaning (removal of accumulated sediments, de-brushing, and
mowing);
      (2)   Spraying;
      (3)   Removing obstructions; and
      (4)   Conducting minor repairs.
   EROSION. The detachment and movement of soil, sediment, or rock fragments by
water, wind, ice, or gravity.
   EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL MEASURE. A practice, or combination of
practices, to control erosion and resulting sedimentation.
   FILTER STRIP. An area of undisturbed or planted vegetation used to retard or
collect sediment for the protection of watercourses, reservoirs, or adjacent
properties.
   FLOATABLE. Any solid or liquid that, due to its physical characteristics,
will float on the surface of water. For this chapter, the term does not include
naturally occurring floatables, such as leaves or tree limbs.
   GRADING. The excavation of the land surface to a desired slope or elevation.
   GREEN INFRASTRUCTURE. An approach to water management that protects,
restores, or mimics the natural water cycle.
   IDEM. Indiana Department of Environmental Management.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. Any land surface with a low or no capacity for soil
infiltration, including, but not limited to pavement (sidewalks, streets,
parking areas, and driveways), compacted gravel or soil, and rooftops.
   INDIVIDUAL BUILDING LOT. A single parcel of land within a multi-parcel
development.
   INDIVIDUAL LOT OPERATOR. A builder, contractor, or subcontractor working on
an individual lot.
   INDIVIDUAL LOT OWNER. A person who has a financial interest in the
construction activities for an individual lot.
   INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY. Activities subject to NPDES industrial permits as
defined in 40 CFR, 122.26(b)(14).
   INFILTRATION. The process by which surface water enters the soil and
recharges streams, lakes, rivers, and underground aquifers. Stormwater
infiltration is a fundamental component of the water cycle and is a centerpiece
of stormwater management strategies.
   LAND DISTURBANCE or LAND DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Any manmade change of the land
surface including, but not limited to removing vegetative cover that exposes
the underlying soil, excavating, filling, and grading.
   LARGER COMMON PLAN OF DEVELOPMENT or SALE. A plan, undertaken by a single
project site owner or a group of project site owners acting in concert, to
offer lots for sale or lease; where such land is contiguous or is known,
designated, purchased, or advertised as a common unit or by a common name, such
land must be presumed as being offered for sale or lease as part of a larger
common plan. The term also includes phased or other construction activity by a
single entity for its own use.
   LOW IMPACT DEVELOPMENT or LID. Systems and practices that use or mimic
natural processes that result in the infiltration, evapotranspiration, or use
of stormwater to protect water quality and associated aquatic habitat.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The elevation of the lowest grade adjacent to a
structure, where the soil meets the foundation around the outside of the
structure (including structural members such as basement walkout, patios,
decks, porches, support posts or piers, and rim of the window well.)
   MAXIMUM EXTENT PRACTICABLE. A performance standard or requirement within a
permit to reduce the discharge of pollutants from an MS4 to protect water
quality, and to satisfy the appropriate water quality requirements of the Clean
Water Act; which is achieved through planning and implementation of specific
measures that are identified in the Stormwater Quality Management Plan (SWQMP).
The term applies to an MS4 that demonstrates to IDEM's satisfaction that a
performance standard is not achievable and that a lower level of performance is
appropriate. The MS4 must document that all reasonable and economical options
have been evaluated, considered, and/or implemented to comply with and achieve
the requirements of the permit, except those where it can demonstrate that they
are not technically feasible in the locality, or whose cost would exceed any
water quality benefit.
   MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM or MS4. The regulatory definition of
an MS4 (40 CFR 122.26(b)(8)) is "a conveyance or system of conveyances
(including roads with drainage systems, municipal streets, catch basins, curbs,
gutters, ditches, man-made channels, or storm drains): (i) Owned or operated by
a state, city, town, borough, county, parish, district, association, or other
public body (created to or under state law) including special districts under
state law such as a sewer district, flood control district or drainage
district, or similar entity, or an Indian tribe or an authorized Indian tribal
organization, or a designated and approved management agency under Section 208
of the Clean Water Act that discharges into waters of the United States; (ii)
Designed or used for collecting or conveying stormwater; (iii) Which is not a
combined sewer; and (iv) Which is not part of a publicly owned treatment works
(POTW) as defined at 40 CFR 122.2."
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) STORMWATER DISCHARGE
PERMIT. A permit issued by EPA (or by a state under authority delegated under
33 USC § 1342(b)) that authorizes the discharge of pollutants to waters of the
United States, whether the permit is applicable on an individual, group, or
general area-wide basis.
   NON-STORMWATER DISCHARGE. Discharges that do not originate from storm
events. These discharges include, but are not limited to process water, air
conditioner condensate, non-contact cooling water, sanitary waste, concrete
washout water, paint wash water, irrigation water, or pipe testing water.
   NOTICE OF INTENT or NOI. A form provided by IDEM for the project site owner
to complete and submit to IDEM and the Stormwater Management Department at
least 48 hours before initiating construction activities at the construction
site.
   NOTICE OF TERMINATION or NOT. A form provided by IDEM for the project site
owner to submit to IDEM and the Stormwater Management Department that the
construction activities for a site have been terminated and have met the
requirements of this chapter.
   PERMITTEE. The individual or entity required to obtain a permit coverage as
defined by the project site owner.
   PERSON. Any individual, association, organization, partnership, firm,
corporation, or other entity recognized by law and acting as either the owner
or as the owner's agent.
   POLLUTANT. Anything that causes or contributes to pollution. POLLUTANTS may
include but are not limited to paints, varnishes, and solvents; oil and other
automotive fluids; non-hazardous liquid and solid wastes and yard wastes;
refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter, or other discarded or abandoned objects,
ordinances, and accumulations, so that same may cause or contribute to
pollution; floatables; pesticides, herbicides, and fertilizers; sediment;
nutrients; hazardous substances and wastes; sewage, fecal coliform and
pathogens; dissolved and particulate metals; animal wastes; wastes and residues
that result from constructing a building or structure; and noxious or offensive
matter of any kind.
   PROJECT SITE. The entire area on which construction activity is to be
performed.
   PROJECT SITE OWNER/OPERATOR. The person required to submit the NOI letter
and required to comply with the terms of this permit, including either a
developer or a person or entity that has financial and operational control of
construction activities and project plans and specifications, including the
authority to approve expenditure of funds and the ability to make modifications
to plans and specifications.
   RUNOFF. Water that originates during a precipitation event and flows over
the land rather than infiltrating into the ground or evaporating.
   SEDIMENT. Solid material (both mineral and organic) that is in suspension,
is being transported, or has been moved from its site of origin by air, water,
gravity, or ice and has come to rest on the earth's surface.
   SEDIMENTATION. The settling and accumulation of unconsolidated sediment
carried by stormwater runoff.
   SILVICULTURAL. The practice of controlling the establishment, growth,
composition, health, and quality of forests to meet diverse needs and values.
      (1)   Nonpoint activities that do not require permit coverage include
source silvicultural activities such as nursery operations, site preparation,
reforestation, and subsequent cultural treatment, thinning, prescribed burning,
pest and fire control, harvesting operations, surface drainage, or logging road
construction and maintenance from which there is natural runoff. Some of these
activities (such as stream crossing for roads) may involve the placement of
dredged or fill material which may require a CWA Section 404 permit and a 401
water quality certification.
      (2)   Point source activities, subject to permit coverage include any
discernible confined and discrete conveyance related to rock crushing, gravel
washing, log sorting, or log storage facilities that are operated in connection
with silvicultural activities and from which pollutants are discharged into
waters of the United States or the state.
   SITE. A parcel of land or a contiguous combination thereof, where
construction or land disturbing activity is performed as a single unified
operation.
   SOIL. The unconsolidated mineral and organic material on the surface of the
earth that serves as the natural medium for the growth of plants.
   STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEM. Facilities by which stormwater is collected and/or
conveyed, including but not limited to any roads with drainage systems,
streets, gutters, curbs, inlets, piped storm drains, pumping facilities,
retention and detention basins, natural and human-made or altered drainage
channels, reservoirs, and other drainage structures.
   STORMWATER. Any surface flow, runoff, and drainage consisting entirely of
water from any form of natural precipitation and resulting from such
precipitation.
   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT MEASURE. A practice or a combination of practices
selected to improve the quality of runoff discharges, divert runoff, or
mitigate the impacts related to the quantity of runoff.
   STORMWATER QUALITY MEASURE. A practice, or combination of practices, to
control or minimize pollutants associated with stormwater runoff.
   STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN or SWPPP. A plan developed to minimize
the impact of stormwater pollution resulting from construction and post-
construction activities.
   STRIP DEVELOPMENT. A multi-lot project where building lots front on an
existing road and are not part of a larger common plan of development or sale.
   THALWEG. The lowest thread along the axial part of a valley or stream
channel.
   TRAINED/QUALIFIED INDIVIDUAL. An individual who is trained and experienced
in the principles of stormwater management, including erosion and sediment
control as is demonstrated by completion of course work, state registration,
professional certification, or annual training that enables the individual to
make judgments regarding stormwater management, treatment, and monitoring.
   TREAT. Improving the stormwater runoff quality, reducing runoff volume,
reducing peak flow, or any combination thereof.
   WATER QUALITY FLOW or WQF. The peak flow associated with the water quality
volume calculated using the Natural Resources Conservation Service graphical
peak discharge method.
   WATER QUALITY VOLUME or WQV. The volume of runoff generated by one inch of
rainfall on a site.
   WATERCOURSE. The path taken by flowing surface water.
   WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREA. Having the meaning set forth at 327 I.A.C. 8-4.1-1
(27).
(Ord. 28, 2024, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 158.04 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION.
   The city shall administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this
chapter. Any power granted or duties imposed upon the city may be delegated in
writing by the Mayor of the city to persons or entities acting in the
beneficial interest of or in the employ of the Board of Works.
(Ord. 28, 2024, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 158.05 ULTIMATE RESPONSIBILITY.
   The standards set forth herein and promulgated under this chapter are
minimum standards; therefore, this chapter does not intend nor imply that
compliance by any person will ensure that there will not be violations of NPDES
permits.
(Ord. 28, 2024, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 158.06 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of protection required by this chapter is considered reasonable
for regulatory purposes and is based on historical records, engineering, and
scientific methods of study. Larger storms may occur, stormwater runoff
amounts, or stormwater quality may be altered by man-made or natural causes.
This chapter does not imply that land uses permitted will be free from
stormwater damage. This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the
city or any officer, representative, or employee thereof, for any damage which
may result from reliance on this chapter or on any administrative decision
lawfully made there under.
(Ord. 28, 2024, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 158.07 APPLICABILITY AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   This applies to all land-disturbing activities within the city
resulting in land disturbance greater than or equal to one acre, or to
disturbances of less than one acre of land that are part of a larger common
plan of development or sale if the larger common plan will ultimately disturb
one or more acres of land.
   (B)   This chapter does not apply to the following types of activities:
      (1)   Agricultural land-disturbing activities, including tillage,
planting, cultivation, or harvesting operations to produce agricultural or
nursery and vegetative crops, pasture renovation and establishment, the
construction of agricultural conservation practices, and the installation and
maintenance of agricultural drainage tile.
      (2)   Silvicultural activities associated with non-point discharges (40
CFR 122.27).
      (3)   Stormwater discharges associated with oil and gas exploration,
production, processing or treatment operations, or transmission facilities (40
CFR 122.26).
      (4)   Ditch maintenance for activities performed on a regulated drain by
a county drainage board as defined in Appendix B and I.C. 36-9-27.
   (C)   This chapter does not apply to the following activities, provided
other applicable permits contain provisions requiring immediate implementation
of soil erosion control measures and stormwater management measures:
      (1)   Landfills that have been issued a certification of closure under
329 I.A.C. 10.
      (2)   Coal mining activities permitted under I.C. 14-34.
      (3)   Municipal solid waste landfills that are accepting waste according
to a permit issued by IDEM under 329 I.A.C 10 that contains equivalent
stormwater requirements, including the expansion of landfill boundaries and
construction of new cells either within or outside the original solid waste
permit boundary.
      (4)   Indiana Department of Transportation conducting business within
Seymour Board of Public Works jurisdictional limit under its CSGP.
   (D)   Any construction project that has had its final drainage plan approved
by the city two years before the effective date of this chapter shall be exempt
from all requirements of this chapter that exceed the requirements of the
chapter in effect at the time of approval.
   (E)   Discharges authorized by this chapter. This chapter authorizes the
following discharges to the waters of the state:
      (1)   Stormwater, including stormwater runoff, snowmelt runoff, and
surface runoff and drainage, associated with construction or industrial
activity (40 CFR 122.26(b)(14) or 122.26(b)(15)(i)).
      (2)   Stormwater discharges designated by IDEM as needing to obtain
coverage under the CSGP (40 CFR 122.26(a)(1)(v) or 122.26(b)(15)(ii)).
      (3)   Stormwater discharges from construction support activities (e.g.,
concrete or asphalt batch plants, equipment staging yards, material storage
areas, excavated material disposal areas, borrow areas) provided the support
activity is directly related to the construction site required to have coverage
for stormwater discharges, and:
         (a)   The support activity is not a commercial/industrial operation,
nor does it serve multiple unrelated construction projects;
         (b)   The support activity does not continue to operate beyond the
completion of the construction activity for the project it supports; and
         (c)   Stormwater measures are implemented per the stormwater pollution
prevention plan, performance standards, and the city construction permit.
      (4)   Non-stormwater discharges or flows provided they are not identified
by IDEM as significant sources of pollutants to waters of the state, including,
but not limited to:
         (a)   Emergency fire-fighting water;
         (b)   Fire hydrant flushing water;
         (c)   Landscape irrigation water;
         (d)   Water line flushing;
         (e)   Routine external building washdown water that does not use
detergents;
         (f)   Water used to wash vehicles and equipment that does not contain
soaps, solvents, or detergents;
         (g)   Uncontaminated, non-turbid discharges of groundwater or spring
water;
         (h)   Foundation or crawl space footing drainages where flows are not
contaminated with process materials such as solvents or contaminated
groundwater;
         (i)   Uncontaminated condensate from air conditioning units, coolers,
and other compressors and from outside refrigerated gases or liquids; or
         (j)   Construction dewatering that has been treated by an appropriate
stormwater quality measure or series of measures provided other contaminants
are not present.
      (5)   A determination of the area of land disturbance shall be calculated
by adding the total area of land disturbance for improvements, such as roads,
utilities, or common areas, and the expected total disturbance at the project
site. Land disturbances for this chapter include:
         (a)   Off-site construction activities that provide services
including, but not limited to, road extensions, sewer, water, and other
utilities, to a permitted project site; these off-site activity areas must be
considered as a part of the total land disturbance calculation for the project
site when the activity is under the control of the project site owner;
         (b)   Construction support activities including concrete or asphalt
batch plants, equipment staging yards, material storage areas, excavated
material, etc. provided the support activity is directly related to the
construction site;
         (c)   Strip developments or multi-lot project sites, unless the total
combined land disturbance on all individual lots is less than one acre and is
not part of a larger common plan of development or sale, as determined by the
following:
            1.   For a single-family residential project site where the lots
are one-half acre or more in total size, the total amount of disturbance shall
be used, but in no instance less than one-half acre of land disturbance, as the
expected lot disturbance.
            2.   For a single-family residential project site where the lots
are less than one-half acre in size, the total lot must be calculated as being
disturbed.
         (d)   Land disturbance for industrial and commercial project sites
shall be considered a minimum of one acre for all lots regardless of actual
size;
         (e)   Land-disturbing activities for the construction of the following
agricultural operations must obtain permit coverage when the land disturbance
is greater than or equal to one acre;
         (f)   Barns;
         (g)   Buildings to house livestock;
         (h)   Roads associated with infrastructure;
         (i)   Agricultural waste lagoons and other facilities;
         (j)   Lake, ponds, and impoundments;
         (k)   Wetlands constructed voluntarily or as mitigation; and
         (l)   Other infrastructure.
(Ord. 28, 2024, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 158.08 VARIANCE.
   A project site owner or operator may submit a written request for a variance
from the requirements in this chapter to the City Engineer and the Water
Pollution Control Department. The City Engineer and the Water Pollution Control
Department may grant a variance from the terms of this chapter to provide
relief, in whole or in part, from the action being appealed, but only upon
finding that the following requirements are satisfied: the variance for
requirement of this chapter that is requested, will present or cause practical
difficulties for a project site; provided, however, that practical difficulties
shall not include the need for the project site owner or operator to incur
additional reasonable expenses to comply with this chapter; and the granting of
the relief requested will not substantially prevent the goals and purposes of
this chapter, nor result in less effective management of stormwater quality or
quantity.
(Ord. 28, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 158.09 STORMWATER QUANTITY PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish a stormwater quantity policy.
This policy covers items such as the detention policy, grading for building
pads and minimum floor elevations, and adjoining property impacts policy. It
also outlines the calculations, design standards, specifications, easement
requirements, placement of utilities, and inspection, maintenance, record
keeping, and reporting requirements.
(Ord. 28, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 158.10 STORMWATER QUANTITY APPLICABILITY AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The storage and controlled release rate of excess stormwater runoff
shall be required for all new business, commercial and industrial developments,
residential subdivisions, planned development, rural estate subdivisions, and
any redevelopment or other new construction located within the city with land
disturbance 0.3 acres or larger.
   (B)   Possible exceptions to the requirement are minor subdivisions and
parcelization as described in
Ch. 156.
   (C)   The city, after thorough investigation and evaluation, may waive the
requirement of controlled runoff for minor subdivisions and parcelization.
   (D)   Exemptions for detention requirements. Detention will not be required
under the following circumstances with written justification submitted by the
project site owner or operator to the City Engineer for review and approval:
      (1)   Land alterations where the primary basis on which a stormwater
drainage permit is required is the construction, enlargement, or location (on a
permanent foundation) of a one-family dwelling, two-family dwelling, or
accessory structure appurtenant to either a one- or two-family dwelling.
      (2)   Approved fill areas or one-time additions to existing commercial
buildings that do not increase the amount of impervious area on-site by more
than a total of one-half acre, provided the existing runoff patterns and flow
capacity of the property will not be altered by the filling operations.
      (3)   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
158.11(C), those site developments where the stormwater management system has
been designed such that:
         (a)   After combining flows from both the off-site and on-site
drainage areas, there will be no increase in the total peak discharge from the
developing site during the two, ten, or 25 year storm events; and
         (b)   The volume of runoff for each project site outlet has not been
increased for the two, ten, or 25 year storm events; and
         (c)   The flow width and velocity at the property boundary line for
each sub-basin is less than or equal to that flow width and velocity that
existed before the development for the two, ten, or 25 year storm events.
      (4)   Where the direct release of runoff from the proposed development
meets the conditions outlined in §
158.11(E).
      (5)   In certain circumstances, the design of a system that holds storage
volumes other than the minimum amounts set out In this chapter may be
appropriate. Instances in which variance from these standards may occur
include, but are not limited to:
         (a)   Locations adjacent to a river or large stream, or properties in
the 1% AEP flood plain;
         (b)   Where runoff storage is deemed by the city as not beneficial to
the proposed improvement and surrounding areas; and
         (c)   Areas in which the circumstances and conditions of the existing
system require higher levels of detention than are defined in these standards.
(Ord. 28, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 158.11 STORMWATER QUANTITY CONTROL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except for situations provided in divisions (C) and (D), the storage
and controlled release of excess stormwater runoff shall be required for all
developments and redevelopments located within the city.
   (B)   General release rates. In general, the release rates of stormwater
from developments shall be:
 
Post-developed peak rate Must not exceed Pre-developed peak rake
Two year frequency storm                Two year frequency storm
Ten year frequency storm                Ten year frequency storm
100 year frequency storm                100 year frequency storm
 
      (1)   For sites where the pre-developed area has more than one outlet,
the release rate should be computed based on pre-developed discharge to each
outlet point. Methodology and computer models used for the analyses of pre- and
post-developed conditions shall be the same.
      (2)   In cases where adequate infrastructure exists, and downstream
properties would not be affected adversely, storm events greater than 4% AEP
may be released undetained. In cases where adequate infrastructure does not
exist and/or downstream properties would be affected adversely by releasing
storm events greater than the 4% AEP storm, the facility shall control the
release rate from the 2% and the 1% AEP storm events to the undeveloped flow
rates. Downstream analyses shall extend to a point as directed by the city to
ensure adequate investigation into the impact of the development on existing
facilities, properties, and structures.
   (C)   Management of off-site runoff.
      (1)   Runoff from all upstream tributary areas (off-site land areas) may
be bypassed around the detention/retention facility without attenuation. Such
runoff may also be bypassed through the detention/retention facility without
attenuation, provided that a separate outlet system or channel is incorporated
for the safe passage of such flows, i.e., not through the primary outlet of a
detention facility. Unless the pond is being designed as a regional detention
facility, the primary outlet structure shall be sized, and the invert elevation
of the emergency overflow weir determined according to the on-site runoff only.
Once the size and location of the primary outlet structure and the invert
elevation of the emergency overflow weir are determined by considering on-site
runoff, the 100-year pond elevation is determined by routing the en1ire inflow,
on-site and off-site, through the pond.
      (2)   Note that the efficiency of the detention/retention facility in
controlling the onsite runoff may be severely affected if the off-site area is
considerably larger than the onsite area. As a general guidance, online
detention may not be effective in controlling onsite runoff where the ratio of
off-site area to on-site area is larger than 5:1. Additional detention (above
and beyond that required for the on-site area) may be required by the city when
the ratio of off-site area to on-site area is larger than 5:1.
   (D)   Downstream restrictions.
      (1)   In the event the downstream receiving channel or storm sewer system
is inadequate to accommodate the post-developed release rate provided above,
then the allowable release rate shall be reduced to that rate permitted by the
capacity of the receiving downstream channel or storm sewer system. Additional
detention or other measures, as determined by the city, shall be required to
store that portion of the runoff exceeding the capacity of the receiving sewers
or watercourses.
      (2)   If the proposed development makes up only a portion of the
undeveloped watershed upstream of the limiting restriction, the allowable
release rate for the development shall be in direct proportion to the ratio of
its drainage area to the drainage area of the entire watershed upstream of the
restriction unless site or other conditions favor adjusting the ratio up or
down.
      (3)   Sandy Branch is a watershed that is recognized as having downstream
restrictions where additional controls may be necessary.
      (4)   Von Fange Legal Drain is a watershed that is recognized as having
downstream restrictions where additional controls may be necessary.
   (E)   Direct release provisions.
      (1)   It is the policy of the city to allow the direct release (no
detention) of runoff from a proposed development to an adjacent stream where
the stormwater runoff from the development would be negligible to the receiving
channel if supported by studies from the developer's engineer and agreed to in
writing by the City Engineer.
      (2)   Due to unknowns regarding the future development patterns and the
associated proposed stormwater management systems within a watershed, it is the
policy of the city to discourage direct release. However, in circumstances,
where a comprehensive watershed-wide hydrologic study or watershed plan of a
major stream adopted by the city substantiates the benefits of (or allows for)
direct release for a proposed development located adjacent to a major stream,
the detention requirements §
158.10(O)(3) may be waived by the City Engineer.
      (3)   In substantiating the potential benefits of direct release, the
watershed-wide hydrologic study provided by the applicant must demonstrate that
the peak discharge associated with two-year, ten-year, and 100-year
precipitation events would not increase along the receiving stream. At a
minimum, the stream reach to be examined needs to extend from the direct
release point to a point downstream with a drainage area at least ten times the
drainage area of the proposed development and its off-site contributing
drainage area. The required analyses must be done both for the existing land
use and future potential land use (developed conditions) in the watersheds
involved.
      (4)   To apply to the development site, the sub-basin sizes for the
watershed-wide analyses of the major stream (including the sub-basin area
containing the proposed development and its off-site contributing areas) must
be generally uniform (between one half and two times the average sub-basin
size). Furthermore, the maximum size of the sub-basin area containing the
proposed development and its off-site contributing areas should not exceed five
times the area of the proposed development.
(Ord. 28, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 158.12 GRADING FOR BUILDING PADS AND MINIMUM FLOOR ELEVATIONS.
   (A)   Residential, commercial, or industrial structures located within a
FEMA special flood hazards area or within the floodplain of an area with a
drainage basin greater than or equal to one square mile shall have a lowest
floor elevation, including basement, greater than two feet above the Q100 base
flood elevation (BFE). (See Appendix A)
   (B)   Residential, commercial, or industrial structures located adjacent to
regulated drains or detention facilities shall have the lowest adjacent grade
greater than two feet above the Q100 BFE or emergency spillway high water
elevation, whichever is higher. In addition, if the structure is located within
50 feet of the thalweg of a regulated drain or normal pool of a detention
basin, the basement floor elevation shall be one foot above the thalweg or
normal pool. (See Appendix B)
   (C)   Residential, commercial, or industrial structures located adjacent to
rear yard swales shall have the lowest adjacent grade greater than two feet
above the Q100 BFE. (See Appendix C)
   (D)   Residential, commercial, or industrial structures located adjacent to
drainage system overflow shall have the lowest adjacent grade elevation greater
than one foot above the Q100 overflow path/ponding elevation.
   (E)   Residential, commercial, or industrial structures shall have a first-
floor elevation no less than six inches above the adjacent grade.
   (F)   Residential, commercial, or industrial structures shall have a first-
floor elevation no less than 15 inches above the adjacent street gutter
elevation. (See Appendices A through D)
   (G)   Residential, commercial, or industrial structures shall have maximum
yard slopes less than or equal to 3:1 and greater than or equal to 2% where the
ground has been disturbed during construction. (See Appendices A through D)
   (H)   The 100 year flow paths throughout the development, whether shown on
FEMA maps or not, must be shown as a hatched area on the plans and 30 feet
along the centerline of the flow path contained within permanent drainage
easements. No fences or landscaping can be constructed within the easement
areas that may impede the free flow of stormwater. These areas are to be
maintained by the homeowner's association or property owner. The lowest
adjacent grade for all residential, commercial, or industrial buildings shall
be set a minimum of one foot above the noted overtlow path/ponding elevation or
be separated by a minimum distance of 50 feet from the overflow path/ponding
boundary.
   (I)   It shall be the property owner's responsibility to maintain the
natural features on their lots and to take preventive measures against erosion
and/or deterioration of natural or manmade features on their lots.
(Ord. 28, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 158.13 ADJOINING PROPERTY IMPACTS POLICY.
   (A)   Design and construction of the stormwater facility shall provide for
the discharge of the stormwater runoff from off-site land areas as well as the
stormwater from the area being developed (on-site land areas) to an acceptable
outlet(s) (as determined by the city) having the capacity to receive upstream
(off-site) and on-site drainage. The flow path from the development outfall(s)
to a regulated drain or natural watercourse (as determined by the city) shall
be provided on an exhibit that includes topographic information. Any existing
field tile encountered during the construction shall also be incorporated into
the proposed stormwater drainage system or tied to an acceptable outlet.
   (B)   Where the outfall from the stormwater drainage system of any
development flows through real estate owned by others before reaching a
regulated drain or natural watercourse, no approval shall be granted for such
drainage system until all owners of real estate and/or tenants crossed by the
outfall either consent in writing to the use of their real estate or are
notified of a hearing relevant to the proposed use. Notification of the time
and place of the hearing shall be made in person or by certified mail at least
five to ten days before the hearing. Proof of notice to each landowner shall be
filed by affidavit with the city before the hearing. In addition, no activities
conducted as part of the development shall be allowed to obstruct the free flow
of floodwaters from an upstream property, the developer will be responsible for
determining if the project requires County Drainage Board approval and show
proof to the city before obtaining city construction permit approval.
   (C)   If an adequate outlet is not located on-site, then off-site drainage
improvements may be required. Those improvements may include, but are not
limited to, extending storm sewers, clearing, dredging, and/or removal of
obstructions to open drains or natural water courses, and the removal or
replacement of undersized culvert pipes as required by the city.
(Ord. 28, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 158.14 CALCULATIONS, DESIGN STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The calculation methods as well as the type, sizing, and placement of
all stormwater facilities shall meet the adopted design criteria, standards,
and specifications outlined in the CSGP and the Indiana Stormwater Quality
Manual as identified in §
158.31. The methods and procedures in the manuals are consistent with the
policy stated above.
   (B)   Gasoline and diesel fuel regulations. New retail gasoline or diesel
fuel outlets, new municipal, state, federal, or institutional gasoline or
diesel refueling areas, or new privately owned gasoline or diesel refueling
areas, or existing gasoline or diesel outlets and refueling areas that replace
their existing tanks or install additional new tanks must install appropriate
practices to reduce lead, copper, zinc, and hydrocarbons in stormwater runoff.
Treatment must include the water quality volume or flow rate. The treatment
system installed must also be capable of removing 80% total suspended solids
(TSS) and floatable control (including oils) from the on-site stormwater system
before discharging to a city storm sewer, county legal drain, or other natural
or artificial drainage way.
(Ord. 28, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 158.15 PLACEMENT OF UTILITIES.
   No utility company may disturb existing storm drainage facilities without
the consent of the city, whose decision may be appealed to the Seymour Board of
Public Works. All existing drainage facilities shall have senior rights and
damage to said facilities shall result in penalties as prescribed in §
158.28.
(Ord. 28, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 158.16 EASEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All stormwater systems, including detention or retention basins,
conveyance systems, structures, and appurtenances, located outside of the
right-of-way shall be incorporated into the city's system at the discretion of
the city.
   (B)   The developer shall petition to incorporate the storm system into the
city's system. The city construction permit review shall not be approved until
such petition is submitted in a form approved by the city. Unless otherwise
noted in this chapter, easements must be ten feet from the top of the bank on
each side of a channel or each side of the centerline of an underground pipe 36
inches in diameter or less and ten feet deep or less from the invert. Larger
pipe and greater depths shall be determined during the approval process. For
nonlinear stormwater detention facilities such as ponds, wetlands, or others,
the petition for easement should include a 25 feet wide perimeter beyond the
top of the bank of the stormwater detention facility. For monitoring,
inspection, and general maintenance activities, a minimum drainage easement of
20 feet needs to be provided regardless of whether the drain is incorporated
into the city's system. Easements shall be a cleared area, free of structures,
with established vegetation.
   (C)   The following specific areas shall be included in a petition:
      (1)   Subdivisions.
         (a)   All new channels, drain tiles greater than 12 inches in
diameter, inlet and outlet structures of detention and retention ponds, and
appurtenance thereto as required by this section, that are installed in
subdivisions requiring a stormwater management permit from the city shall
petition to become incorporated into the city's system upon completion, proper
inspection, and acceptance by city. New drain tiles refer to all sub-surface
stormwater piping, tubing, tiles, manholes, inlets, catch basins, risers, etc.
         (b)   New drain tile, 12 inches to 36 inches in diameter and ten feet
deep or less from the invert, shall be placed in a minimum 20 feet easement ten
feet from the centerline on each side and shall be designated on the record
plat as 20 feet drain easement. Larger pipe and greater depths shall be
determined during the approval process.
         (c)   A minimum of ten feet from the top of the bank on each side of a
new channel shall be designated on the record plat as a drain easement.
         (d)   Rear-yard swales and emergency overflow paths associated with
detention ponds shall not be included in the petition for incorporation.
However, a minimum of 20 feet width (ten feet from the centerline on each side)
needs to be designated as a drainage easement.
         (e)   A minimum of 25 feet beyond the actual footprint of stormwater
detention facilities shall be designated as a drainage easement. A minimum 20
feet width easement shall also be required as an access easement unless the
pond is immediately next to a public right-of-way.
         (f)   The statutory 75 feet from top of bank (each side) drainage
easement for regulated drains already within Jackson County's system may be
reduced if the drain is reclassified by the Drainage Board as an urban drain.
         (g)   If the city accepts the petition for incorporation into their
system, the following statement shall become part of the restrictive covenants
of every platted subdivision and shown on the recorded plat:
"Channels, tile drains 12 inch or larger, inlets and outlets of detention and
retention ponds, and appurtenance thereto within designated drainage easements
are extensions of the city's stormwater drainage system and are the
responsibility of the city. Drainage swales and tile drains less than 12 inch
in inside diameter shall be the responsibility of the owner or homeowner
association."
         (h)   The following statement shall be put on each subdivision plat if
regulated drainage easements have been petitioned from the County Drainage
Board:
"A petition addressed to the Jackson County Drainage Board has been filed in
duplicate with the County Surveyor, requesting that the subdivision's storm
drainage system and its easements be accepted into the county's regulated drain
system. The storm drainage system and its easements that are accepted into the
county's regulated drain system are delineated on the plat as regulated drain
easements (RDEs). These drainage easements are established under the authority
of the Indiana Drainage Code and the said Board may exercise powers and duties
as provided in said code (e.g., annual drainage assessment per lot). All other
storm drainage easements have not been accepted into the county's system. All
drainage improvements performed relative to the conveyance of stormwater runoff
and the perpetual maintenance thereof within the latter easements shall be the
responsibility of the owner or homeowner association. The Jackson County
Drainage Board assumes no responsibility relative to said improvements or the
maintenance thereof. This subdivision contains linear feet of open ditches and
linear feet of subsurface drains that will be included in the county's
regulated drainage system."
         (i)   Any crossing and/or encroachment of a regulated drainage
easement requires application and approval from the County Surveyor's Office.
      (2)   Non-subdivisions. Where the city is responsible for maintenance of
the drainage system, drain easements of 20 feet from the top of the bank on
each side of the channel or each side of the tile centerline must be dedicated
to the city.
      (3)   Establishment of a new regulated drain. When the County Drainage
Board determines it is necessary to establish a new regulated drain, each
developer shall provide the necessary information and meet the requirements of
the Indiana Drainage Code (I.C. 36-9-27), as amended, for the establishment of
a new regulated drain. Necessary easements for adequate maintenance of any new
regulated drain shall be determined by the County Surveyor if not already
established in this chapter.
      (4)   All property owners with a channel, drain, easement, etc. within
their property boundaries or adjacent to their property, shall maintain said
channel, drain, easement, etc. as it was built. All types of fill, including
soil, riprap, structures, and pipes, are prohibited. The removal and removal
expenses are the responsibility of the property owner. If the removal is
completed by the city, the city will bill the property owner.
(Ord. 28, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 158.17 REQUIREMENT TO PREVENT, CONTROL, AND REDUCE STORMWATER POLLUTANTS BY
USING BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES.
   (A)   The city is authorized to require dischargers to implement pollution
prevention measures, utilizing best management practices (BMPs) necessary to
prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants into the storm drain system or
waters of the state or United States.
   (B)   The owner or operator of a construction site shall provide, at their
own expense, reasonable protection from accidental discharge of prohibited
materials or other wastes into the MS4 or watercourses using structural and
nonstructural BMPs.
   (C)   Any person responsible for a property or premise, which is, or maybe,
the source of an illicit discharge, may be required to implement, at said
person's expense, additional structural and non-structural BMPs to prevent the
further discharge of pollutants to the MS4. These BMPs shall be part of a SWPPP
as necessary for compliance with the requirements of the CSGP and MS4GP. BMP
selection shall reflect site limitations, soil conditions, ease of long-term
maintenance, and local preferences.
   (D)   Compliance with all terms and conditions of a valid NPDES permit
authorizing the discharge of stormwater associated with industrial activity, to
the extent practicable, shall be deemed compliant with the provisions of this
section.
(Ord. 28, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 158.18 STORMWATER QUALITY CONTROL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Applicability and exemptions.
      (1)   The applicability of this section is the same as §
158.07.
      (2)   This section applies to new public or private fueling areas or
those that replace existing tank systems, regardless of tank size or total land
disturbance.
      (3)   The exemptions of this section are the same as §
158.07.
      (4)   The requirements of this section do not apply to the following:
         (a)   Land-disturbing activities where there will be no additional
impervious surfaces associated with the final completed project, including but
not limited to, ditch construction/reconstruction and utility installation/
maintenance activities.
         (b)   Single-family residential strip development offered for sale or
lease without land improvements and the project is not part of a larger common
plan of development or sale.
         (c)   Individual residential building lots within a permitted project
site.
         (d)   Residential developments consisting of four or fewer lot
developments where the proposed impervious surfaces are 10% or less of the
project acreage.
         (e)   Single-family residences and private ponds that are not part of
a larger common plan of development or sale.
   (B)   For land disturbance greater than or equal to one acre, post-
construction control measures in the form of structural and/or non-structural
BMPs are required. Project site owners shall meet the following minimum
requirements:
      (1)   All post-construction stormwater quality measures necessary to
comply with this chapter must be implemented per the approved city construction
permit and sufficient to satisfy the requirements of the CSGP and the Indiana
Stormwater Quality Manual.
      (2)   Post-construction stormwater pollutant loading should not exceed
pre-construction pollutant loading. Pre-construction refers to the site
immediately before the planned land disturbance and development activities
occur. Pre-construction is not intended to be interpreted as that period before
any human-induced land disturbance activity has occurred.
      (3)   When using infiltration measures, consider the pollutants
associated with runoff and the potential to contaminate groundwater resources.
When there is a potential for contamination, choose alternative measures or
measures that pre-treat the water quality volume of flow rate to capture the
pollutants of concern.
      (4)   Where there is a potential for groundwater contamination, including
in wellhead protection areas, measures shall be implemented that pre-treat the
water quality volume or flow rate to capture and remove the pollutants of
concern including total suspended solids (TSS) and oil/grease at a minimum,
without resuspension.
      (5)   Registration of any Class V injection well with EPA Region 5.
      (6)   Performance standards identified in the CSGP.
   (C)   The City Engineer shall have full technical and administrative
approval authority on the application and design of all post-construction BMPs,
conditions, definitions, and submittal requirements of construction plans,
specifications, and other related documents. The minimum measures implemented
are to meet the terms defined in the CSGP.
(Ord. 28, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 158.19 STORMWATER QUALITY DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   Unless judged by the city to be exempt or granted a waiver, the following
performance criteria shall be addressed for stormwater management at the
applicable sites:
   (A)   All site designs shall establish stormwater management practices to
control the peak flow rates of stormwater discharge associated with specified
design storms and reduce the generation of stormwater runoff. These practices
should seek to utilize pervious areas for stormwater treatment and to
infiltrate (when possible) stormwater runoff from driveways, sidewalks,
rooftops, parking lots, and landscaped areas lo the maximum extent practical to
provide treatment for both water quality and quantity.
   (B)   BMPs shall be designed to treat the water quality volume (WOv) or the
water quality flow rate (also referred to as the first flush of runoff). All
projects disturbing more than one acre and requiring post-construction SWPPPs
shall be required to treat the WQv. Refer to the city’s Construction Stormwater
Pollution Prevention Plan technical review form, the Indiana Stormwater Quality
Manual, or other technical resources for further details regarding the
calculation of the WQv or flow rate.
   (C)   BMPs must be capable of removing 80% of the TSS load from post-
construction runoff. Constructed BMPs listed in Table 158.19 are approved to
meet this requirement. For this requirement, TSS is defined as particles
smaller than 125 microns in diameter. Larger material is considered part of the
total solids load of the stormwater runoff.
   (D)   BMPs shall incorporate floatables control to capture floating debris
and remove it as part of the routine maintenance of the BMPs. Standalone BMPs
must include floatables control. For BMP systems or treatment trains, at least
one of the components of the BMP system, located after the last inflow point to
the system, must provide control of floatables.
   (E)   Any fueling area, publicly or privately owned, that installs or
replaces fuel tanks must install appropriate post-construction stormwater
quality treatment measures to reduce lead, copper, zinc, and polyaromatic
hydrocarbons in stormwater runoff. Treatment must include the water quality
volume or flow rate.
   (F)   Annual groundwater recharge rates shall be maintained by promoting
infiltration using structural and nonstructural methods.
   (G)   Site designs should make every attempt to incorporate the stormwater
detention/retention areas into the project to maximize the use of the land in
the development for all intended uses. Site designs are encouraged to utilize
dry detention storage areas for recreation or other uses that do not interfere
with the functions of the stormwater system.
   (H)   Measures shall, at a minimum:
      (1)   Utilize one or more post-construction measures working in tandem to
treat stormwater runoff and increase the overall efficiency of individual and
specialized measures.
      (2)   In combination with proper post-construction measure selection,
design and development strategies must be selected and incorporated into the
plan to reduce the contribution of pollutants from the project area to the
post-construction measures. These strategies include, but are not limited to:
         (a)   Low impact development (LID) and green infrastructure.
         (b)   Infiltration measures, when selected, must take into
consideration the pollutants associated with runoff and the potential to
contaminate groundwater resources. Where there is a potential for
contamination, implement measures that pre-treat runoff to eliminate or reduce
the pollutants of concern. Infiltration practices will not be allowed in
wellhead protection areas without pretreatment to collect and remove pollutants
without resuspension.
   (I)   The BMPs in Table 158.19 are acceptable for use in the city if
designed, constructed, and maintained according to the criteria outlined in the
Indiana Stormwater Quality Manual or EPA National Menu of Best Management
Practices. It is presumed that these acceptable BMPs achieve a target TSS
removal rate of 80% and control floatable when correctly constructed and
maintained.
   (J)   Should the developer/project site owner choose to implement a
stormwater control device, method, or system not listed as one of the
acceptable BMPs for the city, the developer/project site owner must provide
proof that the stormwater control device, method, or system can achieve the
target TSS removal rate of 80% and include floatable control when correctly
constructed.
TABLE 158.19 ACCEPTABLE BMPS FOR THE CITY
BMP Type Description Quantity Control Quality and 80% TSS Removal Floatables
TABLE 158.19 ACCEPTABLE BMPS FOR THE CITY
BMP Type        Description     Quantity Quality and 80% Floatables
                                Control  TSS Removal
                Stormwater
                detention/
Stormwater      retention ponds
ponds: wet      are constructed                          Yes, when
pond, wet       stormwater                               floatable
extended        basins with a                            control is
detention pond, permanent pool  Yes      Yes             implemented at
micropool       (or micropool)                           inlets or
extended pond,  of water.                                outlets to the
multiple pond   runoff from                              pond
systems         each rain event
                is captured and
                treated in the
                pool.
                Stormwater
                detention or
Dry detention   infiltration                             Yes, with
or infiltration ponds designed           Yes, with       infiltration
pond (must have to hold water   Yes      infiltration or pretreatment, or
upstream        and release it           pretreatment    outlet control
pretreatment)   slowly or
                infiltrate into
                the ground.
                Stormwater
                wetlands are
                constructed,
                artificial
Stormwater      wetland systems
wetlands:       used for
shallow         stormwater
wetlands,       management.
extended        They use        Yes      Yes             Yes
detention       natural
wetlands, pond/ processes
wetland         involving
systems, pocket wetland
wetlands        vegetation,
                soils, and
                microbes to
                improve water
                quality.
                Bioretention
                areas are
                shallow
                stormwater
                basins or
Bioretention    landscaped
areas: rain     areas that
gardens or      utilize         Yes      Yes             Yes
landscape       engineered
depressions     soils and
                vegetation to
                capture and
                treat
                stormwater
                runoff.
                Sand filters
                are multi-
                chamber
                structures
Sand filters:   designed to
surface sand    treat
filter,         stormwater      No       Yes             Yes
perimeter sand  runoff through
filter          filtration,
                using a sand
                bed as the
                primary filter
                media.
                Water quality
                swales are
                vegetated open
                channels that
                are designed
                and constructed
                to filter
Water quality   stormwater
swales: dry     runoff with     No       No              No
swale           vegetation and
                gentle slopes.
                Measures can
                only be used as
                pretreatment
                measures or as
                part of a
                treatment
                train.
                While
                biofilters
                provide some
                filtering of
                stormwater
                runoff, by
                themselves they
Biofilters:     cannot meet the
filter strip,   80% TSS removal No       No              No
grass channel   goal. Measures
                can only be
                used as
                pretreatment
                measures or as
                part of a
                treatment
                train.
 
(Ord. 28, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 158.20 CONSTRUCTION STORMWATER CONTROL GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All property owners or developers shall implement the requirements of
this chapter for construction activities within the city resulting in land
disturbance greater than or equal to one acre of land.
   (B)   Individual lot owners or operators shall follow the requirements in §
158.24. This includes:
      (1)   Individual lot owners or operators where the land disturbance is
less than or greater than one acre and the lot lies within a larger common plan
for development or sale.
      (2)   Single-family residences and ponds that are not part of a larger
common plan of development or sale with land disturbance of less than one acre.
      (3)   Strip developments or multi-lot projects that are not part of a
larger common plan of development or sale with land disturbance of less than
one acre.
(Ord. 28, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 158.21 CITY CONSTRUCTION PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   No land-disturbing activity that would require the disturbance of one
acre or more of land shall be initiated without submittal of all the required
documentation identified in the city’s Construction/Stormwater Pollution
Prevention Plan technical review form and receiving stormwater approval from
the City Engineer.
   (B)   City construction permit approval is not required for any emergency
activity that is immediately necessary for the protection of life, property, or
natural resources. Notification to the County Engineer and IDEM is required per
the CSGP.
   (C)   The application shall contain it items in the city's Construction/
Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan technical review form including the
following:
      (1)   City’s Construction/Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan technical
review form;
      (2)   Professionally certified design plans with erosion and sediment
control measures identified and details following the Indiana Stormwater
Quality Manual and the Water Pollution Control Technical Specification Manual,
as applicable;
      (3)   Construction site SWPPP;
      (4)   Post-construction SWPPP and design calculations (for water quality
and detention design) that meet at least the minimum requirements of the
applicable sections of this chapter and the CSGP;
      (5)   Post-construction operation and maintenance manual (O&M Manual)
containing the items identified in the city's Construction/Stormwater Pollution
Prevention Plan technical review form;
      (6)   SWPPP and post-construction stormwater BMP owner acknowledgment
form that certifies that the property owner understands that the stormwater
quality and/or quantity post-construction measure installed on the property is
required to be operated and maintained per the submitted and approved Post-
Construction Operations & Maintenance Manual for the property.
      (7)   A draft of IDEM's notice of intent with proof of public notice; and
      (8)   Plan review and inspection fees.
   (D)   The construction site SWPPP shall serve as a guideline for stormwater
quality, but should not be interpreted to be the only basis for implementation
of stormwater quality measures for a project site. The project site owner is
responsible for implementing, per the CSGP, all measures necessary to
adequately prevent polluted stormwater runoff.
   (E)   The posting of the notice under (C)(7) does not provide the public
with any right to trespass on a project site for any reason, nor does it
require that the project site owner allow members of the public access to the
project site.
(Ord. 28, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 158.22 CITY REVIEW AND APPROVAL.
   (A)   The City Engineer will review each application to determine its
conformance with the provisions of this chapter and the Indiana Stormwater
Quality Manual. The City Engineer will follow the procedures outlined on the
Construction Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan technical review form. Upon
review, the City Engineer shall, in writing:
      (1)   Approve the application and associated documentation and provide a
Construction/Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan technical review form deeming
the "plan is adequate."
      (2)   Approve the application and associated documentation subject to
such reasonable conditions as may be necessary to secure the objectives of this
chapter and provide a Construction/Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan
technical review form deeming the "plan is adequate." Conditions may include
obtaining other city department or agency permits or approvals.
      (3)   Provide a Construction/Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan
technical review form stating that the "plan is deficient" and indicate the
reason(s) and procedure for submitting a revised application and/or submission.
   (B)   After receiving approval, if revisions to the construction plans
require a change in measures appropriate to control the quality or quantity of
stormwater runoff, then revised plans must be submitted to the city.
   (C)   Assignment of responsibility for maintaining facilities serving more
than one lot or holding shall be documented by appropriate covenants to
property deeds unless responsibility is formally accepted by a public body, and
determined before the final city construction permit is approved.
   (D)   The applicant may be required to file with the city a performance
bond, letter of credit, or other improvement security in the amount deemed
sufficient by the city to cover all costs of improvements, a landscaping, and
maintenance of improvements for such period as specified by the city, and
engineering and inspection costs to cover the cost of failure to repair of
improvements installed on the project site.
   (E)   If required, the performance bond will require periodic renewal since
it must cover the perpetual maintenance and care of the permanent post-
construction runoff control structure or system in place. The applicant will
notify the city of the impending performance bond expiration and the issuance
of a renewed performance bond.
(Ord. 28, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 158.23 PROJECT SITE OWNER RESPONSIBILITIES.
   After receiving city construction permit approval, the project site owner,
operator, or agent shall meet the responsibilities in this section.
   (A)   Implement approved construction plan.
      (1)   Submit the technical review form and the final NOI with proof of
public notice for the CSGP to IDEM, at least 48-hours before any land
disturbance or discharges occur.
      (2)   Submit the notice of sufficiency from IDEM along with a final NOI
to the SWCD and city at least 48-hours before any land disturbance or
discharges occur.
      (3)   Receive approval for other agency, city, or county permits as
required.
      (4)   Ensure proper construction and installation of all stormwater
measures in compliance with the approved submittal, this chapter, the Indiana
Stormwater Quality Manual, and the CSGP (as applicable).
      (5)   Ensure that all persons engaging in construction activities on the
permitted project site comply with the applicable requirements of this chapter,
the CSGP, and the approved construction plan.
      (6)   Install and stabilize all erosion and sediment control devices
before any clearing, except what is necessary to establish the devices.
      (7)   Ensure all stormwater quality measures are designed and installed
under the guidance of a trained individual.
      (8)   Inform all general contractors, construction management firms,
grading or excavating contractors, utility contractors, and the contractors
that have primary oversight on individual building lots of the requirements of
this chapter, the conditions and standards included in the SWPPP, and the
schedule for proposed implementation.
      (9)   Maintain a self-monitoring program and complete regular inspections
of all control measures per the inspection schedule outlined in the CSGP. The
purpose of such inspections will be to determine the overall effectiveness of
the SWPPP and the need for additional control measures. All inspections shall
be documented and submitted to the city upon request within 48 hours. Self-
monitoring reports are to be completed by a trained/qualified individual.
      (10)   Develop and maintain a project management log per the CSGP.
      (11)   Meet all performance standards and implementation requirements of
the CSGP.
   (B)   Project completion and permit termination.
      (1)   Plan an orderly and timely termination of construction activities,
including the implementation of stormwater quality measures that are to remain
on the project site.
      (2)   Notify the city of final stabilization so the city may verify the
notice of termination (NOT) by completing a final site inspection before the
project site owner or operator submits the NOT to IDEM. Refer to the
Construction/Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan technical review form.
         (a)   Final stabilization of a project site is achieved when all land-
disturbing activities have been completed, temporary BMPs have been removed,
permanent BMPs have been cleaned, and a uniform perennial vegetative cover with
a density of 70% has been established on all unpaved areas and areas not
covered by a permanent structure, or equivalent permanent stabilization
measures have been employed.
         (b)   Final stabilization for construction projects on land used for
agricultural purposes is achieved when:
            1.   Stabilization is completed per division (B)(2) above as land
disturbance progresses;
            2.   Land returned to its preconstruction agricultural use is
temporarily or permanently seeded upon completing land disturbance activities;
and
            3.   Disturbed areas, not previously used for agricultural
production, such as filter strips, are being returned to their preconstruction
agricultural use.
      (3)   After a verified NOT has been submitted for a project site, city
approval and CSGP coverage are terminated and maintenance of the remaining
stormwater management measures shall be the responsibility of the property
owner or occupier of the property.
   (C)   Stormwater facilities monitoring and maintenance.
      (1)   Maintain the post-construction BMPs in good condition per the
designed and approved specifications and O&M Manual. Any maintenance needs
found must be addressed in a timely manner by the owner.
      (2)   Complete routine inspections and maintenance of the post-
construction BMP. Maintenance plans and inspection forms for each type of
acceptable BMP are provided in the O&M Manual and should be used as guidance
for performing maintenance activities. Completed routine inspection forms must
be maintained by the BMP owner and produced upon request by the city.
      (3)   Obtain approval from the City Engineer and Water Pollution Control
Department for alterations, revisions, or replacements of all post-construction
BMPs.
      (4)   The City Engineer and Water Pollution Control Department must be
notified of any changes in BMP ownership, major repairs, or BMP failure in
writing within 30 days.
(Ord. 28, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 158.24 REQUIREMENTS FOR INDIVIDUAL BUILDING LOTS.
   (A)   The individual lot operator, whether owning the property or acting as
the agent of the property owner, shall be responsible for erosion and sediment
control requirements associated with activities on individual lots.
   (B)   An individual lot operator of a lot (less than or greater than one
acre) within a larger common plan of development or sale, is required to:
      (1)   Submit all the documents identified in the city's individual
construction SWPPP review form to the Planning Department at least ten days
before construction.
      (2)   Develop a lot-specific individual construction SWPPP that includes
all provisions in the city's individual construction SWPPP review form.
      (3)   Comply with the erosion and sediment control requirements described
and approved in the individual construction SWPPP.
      (4)   Comply with the approved plans under the larger common plan for
development or sale for individual lots.
      (5)   Complete final stabilization per division (D) below.
   (C)   An individual lot operator for single-family residence, pond, multi-
lot project or strip development where land disturbance is less than one acre
and not part of a larger common plan of development or sale, is required to:
      (1)   Submit all documents identified in the city's individual
construction SWPPP review form to the Planning Department at least ten days
before construction.
      (2)   Develop a lot-specific individual construction SWPPP that includes
all provisions in the city's individual construction SWPPP review form.
      (3)   Comply with the erosion and sediment control requirements described
and approved in the individual construction SWPPP.
      (4)   Complete final stabilization per division (E) below.
   (D)   Final stabilization for individual lots (less than or greater than one
acre) within a larger common plan of development or sale, is achieved when the
operator:
      (1)   Completes final stabilization considering weather and season;
      (2)   Initiates permanent seeing with appropriately crimped or tackified
mulch cover, erosion control blanket or sod; or
      (3)   Installs appropriate and/or ensures functional erosion and sediment
control measures are in place in the individual lot. Upon issuance of a
certificate of occupancy through the Planning Department to the homeowner, the
homeowner is responsible for maintaining the erosion and sediment control
measures until final stabilization has occurred.
   (E)   Final stabilization for single-family residences ponds, multi-lot
projects, or strip developments where land disturbance is less than one acre
and not part of a larger common plan of development or sale is achieved by the
operator when:
      (1)   All land-disturbing activities have been completed, temporary BMPs
have been removed, permanent BMPs have been cleaned, and a uniform perennial
vegetative cover with a density of 70% has been established on all unpaved
areas and areas not covered by a permanent structure or equivalent permanent
stabilization measures have been employed. This does not include final
landscaping.
      (2)   Final stabilization for construction projects on land used for
agricultural purposes is achieved when:
         (a)   Stabilization is completed per division (E)(1) above as land
disturbance progresses;
         (b)   Land returned to its preconstruction agricultural use is
temporarily or permanently seeded upon completing land disturbance activities;
and
         (c)   Disturbed areas, not previously used for agricultural
production, such as filter strips, are being returned to their preconstruction
agricultural use.
(Ord. 28, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 158.25 INSPECTION AUTHORITY.
   (A)   After the approval of the city construction permit or an individual
construction SWPPP and the commencement of construction activities, the city
has the authority to conduct inspections of the work being done to ensure full
compliance with the provisions of this chapter and the terms and conditions of
the approval.
   (B)   The city has the authority to perform long-term inspections of all
public or privately owned BMPs. The inspection will include but is not limited
to, the physical conditions, available water quality storage capacity, and the
operational condition of key BMP elements.
   (C)   When any new stormwater BMP is installed on private property, or when
any new connection is made between private property and a public storm sewer
conveyance, sanitary sewer, or combined sewer, the property owner shall grant
to the city the right to enter the property at reasonable times and in a
reasonable manner for inspection. This includes the right to enter a property
when it has a reasonable basis to believe that an infraction of this chapter is
occurring or has occurred and to enter when necessary for abatement of a public
nuisance or correction of an infraction of this chapter or other stormwater
ordinances.
(Ord. 28, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 158.26 CITY INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Construction activity inspections.
      (1)   The city, or designated agent, shall inspect, as required, the
installation, implementation, and maintenance of erosion, sediment, and
pollution prevention control measures at any project site involved in
construction activities. The city, or designated agent, shall either approve
that portion of the work completed or notify the permittee where the work fails
to comply with the city construction permit or an individual construction SWPPP
as approved.
      (2)   Plans for grading, stripping, excavating, and filling work with the
approval of the city shall be maintained at the site during the progress of the
work.
      (3)   The applicant must notify the city in advance before the
commencement of construction of stormwater BMPs.
      (4)   To obtain inspections, the permittee shall follow the directions on
the city's Construction/Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan technical review
form at least 48 hours (two business days) before the following:
         (a)   Installation of infrastructure (grading, roads, and utilities);
         (b)   Installation of post-construction BMP(s); and
         (c)   Completion of final landscaping and final stabilization.
   (B)   Post-construction BMP inspections.
      (1)   Inspection may be completed on any reasonable basis, including but
not limited to, routine inspections, random inspections, inspections based upon
complaints, or other notice of infractions of this chapter or §§
50.225 through
50.246.
      (2)   If deficiencies are found during the inspection, the property owner
will be notified by the city in writing and shall take all necessary measures
to correct such deficiencies. If the owner fails to correct the deficiencies
within the allowed time, as specified in writing, the city may pursue
enforcement under this chapter and undertake the work and collect from the
owner using lien rights if necessary.
      (3)   If the city finds a BMP requiring maintenance or repair, the city
will notify the property owner of the necessary maintenance or repairs and give
the property owner a schedule for completing the maintenance or repairs. If the
maintenance or repairs are not completed within the designated time, the city
shall perform the repairs or maintenance and bill the property owner for the
actual costs of the work.
   (C)   The city, or designee, will investigate violations, alleged
violations, and potential violations of the city code to determine which person
or persons may be responsible for violations. The city will, if appropriate,
consider public records of ownership, building permits issued by local
government, and other relevant information, which may include site inspections
records, SWPPPs, NOIs, and other documents related to the site.
(Ord. 28, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 158.27 MONITORING OF DISCHARGES.
   The city shall have the authority to monitor discharges from construction
sites covered under this chapter as described in this code regarding discharge
and connection of stormwater sewers.
(Ord. 28, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 158.28 RESERVED.
§ 158.29 ENFORCEMENT.
   Enforcement of this chapter shall be subject to enforcement actions within
the city code, the severity of the violation, and the owner's or operator's
efforts to comply. The city shall reserve the right to interpret enforcement on
a case-by-case basis. Tiered enforcement will be practiced at the discretion of
the city designee. The tiered enforcement may include:
   (A)   Verbal warning to the owner or operator to make corrections of
identified deficiencies.
   (B)   Written warning to the owner or operator to make corrections within a
specified time, but not less than 72 hours. The specified time shall consider
issues such as the severity of the problem, pending weather, seasonal
conditions, and the level of effort necessary to correct the problem.
   (C)   Written warning of non-compliance with directions to the owner or
operator that site deficiencies require corrective action within 72 hours.
   (D)   Stop work order.
      (1)   If deficiencies in a written warning of non-compliance are not
resolved 72 hours after receipt of written notification, the city may issue a
stop work order or may revoke the owner's stormwater approval, in which event
all construction work shall cease until and unless the city determines that
compliance has been obtained.
      (2)   Any person who neglects or fails to comply with a stop work order
may be fined for each offense, plus costs, damages, and expenses. Each day such
violation occurs or continues, shall be deemed a separate offense, and shall
make the violator liable for the imposition of a fine for each day. The city
may assess a stormwater approval reinstatement fee.
      (3)   The city may issue a stop-work order and may suspend or revoke
stormwater approval if any of the work is being conducted in such a manner as
to materially adversely affect the health, welfare, or safety of persons
residing or working in the neighborhood or development site to be materially
detrimental to the public welfare or injurious to property or improvements in
the neighborhood.
   (E)   If abatement of a violation and/or restoration of affected property is
required, the written notification shall set forth a deadline when remediation
or restoration must be completed. Said notice shall further advise that should
the violator fail to remediate or restore within the established deadline, the
work will be done by the city or a contractor, and the expense shall be charged
to the violator.
   (F)   If the property owner fails to complete the corrective actions and the
work is completed through the city or a contractor, the city will provide a
letter to the property owner of the work completed, copies of all invoices paid
by the city, and a log of all hours spent by city personnel and/or its
designated contractor. If the amount contained in the letter is not paid within
30 days of the receipt of the bill, the city may certify to the County Auditor
the amount of the bill, plus any additional administrative costs incurred in
the certification, and said amounts shall be collected as delinquent taxes are
collected per I.C. 36-1-6-2.
   (G)   Fines as may be permissible under the Seymour Municipal Code.
   (H)   Maintenance noncompliance after construction.
      (1)   Upon receipt of written notice of a maintenance violation of a
post-construction BMP, the party responsible for maintenance of a post-
construction BMP shall have 30 calendar days to correct the deficiency. In the
event the deficiency is not corrected within this period, penalties will be
assessed as described in §
158.99.
      (2)   In the event the deficiency is not correct after 60 calendar days
from the notice of maintenance violation, the city may correct a violation by
performing all necessary work to place the post-construction BMP in proper
working condition. The city may assess the owner(s) of the post-construction
BMP for the cost of repair work and any penalties and the cost of the work
shall be a lien on the property, or prorated against the beneficial users of
the property, and may be placed on the tax bill and collected as ordinary taxes
by the county.
(Ord. 28, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 158.30 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   It shall be a violation for any person to violate any provision or fail to
comply with any of the requirements of this chapter. If a person has violated
or continues to violate the provisions of this chapter, the city may petition
any court of competent jurisdiction for a preliminary or permanent injunction
restraining the person from activities that would create further violations or
compelling the person to perform abatement or remediation of the violation.
Costs, including attorney fees, for injunctive relief may be assessed against
the violator.
(Ord. 28, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 158.31 VIOLATIONS DEEMED A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties provided, any
condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter is a threat to public health, safety, and welfare, is declared and
deemed a nuisance, and may be summarily abated or restored at the violator's
expense, and/or civil action to abate, enjoin, or otherwise compel the
cessation of such nuisance may be taken. Costs, including attorney fees, for
injunctive relief may be assessed against the violator.
(Ord. 28, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 158.32 REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies listed in this chapter are not exclusive of any other remedies
available under any applicable federal, state, or local law and it is within
the discretion of the city to seek cumulative remedies.
(Ord. 28, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 158.33 SUGGESTED REFERENCES FOR COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   "Hydraulic Design of Highway Culverts" by the Federal Highway
Administration, April 2012.
   (B)   Hydraulic Engineering Circular 12, "Drainage of Highway Pavements,"
FHWA-Tl-84-202, by the Federal Highway Administration.
   (C)   "Indiana Stormwater Quality Manual," by Indiana Department of
Environmental Management.
   (D)   "National Management Measures to Control Nonpoint Source Pollution
from Urban Areas," United States Environmental Protection Agency, Office of
Water, Washington, D.C., 20460, (4503F) EPA-841-B-05-004, November 2005.
   (E)   "National Menu of Best Management Practices," United States
Environmental Protection Agency.
   (F)   NOAA Technical Memorandum NWS Hydro 35, "Five Minutes to 48 Hours
Precipitation Frequency for Eastern and Central United States," 1977.
   (G)   "Rainfall Frequency for Indiana, by Department of Natural Resources
Division of Water, 1994.
   (H)   "Stormwater Drainage Manual" by the Highway Extension Research Project
for Indiana Counties and Cities (HERPICC), Purdue University, December 2015,
and subsequent releases.
   (I)   Technical Release 55, "Urban Hydrology for Small Watersheds," by the
Soil Conservation Service (now Natural Resources Conservation Service), June
1986.
(Ord. 28, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 158.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found in violation of any provision of this chapter shall
be responsible for fines per I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(1) of up to $2,500 for a first
violation of the chapter and up to $7,500 for a second or subsequent violation
of the chapter. Each fine is subject to cost recovery for damages and expenses.
Each day a violation continues after the original notification shall be deemed
a separate offense under this chapter.
   (B)   The city may recover all attorney's fees, court costs, and other
expenses associated with the enforcement of this chapter, including sampling
and monitoring expenses.
(Ord. 28, passed 10-14-2024)
APPENDIX A: FEMA/SFHA AND FLOODPLAINS WITH DRAINAGE AREAS GREATER THAN ONE
SQUARE MILE
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dbbc9b9e11c1086bd5e62848c5bbdaa09aab0120/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3006.png]
APPENDIX B: AREAS ADJACENT TO REGULATED DRAINS OR DETENTION FACILITIES
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dbbc9b9e11c1086bd5e62848c5bbdaa09aab0120/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3008.png]
APPENDIX C: AREAS ADJACENT TO REAR YARD SWALES
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dbbc9b9e11c1086bd5e62848c5bbdaa09aab0120/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3010.png]
APPENDIX D: AREAS ADJACENT TO DRAINAGE SYSTEM OVERFLOW
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dbbc9b9e11c1086bd5e62848c5bbdaa09aab0120/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3012.png]
 
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   VACATIONS
      
III.   STREET NAMING AND RENAMING
      
IV.   CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
      
V.   ZONING MAP AMENDMENTS
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Annexation of part of the west half of Section 24,
54, 1998 10-12-1998  Township 6 North, Range 5 East, which continues to be
                     zoned R-S
                     Annexation of 28.643 acres total, in the east half of the
2, 2000  4-10-2000   southwest quarter and the west half of the southeast
                     quarter of Section 13, Township 6 North, Range 5 East,
                     owned by Timothy and Barbara Decker
3, 2000  4-10-2000   Annexation of 1.16 acres total, owned by Quinco Behavioral
                     Health Services
                     Annexation of part of the east half of Section 15,
4, 2000  4-10-2000   Township 6 North, Range 6 East, owned by Green River
                     Management LLC
                     Annexation of part of the southeast quarter of Section 20,
5, 2000  4-10-2000   Township 6 North, Range 6 East, commonly known as Village
                     Green Mobile Home Park Section VIII
                     Annexation of approximately 66.97 acres total, in the east
9, 2001  4-23-2001   half of Section 7, Township 6 North, Range 6 East, owned
                     by Ward and Associates
                     Annexation of part of the southwest quarter of the
                     southeast quarter of Section 16 and part of the northwest
                     quarter of the northeast quarter of Section 21, both in
38, 2001 12-10-2001  Township 6 North, Range 6 East; also a portion of
                     Meadowbrook Drive; also part of the southeast quarter of
                     the southwest quarter of Section 16, Township 6 North,
                     Range 6 East
6, 2002  11-11-2002  Annexation of certain real estate contiguous to the
                     corporate boundaries of the city
18, 2003 10-27-2003  Annexation of two tracts of real estate owned by Steven
                     Farris and Larry Burton
                     Annexation of a part of the north half of Section 13,
24, 2003 1-26-2004   Township 6 North, Range 5 East, commonly known as Bell
                     Ford Manor Subdivision
                     Annexation of part of the southwest corner of Section 9,
2, 2005  5-9-2005    Township 6 North, Range 6 East, pursuant to the request of
                     Dillard Whittymore III and Seymour Industrial Corporation
                     Annexation of a part of the southeast quarter of Section
29, 2007 3-24-2008   9, and a part of the southwest quarter of Section 10, both
                     in Township 6 North, Range 6 East, Jackson County, Indiana
                     Annexation of a part of the northeast quarter of Section
1, 2008  3-24-2008   16, Township 6 North, Range 6 East, Jackson County,
                     Indiana, pursuant to the request of Self-Made Men, LLC
                     Annexation of a part of the southeast quarter of the
12, 2008 8-25-2008   northwest quarter of Section 16, Township 6 North, Range 6
                     East, Jackson County, Indiana, pursuant to the request of
                     Motels of Seymour, LLC
                     Annexation of certain territory in the Snyde Acres and
9, 2010  10-25-2010  Eagle Pointe subdivisions and adjacent property in the
                     vicinity of US Highway 50 West
                     Annexation of a part of the east half of the southeast
16, 2013 8-26-2013   quarter of the northeast quarter of Section 8 North,
                     Township 6 North, Range 6 East, Jackson County, Indiana,
                     pursuant to the request of Bushmann, LLC
20, 2013 10-14-2013  Annexing of 19 acres, pursuant to the request of Bushmann,
                     LLC
25, 2021 12-13-2021  Annexation of approximately 554 acres
26, 2021 12-13-2021  Annexation of approximately 9 acres
27, 2021 12-13-2021  Annexation of approximately 142 acres
28, 2021 12-13-2021  Annexation of approximately 5 acres
16, 2023 8-14-2023   Annexation of approximately 77 acres
                    
 
TABLE II: VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
37,  10-22- Vacation of right-of-way for proposed 9th Street extension, in the northwest
2001 2001   quarter of the southwest quarter of Section 16, Township 6 North, Range 6 East
16,  8-12-  Vacation of a portion of certain easements and real estate
2002 2002
37,  12-9-  Vacation of right-of-way on the west side of Thorn Street
2002 2002
8,   6-9-   Vacation of a public street located at “C” Avenue, “C” Avenue West and a portion
2003 2003   of First Avenue West
            Correcting Ordinance 1, 1990 to reinstate Ordinance 27, 1979 to the extent that
13,  7-28-  it vacates the portion of the alley described in the ordinance, and repealing
2003 2003   Ordinance 27, 1979 to the extent that it requires Jackson County Bank and its
            successors to maintain the vacated portion of the alley and to permit vehicular
            and pedestrian access over the vacated portion of the alley
            Vacation of streets/alleyways located at: Bruce Street from Walnut Street to
20,  11-10- Pine Street; Poplar Street from Bruce Street to Brown Street; Pine Street from
2003 2003   Tipton Street to West Brown Street; an alley running east and west between South
            Poplar Street and South Walnut Street; and an alley running south from the alley
            described above and West Brown Street
22,  12-8-  Vacation of a portion of St. Louis Avenue, on the north side of the CSX Railroad
2003 2003   right-of-way between Walnut Street and Poplar Street
10,  4-26-  Vacation of an alleyway located near 620 East 10th Street
2004 2004
26,  9-27-  Vacation of 801 West Second Street, including Lots 3 through 6 in the Swain-
2004 2004   Roach Addition
33,  11-8-  Vacation of the public street and right-of-way adjacent to 617 and 622 East
2004 2004   Second Street
8,   3-28-  Vacation of a portion of Swift’s Addition
2005 2005
17,  9-12-  Vacation of a portion of the right-of-way adjacent to Lot 8, Pine Tree Court
2005 2005
            Vacation of the west 102 feet 6 inches of Bruce Street from Walnut Street to
24,  11-28- Pine Street; 193 feet 6 inches of Pine Street from its northern intersection
2005 2005   with Bruce Street to Brown Street; and an alley running north and south in the
            500 block of West Brown Street from Laurel Street to midway through the block
2,   2-27-  Vacation of portions of lots 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12 in Block 1 and part of 9th
2006 2006   Street in Swifts Addition
18,  5-29-  Vacation of platted alleyways, easements and rights-of-way located at Block W, a
2007 2007   16-foot alley
15,  7-14-  Vacation of the alley running north and south in Block 8 of Shields Addition
2008 2008   between Tipton Street and Brown Street
24,  11-10- Vacation of an alley in Hustedt’s Addition
2008 2008
28,  12-8-  Vacation of a portion of an alley in the Self-Made Men, LLC. Business
2008 2008   Subdivision, a part of a previously platted 20 foot alley as shown in Self-Made
            Men, LLC. Business Subdivision as recorded in Plat Cabinet 7, Page 1378
21,  11-8-  Vacation of a portion of an alley in Block W of Shields Addition
2010 2010
22,  12-13- Vacation of a portion of East Third Street and a portion of Thorn Street
2010 2010
8,   3-26-  Vacation of a 60 feet right-of-way of Elm Street lying on the east side of
2012 2012   Maplewood Addition
15,  7-22-  Vacation of a portion of Thorn Street, Cherry Street and a 16 foot platted alley
2013 2013
35,  1-13-  Vacation of a potion of an alley in Block W of Shields Addition
2013 2014
11,  4-14-  Vacation of a potion of East Third Street and part of a 16' platted alley
2014 2014
12,  4-28-  Vacation of a potion of a 16' platted alley situated west off of South Carter
2014 2014   Street
17,  6-8-   Vacating a portion of Bell Ford Drive West
2015 2015
15,  10-10- Vacating a portion of First Avenue West
2016 2016
22,  12-27- Vacating an alley in the 600 block of West Tipton Street
2016 2016
5,   4-24-  St. Louis Avenue crossing DOT 535 452P permanently closed to highway vehicle
2017 2017   traffic
2,   3-26-  Vacating two alleys in Highlawn Addition
2018 2018
13,  8-27-  Permanently closing a portion of South Street where it crosses the Louisville
2018 2018   and Indiana railroad tracks
14,  8-27-  Permanently closing a portion of West 7th Street where it crosses the Louisville
2018 2018   and Indiana railroad tracks
9,   6-10-  Vacating a portion of South Avenue that lies west of South Vine Street and east
2019 2019   of the Louisville and Indiana Railroad
4,   3-9-   Vacating a portion of South Pine Street between West Oak Street and West Laurel
2020 2020   Street
36,  11-8-  Vacating a portion of an alley behind 818 West Brown Street
2021 2021
4,   3-14-  Vacating a parking lot adjacent to building at 903 W Tipton Street
2022 2022
16,  9-12-  Vacating a portion of unimproved alley between Harrison Drive and Marshall Drive
2022 2022
10,  3-11-  Vacating Airport Road between Stadium Drive and Westgate Road behind Seymour
2024 2024   High School
           
 
TABLE III: STREET NAMING AND RENAMING
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
            The street running south from Brown St. between the corporation line and
329  12-1-  Buckeye St. is Maple St.; the corporation line extending south from Brown
     1899   St. is Sycamore St.; the street running south from Oak St. between Chestnut
            St. and Walnut St. is Oesting St.; Branch St. is now Third St.
            Branch St. becomes Third St.; High St. becomes Tipton St.; Elnora St.
     2-25-  becomes Eighth St.; Bill St. becomes Park St.; Booth St. becomes Pershing
810  1920   St.; Meyers St. becomes Circle St.; Central Ave. becomes Elm St.;
            Jeffersonville Ave. becomes Indianapolis Ave.; Louisville Ave. becomes Oak
            St.
            The street south of the boys’ club, bounded by Broadway, East St., Tipton
            St., and Brown St., is named South St.; the street north of existing
            Highland Ave., intersecting Bush St. and bounded by Highlawn Ave., Euclid
     9-11-  St., and Centennial St., is now Highlawn Ave.; the street bounded by Fourth
1514 1967   St. Rd., Tipton St., and Snyder Ave. is now State St.; High St. is now East
            Tipton St. north; the street bounded by Community Dr., Sixth St., Second
            St., and Wsetgate Rd., and which would intersect with Lasher Dr. extended,
            is now Stadium Dr.; Elliott St. is now Kasting Rd.; Beech St. south of its
            intersection with McDonald St. isnow Sarasota Dr.
     4-22-  In Section 16, Township 6 North, Range 6 East, Myers St. is named; in
1536 1968   Sunset Parkway, South Dr. west, South Dr. east, South Dr., West Dr., North
            Dr., and East Dr. are named.
            Paved roadways, divided by a traffic island, at the west end of the Senior
1559 7-28-  High School building and which connect Westgate Rd. and West Second St. Rd.
     1969   in a north and south direction, are now named Hess St. West and Hess St.
            East.
1584 1-26-  The portion within the city of a highway formerly known as County Highway
     1970   650 North is now named Sixteenth St.
     3-9-   The street running south from West Eighth St. between Lots 4 and 38 of
1587 1970   Crestview Addition, First Section, then west and north to West Eighth St,
            adjacent to Lots 21 and 25 of the same addition, is named Holly Dr.
28,  7-13-  County Road 650 North within the city limits is now named Killion Ave.
1998 1998
14,  9-13-  A segment of a roadway currently named County Road 990E that commences at
2010 2010   the northern edge of Killion Ave. and continues northerly to the
            corporation boundary line of the city, is now named Hartsell Dr.
4,   2-28-  County Road 410 North and County Road 600 East are now named Schleter Road
2011 2011   and Sterling Road, respectively.
30,  11-27- Lasher Drive between W. 2nd Street and Westgate Road is now named Hess
2023 2023   Drive.
           
 
TABLE IV: CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No.      Date Passed Description
                          Accepts transfer of ownership of Freeman Field
Res. 31, 1999 9-27-1999   Municipal Airport water system; appoints appraisers
                          to value it for sale
A.A.          9-20-1999   Approves transfer of ownership of Freeman Field
                          Municipal Airport
Res. 1, 1999             water system to the City Council, for sale, with
                          proceeds to be used for the airport
41, 1999      1-10-2000   Approval of sale of Freeman Field Municipal Airport
                          water system to Indiana-American Water Company
                         
 
TABLE V: ZONING MAP AMENDMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.   Date   Description
           Passed
15, 2000   6-12-  Rezones part of the southwest quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 5,
           2000   Township 6 North, Range 6 East, from R-S to Institutional
           7-10-  Rezones parts of the southeast quarter of Section 16 and parts of the
19, 2000   2000   southwest quarter of Section 15, all in Township 6 North, Range 6 East, from
                  R-1 to C-3
20, 2000   7-10-  Rezones part of the northeast quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 8,
           2000   Township 6 North, Range 6 East, from R-1 to C-5
                  Rezones part of the east half of Section 7, and part of the southeast quarter
22, 2000   8-18-  of the southeast quarter and part of the northeast quarter of the southeast
           2000   quarter of Section 7, all in Township 6 North, Range 6 East, from R-S and R-
                  1 to Parks and Open Space, Institutional
27, 2000   9-11-  Rezones part of Block R in Butler’s Addition to the city, from R-1 to R-3
           2000
28, 2000   9-11-  Rezones part of the northwest quarter of Section 14, Township 6 North, Range 6
           2000   East, from R-S to Institutional
31, 2000   10-9-  Rezones part of Block S in Butler’s Addition to the city, from R-1 to R-3
           2000
35, 2000   11-13- Rezones part of the east half of Section 24, Township 6 North, Range 5 East,
           2000   from R-1 to Institutional
36, 2000   11-13- Rezones Pfingst Addition, Lot 38-4 (108 Laurel Street), from R-1 to R-3
           2000
39, 2000   12-11- Rezones part of the east half of the southeast quarter of Section 8, Township
           2000   6 North, Range 6 East, from R-1 to C-3
10, 2001   5-14-  Rezones Lot 1 of West Replat to the city, from R-1 to C-1
           2001
11, 2001   5-14-  Rezones Lots 18, 19, 20, and 21, all in Block Y of Champion Addition to the
           2001   city, from R-1 to C-1
21, 2001   8-27-  Rezones parts of Section 24, Township 6 North, Range 5 East, from R-S to R-3
           2001
           10-8-  Rezones part of the southwest quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 16
33, 2001   2001   and part of the northwest quarter of the northeast quarter of Section 21, both
                  in Township 6 North, Range 6 East, from R-S to C-3
           10-8-  Rezones part of the south half of Section 8, Township 6 North, Range 6 East,
34, 2001   2001   Redding Township, and part of the north half of Section 17, Township 6 North,
                  Range 6 East, Jackson Township, from C-5 to R-3
1, 2002    2-28-  Rezones certain real estate owned by Jerry D. Edwards, Jr., and Tamara K.
           2002   Edwards, from R-1 to C-3
2, 2002    2-28-  Rezones certain real estate owned by Seymour Industrial Corporation, from R-
           2002   S to I-2
           6-10-  Rezones part of the southwest quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 16,
12, 2002   2002   and part of the northwest quarter of the northeast quarter of Section 21, both
                  in Township 6 North, Range 6 East, from R-S to Institutional
13, 2002   6-24-  Rezones Lots 2 and 3 in Goss’s Subdivision of Lot 8 in Block 25 in the city,
           2002   from R-1 to C-3
17, 2003   9-8-   Rezones part of the northwest quarter of the northwest quarter of Section 29,
           2003   Township 6 North, Range 6 East from R-1 and R-S to R-1
           12-8-  Rezones Lots 200 through 211, part of a public alley which runs east and west
21, 2003   2003   through Block “W”, and part of St. Louis Avenue north of the Baltimore and
                  Ohio Railroad from C-2 to Institutional
9, 2004    4-26-  Rezones real estate from R-1 to R-3 pursuant to the request of a developer
           2004
11, 2004   6-14-  Rezones a part of the south half of the northwest quarter of Section 10,
           2004   Township 6 North, Range 6 East from R-S to I-2
14, 2004   6-28-  Rezones Lots 43 through 49 in Wilson’s Addition from R-S to C-1
           2004
16, 2004   7-26-  Rezones real estate located at 408, 412, and 420 Circle Street from C-2 to C-5
           2004
17, 2004   7-26-  Rezones 8.86 acres at 6791 N. 1000 E. from R-S to I-2
           2004
28, 2004   9-27-  Rezones real estate from R-1 to R-3
           2004
36, 2004   12-13- Rezones real estate from R-1 to R-3
           2004
37, 2004   1-10-  Rezones Lots 22 and 23, Block Y, Champion’s Addition from R-1 to R-3
           2005
1, 2005    2-14-  Rezones a part of the northwest quarter of Section 15, Township 6 North, Range
           2005   6 East from R-1 to R-3
5, 2005    2-28-  Rezones real estate at 711 Commerce Drive from R-S to C-1
           2005
6, 2005    2-28-  Rezones a part of Section 8, Township 6 North, Range 6 East from R-1 to R-2
           2005
7, 2005    4-11-  Rezones a part of Section 16, Township 6 North, Range 6 East from R-1 to R-3
           2005
11, 2005   6-27-  Rezones a part of the east half of Section 7, Township 6 North, Range 6 East
           2005   from R-1 to C-1
19, 2005   11-14- Rezones Lots 503 through 505 from R-3 to I-2
           2005
20, 2005   11-14- Rezones Lot 19, Block 48 in Leininger Addition from R-1 to R-2
           2005
23, 2005   11-28- Rezones real estate from Residential to Institutional
           2005
25, 2005   12-12- Rezones real estate from R-1 to R-3
           2005
1, 2006    2-27-  Rezones real estate from R-S to C-5
           2006
8, 2006    8-28-  Rezones real estate from C-5 to I-2
           2006
9, 2006    8-28-  Rezones real estate from R-1 to R-3
           2006
18, 2006   12-11- Rezones real estate from R-1 to C-1
           2006
19, 2006   12-11- Rezones real estate from Park and open space to C-2
           2006
8, 2007    2-26-  Rezones real estate from R-1 to R-3, Multi-Family Residential
           2007
9, 2007    2-26-  Rezones real estate from R-3 to C-3, Highway Commercial District
           2007
11, 2007   3-26-  Rezones real estate from RS to RS-1, Residential Suburban-1
           2007
12, 2007   4-9-   Rezones real estate from Park and Open Space to RS, Residential Suburban
           2007
16, 2007   6-11-  Rezones real estate from RS to RS-1, Residential Suburban-1
           2007
30, 2007   12-10- Rezones real estate from R-1 to C-2, General Commercial District
           2007
31, 2007   12-10- Rezones real estate from R-1 to R-3, Multi-Family Residential
           2007
32, 2007   12-10- Rezones real estate from C-2 to C-3, Highway Business District
           2007
3, 2008    2-11-  Rezones real estate at 2025 East Tipton Street from R-1 to R-3
           2008
8, 2008    3-24-  Rezones real estate approximately one acre on East Tipton Street from R-1 to
           2008   C-3
9, 2008    4-28-  Rezones real estate at 1005 East 4th Street from R-1 to C-3
           2008
16, 2008   7-28-  Rezones real estate at corner of Hustedt Street and 8th Street from R-1 to R-3
           2008
17, 2008   7-28-  Rezones real estate at 722 and 724 Hustedt Street from R-1 to R-3
           2008
31, 2008   1-12-  Rezones real estate at 1505 South Walnut Street from R-1 Urban Residential
           2009   District to C-2 General Commercial District
4, 2009    3-9-   Rezones real estate at 1300 and 1302 Colonial Drive from R-1 Urban Residential
           2009   District to C-2 General Commercial District
           3-9-   Rezones real estate located in the Northeast quarter of Section 1, Township 5
5, 2009    2009   North, Range 5 East, Washington Township, Jackson County, from R-S Suburban
                  Residential District to C-1 Neighborhood Commercial District
                  Rezones part of the Southwest quarter of Section 15 and part of the Southeast
           6-8-   quarter of Section 16, Township 6 North, Range 6 East, Jackson County,
9, 2009    2009   consisting of 0.65 acres and accessed by a private driveway commonly known as
                  Holiday Square Road, from R-1 Urban Residential District to R-3 Neighborhood
                  Residential District
7, 2010    7-12-  Rezones 3.60 acres located at the end of Cottonwood Drive from R-1 Urban
           2010   Residential District to R-3 Neighborhood Residential District
8, 2010    5-24-  Rezones part of Boulevard Place Subdivision from R-1 Urban Residential
           2010   District to C-1 Neighborhood Commercial District
10, 2010   7-12-  Rezones 4.17 acres on East Tipton Street from C-3 Highway Commercial District
           2010   to R-3 Neighborhood Residential District
23, 2010   1-10-  Rezones 3 acres at 612 Meadowbrook Drive from RS Suburban Residential District
           2011   to C-1 Neighborhood Commercial District
1, 2011  2-14-  Rezones a parcel at 311 Holiday Square Road from R-1 to C-3
           2011
2, 2011    2-14-  Rezones 33 parcels east of Martha’s Vineyard Subdivision from RS to RS-1
           2011
19, 2011   10-10- Rezones a parcel at 1240 E. Fourth Street Road from R-1 to C-1
           2011
24, 2011   12-12- Rezones a parcel at 234 South O’Brien Street from R-1 to C-1
           2011
7, 2012    3-26-  Rezones parcels at 106 Community Drive; 801 and 1001 West Second Street; and
           2012   631, 743, and 810 Maple Avenue from C-5 to C-2
15, 2012   7-9-   Rezones 3.64 acres at 847, 855, and 857 East Fourth Street Road from R-2 and
           2012   C-1 to I-2
16, 2012   9-10-  Rezones a lot at 212 East 13th Street from R-1 to R-3
           2012
19, 2012   10-8-  Rezones 18.95 acres at 160 Jackson Park Drive and in the 800 and 900 blocks of
           2012   East Tipton Street from C-3 and C-5 to I-2
24, 2012   11-26- Rezones 3.9725 acres at 401 Agrico Lane from C-5 to I-2
           2012
11, 2013   7-8-   The land known as Lot 1 in Cimito Replat shall remain C-3
           2013
19, 2013   9-9-   Rezones 0.32 acre lot at 304 S. Fourth Street Road from R-1 to C-3
           2013
6, 2014  3-10-  Rezones property located at 101-119 E. Laurel Street from R-3 to C-2
           2014
10, 2014   4-14-  Rezones three parcels on East Second Street, East Third Street and East Fourth
           2014   Street Road from R-1, R-3 to I-2
13, 2014   4-20-  Rezones Lots 18 and 19 in Boulevard Place Subdivision from R-1 to C-1
           2014
14, 2014   4-28-  Rezones 60.70 acres located along North O’Brien Street and County Road 700N
           2014   (Enos Road) from RS-1 to R-1
15, 2014   4-28-  Rezones 16.8967 acres located in the northeast quadrant of the intersection of
           2014   Burbank Boulevard and North O’Brien Street from RS-1 to R-2
14, 2015   5-11-  Rezones 2.97 acres located in the 2000 block of East Tipton Street from R-1 to
           2015   C-3
15, 2015   5-11-  Rezones 4.67 acres located in the 800 block of East Tenth Street from R-1 to
           2015   C-5
20, 2015   8-10-  Rezones various lots commonly known as 600 West Eighth Street from I-2 to R-3
           2015
21, 2015   9-14-  Rezones 10.65 acres located in the 2000 block of East Tipton Street from R-
           2015   1 to C-3
5, 2016    5-23-  Rezones 821 East 10th Street from R-1 to R-3
           2016
16, 2016   10-10- Rezones 1815 Ewing Street from R-S to C-3
           2016
21, 2016   11-28- Rezones 11033 East County Road 500N from R-S to C-1
           2016
11, 2017   5-22-  Rezones property located in 1000 block of West Second Street; Area 1 from C-
           2017   2 to C-5 and Area 2 from C-5 to C-2
3, 2018    3-12-  Rezones property located at 817 E. Tipton Street from C- 5 to C-3
           2018
6, 2018    5-29-  Rezones property located in the 2000 block of East Tipton Street and the 400
           2018   block of East Cottonwood Drive
9, 2018    7-9-   Rezones property located in the 300 block of South Airport Road from R-4 to C-
           2018   3
16, 2018   10-8-  Rezones property located at 214-218 S. O’Brien Street from R-1 to C-2
           2018
17, 2018   11-26- Rezones property located at 500 north block O’Brien Street from R-1 to C-5
           2018
2, 2019    3-11-  Rezones property at the northwest corner of Ewing Street at the intersection
           2019   of 14th Street from Parks and Open Space to R-2
5, 2019    5-13-  Rezones property located at 500 S. Poplar Street from R-1 to R-2
           2019
6, 2019    6-10-  Rezones property located at 740 N. Chestnut Street from I-1 to I-2
           2019
8, 2019    6-10-  Rezones property located at 1503 and 1505 S. Walnut Street; 1428 Gaiser Drive;
           2019   and 100, 204, 208, 300 and 304 W. Cardinal Drive from R-1 to R-3
10, 2019   7-8-   Rezones property located in the 500 block of S. Pine Street from R-1 to R-2
           2019
11, 2019   7-8-   Rezones property located at the southwest corner of Ewing Street at the
           2019   intersection of 15th street from Parks and Open Space to R-3
15, 2019   9-9-   Rezones property located in the vacant section of 526 S. Jackson Park Drive
           2019   from C-3 to R-3
20, 2019   11-11- Rezones property located in the 1000 block of Shields Avenue between 14th
           2019   street and 16th street from Parks and Open Space to R-1
3, 2020    2-10-  Rezones property located at 605 E. Fifth Street from R-1 to R-3
           2020
5, 2020    3-9-   Rezones property located at 1000 S. Commerce Drive to R-2
           2020
7, 2020    4-13-  Rezones property located at 312 Buckeye Street from R-1 to R-3
           2020
12, 2020   5-11-  Rezones property located at 3779 N. County Road 850 E from C-1 to I-2
           2020
16, 2020   7-13-  Rezones property located at 802 Blish Street from R-1 to R-3
           2020
1, 2021    1-25-  Rezones property located at 600 block, 700 block, and 743 Maple Avenue from C-
           2021   2 to R-1
3, 2021    2-8-   Rezones property located at 181 Burkart Boulevard from C-5 to I-2
           2021
5, 2021    2-22-  Rezones property located along Tipton Street between Walnut Street and Kasting
           2021   Road from C-1 to C-3
11, 2021   4-12-  Rezones property located at 500 block of S. 4th Street from R-1 to R-2
           2021
23, 2021   7-12-  Rezones property located near 1000 block of Quail Creek Drive from R-1 and I-
           2021   2 to R-4
24, 2021   7-12-  Rezones property located at 700 block of Marley Lane from R-S to R-1
           2021
37, 2021   11-8-  Rezones property located at 700 south block of Commerce Drive from C-1 to I-2
           2021
11, 2022   5-9-   Rezones property located at US 31 and CR 40 N from RS to RS-1
           2022
46, 2022   12-12- Rezones property located at 222 Marley Lane frm R-1 to R-3
           2022
7, 2023    3-13-  Rezones property located at 1341 W. 2nd Street from R-2 to R-3
           2023
31, 2023   12-11- Rezones property located at 1060 E. 16th Street from R-1 to I-2
           2023
7, 2024    3-11-  Rezones properties located at 1300 block Colonial Dr, 641 and 639 Barnard Ln,
           2024   and 643 S Airport Rd from R-1 and C-2 to I-2
8, 2024    3-11-  Rezones property located at 923 E 4th Street from R-1 to C-3
           2024
9, 2024    3-11-  Rezones property located at 1500 block E Tipton and Burkart Blvd from R-1 to
           2024   C-3
22, 2024   8-12-  Rezones property located at 5000 N block US Hwy 31 from R-S to C-3
           2024
34, 2024   11-25- Rezones property located at 103 E Laurel Street from R-3 to C-2
           2024
                 
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to 1987 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Cites Code Section
I.C. Cites                    Code Section
1-1-1-5                       10.04
1-1-1-7                       10.12
1-1-1-8                       10.06
1-1-4-5                       10.05
1-1-5-1                       10.11
1-1-6-1                       10.08
3-5-1 et seq.                 30.15
4-21.5                        153.38
4-21.5-3-7                    92.11,
                              151.40
4-21.5-5-5                    50.151
5-2-1 et seq.                 35.60
5-3-1                         96.03,
                              157.027
5-3-1-2                       118.03,
                              157.025
5-3-1-4                       157.025
5-4-1-18                      30.37
5-11-10                       30.38,
                              32.20
5-14-1.5-1                    30.52,
                              153.22
                              31.50,
5-14-1.5-5                    35.83,
                              153.41
5-22 et seq.                  32.22
5-22                          32.15
6-1.1-12.1 et seq.            150.37
6-2.5-1-21.9                  118.05
6-2.5-4-4                     118.05
6-3.6                         35.89
6-3.6-9-15                    35.90
6-3.6-9-17                    35.92
6-6-11                        157.013
6-7-1                         35.81
6-9                           118.05
8-1-2-103(d)                  32.55
8-16-3                        35.83
8-22                          30.17
8-22-2                        35.92
8-22-3-1 et seq.              31.54
8-22-3-1                      35.92
8-22-3-4                      31.54
8-22-3-25                     35.83
8-23-4                        93.07
8-23-5                        35.92
8-23-30                       35.92
                              70.01,
                              71.030,
                              71.085,
                              71.087,
                              71.089,
9-21-1-1 et seq.              72.01,
                              72.03,
                              72.04,
                              73.03,
                              73.35,
                              Ch. 75
9-22-1-5                      93.05
9-22-1-7                      93.05
9-22-1-8                      93.05
9-22-1-10 (Repealed)          93.05
9-22-1-11                     93.07
9-22-1-12                     93.07
9-22-1-13                     93.07
9-22-1-14                     93.07
9-22-1-15                     93.06
9-22-1-16                     93.06
9-22-1-17                     93.06
9-22-1-18                     93.07
9-22-1-19                     93.08
9-22-1-31                     93.09
9-22-1-32                     93.10
9-22-6                        93.08
13-1-13 (Repealed)            32.01
14-28-1                       155.48
14-28-1-26                    155.48
14-33-1 et seq.               35.83
14-34                         158.07
15-5-9-1 et seq. (Repealed)   Ch. 97,
                              97.02
16-23-1 et seq.               35.83
16-41-27-1 et seq.            157.087
16-41-37-1 et seq. (Repealed) 32.01
16-41-37-2 (Repealed)         32.01
16-41-37-3 (Repealed)         32.01
16-41-37-4 (Repealed)         32.01
22-3 et seq.                  112.05
22-9-1-4 et seq.              90.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.              90.01
22-9.5-2-2                    90.02
22-9.5-2-3                    90.02
22-9.5-2-4                    90.02
22-9.5-2-8                    90.02
22-9.5-2-9                    90.02
22-9.5-2-11                   90.02
22-9.5-2-13                   90.02
22-9.5-3 et seq.              90.10
22-9.5-3                      90.03
22-9.5-4-8                    90.11
22-9.5-5                      90.02
22-9.5-5-1                    90.03
22-9.5-6                      90.02,
                              90.11
22-11-14-1                    92.45
22-13-2-7                     151.40
22-15-3-1                     151.20
22-15-4                       151.04
23-14-65                      100.01
24-14-5                       93.05
25-37-1-1 et seq.             Ch. 111
31-37-3-2 through 31-37-3-3.5 Ch. 130
32-26-4-1                     Ch. 95
                              10.99,
34-28-5                       70.99,
                              113.13
35-45-1-1 et seq.             32.50
35-45-1-3                     94.20
35-47-2-3 (Repealed)          35.61
                              31.01,
                              35.01 -
                              35.04 ,
                              35.06,
                              35.13 -
                              35.17,
                              35.30,
36-1-3 et seq.                35.46,
                              35.60,
                              35.61,
                              35.63,
                              35.82,
                              35.84,
                              96.05,
                              96.06
36-1-3-8(a)(1)                158.99
36-1-5-4                      32.53
36-1-6-2                      158.29
36-1-8-3                      35.67
36-1-8-5                      35.90
36-1-20.2                     32.53
36-1-21                       32.53
36-1-24 et seq.               118.01
36-1-24-18                    118.04
36-1-27-1                     32.56
36-1-27-4                     32.56
36-2-7-10                     153.42
36-4                          30.17
36-4-5                        30.15
36-4-5-1                      30.15
36-4-5-5                      110.02
36-4-5-8                      30.15
36-4-5-9                      30.15
36-4-6-2                      157.025
36-4-6-4                      30.50
36-4-6-7                      30.52
36-4-6-8                      30.53
36-4-6-9                      30.51
36-4-6-10                     30.56
36-4-6-11                     30.57,
                              32.53
36-4-6-13                     30.56
36-4-6-14 through 36-4-6-17   30.56
36-4-9-2                      30.18
36-4-10                       30.35
36-4-10-2                     30.36
36-4-10-5(b)(10)              110.02
36-4-10-5(b)(11)              110.02
36-4-11-4                     30.35
36-5-2-2                      10.15
36-7                          30.17,
                              31.53
36-7-2-9                      92.05
                              155.01,
                              157.002,
36-7-4                        157.003,
                              157.013,
                              157.025,
                              157.094
36-7-4 et seq.                156.02
36-7-4-207                    157.009,
                              157.025
36-7-4-208                    157.025
36-7-4-214                    157.025
36-7-4-500 et seq.            156.27
36-7-4-603                    157.027
36-7-4-607                    157.025
36-7-4-608                    157.025
36-7-4-610                    157.025
36-7-4-615 (Repealed)         157.027
36-7-4-700                    Ch. 156, App. A
36-7-4-700 et seq.            156.39
                              156.09,
36-7-4-701                    156.35,
                              156.36
36-7-4-704                    156.35
36-7-4-705                    156.35
36-7-4-708                    156.39
36-7-4-800 et seq.            157.150
36-7-4-902                    157.025
36-7-4-1109(b)                32.56
36-7-5-3 (Repealed)           150.21
36-7-9 et seq.                153.03
36-7-9-3                      153.01
36-7-14                       30.22
36-7-14.5-7                   31.56
36-7-23                       35.83
36-7-25                       30.22
36-8-2-2                      32.45
36-8-2-3                      32.46
36-8-2-4                      32.47
36-8-2-10                     110.02
36-8-2-11                     Ch. 111
36-8-3-10(a)(13)              110.02
36-8-3-20                     31.40,
                              31.43
36-8-6                        31.51
36-8-7                        31.52
36-8-8                        31.51,
                              31.52
36-8-14                       35.91
36-8-14-1 et seq.             35.45
36-8-14-2(c)                  35.91
36-8-17-5(a)                  92.05
36-8-17-7                     92.08,
                              92.09
36-8-17-9                     92.11
36-8-17-9(b)                  92.10
36-8-17-10                    92.03,
                              92.10
36-9-2-15                     Ch. 50
36-9-6-19                     Ch. 51
36-9-6.1                      150.21
36-9-15.5                     35.94
36-9-16-2                     35.83
36-9-16-3                     35.83
36-9-16.5                     35.83
36-9-17                       35.83
36-9-23                       50.207,
                              53.01
36-9-23-31                    50.207 
36-9-26                       35.83
                              158.03,
36-9-27                       158.07,
                              158.16
36-9-30-3                     93.07
36-10                         30.17
36-10-2-2                     96.01
36-10-3 et seq.               30.21,
                              96.03
36-10-3-13                    96.04
36-10-3-14                    96.04
36-10-3-21                    35.83
36-10-4-1                     96.02
                              
 
REFERENCES TO 1987 CODE
1987 Code 2003 Code
1987 Code 2003 Code
1-9       10.99
1-9.1     10.99
1-10      11.01
1-12      10.17
1-13      10.18
1-14      10.99
1-15      10.99
2-1       30.01
2-2       30.15
2-3       30.16
2-4       30.17
2-5       30.18
2-6       30.19
2-7       30.20
2-8       30.21
2-9       30.22
2-11      30.35
2-12      30.36
2-13      30.37
2-14      34.01 -
          34.07
2-16      31.51
2-17      31.52
2-18      31.53
2-19      31.54
2-20      73.51
2-130     31.01
2-140     31.02
2-141     31.02
2-142     31.02
2-143     31.02
2-144     31.02
2-145     31.02
2-146     31.02
2-147     31.02
2-148     31.02
2-149     31.02
2-150     31.02
2-151     31.02
2-152     31.02
2-153     31.02
2-160     31.30
2-161     31.31
2-162     31.30
2-170     35.01
2-172     35.15
2-173     35.16
2-174     35.02
2-175     35.80
2-176     35.60
2-177     35.03
2-178     35.04
2-179     35.05
2-180     35.61
2-181     35.45
2-182     35.17
2-183     35.30
2-184     35.18
2-185     35.19
2-186     35.81
2-187     35.82
2-188     35.88
2-189     35.84
2-190     35.32
2-191     35.46
2-192     35.86
2-193     35.62
2-194     35.63
2-195     35.83
2-196     35.64
2-197     35.85
2-200     31.50
2-202     31.53
2-209     31.15
2-215     31.33
2-216     31.35
2-217     31.34
2-218     31.36
2-220     31.37
2-231     30.39
2-232     30.38
3-1       30.50
3-2       30.51
3-3       30.52
3-4       30.53
3-5       30.54
3-6       30.55
3-7       30.55
3-8       30.56
3-9       30.57
3-10      30.57
3-11      30.58
3-12      30.59
3-13      30.61
3-14      30.60,
          30.61
4-1       36.01,
          110.01
4-2       110.02
4-3       110.03
4-9       95.32
4-17      112.01 -
          112.08
4-22      97.66 -
          97.68
4-27      111.01,
          111.02
4-37      114.01 -
          114.10
4-56      113.01 -
          113.13
4-60      31.16
4-61      31.16
4-70      115.01
4-71      115.02
4-72      115.03
4-81      150.35
4-82      150.36
4-83      150.37
4-84      150.38
4-85      150.39
4-86      150.40
4-100     116.15
4-101     116.01
4-102     116.16
4-103     116.17
4-104     116.18
4-105     116.19
4-106     116.72
4-107     116.30
4-108     116.31,
          116.32
4-109     116.33
4-110     116.34
4-111     116.35
4-112     116.36
4-113     116.37
4-114     116.38
4-115     116.39
4-116     116.40
4-117     116.41
4-118     116.55
4-119     116.56
4-120     116.57
4-121     116.58
4-122     116.59
4-123     116.70
4-124     116.71
4-125     116.73
4-126     116.60
5-1       96.01
5-2       96.02
5-3       96.03
5-7       96.04
5-8       96.04
5-9       96.04
5-10      96.04
5-16      96.22
5-17      96.23
5-18      96.24
5-20      96.26
5-21      96.27
5-31      96.07
5-32      96.20
5-34      96.25
5-40      96.05
5-41      96.06
6-1       32.47
6-2       32.45
6-3       32.48
6-4       32.49
6-5       32.46
6-6       32.50
6-7       32.51
6-13      130.15
6-14      130.16
6-15      130.17
6-17      130.01
6-18      130.20
6-25      33.01
6-26      33.02
6-28      33.03
6-29      33.04
6-30      33.04
6-31      33.05
6-38      51.01
6-39      51.15
6-42      51.16,
          51.17
6-51      51.18
6-74      95.15
6-75      95.16
6-76      95.17
6-112     97.01
6-114     97.81
6-115     97.02
6-116     97.99
          97.35 -
6-118     97.40,
          97.99
          97.50 -
6-119     97.54,
          97.99
6-120     97.16
6-121     97.17,
          97.99
6-122     97.18
6-123     97.19,
          97.99
6-124     97.20,
          97.99
6-124.1   97.21
6-124.3   97.03,
          97.82
6-125     95.30
6-126     95.31
6-131     71.158
6-132     71.159
6-133     71.155
6-138     130.18
6-140     95.03
6-141     95.02
6-142     95.01
6-143     95.04
6-154     114.01
6-155     114.02
6-156     114.03
6-157     114.04
6-158     114.05
6-159     114.06
6-160     114.07
6-161     114.08
6-162     114.09
6-163     114.10
6-166     114.11
6-167     114.12
6-169     154.01
6-170     154.02
6-171     154.03
6-172     154.04
6-173     154.05
6-174     154.07
6-175     154.06
6-176     154.07
6-181     153.02
6-190     111.40
6-191     111.41
6-192     111.42
6-193     111.43
6-200     92.01
6-201     92.02
6-202     92.03
6-203     92.04
6-204     92.05
6-205     92.06
6-206     92.07
6-207     92.08
6-208     92.09
6-209     92.10
6-210     92.11
6-211     92.12
6-212     92.13
6-220     32.01
6-221     32.01
6-222     32.01
6-223     32.01
6-225     32.01
6-230     91.01
6-231     91.02
6-232     91.03
6-233     91.04
6-234     91.05
6-235     91.06
6-236     91.07
6-237     91.08
6-238     91.09
6-239     91.10
6-240     91.11
6-241     91.12
6-242     91.13
6-243     91.14
6-250     32.15
6-251     32.16
6-252     32.17
6-253     32.18
6-254     32.19
6-275     130.30 -
          130.34
6-276     130.30
7-1       151.01
7-2       151.02
7-3       151.03,
          151.04
7-4       151.05
7-5       151.20 -
          151.22
7-6       151.23,
          151.24
7-7       151.35
7-8       151.36 -
          151.38
7-9       151.06,
          151.39
7-10      151.40,
          151.41
7-11      151.55
7-12      151.56
7-13      151.60
7-17      94.35
7-18      94.36
7-19      94.37
7-20      94.38
7-21      94.39
7-22      94.40
7-23      94.41
7-24      94.42
7-25      94.42
7-26      94.43
7-27      94.44
7-28      94.45
7-29      94.46
7-30      94.47
7-31      94.48
7-32      94.49
7-60      153.01
7-61      153.02
7-62      153.02
7-63      153.20
7-64      153.21
7-65      153.22
7-66      153.23
7-67      153.35
7-69      153.36
7-70      153.37
7-71      153.38
7-72      153.39
7-73      153.40
7-74      153.55
7-75      153.56
7-76      153.57
7-77      153.58
7-78      153.59
7-79      153.60
7-80      153.61
7-81      153.41
7-82      153.42
7-84      153.06
7-84      153.05
7-85      153.03
7-86      153.04
7-90      151.57
7-91      151.58
7-92      151.59
7-93      151.61
7-94      151.62
7-95      151.63
7-100     152.01
7-101     152.20
7-102     152.21
7-103     152.22
7-104     152.23
7-105     152.24
7-106     152.25
7-110     152.35
7-111     152.36
7-112     152.37
7-113     152.38
7-120     152.02
7-121     152.03
7-122     152.04
7-123     152.05
7-124     152.06
7-125     152.07
8-1       70.01
8-3       70.02
8-4       70.03
8-6       70.04
8-12      73.04
8-13      73.01
8-14      73.02
8-15      73.65
8-16      73.03,
          Ch. 75, Sch. I
8-17      Ch. 75, Sch. II
8-19      73.50
8-20      73.50,
          Ch. 75, Sch. III
8-21      Ch. 75, Sch. II
8-23      Ch. 75, Sch. IV
8-24      Ch. 75, Sch. II
8-25      73.66
8-26      Ch. 75, Sch. V
8-27      Ch. 75, Sch. VI
8-28      73.15
8-30      73.16
8-31      73.17
8-32      73.18
8-33      73.19
8-34      73.20
8-35      73.20
8-36      73.35,
          Ch. 75, Sch. VI
8-37      73.21
8-38      73.22
8-39      73.23
8-40      73.24
8-41      73.25
8-44      Ch. 75, Sch. VII
8-46      Ch. 75, Sch. VIII
8-48      Ch. 75, Sch. VIII
8-49      Ch. 75, Sch. VIII
8-51      71.140,
          73.36
8-52      71.141
8-53      73.37
8-54      73.38
8-55      73.39
8-56      73.05
8-66      71.030
8-67      71.031,
          Ch. 74, Sch. I
8-75      71.065
8-76      71.066
8-77      71.067
8-78      71.068
8-79      71.069
8-80      71.070
8-81      71.071
8-88      71.032
8-89      71.032
8-91      71.033
8-92      71.033
8-96      71.120
8-97      71.121
8-98      71.121
8-99      71.121
8-100     71.121
8-101     71.121
8-102     71.122
8-103     71.124
8-104     71.125
8-105     71.123
8-106     71.126
8-107     71.126
8-108     71.127
8-109     71.127
8-113     94.01
8-114     94.02
8-115     94.03
8-116     94.04
8-117     94.05
8-118     94.06
8-119     94.05
8-120     94.07
8-121     94.08
8-124     71.034
8-125     71.035
8-126     71.036
8-127     71.036
8-130     71.037
8-131     71.038
8-132     71.039
8-133     71.040
8-136     94.20
8-137     94.21
8-138     94.22
8-145     71.085,
          Ch. 74, Sch. II
8-146     71.086
8-147     71.087
8-148     71.087,
          Ch. 74, Sch. III
8-149     71.087,
          Ch. 74, Sch. III
8-150     71.087,
          Ch. 74, Sch. III
8-151     71.089,
          Ch. 74, Sch. IV
8-152     71.088
8-158     71.108
8-159     Ch. 74, Sch. V
8-160     71.101
8-161     Ch. 74, Sch. V
8-165     71.050
8-166     71.051
8-167     71.052
8-168     71.053
8-169     71.054
8-176     71.155
8-177     71.156
8-178     71.157
8-182     71.001
8-183     71.002
8-184     71.102
8-185     71.103
8-186     71.104
8-187     71.105
8-188     71.106
8-189     71.107
8-190     71.003
8-195     71.015
8-196     71.016
8-197     71.017
8-198     71.018
8-199     71.019
8-204     72.01
8-205     72.02
8-206     72.03
8-207     72.04,
          Ch. 74, Sch. IV
8-208     72.05,
          Ch. 74, Sch. V
8-209     72.05
8-210     72.06
8-213     71.100,
          Ch. 74, Sch. VI
8-214     71.100,
          Ch. 74, Sch. VI
8-215     70.99
8-231     70.99
9-1       50.001
9-2       50.002
9-3       50.003
9-4       50.004
9-6       50.005,
          50.006
9-8       50.085
9-9       50.086
9-10      50.087
9-11      50.088
9-12      50.089
9-13      50.090
9-14      50.091
9-15      50.092
9-16      50.093,
          50.094
9-16.1    50.095
9-17      50.195
9-18      50.195
9-19      50.195
9-20      50.195
9-21      50.195
9-24      50.145
9-25      50.146
9-26      50.147
9-27      50.148
9-28      50.149
9-29      50.150
9-30      50.151
9-32      50.154
9-33      50.155
9-34      50.156
9-34.1    50.157
9-35      50.158
9-36      50.159
9-37      50.160
9-38      50.161
9-39      50.162
9-40      50.163
9-41      50.164
9-42      50.166
9-42.1    50.166
9-43      50.166
9-44      50.165
9-45      50.166
9-47      50.152
9-50      50.153
9-51      50.153
9-53      50.007
9-54      50.096
9-63      50.196
9-64      50.196
9-65      50.197
9-66      50.198
9-69      50.199,
          Ch. 50, App. B
9-70      50.200
9-72      50.202
9-73      50.203
9-74      50.204
9-75      50.205
9-76      50.206
9-77      50.207
9-77.1    50.208
9-77.2    50.209
9-78      50.210
9-79      50.210
9-80      50.210,
          Ch. 50, App. B
9-81      50.210
9-84      50.211
9-85      50.212
9-86      50.211
9-89      50.213
9-90      50.213
9-91      50.213
9-94      50.008
9-96      50.214
9-97      50.215
9-98      50.216
9-102     50.008
9-103     50.020
9-104     50.021
9-105     50.021
9-106     50.022
9-107     50.023
9-108     50.024
9-109     50.009
9-110     50.010
9-113     50.050
9-114     50.051
9-115     50.052
9-116     50.053
9-119     50.065
9-120     50.066
9-121     50.067
9-122     50.068
9-123     50.071
9-124     50.069
9-125     50.070
9-126     50.072
9-129     50.020
9-130     50.025
9-131     50.026
9-132     Ch. 50, App. A
9-133     50.027
9-134     50.028
9-135     50.029
9-136     50.030
9-137     50.031
9-138     50.032
9-139     50.033
9-140     50.037
9-141     50.038
9-142     50.039
9-145     50.054
9-149     50.110
9-150     50.111
9-151     50.112
9-152     50.113
9-153     50.114
9-154(a)  50.034
9-154(b)  50.035
9-154(c)  50.036
9-154     50.115
9-156     50.125
9-157     50.126
9-158     50.127
9-159     50.128
9-160     50.129
9-163     50.130
9-164     50.131
9-165     50.132
9-166     50.133
9-167     50.134
9-168     50.135
9-171     50.180
9-174     50.181
9-175     50.181
9-176     50.181
10-52     150.15
10-53     150.16
10-55     150.17
10-56     150.18
10-57     150.19
10-58     150.20
10-59     150.21
10-60     150.22
10-61     150.23
10-62     150.24
10-105    157.018
10-106    157.018
10-107    157.018
          
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
-        7-26-1972   31.34,
                     31.36
52, 1974 9-9-1974    31.15
9-78     3-13-1978   35.18
-        9-10-1980   31.35
19, 1985 12-16-1985  150.35 -
                     150.37
4, 1988  4-11-1988   150.40
6, 1989  5-8-1989    150.38,
                     150.39
12, 1991 8-12-1991   32.01
31, 1999 9-27-1999   TSO Table IV
32, 2000 11-27-2000  150.01
13, 2010 7-12-2010   35.91
13, 2016 6-13-2016   32.54
19, 2020 7-13-2020   35.09
21, 2022 8-8-2022    32.57
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.   Date Passed Code Section
540        2-8-1890    130.18
322        9-23-1899   95.03
528        11-30-1899  95.31
329        12-1-1899   TSO Table III
648        6-15-1910   111.01,
                       111.02
668        4-18-1911   95.02
693        12-9-1912   95.04
809        2-25-1920   151.55
810        2-25-1920   TSO Table III
829        4-7-1922    151.56
836        8-4-1922    96.27
916        1-20-1927   95.31
437        2-3-1930    112.01 -
                       112.08
1064       6-19-1942   154.01 -
                       154.07
1080       3-20-1945   95.30
1168       2-25-1952   96.04
1320       7-11-1960   97.66 -
                       97.68
1448       11-29-1965  35.81
1467       6-13-1966   95.32
1469       6-27-1966   114.01 -
                       114.10
1514       9-11-1967   TSO Table III
1985       10-9-1967   31.53
1525       12-18-1967  114.03
1536       4-22-1968   TSO Table III
                       51.01,
1535       5-27-1968   51.15,
                       51.16
1548       11-11-1968  51.16
1559       7-28-1969   TSO Table III
                       70.01 -
                       70.04,
                       71.001 -
                       71.003,
                       71.015 -
                       71.018,
                       71.030 -
                       71.040,
                       71.050,
                       71.051,
                       71.065 -
                       71.071,
                       71.085,
                       71.087,
                       71.101 -
                       71.108,
                       71.120 -
                       71.127,
                       71.140,
1556       11-24-1969  71.141,
                       71.156,
                       72.01 -
                       72.06,
                       73.01 -
                       73.03,
                       73.05,
                       73.16 -
                       73.25,
                       73.36 -
                       73.39,
                       73.65,
                       Ch. 74, Schs. I through
                       IV,
                       Ch. 75, Schs. I through
                       IV,
                       VIII,
                       94.01 -
                       94.08,
                       94.20 -
                       94.22
                       33.01 -
                       33.05,
1580       12-22-1969  130.01,
                       130.15 -
                       130.17
1581       12-22-1969  94.35 -
                       94.49
                       Ch. 74, Sch. II,
1595       - -1970     Ch. 74, Sch. III,
                       Ch. 74, Sch. V
1584       1-26-1970   TSO Table III
1587       3-9-1970    TSO Table III
1585       4-13-1970   115.01 -
                       115.03
1609       4-26-1971   Ch. 74, Schs. II,
                       III
                       71.050,
1610       4-26-1971   71.052,
                       71.054
1615       8-9-1971    115.03
1616       8-9-1971    35.19
1625       12-13-1971  Ch. 74, Sch. III,
                       Ch. 75, Sch. I
59, 1975   5-27-1975   Ch. 74, Sch. III
70, 1975   12-8-1975   Ch. 74, Sch. II
2-76       1-5-1976    30.37
4, 1976    3-8-1976    51.17
10, 1976   3-8-1976    Ch. 75, Sch. IV
                       Ch. 74, Schs. I,
14, 1976   5-24-1976   III,
                       Ch. 75, Schs. I,
                       II
                       Ch. 74, Schs. II,
20, 1976   7-9-1976    III,
                       Ch. 75, Sch. I
                       71.087,
30, 1976   9-27-1976   Ch. 74, Sch. III,
                       Ch. 75, Sch. I
32, 1976   1-10-1977   Ch. 75, Sch. I
5, 1977    5-23-1977   150.16 -
                       150.24
9, 1977    7-11-1977   96.22,
                       96.23
                       Ch. 74, Schs. II,
12, 1977   7-11-1977   III,
                       Ch. 75, Sch. I
19, 1977   8-29-1977   150.15
29, 1977   11-14-1977  154.07
30, 1977   11-14-1977  Ch. 74, Sch. II
                       113.01,
                       113.02,
34, 1977   12-26-1977  113.05,
                       113.07,
                       113.08
35, 1977   1-9-1978    Ch. 74, Sch. II
8, 1978    3-27-1978   73.50,
                       Ch. 75, Sch. VII
12, 1978   5-22-1978   115.03
15, 1978   6-12-1978   Ch. 75, Sch. I
20, 1978   8-14-1978   Ch. 74, Sch. II
29, 1978   10-23-1978  Ch. 74, Schs. I,
                       III
35, 1978   11-27-1978  96.24
36, 1978   12-11-1978  Ch. 74, Schs. II,
                       III
11-79      5-28-1979   35.30
13, 1979   6-25-1979   Ch. 75, Schs. I,
                       VII
25, 1979   8-27-1979   71.100,
                       Ch. 74, Sch. VI
26, 1979   9-24-1979   Ch. 74, Schs. II,
                       III
32, 1979   11-26-1979  71.086
8-80       3-24-1980   35.17
7, 1980    3-24-1980   31.53
19, 1980   7-7-1980    Ch. 74, Sch. III
29, 1980   1-12-1981   Ch. 74, Sch. III
15, 1981   7-27-1981   Ch. 74, Sch. III
18-81      8-10-1981   35.05
19-81      8-10-1981   35.61
6, 1982    4-26-1982   71.087,
                       Ch. 74, Sch. III
7, 1982    6-14-1982   Ch. 74, Sch. III
14-82      8-9-1982    35.80
14-83      9-12-1983   35.02
26, 1983   11-14-1983  Ch. 74, Sch. II
22, 1983   12-26-1983  Ch. 74, Sch. II,
                       Ch. 75, Sch. I
1, 1984    1-2-1984    30.59
3, 1984    2-27-1984   Ch. 75, Sch. I
7-84       4-9-1984    35.45
11, 1984   6-11-1984   Ch. 74, Sch. III
24, 1984   10-8-1984   70.99
25, 1984   10-8-1984   73.03,
                       Ch. 75, Sch. I
                       70.99,
26, 1984   10-8-1984   71.100,
                       Ch. 74, Sch. VI
29, 1984   1-28-1985   51.18
31, 1984   1-28-1985   Ch. 75, Sch. V
                       113.03,
6, 1985    2-25-1985   113.04,
                       113.09 -
                       113.13
15, 1985   7-8-1985    Ch. 74, Schs. III, VII
19, 1985   8-26-1985   114.11,
                       114.12
9, 1986    6-9-1986    113.06
16, 1986   8-25-1986   Ch. 74, Sch. III
20, 1986   12-8-1986   31.33
                       71.087,
1, 1987    2-9-1987    Ch. 74, Sch. III,
                       Ch. 75, Sch. I
3, 1987    2-9-1987    31.33
12, 1987   4-13-1987   Ch. 75, Sch. VII
15, 1987   4-27-1987   73.04
30, 1987   11-9-1987   Ch. 74, Sch. III
32, 1987   11-23-1987  35.82
                       35.45,
34, 1987   12-14-1987  35.61,
                       35.88
38, 1987   12-28-1987  31.30,
                       31.31
                       10.17,
31, 1987   1-4-1988    10.18,
                       10.99
4, 1988    3-22-1988   Ch. 75, Sch. I
9, 1988    5-9-1988    35.04
11, 1988   7-24-1988   92.01 -
                       92.13
27, 1988   9-26-1988   Ch. 75, Sch. I
                       153.01,
                       153.03,
                       153.05,
                       153.06,
28, 1988   11-14-1988  153.21,
                       153.22,
                       153.37 -
                       153.42,
                       153.55 -
                       153.61
31, 1988   12-12-1988  31.16
7, 1989    7-10-1989   35.03
                       151.01 -
                       151.06,
10, 1989   7-24-1989   151.20 -
                       151.24,
                       151.35 -
                       151.41
12, 1989   7-24-1989   Ch. 75, Sch. I
18, 1989   8-14-1989   73.50,
                       Ch. 75, Sch. III
28, 1989   9-25-1989   35.60
15, 1989   9-27-1989   111.40 -
                       111.43
26, 1989   11-13-1989  115.03
35, 1989   11-13-1989  Ch. 75, Sch. III
3, 1990    2-12-1990   30.21
4, 1990    3-12-1990   35.16
10, 1990   3-26-1990   95.01
14, 1990   5-21-1990   Ch. 75, Sch. I
16, 1990   6-11-1990   Ch. 75, Sch. III
20, 1990   6-11-1990   Ch. 74, Sch. III
27, 1990   10-22-1990  31.02
36, 1990   11-12-1990  Ch. 75, Sch. I
42, 1990   12-10-1990  35.15
41, 1990   1-14-1991   Ch. 75, Sch. I
7, 1991    2-25-1991   35.84
10, 1991   3-25-1991   Ch. 74, Sch. III
                       91.01 -
14, 1991   5-20-1991   91.04,
                       91.07 -
                       91.14
30, 1991   11-11-1991  Ch. 74, Sch. III
34, 1991   12-30-1991  151.57 -
                       151.63
                       30.01,
                       30.15 -
                       30.20,
1, 1992    1-6-1992    30.35,
                       30.50 -
                       30.58,
                       31.51 -
                       31.53
4, 1992    2-10-1992   10.99
8, 1992    3-9-1992    91.05
10, 1992   3-23-1992   35.04
12, 1992   4-13-1992   35.64
14, 1992   4-27-1992   Ch. 75, Sch. I
17, 1992   6-8-1992    30.22
18, 1992   6-8-1992    35.83
21, 1992   6-8-1992    30.38
                       96.07,
25, 1992   7-13-1992   96.20,
                       96.25
24, 1992   7-27-1992   35.63
32, 1992   8-24-1992   Ch. 74, Sch. III
35, 1992   9-28-1992   35.62
47, 1992   11-30-1992  31.54
48, 1992   12-28-1992  10.99
50, 1992   12-28-1992  30.61
51, 1992   1-11-1993   73.51
                       30.17,
4, 1993    2-8-1993    30.18,
                       31.54,
                       35.30
10, 1993   4-20-1993   73.04
8, 1993    4-26-1993   Ch. 75, Sch. II
9, 1993    4-26-1993   73.66
11, 1993   4-26-1993   34.01 -
                       34.07
20, 1993   7-26-1993   35.86
                       152.02 -
                       152.07,
23, 1993   8-2-1993    152.20 -
                       152.25,
                       152.35 -
                       152.38
30, 1993   9-27-1993   35.85,
                       152.03
35, 1993   11-8-1993   Ch. 74, Sch. III
20, 1994   6-8-1994    Ch. 75, Sch. I
11, 1994   6-27-1994   31.02
14, 1994   8-22-1994   Ch. 75, Sch. II
19, 1994   10-24-1994  Ch. 74, Sch. III
2, 1995    2-20-1995   35.46
11, 1995   4-24-1995   Ch. 75, Sch. VI
                       97.01,
                       97.03,
                       97.16 -
                       97.21,
                       97.35 -
13, 1995   5-8-1995    97.40,
                       97.50 -
                       97.54,
                       97.81,
                       97.82,
                       97.99
20, 1995   8-14-1995   97.02,
                       97.99
28, 1995   12-11-1995  30.39
33, 1995   12-27-1995  Ch. 75, Sch. IV
8, 1996    3-11-1996   95.15 -
                       95.17
42, 1996   8-26-1996   Ch. 74, Sch. III
54, 1996   10-28-1996  35.01
60, 1996   12-9-1996   51.16
19, 1997   6-23-1997   Ch. 75, Sch. III
28, 1997   8-11-1997   Ch. 74, Sch. III
29, 1997   8-11-1997   Ch. 75, Sch. I
30, 1997   9-8-1997    Ch. 75, Sch. VI
32, 1997   9-8-1997    Ch. 74, Sch. III
35, 1997   10-27-1997  130.30 -
                       130.34
2, 1998    2-9-1998    Ch. 74, Sch. III
6, 1998    3-9-1998    Ch. 75, Sch. I
                       116.01,
                       116.15 -
                       116.19,
                       116.30 -
39, 1998   4-13-1998   116.41,
                       116.55 -
                       116.60,
                       116.70 -
                       116.73
                       30.16,
18, 1998   6-22-1998   32.15 -
                       32.18
19, 1998   6-22-1998   31.01
28, 1998   7-13-1998   TSO Table III
30, 1998   7-27-1998   32.19
34, 1998   8-10-1998   30.16
35, 1998   8-10-1998   153.02
40, 1998   8-24-1998   96.20
41, 1998   8-24-1998   73.15,
                       Ch. 75, Sch. VI
42, 1998   8-24-1998   Ch. 75, Sch. I
45, 1998   9-14-1998   152.20
54, 1998   10-12-1998  TSO Table I
58, 1998   12-14-1998  110.04
62, 1998   12-14-1998  35.87
2, 1999    2-8-1999    Ch. 75, Sch. I
9, 1999    5-10-1999   36.01,
                       96.07
13, 1999   5-24-1999   Ch. 74, Sch. III
17, 1999   6-14-1999   Ch. 75, Sch. I
19, 1999   7-12-1999   Ch. 74, Sch. III
36, 1999   12-13-1999  35.65
41, 1999   1-10-2000   TSO Table IV
                       97.16 -
                       97.21,
                       97.35 -
                       97.40,
1, 2000    1-24-2000   97.50 -
                       97.54,
                       97.81,
                       97.82,
                       97.99
6, 2000    2-14-2000   Ch. 75, Sch. II
7, 2000    2-14-2000   31.37
2, 2000    4-10-2000   TSO Table I
3, 2000    4-10-2000   TSO Table I
4, 2000    4-10-2000   TSO Table I
5, 2000    4-10-2000   TSO Table I
14, 2000   6-12-2000   Ch. 75, Sch. VII
15, 2000   6-12-2000   TSO Table V
                       50.001 -
                       50.010,
                       50.020 -
                       50.039,
                       50.050 -
                       50.054,
                       50.065 -
                       50.072,
                       50.085 -
                       50.096,
-          6-26-2000   50.110 -
                       50.115,
                       50.125 -
                       50.135,
                       50.145 -
                       50.166,
                       50.180,
                       50.181,
                       50.195 -
                       50.200,
                       50.202 -
                       50.216
19, 2000   7-10-2000   TSO Table V
20, 2000   7-10-2000   TSO Table V
22, 2000   8-18-2000   TSO Table V
27, 2000   9-11-2000   TSO Table V
28, 2000   9-11-2000   TSO Table V
31, 2000   10-9-2000   TSO Table V
                       153.02,
                       153.04,
33, 2000   11-13-2000  153.20,
                       153.23,
                       153.35,
                       153.36
35, 2000   11-13-2000  TSO Table V
36, 2000   11-13-2000  TSO Table V
38, 2000   12-11-2000  113.08
39, 2000   12-11-2000  TSO Table V
1, 2001    1-8-2001    35.66
4, 2001    2-26-2001   71.031,
                       Ch. 74, Sch. I
9, 2001    4-23-2001   TSO Table I
10, 2001   5-14-2001   TSO Table V
11, 2001   5-14-2001   TSO Table V
                       50.199,
13, 2001   5-14-2001   50.210,
                       50.216
16, 2001   7-23-2001   Ch. 75, Sch. VII
18, 2001   7-23-2001   50.202
                       97.01,
                       97.16 -
                       97.21,
                       97.35 -
19, 2001   8-27-2001   97.40,
                       97.50 -
                       97.54,
                       97.80 -
                       97.82,
                       97.99
20, 2001   8-27-2001   50.202
21, 2001   8-27-2001   TSO Table V
22, 2001   8-27-2001   50.216
33, 2001   10-8-2001   TSO Table V
34, 2001   10-8-2001   TSO Table V
37, 2001   10-22-2001  TSO Table II
30, 2001   11-12-2001  35.31
38, 2001   12-10-2001  TSO Table I
45, 2001   12-10-2001  30.40
34, 2002   - -2002     Ch. 75, Sch. II
1, 2002    2-28-2002   TSO Table V
2, 2002    2-28-2002   TSO Table V
5, 2002    3-11-2002   50.216
7, 2002    4-8-2002    Ch. 75, Schs. I, VII
12, 2002   6-10-2002   TSO Table V
13, 2002   6-24-2002   TSO Table V
15, 2002   8-12-2002   97.18
16, 2002   8-12-2002   TSO Table II
24, 2002   9-23-2002   Ch. 75, Sch. VII
25, 2002   9-23-2002   Ch. 74, Sch. III
30         10-28-2002  30.61
32, 2002   10-28-2002  Ch. 75, Sch. I
6, 2002    11-11-2002  TSO Table I
33, 2002   11-25-2002  Ch. 74, Sch. III
35, 2002   11-25-2002  Ch. 75, Sch. VII
37, 2002   12-9-2002   TSO Table II
8, 2003    6-9-2003    TSO Table II
12, 2003   7-28-2003   35.89
13, 2003   7-28-2003   TSO Table II
17, 2003   9-8-2003    TSO Table V
18, 2003   10-27-2003  TSO Table I
                       117.01   
19, 2003   11-10-2003  117.03,
                       117.99
20, 2003   11-10-2003  TSO Table II
21, 2003   12-8-2003   TSO Table V
22, 2003   12-8-2003   TSO Table II
25, 2003   12-22-2003  Ch. 75, Sch. I
26, 2003   12-22-2003  Ch. 75, Sch. VIII
24, 2003   1-26-2004   TSO Table I
4, 2004    2-23-2004   96.03
7, 2004    3-8-2004    Adopting Ordinance
9, 2004    4-26-2004   TSO Table V
10, 2004   4-26-2004   TSO Table II
11, 2004   6-14-2004   TSO Table V
12, 2004   6-14-2004   Ch. 75, Sch. VI
14, 2004   6-28-2004   TSO Table V
15, 2004   6-28-2004   Ch. 75, Sch. III
16, 2004   7-26-2004   TSO Table V
17, 2004   7-26-2004   TSO Table V
26, 2004   9-27-2004   TSO Table II
28, 2004   9-27-2004   TSO Table V
30, 2004   10-11-2004  Ch. 75, Sch. III
33, 2004   11-8-2004   TSO Table II
34, 2004   11-22-2004  50.225   
                       50.245
35, 2004   12-13-2004  35.85
36, 2004   12-13-2004  TSO Table V
37, 2004   1-10-2005   TSO Table V
1, 2005    2-14-2005   TSO Table V
5, 2005    2-28-2005   TSO Table V
6, 2005    2-28-2005   TSO Table V
8, 2005    3-28-2005   TSO Table II
7, 2005    4-11-2005   TSO Table V
2, 2005    5-9-2005    TSO Table I
10, 2005   5-23-2005   50.207
11, 2005   6-27-2005   TSO Table V
12, 2005   7-11-2005   94.60   
                       94.64
17, 2005   9-12-2005   TSO Table II
19, 2005   11-14-2005  TSO Table V
20, 2005   11-14-2005  TSO Table V
23, 2005   11-28-2005  TSO Table V
24, 2005   11-28-2005  TSO Table II
25, 2005   12-12-2005  TSO Table V
26, 2005   1-9-2006    97.22,
                       97.99
1, 2006    2-27-2006   TSO Table V
2, 2006    2-27-2006   TSO Table II
                       98.01 -
4, 2006    5-22-2006   98.09,
                       98.99
5, 2006    6-26-2006   95.15
6, 2006    6-26-2006   151.25
7, 2006    8-26-2006   111.15 -
                       111.29
8, 2006    8-28-2006   TSO Table V
9, 2006    8-28-2006   TSO Table V
11, 2006   9-11-2006   Ch. 75, Sch. VI
12, 2006   9-11-2006   Ch. 75, Sch. II
                       156.01 -
                       156.09,
                       156.15 -
                       156.27,
                       156.35 -
                       156.42,
                       156.50,
                       156.51,
                       156.60 -
                       156.63,
                       156.70 -
                       156.73,
                       156.99,
                       Ch. 156, App. A,
                       157.001 -
17-2006    11-27-2006  157.013,
                       157.025 -
                       157.032,
                       157.045 -
                       157.056,
                       157.070,
                       157.071,
                       157.085 -
                       157.096,
                       157.115,
                       157.116,
                       157.130 -
                       157.134,
                       157.150,
                       157.151,
                       157.999
18-2006    12-11-2006  TSO Table V
19-2006    12-11-2006  TSO Table V
20-2006    12-11-2006  158.01
1, 2007    3-12-2007   97.19,
                       97.99
2, 2007    2-12-2007   157.086
3, 2007    5-14-2007   34.08
5, 2007    3-26-2007   157.057,
                       157.999
8, 2007    2-26-2007   TSO Table V
9, 2007    2-26-2007   TSO Table V
11, 2007   3-26-2007   TSO Table V
12, 2007   4-9-2007    TSO Table V
                       111.50 -
13, 2007   5-29-2007   111.56,
                       111.99
16, 2007   6-11-2007   TSO Table V
17, 2007   6-11-2007   Adopting Ordinance
18, 2007   5-29-2007   TSO Table II
22, 2007   8-27-2007   32.52
29, 2007   3-24-2008   TSO Table I
30, 2007   12-10-2007  TSO Table V
31, 2007   12-10-2007  TSO Table V
32, 2007   12-10-2007  TSO Table V
1, 2008    3-24-2008   TSO Table I
3, 2008    2-11-2008   TSO Table V
4, 2008    2-25-2008   Ch. 74, Sch. III
6, 2008    2-25-2008   35.90
7, 2008    4-14-2008   50.206,
                       50.207
8, 2008    3-24-2008   TSO Table V
9, 2008    4-28-2008   TSO Table V
10, 2008   5-12-2008   Ch. 75, Sch. I
12, 2008   8-25-2008   TSO Table I
14, 2008   6-9-2008    157.025
15, 2008   7-14-2008   TSO Table II
16, 2008   7-28-2008   TSO Table V
17, 2008   7-28-2008   TSO Table V
18, 2008   7-28-2008   Adopting Ordinance
                       10.99,
19, 2008   9-8-2008    34.03,
                       34.04
20, 2008   8-25-2008   Ch. 75, Schs. I,
                       II
24, 2008   11-10-2008  TSO Table II
28, 2008   12-8-2008   TSO Table II
31, 2008   1-12-2009   TSO Table V
4, 2009    3-9-2009    TSO Table V
5, 2009    3-9-2009    TSO Table V
                       92.25 -
6, 2009    3-23-2009   92.35,
                       92.45,
                       92.99
                       99.01 -
7, 2009    4-27-2009   99.04,
                       99.99
9, 2009    6-8-2009    TSO Table V
                       51.01,
10, 2009   9-28-2009   51.15 -
                       51.23
15, 2009   11-23-2009  30.22
4, 2010    3-8-2010    Adopting Ordinance
5, 2010    4-26-2010   157.094
6, 2010    7-12-2010   Adopting Ordinance
7, 2010    7-12-2010   TSO Table V
8, 2010    5-24-2010   TSO Table V
9, 2010    10-25-2010  TSO Table I
10, 2010   7-12-2010   TSO Table V
11, 2010   8-23-2010   157.027
12, 2010   9-13-2010   34.04
14, 2010   9-13-2010   TSO Table III
19, 2010   10-25-2010  Ch. 74, Sch. III
20, 2010   11-8-2010   157.095
21, 2010   11-8-2010   TSO Table II
22, 2010   12-13-2010  TSO Table II
23, 2010   1-10-2011   TSO Table V
1, 2011    2-14-2011   TSO Table V
2, 2011  2-14-2011   TSO Table V
4, 2011  2-28-2011   TSO Table III
6, 2011    3-28-2011   Adopting Ordinance
13, 2011   7-11-2011   Ch. 75, Sch. VIII
16, 2011   9-12-2011   151.75 -
                       151.85
19, 2011   10-10-2011  TSO Table V
20, 2011   10-10-2011  31.34
22, 2011   11-28-2011  30.40
23, 2011   11-28-2011  35.06
24, 2011   12-12-2011  TSO Table V
25, 2011   12-12-2011  Ch. 74, Schs. II,
                       III
4, 2012    3-26-2012   31.56
5, 2012    3-26-2012   Ch. 74, Sch. I
6, 2012    3-26-2012   Ch. 75, Sch. VIII
7, 2012    3-26-2012   TSO V
8, 2012    3-26-2012   TSO II
11, 2012   6-11-2012   31.55
12, 2012   6-11-2012   30.23
13, 2012   6-25-2012   32.53
15, 2012   7-9-2012    TSO V
16, 2012   9-10-2012   TSO V
18, 2012   9-24-2012   Ch. 74, Sch. III
19, 2012   10-8-2012   TSO V
                       50.005,
                       50.090,
22, 2012   10-22-2012  50.129,
                       50.147,
                       50.151,
                       50.160
24, 2012   11-26-2012  TSO V
25, 2012   12-10-2012  30.50
4, 2013    3-11-2013   Adopting Ordinance
6, 2013  5-28-2013   32.20
7, 2013    6-10-2013   95.15
10, 2013   7-8-2013    35.01
11, 2013   7-8-2013    TSO V
12, 2013   7-8-2013    151.10 -
                       151.14
13, 2013   7-8-2013    151.21
15, 2013   7-22-2013   TSO II
16, 2013   8-26-2013   TSO I
17, 2013   8-26-2013   Ch. 75, Sch. VII
19, 2013   9-9-2013    TSO V
20, 2013   10-14-2013  TSO I
23, 2013   10-28-2013  71.130 -
                       71.135
24, 2013   10-28-2013  156.41,
                       156.42
33, 2013   12-9-2013   Ch. 75, Sch. I
34, 2013   12-23-2013  31.40 -
                       31.43
35, 2013   1-13-2014   TSO II
                       53.01,
1, 2014    2-10-2014   53.03 -
                       53.06
6, 2014    3-10-2014   TSO V
10, 2014   4-14-2014   TSO V
11, 2014   4-14-2014   TSO II
12, 2014   4-28-2014   TSO II
13, 2014   4-20-2014   TSO V
14, 2014   4-28-2014   TSO V
15, 2014   4-28-2014   TSO V
16, 2014   4-28-2014   Ch. 75, Sch. I
                       50.201,
17, 2014   5-12-2014   50.202,
                       50.212,
                       Ch. 50, App. B
18, 2014   5-12-2014   35.14
                       97.01,
20, 2014   6-23-2014   97.30,
                       97.99
22, 2014   7-14-2014   Ch. 75, Sch. I
23, 2014   7-14-2014   35.13
24, 2014   8-25-2014   50.201.1
26, 2014   8-25-2014   151.75 -
                       151.85
27, 2014   9-22-2014   Ch. 74, Sch. III
                       155.01 -
                       155.03,
                       155.05 -
                       155.13,
30, 2014   10-27-2014  155.30 -
                       155.32,
                       155.35,
                       155.45 -
                       155.48,
                       155.99
34, 2014   11-10-2014  50.217
35, 2014   12-8-2014   Ch. 75, Sch. II,
                       Sch. IV
39, 2014   12-22-2014  50.212
2, 2015    2-9-2015    50.090
3, 2015    2-9-2015    Adopting Ordinance
4, 2015    2-9-2015    151.04
5, 2015    2-9-2015    156.05
8, 2015    3-9-2015    30.39
14, 2015   5-11-2015   T.S.O. V
15, 2015   5-11-2015   T.S.O. V
17, 2015   6-8-2015    T.S.O. II
18, 2015   5-26-2015   35.08
19, 2015   6-8-2015    Ch. 36, App. A
20, 2015   8-10-2015   T.S.O. V
21, 2015   9-14-2015   T.S.O. V
22, 2015   10-26-2015  Ch. 74, Sch. III
5,2016     5-23-2016   T.S.O. V
6,2016     5-23-2016   Ch. 75, Sch. I
7, 2016    5-23-2016   35.92
                       Ch. 74, Sch.
8, 2016    7-26-2016   III,
                       IV
11, 2016   9-12-2016   31.50
14, 2106   10-24-2016  Ch. 75, Sch. II
15, 2016   10-10-2016  TSO II
16, 2016   10-10-2016  T.S.O. V
20, 2016   11-28-2016  30.16
21, 2016   11-28-2016  T.S.O. V
22, 2016   12-27-2016  TSO II
5, 2017    4-24- 2017  TSO II
6, 2017    4-10- 2017  Ch. 75, Sch. I,
                       II
7, 2017    3-27- 2017  35.67
                       34.08,
8, 2017    6-12- 2017  111.16,
                       111.30
10, 2017   5-8-2017    Ch. 36, App. A
11, 2017   5-22- 2017  TSO V
12, 2017   7-10- 2017  Ch. 75, Sch. II
13, 2017   7-24- 2017  90.01 -
                       90.11
                       Ch. 74, Sch. V; Ch. 75, Sch.
                       I,
14, 2017   8-14- 2017  II,
                       III,
                       IV,
                       VI
16, 2017   10-23- 2017 32.55
                       98.01,
21, 2017   1-8-2018    98.02,
                       98.05,
                       98.07
2, 2018    3-26-2018   TSO II
3, 2018    3-12-2018   TSO V
                       35.07,
                       35.08,
5, 2018    5-29-2018   35.21,
                       35.68,
                       35.93
6, 2018    5-29-2018   TSO V
9, 2018    7-9-2018    TSO V
                       96.07,
                       96.20,
12, 2018   8-27-2018   96.21,
                       96.24,
                       96.28
13, 2018   8-27-2018   TSO II
14, 2018   8-27-2018   TSO II
16, 2018   10-8-2018   TSO V
17, 2018   11-26-2018  TSO V
20, 2018   12-10-2018  Ch. 36, App. A
21, 2018   12-10-2018  34.04
2, 2019    3-11-2019   TSO V
5, 2019    5-13-2019   TSO V
6, 2019    6-10-2019   TSO V
8, 2019    6-10-2019   TSO V
9, 2019    6-10-2019   TSO II
10, 2019   7-8-2019    TSO V
11, 2019   7-8-2019    TSO V
14, 2019   8-12-2019   Ch. 50, App. B
15, 2019   9-9-2019    TSO V
17, 2019   9-23-2019   32.56
20, 2019   11-11-2019  TSO V
23, 2019   12-23-2019  150.37
3, 2020    2-10-2020   TSO V
4, 2020    3-9-2020    TSO II
5, 2020    3-9-2020    TSO V
7, 2020    4-13-2020   TSO V
8, 2020    5-11-2020   71.142
                       151.20,
9, 2020    5-11-2020   151.21,
                       151.24
10, 2020   5-11-2020   Ch. 36, App. A
11, 2020   5-11-2020   Ch. 36, App. A
12, 2020   5-11-2020   TSO V
14, 2020   6-22-2020   50.011
16, 2020   7-13-2020   TSO V
18, 2020   7-27-2020   Ch. 75, Sch. I
19, 2020   7-27-2020   Ch. 75, Sch. I
                       73.04,
22, 2020   10-12-2020  73.15,
                       73.23,
                       Ch. 75, Sch. VI
23, 2020   9-14-2020   Ch. 75, Sch. I
26, 2020   9-28-2020   32.32
27, 2020   10-12-2020  73.01
1, 2021    1-25-2021   TSO V
2, 2021    1-25-2021   157.097
3, 2021    2-8-2021    TSO V
4, 2021    2-8-2021    35.88
5, 2021    2-22-2021   TSO V
7, 2021    3-22-2021   35.88
10, 2021   4-12-2021   31.30,
                       31.33
11, 2021   4-12-2021   TSO V
12, 2021   4-12-2021   Ch. 50, App. B
13, 2021   4-12-2021   Ch. 50, App. B
18, 2021   5-24-2021   Ch. 50, App. B
23, 2021   7-12-2021   TSO V
24, 2021   7-12-2021   TSO V
25, 2021   12-13-2021  TSO I
26, 2021   12-13-2021  TSO I
27, 2021   12-13-2021  TSO I
28, 2021   12-13-2021  TSO I
29, 2021   8-23-2021   100.01,
                       100.02
                       Ch. 36, App. A,
30, 2021   8-23-2021   94.37,
                       94.38
31, 2021   10-25-2021  31.34
32, 2021   10-11-2021  Ch. 74, Sch. VI
36, 2021   11-8-2021   TSO II
37, 2021   11-8-2021   TSO V
1, 2022    1-24-2022   30.41
3, 2022    2-28-2022   35.94
4, 2022    3-14-2022   TSO II
6, 2022    3-28-2022   93.03
7, 2022    3-28-2022   111.30
11, 2022   5-9-2022    TSO V
12, 2022   6-13-2022   111.30
14, 2022   7-25-2022   50.090
16, 2022   9-12-2022   TSO II
44, 2022   11-28-2022  30.50
45, 2022   12-12-2022  30.50
46, 2022   12-12-2022  TSO V
47, 2022   12-122022   31.50
3, 2023    2-13-2023   30.02
6, 2023    3-13-2023   31.50
7, 2023    3-13-2023   TSO V
8, 2023    4-10-2023   35.08
13, 2023   6-12-2023   Ch. 74, Sch. III
                       Ch. 36, App. A,
                       118.01 -
14, 2023   8-14-2023   118.05,
                       118.98,
                       118.99
15, 2023   7-10-2023   Ch. 74, Sch. VI
16, 2023   8-14-2023   TSO I
17, 2023   8-28-2023   157.050
20, 2023   9-25-2023   50.225 - 50.247
21, 2023   9-25-2023   31.41
                       155.01 -
                       155.13,
                       155.30 -
27, 2023   10-23-2023  155.35,
                       155.45 -
                       155.48,
                       155.99
30, 2023   11-27-2023  TSO III
31, 2023   12-11-2023  TSO V
3, 2024    2-12-2024   97.81
5, 2024    3-11-2024   96.03
7, 2024    3-11-2024   TSO V
8, 2024    3-11-2024   TSO V
9, 2024    3-11-2024   TSO V
10, 2024   3-11-2024   TSO II
12, 2024   3-11-2024   31.55,
                       157.092
13, 2024   5-28-2024   50.005,
                       50.028
14, 2024   6-24-2024   Ch. 50, App. B
16, 2024   5-28-2024   53.04
17, 2024   5-28-2024   Ch. 75, Sch. II
18, 2024   5-28-2024   95.15
19, 2024   6-10-2024   150.16
21, 2024   8-12-2024   111.17
22, 2024   8-12-2024   TSO V
25, 2024   9-23-2024   Ch. 74, Sch. III
26, 2024   9-23-2024   Ch. 74, Sch. III
27, 2024   9-23-2024   Ch. 74, Sch. III
                       158.01 -
28, 2024   10-14-2024  158.33,
                       158.99
29, 2024   10-14-2024  113.10,
                       113.11
30, 2024   9-23-2024   32.21
34, 2024   11-25-2024  TSO V
35, 2024   11-25-2024  32.22
                      
 
 
